
1. Int Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 31. doi: 10.1007/s10792-016-0426-x. [Epub ahead of
print]

Impact of laser pulse duration on the reduction of intraocular pressure during
selective laser trabeculoplasty.

Stunf Pukl S(1), Drnovšek-Olup B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Eye Hospital, University Clinical Center, Barvarska 4, 1000, Ljubljana,
Slovenia. spela.stunf@siol.net. (2)Eye Hospital, University Clinical Center,
Barvarska 4, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) to
lower intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG) or ocular hypertension (OHT), when
performed with laser pulse duration of 1 ns compared with standard 3-5 ns.
METHODS: Bilateral SLT with a 532 nm Q-switched neodymium-doped yttrium aluminium
garnet laser was conducted in 30 patients (60 eyes) with POAG (n = 5), NTG
(n = 2) or OHT (n = 23). Pulse duration was 1 ns in the right eye (30 eyes;
cases) and 3-5 ns in all left eyes (controls). Main outcome measures were IOP at 
1 h, 1 day, 8 weeks and 6 months, and the rate of adverse ocular tissue reactions
in all eyes.
RESULTS: Mean 1 ns and 3-5 ns SLT IOPs were 24.1 and 24.3 mmHg, respectively, at 
baseline. No statistically significant difference in mean 1 ns and 3-5 ns SLT IOP
was observed at 1 h (P = 0.761), 1 day (P = 0.758), 8 weeks (P = 0.352) and
6 months postoperatively (P = 0.879). No significant difference in postoperative 
anterior chamber inflammation was observed between the eyes (P = 0.529).
Treatment with both laser pulse durations resulted in minor ultrastructural
changes in the drainage angle.
CONCLUSIONS: SLT performed with a 1 ns laser pulse duration does not appear to be
inferior to SLT performed with the standard 3-5 ns duration at lowering IOP in
treatment-naïve patients with POAG, NTG or OHT.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-016-0426-x 
PMID: 28040851  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


2. Hum Mol Genet. 2016 Dec 26. pii: ddw372. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddw372. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Transgenic TBK1 mice have features of normal tension glaucoma.

Fingert JH(1,)(2), Miller K(3,)(2), Hedberg-Buenz A(3,)(2,)(4), Roos BR(3,)(2),
Lewis CJ(3,)(2,)(4), Mullins RF(3,)(2), Anderson MG(3,)(2,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA john-fingert@uiowa.edu. (2)Stephen A. Wynn
Institute for Vision Research, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA. (4)Department of Molecular Physiology and
Biophysics, Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA
and. (5)VA Center for the Prevention and Treatment of Visual Loss, Iowa City VA
Health Care System, Iowa City, IA, USA.

Duplication of the TBK1 gene is associated with 1-2% of normal tension glaucoma, 
a common cause of vision loss and blindness that occurs without grossly abnormal 
intraocular pressure. We generated a transgenic mouse that has one copy of the
human TBK1 gene (native promoter and gene structure) incorporated into the mouse 
genome (Tg-TBK1). Expression of the TBK1 transgene in the retinae of these mice
was demonstrated by real-time PCR. Using immunohistochemistry TBK1 protein was
predominantly localized to the ganglion cell layer of the retina, the cell type
most affected by glaucoma. More intense TBK1 labelling was detected in the
retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) of Tg-TBK1 mice than in wild-type littermates.
Tg-TBK1 mice exhibit the cardinal sign of glaucoma, a progressive loss of RGCs.
Hemizygous Tg-TBK1 mice (with one TBK1 transgene per genome) had a 13% loss of
RGCs by 18 months of age (P = 1.5 × 10(-8)). Homozygous Tg-TBK1 mice had 7.6%
fewer RGCs than hemizygous Tg-TBK1 mice and 20% fewer RGCs than wild-type mice
(P = 1.9 × 10(-5)) at 6 months of age. No difference in intraocular pressures was
detected between Tg-TBK1 mice and wild-type littermates as they aged (P > 0.05). 
Tg-TBK1 mice with extra doses of the TBK1 gene recapitulate the phenotype of
normal tension glaucoma in human patients with a TBK1 gene duplication. Together,
these studies confirm the pathogenicity of the TBK1 gene duplication in human
glaucoma and suggest that excess production of TBK1 kinase may have a role in the
pathology of glaucoma.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddw372 
PMID: 28025332  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


3. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000616. [Epub ahead of print]

A Comment on "Juvenile-onset Normal Tension Glaucoma From Chronic, Recurrent Low 
Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure." J Glaucoma. 2016;25: e738-e740.

Gallina P(1), Savastano A, Becattini E, Orlandini S, Rizzo S, Porfirio B.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Surgery and Translational Medicine, Tuscany School of
Neurosurgery Departments of †Surgery and Translational Medicine, Ophthalmic
Section ‡Clinical and Experimental Biomedical Sciences, University of Florence,
Italy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000616 
PMID: 28002190  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


4. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2016 Dec;233(12):1331-1336. Epub 2016 Dec 16.

[Phenomenology and Clinical Relevance of the Flammer Syndrome].

[Article in German]

Konieczka K(1), Flammer J(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Basel, Department of Ophthalmology, Switzerland.

The Flammer syndrome (FS) describes the phenotype of people with a predisposition
for an altered reaction of the blood vessels to stimuli like coldness, emotional 
stress or high altitude. Frequent symptoms are: cold hands and/or feet, low blood
pressure, prolonged sleep onset time, reduced feeling of thirst, increased
sensitivity to odour, pain, vibration and certain drugs. SF subjects are often
ambitious and successful but also perfectionistic and sometimes brooding.
Frequent signs are: altered gene expression, prolonged blood flow cessation in
nailfold capillaroscopy after cold provocation, reduced autoregulation of ocular 
blood flow, and reduced vasodilation after stimulation with flickering light.
Retinal venous pressure is on the average higher and retinal astrocytes are more 
often activated. FS occurs more often in females than in males, in thin than in
obese subjects, in young than in old people, in graduates than in blue collar
workers, in subjects with indoor than outdoor jobs. Associated diseases are:
normal tension glaucoma, occlusion of ocular vessels, retinitis pigmentosa,
multiple sclerosis, tinnitus or even sudden hearing loss.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0042-118881 
PMID: 27984835  [PubMed - in process]


5. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 14. doi: 10.1111/aos.13302. [Epub ahead of print]

Translaminar pressure in Caucasian normal tension glaucoma patients.

Pircher A(1), Remonda L(2), Weinreb RN(3), Killer HE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Cantonal Hospital Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Neuro-radiology, Cantonal Hospital Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Shiley Eye Institute and Hamilton Glaucoma
Center, University of California, San Diego, California, USA.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to examine the translaminar pressure
difference (TLP) in Caucasian patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and its
possible impact onto the pathogenesis of NTG.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of medical records of patients with open-angle
glaucoma (OAG) in the period from 2005 to 2015 from the Ophthalmology Department,
Cantonal Hospital Aarau, Switzerland. A total of 67 eyes of 38 patients (mean age
68.6 ± 11.3 years, 21 women and 17 men) fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of
progressive NTG and underwent lumbar puncture (LP) during computer-assisted
cisternography (CT - cisternography). The intraocular pressure (IOP) and lumbar
cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSF-p) were analysed and the TLP calculated. The
TLP was compared with the mean defect (MD) of visual fields. Statistical analysis
was performed with the one and two-tailed paired and unpaired t-test and the
non-parametric Spearman correlation test.
RESULTS: The mean lumbar opening CSF-p measured 11.6 ± 3.7 mmHg. The mean IOP in 
the right eye measured 14.7 ± 2.4 mmHg, in the left eye 14.7 ± 2.5 mmHg. The
calculated mean TLP was 3.0 ± 4.2 mmHg in the right and 3.3 ± 4.3 mmHg in the
left eye. There was no significant correlation between TLP and the MD of visual
fields in both eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: This study did not confirm either a lower lumbar CSF-p or increased 
TLP compared to previous retrospective and prospective studies. As cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) flow is not homogenous throughout all CSF spaces and CSF-p and IOP
fluctuate, the current view on TLP needs modifications to improve its validity.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13302 
PMID: 27966838  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


6. J Ophthalmol. 2016;2016:2678017. Epub 2016 Nov 14.

Elevated Plasma Endothelin-1 Levels in Normal Tension Glaucoma and Primary
Open-Angle Glaucoma: A Meta-Analysis.

Li S(1), Zhang A(1), Cao W(2), Sun X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (2)Department of Clinical Laboratory,
Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; 
Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai
Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology & Visual Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China; State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, 
Institutes of Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; Key Laboratory of
Myopia, Ministry of Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Visual Impairment and Restoration, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China.

Purpose. The aim of this meta-analysis was to clarify the association between the
plasma endothelin-1 level and the risks of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Methods. Relevant publications were collected
from three databases including PubMed, EMBASE, and the Web of Science through
December 31, 2015. In this study, the terms "(endothelin OR ET) AND glaucoma"
were searched. Review Manager 5.2 was used to process the data. Results. Seven
studies (212 cases, 164 controls) were included for the NTG analysis. The mean
plasma endothelin-1 level in the NTG subjects was 0.60 pg/mL (p = 0.02, 95% CI:
0.17-1.04) higher than that of the healthy controls. Six studies (160 cases, 174 
controls) were included for the POAG analysis, and the endothelin-1 level was
0.63 pg/mL (p = 0.007, 95% CI: 0.12-1.15) higher in the POAG subjects than in the
healthy controls. Additionally, two studies influenced the meta-analysis results 
regarding the association of plasma endothelin-1 with POAG by sensitivity
analysis, and the probability of publication bias was low. Conclusions. The
observation that NTG and POAG subjects showed significantly elevated endothelin-1
plasma concentrations suggests that a higher plasma level of endothelin-1 might
increase the risk of NTG and POAG development.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/2678017 
PMCID: PMC5124679
PMID: 27965889  [PubMed - in process]


7. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 13;11(12):e0168030. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168030.
eCollection 2016.

Circadian Patterns of Intraocular Pressure Fluctuation among Normal-Tension
Glaucoma Optic Disc Phenotypes.

Moon Y(1), Kwon J(1), Jeong DW(1), Lee JY(1), Lee JR(1), Han S(2), Kook MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Asan
Medical Center, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Applied Statistics, Gachon
University, Seongnam-Si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the 24-h habitual-position intraocular pressure (IOP) 
patterns of optic disc phenotypes (ODPs) in untreated normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) and the relationships between nocturnal IOP elevation and various clinical 
factors.
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional, observational study.
METHODS: Eighty-two NTG patients with focal ischemic (FI) ODP and 82 age- and
disease severity-matched NTG patients with myopic glaucomatous (MG) ODP were
recruited prospectively over 3 years. The IOP was recorded 11 times over a
24-hour (h) period by a single ophthalmologist using a hand-held tonometer
(TonoPen®XL). A cosinor model was used to describe the 24-h IOP rhythm.
Associations between nocturnal IOP elevation and both ocular and demographic
variables were evaluated using the generalized estimating equation (GEE).
RESULTS: Mean habitual-position IOP was significantly higher during nighttime
than daytime in the FI group (16.44 vs. 14.23 mmHg, P < 0.001), but not in the MG
group (15.91 vs. 15.70 mmHg, P = 0.82). The FI group also exhibited a
significantly higher peak IOP during sleeping hours (P = 0.01) and lower trough
IOP during the 24-h period than the MG group (P < 0.01). The MG group showed a
significantly higher peak IOP during waking hours than the FI group (P < 0.01).
Therefore, 24-h IOP fluctuation range was significantly higher in the FI group
than the MG group (P = 0.013). In the FI group, peak habitual-position IOP and
the highest frequency of IOP peaks occurred during sleeping hours (12 AM-6 AM).
By contrast, IOP peaks in the MG group occurred during morning hours (8 AM-12
PM). The FI group showed an overall nocturnal acrophase in habitual-position IOP,
with 45 patients (54.9%) having a nocturnal acrophase; 10 (12.2%), a diurnal
acrophase; and 27 (32.9%), no evident acrophase. By contrast, the MG group showed
no evident peak in habitual-position IOP, with 9 patients (10.9%) having a
nocturnal acrophase; 43 (52.4%), a diurnal acrophase; and 30 (36.6%), no evident 
acrophase. In multivariate modeling using the GEE, ODP (P < 0.001) and spherical 
equivalent (SE, P = 0.001) were independently associated with nocturnal IOP
elevation.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on 24-h habitual-position IOP data, FI is associated with
significant nocturnal IOP elevation, while no such nocturnal IOP elevation is
observed in MG ODP. In untreated NTG, there are also significant differences in
the 24-h IOP pattern between FI and MG ODPs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168030 
PMCID: PMC5154535
PMID: 27959943  [PubMed - in process]


8. Can J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;51(6):426-430. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.05.003. Epub
2016 Sep 30.

Frequency of unplanned interventions in patients attending for a presumed routine
glaucoma follow-up appointment.

Calafati J(1), Pradhan ZS(1), Birt CM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ont. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ont.. Electronic address: catherine.birt@sunnybrook.ca.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the frequency of patient visits in which an unplanned
treatment modification was required in chronic patients attending a glaucoma
clinic for routine follow-up and to identify the treatment interventions most
commonly employed.
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 630 previously stable patients attending a glaucoma
clinic for routine follow-up.
METHODS: This was a single-centre survey of all eligible patients returning to an
academic glaucoma clinic. Data regarding whether patients' visit remained routine
or required intervention, which clinical parameter had changed, and any
alterations in treatment regimens were studied.
RESULTS: The percentage of patients found to require a change in management was
20.79% (131 of 630 patients); 16.9% were found to have a cause for change because
of glaucoma, and the remaining 4% required intervention because of a
nonglaucomatous condition. The most common parameter that changed treatment was
intraocular pressure (43.87%), followed by visual fields (21.29%). The frequency 
of abnormal parameters varied within each subtype of glaucoma. The frequency of
treatment changes among those with primary open-angle glaucoma was 22.58%
compared with 16.5% of glaucoma suspects, 14% of ocular hypertensives, 32% of
pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, and 50% of normal tension glaucoma patients. The most
common intervention (32.84%) was a change in antiglaucoma medications. The next
most frequent interventions were laser procedures (21.90%) and surgery (16.06%).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that a significant minority of patients
attending a glaucoma clinic for a routine appointment require treatment
modification.

Copyright © 2016 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.05.003 
PMID: 27938953  [PubMed - in process]


9. Am J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 1. pii: S0002-9394(16)30584-0. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of retinal vessel diameter between open-angle glaucoma patients with
initial parafoveal scotoma and peripheral nasal step.

Yoo E(1), Yoo C(1), Lee TE(2), Kim YY(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Chonbuk National University
Medical School and Hospital, Jeonju, Republic of Korea. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Electronic address: yongykim@mail.korea.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: To compare retinal vessel diameters (RVDs) between open-angle glaucoma
(OAG) patients with initial parafoveal scotoma (PFS) and those with initial
peripheral nasal step (PNS).
DESIGN: Retrospective, cross-sectional study METHODS: We enrolled 151 eyes of 151
patients with OAG (83 with normal-tension glaucoma [NTG] and 68 with primary
open-angle glaucoma [POAG]). The patients were categorized into the PFS and PNS
groups according to the location of the initial visual field (VF) defect.
Clinical characteristics and RVD indices-central retinal arteriolar equivalent
(CRAE) and central retinal venular equivalent (CRVE)-were compared between the
groups. Subgroup analyses were conducted in the NTG and POAG groups.
RESULTS: Forty-six patients had PFS and 105 had PNS. The CRAE of the PFS group
was significantly lower than that of the PNS group in all glaucoma patients (P = 
0.001). However, neither the mean deviation in VF nor that in the average retinal
nerve fiber layer thickness showed significant intergroup differences. In the NTG
subgroup analysis, the CRAE of the PFS group was significantly lower than that of
the PNS group (P = 0.013). Conversely, in the POAG subgroup analysis, the CRAE in
the PFS group did not differ significantly from that in the PNS group (P =
0.123).
CONCLUSIONS: Retinal arteriolar diameter was narrower in OAG patients with
initial PFS than in those with initial PNS, especially in the NTG group. This
suggests that the initial location of the VF defect may be associated with the
vascular mechanism in patients with glaucoma.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.012 
PMID: 27916714  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


10. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Nov 1;57(14):6418. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-20917.

Author Response: Stronger Association of CDKN2B-AS1 Variants in Female
Normal-Tension Glaucoma Patients in a Japanese Population.

Burdon KP(1), Ng SK(2), MacGregor S(3), Craig JE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart,
Tasmania, Australia; 2Department of Ophthalmology Flinders University, Flinders
Medical Centre, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, South
Australia, Australia; 3Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, South Australian
Institute of Ophthalmology, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia,
Australia; and the. (3)Statistical Genetics, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research
Institute, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. (4)Department of Ophthalmology
Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, South Australia,
Australia.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20917 
PMID: 27893105  [PubMed - in process]


11. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Nov 1;57(14):6416-6417. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-20417.

Stronger Association of CDKN2B-AS1 Variants in Female Normal-Tension Glaucoma
Patients in a Japanese Population.

Mori K(1), Nakano M(2), Tokuda Y(2), Ikeda Y(1), Ueno M(1), Sotozono C(1),
Kinoshita S(3), Tashiro K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology. (2)Department of Genomic Medical Sciences; and
the. (3)Department of Ophthalmology; 3Department of Frontier Medical Science and 
Technology for Ophthalmology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto,
Japan.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20417 
PMID: 27893104  [PubMed - in process]


12. Ophthalmic Genet. 2016 Nov 28:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Association of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in non-coding regions of the TLR4 
gene with primary open angle glaucoma in a Mexican population.

Navarro-Partida J(1), Alvarado Castillo B(2), Martinez-Rizo AB(3), Rosales-Diaz
R(3), Velazquez-Fernandez JB(4), Santos A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a División de Biotecnología y Salud, Campus Guadalajara , Tecnológico de
Monterrey , Guadalajara , Jalisco , México. (2)b Instituto Mexicano del Seguro
Social , Centro Médico Nacional de Occidente , Guadalajara , Jalisco , México.
(3)c Unidad Académica de Medicina , Universidad Autónoma de Nayarit , Tepic ,
Nayarit , México. (4)d Secretaría de Investigación y Posgrado , Universidad
Autónoma de Nayarit , Tepic , Nayarit , México.

BACKGROUND: Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) non-coding polymorphisms are associated
to primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma, and
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma. This study was performed to determine whether
non-coding single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the TLR4 gene contribute to 
POAG in a Mexican population.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 187 unrelated Mexican patients with POAG and 109
control subjects were included. Allelic, genotypic, and haplotypic diversity was 
assessed for the non-coding polymorphisms rs11536889, rs1927911, rs12377632, and 
rs2149356 of the TLR4 gene. Genotyping of target SNPs was performed by 5'
exonuclease allelic discrimination assays.
RESULTS: Strong linkage disequilibrium was observed among the SNPs (D' > 0.818), 
which were located in one haplotype block. The rs11536889 polymorphism was not
associated to POAG in any case. The frequency of the minor allele of rs2149356
was significantly higher in the glaucoma group, conferring an increased risk of
POAG (p = 0.0018, OR = 1.803, 95% CI 1.2556-2.5890) whereas minor allele of
rs12377632 was significantly lower, attributing a protective effect (p = 0.0001, 
OR = 0.6662, 95% CI 0.4753-0.9339). Subjects with genotypes carrying the minor
allele of rs1927911 and rs2149356 shown an increased risk for POAG (p = 0.03, OR 
= 1.78, 95% CI 1.10-2.87, and p < 0.0004, OR =2.62, 95%CI 1.61-4.27
respectively). Finally, we found significant risk haplotypes. The GTT haplotype
(constituted by rs1927911, rs12377632, and rs2149356) reached the higher OR (p = 
0.0026, OR = 4.70, 95% CI 1.73-12.77).
CONCLUSIONS: We have identified intronic TLR4 SNPs as genetic susceptibility
alleles for POAG in a Mexican population. Our findings support the association of
the TLR4 gene with POAG.

DOI: 10.1080/13816810.2016.1227454 
PMID: 27892755  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


13. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc. 2016 Aug;114:T6.

Tank-Binding Kinase 1 (TBK1) Gene and Open-Angle Glaucomas (An American
Ophthalmological Society Thesis).

Fingert JH(1), Robin AL(1), Scheetz TE(1), Kwon YH(1), Liebmann JM(1), Ritch
R(1), Alward WL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa (Dr Fingert, Dr Scheetz, Dr Kwon, Dr Alward);
the Stephen A. Wynn Institute for Vision Research, University of Iowa, Iowa City,
Iowa (Dr Fingert, Dr Scheetz, Dr Kwon, Dr Alward); the Departments of
Ophthalmology and International Health, School of Medicine and the Bloomberg
School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland (Dr
Robin); the Department of Ophthalmology, University of Maryland, Baltimore,
Maryland (Dr Robin); Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York (Dr
Liebmann); the Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary
of Mount Sinai, New York, New York (Dr Ritch).

PURPOSE: To investigate the role of TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) gene copy-number
variations (ie, gene duplications and triplications) in the pathophysiology of
various open-angle glaucomas.
METHODS: In previous studies, we discovered that copy-number variations in the
TBK1 gene are associated with normal-tension glaucoma. Here, we investigated the 
prevalence of copy-number variations in cohorts of patients with other open-angle
glaucomas-juvenile-onset open-angle glaucoma (n=30), pigmentary glaucoma (n=209),
exfoliation glaucoma (n=225), and steroid-induced glaucoma (n=79)-using a
quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay.
RESULTS: No TBK1 gene copy-number variations were detected in patients with
juvenile-onset open-angle glaucoma, pigmentary glaucoma, or steroid-induced
glaucoma. A TBK1 gene duplication was detected in one (0.44%) of the 225
exfoliation glaucoma patients.
CONCLUSIONS: TBK1 gene copy-number variations (gene duplications and
triplications) have been previously associated with normal-tension glaucoma. An
exploration of other open-angle glaucomas detected a TBK1 copy-number variation
in a patient with exfoliation glaucoma, which is the first example of a TBK1
mutation in a glaucoma patient with a diagnosis other than normal-tension
glaucoma. A broader phenotypic range may be associated with TBK1 copy-number
variations, although mutations in this gene are most often detected in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC5113957
PMID: 27881886  [PubMed - in process]


14. J Glaucoma. 2016 Nov 21. [Epub ahead of print]

Microvascular Compromise Develops Following Nerve Fiber Layer Damage in
Normal-Tension Glaucoma Without Choroidal Vasculature Involvement.

Lee EJ(1), Kim S, Hwang S, Han JC, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate capillary densities in patients with unilateral
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and normal controls using optical coherence
tomography-angiography.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We recruited 13 patients with unilateral NTG and 13
healthy controls. Optical coherence tomography-angiography was performed and pure
peripapillary retinal capillary density was calculated after manually excluding
large vessels and the optic disc. Paired comparison of capillary densities was
performed among 3 categories of eye: NTG eye, fellow eye, and normal eye. Through
vascular layer stratification we investigated differences in the retinal and
choroidal circulation.
RESULTS: In total, 33 eyes of 11 unilateral NTG patients and 11 controls were
analyzed. Capillary densities of NTG eyes were significantly lower than those of 
fellow eyes or control eyes (both P=0.013). No significant differences were found
between fellow eyes and control eyes (P=0.328). Area of capillary compromise was 
identical to the area of retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defect in all 11 eyes. 
In layer analysis, a decrease in capillary plexus was demonstrated only in the
inner retina and no definite changes were found in the outer retina and choroid. 
Optic nerve head microvasculature did not show areas of capillary dropout.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with unilateral NTG, we could observe significant
retinal capillary compromise in the area of RNFL defect. No changes were
demonstrated in the choroid and optic disc area. We speculated on a possibility
of secondary microvascular changes in the retina to nerve damage from the
wedge-shaped but not geographic shaped capillary compromise corresponding to RNFL
defect area. Further studies on the optic nerve head microvasculature and blood
flow are warranted to assess their relationship to glaucoma pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000587 
PMID: 27875487  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


15. Heliyon. 2016 Oct 28;2(10):e00191. eCollection 2016.

Effect of geranylgeranylacetone on the protection of retinal ganglion cells in a 
mouse model of normal tension glaucoma.

Dong Z(1), Shinmei Y(1), Dong Y(1), Inafuku S(1), Fukuhara J(1), Ando R(1),
Kitaichi N(2), Kanda A(1), Tanaka K(3), Noda K(1), Harada T(4), Chin S(5), Ishida
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Sapporo, Japan; Laboratory of Ocular Cell Biology and Visual Science, Hokkaido
University Graduate School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan;
Department of Ophthalmology, Health Sciences University of Hokkaido, Sapporo,
Japan. (3)Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Medical Research Institute, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan. (4)Department of Ophthalmology,
Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan; Visual Research 
Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Sapporo, Japan.

Glaucoma is characterized by axonal degeneration of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs)
and apoptotic death of their cell bodies, and lowering intraocular pressure is
associated with an attenuation of progressive optic nerve damage. Nevertheless,
intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction alone was not enough to inhibit the
progression of disease, which suggests the contribution of other factors to the
glaucoma pathogenesis. In this study, we investigated the cytoprotective effect
of geranylgeranylacetone (GGA) on RGCs degeneration using a normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) mouse model, which lacks glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST)
and demonstrates spontaneous RGC and optic nerve degeneration without elevated
intraocular pressure (IOP). Three-week-old GLAST(+/-) mice were given oral
administration of GGA at 100, 300, or 600 mg/kg/day or vehicle alone, and
littermate control mice were given vehicle alone for 14 days, respectively. At 5 
weeks after birth, the number of RGCs was counted in paraffin sections of retinal
tissues stained with hematoxylin and eosin. In addition, retrograde labeling
technique was also used to quantify the number of RGC. Expression and
localization of heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) in retinas were evaluated by
reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry,
respectively. Activities of caspase-9 and -3 in retinas were also assessed. The
number of RGCs of GLAST(+/-) mice significantly decreased, as compared to that of
control mice. RGC loss was significantly suppressed by administration of GGA at
600 mg/kg/day, compared with vehicle alone. Following GGA administration, HSP70
was significantly upregulated together with reduction in the activities of
caspase-9 and -3. Our studies highlight HSP70 induction in the retina is
available to suppress RGC degeneration, and thus GGA may be applicable for NTG as
a promising therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2016.e00191 
PMCID: PMC5103079
PMID: 27861646  [PubMed - in process]


16. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Nov 9. [Epub ahead of print]

Change in Central Corneal Thickness After the Discontinuation of Latanoprost in
Normal Tension Glaucoma-Change in Central Corneal Thickness After Stop of
Latanoprost.

Yoo R(1), Choi YA(1), Cho BJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Konkuk University Medical Center, Konkuk
University School of Medicine , Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To assess the impact of latanoprost on central corneal thickness (CCT)
after ceasing medication in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: A total of 46 eyes from 46 NTG patients, and 44 eyes from 44 individuals
with glaucoma suspect (controls), were included in this retrospective study.
Newly diagnosed early NTG patients (visual field mean deviation >-6.00) were
administered latanoprost 0.005% monotherapy once a day. CCTs were measured by
ultrasound pachymetry before treatment, for 5 years during treatment, and for 2
years after ceasing treatment.
RESULTS: Mean CCT was reduced significantly in the NTG group during treatment
[544.4 ± 35.8 μm vs. 531.4 ± 32.5 μm (n = 46), P < 0.001]. After ceasing
latanoprost treatment, mean CCT increased [531.4 ± 32.5 μm vs. 544.6 ± 37.1 μm
(n = 46), P < 0.01] over the course of 2 years. In the control group, however,
mean CCT was not significantly different [553.5 ± 27.5 μm vs. 561.8 ± 24.7 μm
(n = 44), P = 0.06] at the 7-year follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost significantly reduced CCT in NTG patients after 5 years 
of treatment; however, the reduction was reversed 2 years after discontinuation
of treatment.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2016.0036 
PMID: 27828721  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


17. J Glaucoma. 2016 Nov;25(11):901-907.

Optic Disc Characteristics and Visual Field Progression in Normal Tension
Glaucoma Patients With Tilted Optic Discs.

Kwun Y(1), Han G, Choy YJ, Han JC, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul †Department of Ophthalmology, Eul-ji University
Hospital, Daejeon, South Korea.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose of the study was to evaluate the optic disc
characteristics associated with visual field (VF) progression in normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) eyes with tilted optic discs.
METHODS: Sixty-six eyes of 66 NTG patients with tilted optic disc were included
in this cross-sectional study, who were examined by at least 5 Humphrey 30-2 VFs.
Glaucomatous VF progression was evaluated using pointwise linear regression.
Optic nerve heads were scanned with enhanced-depth imaging optical coherence
tomography (EDI-OCT), and evaluated for the focal lamina cribrosa (LC) defects
and LC thicknesses. Optic disc torsion degrees and tilt ratios were measured from
disc photographs. Logistic regression analyses were used to identify the risk
factors for VF progression and focal LC defects.
RESULTS: Multivariate analysis showed that VF progression was associated with the
presence of focal LC defects and greater number of VFs. The eyes with focal LC
defects were associated with greater torsion degree and tilt ratio in
multivariate analysis. The VF mean deviation slopes and localized VF progression 
rates in eyes with focal LC defects were greater than those without defects.
CONCLUSIONS: The greater optic disc tilt and torsion in NTG eyes with tilted
optic disc were associated with focal LC defects, but not with VF progression.
The focal LC defects were associated with VF progression. This study suggests
that the focal LC defects in NTG patients with tilted optic disc may be an
independent risk factor for glaucomatous VF progression, and the development of
focal LC defects could be influenced by optic disc torsion or tilt.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000565 
PMID: 27755347  [PubMed - in process]


18. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2016 Jul 16:0. doi: 10.5301/ejo.5000827. [Epub ahead of print]

Retinal nerve fiber and optic disc morphology using spectral-domain optical
coherence tomography in scleroderma patients.

Sahin-Atik S(1), Koc F(1), Akin-Sari S(2), Ozmen M(3).

Author information: 
(1) Department of Ophthalmology, Ataturk Teaching and Research Hospital,
Yesilyurt, Izmir - Turkey. (2) Department of Internal Medicine, Bigadic Public
Hospital, Balikesir - Turkey. (3) Department of Internal Medicine, Division of
Rheumatology, Ataturk Teaching and Research Hospital, Yesilyurt, Izmir - Turkey.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the optic nerve head parameters and peripapillary retinal
nerve fiber layer using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in 
a systemic sclerosis (SSc) cohort and age-matched controls to determine whether
SSc patients have an increased risk of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: We examined 30 patients (3 male, 27 female) with SSc and 28 age- and
sex-matched controls. Retinal nerve fiber and optic disc morphology were
evaluated using Cirrus SD-OCT.
RESULTS: Optic disc morphology measurements including disc area, rim area,
average and vertical cup/disc (C/D) ratio, and cup volume were not significantly 
different between the study groups. The average and 4-quadrant retinal nerve
fiber layer (RNFL) measurements of the C/D &gt;0.3 subgroups were not
significantly different in the patients and controls. These values were also
similar for the C/D &gt;0.5 subgroups except that the average inferior quadrant
RNFL thickness of the right eyes in the patient subgroup was significantly
thinner than in the control subgroup (p&lt;0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our SSc cohort had relatively shorter disease duration but increased
prevalence of early glaucomatous damage signs. Our findings indicate that SSc is 
a risk factor for developing normal-tension glaucoma. Further studies combined
with visual field evaluation are necessary to identify the long-term glaucomatous
effects of SSc.

DOI: 10.5301/ejo.5000827 
PMID: 27445077  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


19. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2016 May 16:0. doi: 10.5301/ejo.5000806. [Epub ahead of print]

Anterior lamina cribrosa surface position in idiopathic intracranial hypertension
and glaucoma.

Villarruel JM(1), Li XQ(1), Bach-Holm D(1), Hamann S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen - Denmark.

PURPOSE: To compare the anterior lamina cribrosa (LC) surface position in
patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), primary open-angle
glaucoma (high-tension glaucoma [HTG] and normal-tension glaucoma [NTG]), and
healthy controls using enhanced depth imaging spectral-domain optical coherence
tomography (EDI-OCT).
METHODS: This was a retrospective, cross-sectional observational study of 11 eyes
with IIH, 20 eyes with HTG, 20 eyes with NTG, and 37 control eyes. Serial
horizontal B-scans of the optic nerve head were obtained using EDI-OCT. The LC
depth, defined as the distance from the Bruch membrane opening plane to the
anterior LC surface, was manually measured on selected B-scans covering the
central three-quarters of the optic nerve head in each eye.
RESULTS: Mean LC depth in patients with IIH (325.2 ± 92.1 µm) was significantly
(p&lt;0.01) decreased compared to control subjects (387.8 ± 53.9 µm). In HTG, the
mean LC depth (493.0 ± 115.2 µm) was significantly increased compared to NTG
(376.6 ± 27.1 µm, p&lt;0.05) and control subjects (332.7 ± 53.1 µm, p&lt;0.001). 
The trans-LC pressure difference (TLPD) (intraocular pressure - cerebrospinal
fluid pressure) was positively correlated with the LC depth (r = 0.96,
p&lt;0.001) and inversely correlated with visual field perimetric mean deviation 
in patients with IIH (r = -0.88, p&lt;0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The LC is positioned anteriorly in patients with IIH and posteriorly
in glaucomatous eyes compared to normal controls. The positional changes of the
LC could be a result of the TLPD between the intraocular and intracranial
pressure compartments.

DOI: 10.5301/ejo.5000806 
PMID: 27198638  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


20. Mol Vis. 2016 Oct 20;22:1256-1266. eCollection 2016.

Plasma endothelin-1 and single nucleotide polymorphisms of endothelin-1 and
endothelin type A receptor genes as risk factors for normal tension glaucoma.

Kosior-Jarecka E(1), Wróbel-Dudzińska D(1), Łukasik U(1), Aung T(2), Khor CC(3), 
Kocki J(4), Żarnowski T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostics and Microsurgery of Glaucoma, Medical University,
Lublin, Poland. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, National University Health
System, National University of Singapore; Singapore Eye Research Institute,
Singapore; Singapore National Eye Center, Singapore. (3)Genome Institute of
Singapore, Singapore; Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore, Singapore.
(4)Department of Clinical Genetics, Medical University, Lublin, Poland.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether four single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of endothelin and endothelin receptor type A
genes can constitute a risk factor for normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and high
tension glaucoma (HTG).
METHODS: The study included 160 patients with NTG, 124 patients with HTG, and 165
healthy controls. To analyze the frequency of polymorphic variants of the
endothelin EDN gene (K198N) and the endothelin receptor type A gene EDN RA
(C1222T, C70G, G231A), DNA was isolated from peripheral blood, and SNP genotyping
was performed using the real-time PCR (RT-PCR) method. Plasma endothelin (ET)
concentrations were detected using an enzyme immunoassay. Endothelin levels were 
compared with genotype and allele distributions, patients' clinical status, and
various risk factors for NTG.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference between the patients with NTG and HTG
and the controls (p = 0.035, p = 0.008) regarding the genotype of the C1222T and 
C70G polymorphism. Plasma concentrations of ET did not differ between the NTG and
HTG groups, and no significant correlation with intraocular pressure (IOP),
best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), and the cup to disc ratio (c/d ratio) was
seen in patients with NTG. Plasma endothelin levels showed a noticeably positive 
correlation with age in the NTG group (R = 0.249, p = 0.042). Higher endothelin
levels corresponded to more advanced visual field damage. No statistical
difference was observed between variant genotypes of K198N and the ET-1 plasma
concentration in patients with NTG, whereas a slightly higher ET level was
observed in the patients with HTG with the GT genotype in comparison to those
with the GG genotype (p = 0.001). The C1222T polymorphism significantly affected 
the plasma ET level in patients with NTG. The TT genotype carriers had the
highest ET level, and the CC genotype carriers the lowest (p = 0.034). The AA
variant genotype of the G231A polymorphism exhibited the highest ET level, while 
the GG variant genotype represented the lowest level (p = 0.033). No significant 
differences were observed regarding the endothelin levels and the frequency of
notches, peripapillary atrophy, low blood pressure, cold extremities, or migraine
in the two groups studied. Slightly lower endothelin plasma levels were observed 
in patients with optic disc hemorrhages in the NTG group (p = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Polymorphic variants of endothelin EDN (K198N) and endothelin
receptor type A genes EDN RA (C1222T, C70G, G231A) affected ET plasma
concentrations. There was no association between the plasma endothelin levels and
the risk factors for NTG. According to these results, plasma endothelin
concentrations do not appear to be a marker for NTG.


PMCID: PMC5072545
PMID: 27777505  [PubMed - in process]


21. PLoS One. 2016 Oct 24;11(10):e0164876. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0164876.
eCollection 2016.

The Effect of Diurnal Fluctuation in Intraocular Pressure on the Evaluation of
Risk Factors of Progression in Normal Tension Glaucoma.

Kim SH(1), Lee EJ(1), Han JC(1), Sohn SW(1), Rhee T(1), Kee C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether diurnal fluctuation in intraocular pressure (IOP)
can influence the result of the correlations between IOP-related factors and
progression of normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Glaucoma progression was defined as visual field (VF) progression and
changes in the optic disc and/or retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL). Two different 
methods were used to evaluate the impact of the diurnal fluctuation in IOP.
'Conventional method' used in previous studies included all IOP measurements
during the follow up time. 'Time adjusted method' was used to adjust diurnal
fluctuation in IOP with the preferred time. Mean IOP, long term IOP fluctuation
and the difference between the lowest and highest IOP were calculated using both 
methods. Cox regression analyses were performed to evaluate the association
between IOP-related factors and NTG progression.
RESULTS: One hundred and forty eyes of 140 patients with NTG were included in
this study. 41% (58 of 140 eyes) of eyes underwent NTG progression. Long term IOP
variation calculated by conventional method was not a significant risk factor for
NTG progression (hazard ratio[HR], 0.311; 95% confidence interval[CI],
0.056-1.717; P = 0.180). Long term IOP variation calculated by time adjusted
method, however, was related to progression, with an HR of 5.260 (95%
CI,1.191-23.232; P = 0.029).
CONCLUSION: Although having the same IOP-related factors, if diurnal fluctuation 
is included, different results may be found on the relationship between
IOP-related factors and NTG progression. Based on our results, diurnal
fluctuation in IOP should be considered when IOP-related factors are studied in
the future.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0164876 
PMCID: PMC5077094
PMID: 27776182  [PubMed - in process]


22. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2016 Nov;55:149-181. doi: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.08.002.
Epub 2016 Sep 29.

Significance of optineurin mutations in glaucoma and other diseases.

Minegishi Y(1), Nakayama M(1), Iejima D(1), Kawase K(2), Iwata T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Cellular Biology, National Institute of Sensory
Organs, National Hospital Organization Tokyo Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu, Japan. 
(3)Division of Molecular and Cellular Biology, National Institute of Sensory
Organs, National Hospital Organization Tokyo Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan.
Electronic address: takeshi.iwata@kankakuki.go.jp.

Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of bilateral blindness, affecting nearly 57
million people worldwide. Glaucoma is characterized by a progressive loss of
retinal ganglion cells and is often associated with intraocular pressure (IOP).
Normal tension glaucoma (NTG), marked by normal IOP but progressive glaucoma, is 
incompletely understood. In 2002, Sarfarazi et al. identified FIP-2 gene
mutations responsible for hereditary NTG, renaming this gene "optineurin" (OPTN).
Further investigations by multiple groups worldwide showed that OPTN is involved 
in several critical cellular functions, such as NF-κB regulation, autophagy, and 
vesicle transport. Recently, OPTN mutations were found to cause amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis (ALS). Surprisingly, a mutation in the OPTN interacting
protein, i.e., the duplication of TANK binding protein 1 (TBK1) gene, also can
cause both NTG and ALS. These phenotypically distinct neuronal diseases are now
merging into one common pathological mechanism by these two genes. TBK1
inhibition has emerged as a potential therapy for NTG. In this manuscript, we
focus on the OPTN E50K mutation, the most common mutation for NTG, to describe
the molecular mechanism of NTG by expressing a mutant Optn gene in cells and
genetically modified mice. Patient iPS cells were developed and differentiated
into neural cells to observe abnormal behavior and the impact of the E50K
mutation. These in vitro studies were further extended to identify the inhibitors
BX795 and amlexanox, which have the potential to reverse the disease-causing
phenomenon in patient's neural cells. Here we show for the first time that
amlexanox protects RGCs in Optn E50K knock-in mice.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.08.002 
PMID: 27693724  [PubMed - in process]


23. Am J Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct 14. pii: S0002-9394(16)30504-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2016.10.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Deformation of Optic Nerve Head and Peripapillary Tissues By Horizontal Duction.

Chang MY(1), Shin A(1), Park J(1), Nagiel A(1), Lalane RA(1), Schwartz SD(1),
Demer JL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, David Geffen Medical School at University of
California, Los Angeles, U.S.A; Stein Eye Institute, David Geffen Medical School 
at University of California, Los Angeles, U.S.A. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, 
David Geffen Medical School at University of California, Los Angeles, U.S.A;
Stein Eye Institute, David Geffen Medical School at University of California, Los
Angeles, U.S.A; Department of Neurology, David Geffen Medical School at
University of California, Los Angeles, U.S.A; Neuroscience and, David Geffen
Medical School at University of California, Los Angeles, U.S.A; Bioengineering
Interdepartmental Programs, David Geffen Medical School at University of
California, Los Angeles, U.S.A. Electronic address: jld@jsei.ucla.edu.

PURPOSE: To ascertain deformation of the optic nerve head (ONH) and peripapillary
tissues caused by horizontal duction.
DESIGN: Prospective, experimental study.
METHODS: Optical coherence tomography of the ONH region was performed in 23 eyes 
of twelve normal volunteers in central gaze and increasing (10, 20, and 30°)
adduction and abduction. Main outcome measures were changes from central gaze in 
the configuration of the ONH and peripapillary tissues in eccentric gazes.
RESULTS: Adduction but not abduction was associated with significant, progressive
relative posterior displacement of the temporal peripapillary retinal pigment
epithelium (tRPE) from its position in central gaze reaching 49±10 μm in 30°
adduction (standard error of mean, p<0.0001). Absolute (anterior or posterior)
optic cup displacement (OCD) averaged 41±7 μm in 30° adduction. Linear regression
showed significant effect of adduction on absolute OCD (slope 1.09±0.36
μm/degree, p=0.0037). In 20° and 30° adduction, all eyes exhibited significant
progressive temporal ONH tilting reaching 3.1±0.4° in 30° adduction (p<0.0001).
Abduction was not associated with significant peripapillary RPE displacement,
OCD, or ONH tilt. Both nasal and temporal peripapillary choroid averaged 9 to 19 
μm thinner in adduction and abduction than in central gaze (p<0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Adduction temporally tilts and displaces the prelaminar ONH and
peripapillary tissues. Both adduction and abduction compress the peripapillary
choroid. These effects support MRI and biomechanical evidence that adduction
imposes strain on the ONH and peripapillary tissues. Repetitive strain from eye
movements over decades might in susceptible individuals lead to optic
neuropathies such as normal tension glaucoma.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.10.001 
PMID: 27751810  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


24. J Glaucoma. 2016 Oct;25(10):865-872.

Patterns of Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Loss in Different Subtypes of Open Angle
Glaucoma Using Spectral Domain Optical Coherence Tomography.

Baniasadi N(1), Paschalis EI, Haghzadeh M, Ojha P, Elze T, Mahd M, Chen TC.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Eye and
Ear Infirmary, Glaucoma Service ‡Schepens Eye Research Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston Departments of †Biomedical Engineering and Biotechnology
§Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Massachusetts, Lowell, MA.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose of the study was to determine whether there are
different patterns of retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thinning as measured by
spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) for 4 subtypes of open
angle glaucoma (OAG): primary OAG (POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG),
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PXG), and pigmentary glaucoma (PDG) and to compare
them with normal controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: SD-OCT RNFL thickness values were measured for 4 quadrants
and for 4 sectors (ie, superior-nasal, superior-temporal, inferior-nasal, and
inferior-temporal). Differences in RNFL thickness values between groups were
analyzed using analysis of variance. Paired t tests were used for quadrant
comparisons.
RESULTS: Two hundred eighty-five participants (102 POAG patients, 33 with NTG, 48
with PXG, 13 with PDG, and 89 normal patients) were included in this study. All 4
subtypes of OAG showed significant RNFL thinning in the superior, inferior, and
nasal quadrants as well as the superior-temporal and inferior-temporal sectors
(all P-values <0.0001) compared with normals. POAG and NTG patients had greater
RNFL thinning inferiorly and inferior-temporally than superiorly (P-values: 0.002
to 0.018 and 0.006, respectively) compared with PXG patients. In contrast, PDG
patients had greater RNFL thinning superiorly and superior-nasally than
inferiorly compared with other OAG subtypes (ie, POAG, NTG, PXG groups, with
P-values: 0.009, 0.003, 0.009, respectively). Of the 4 OAG subtypes, PXG patients
exhibited the greatest degree of inter-eye RNFL asymmetry.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that SD-OCT may be able to detect significant
differences in patterns of RNFL thinning for different subtypes of OAG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000534 
PMID: 27599175  [PubMed - in process]


25. Genet Test Mol Biomarkers. 2016 Oct;20(10):633-636. Epub 2016 Aug 17.

Evaluation of the IL1 Gene Cluster Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms in Primary
Open-Angle Glaucoma Pathogenesis.

Mookherjee S(1), Banerjee D(1), Chakraborty S(1), Mukhopadhyay I(2), Sen A(3),
Ray K(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Molecular & Human Genetics Division, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical
Biology , Kolkata, India . (2)2 Human Genetics Unit, Indian Statistical Institute
, Kolkata, India . (3)3 Dristi Pradip , Kolkata, India .

AIMS: Dysregulation of the immune system has previously been implicated in
glaucoma pathogenesis. In this study, we investigated the potential association
of SNPs in the IL1 gene cluster, consisting of nine genes, with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) cases. These cases presented with low to normal
intraocular pressures (<20 mmHg), and are referred to as non-high tension
glaucoma (non-HTG) cases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this biphasic study, the discovery phase was conducted 
with 198 non-HTG cases and 112 controls from eastern India. A total of 68 single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spanning the IL1 nine-gene cluster region were
genotyped using the MALDI-TOF based Sequenom platform. SNPs, which were found to 
be significantly associated with non-HTG cases in the first phase of the study,
were further genotyped by Sanger sequencing in a replication cohort consisting of
194 non-HTG cases and 242 controls.
RESULTS: In the discovery phase, two nonsynonymous SNPs (rs3811046 and
rs3811047), located in the IL1F7 gene and in an intergenic region, respectively
were found to be weakly associated with non-HTG cases. However, the association
was not sustained in the replication cohort.
CONCLUSION: Our study did not reveal any reproducible association of SNPs in the 
IL1 gene cluster with POAG.

DOI: 10.1089/gtmb.2015.0344 
PMID: 27533638  [PubMed - in process]


26. J Glaucoma. 2016 Oct;25(10):807-811.

Self-Monitoring of Intraocular Pressure Outside of Normal Office Hours Using
Rebound Tonometry: Initial Clinical Experience in Patients With Normal Tension
Glaucoma.

Sood V(1), Ramanathan US.

Author information: 
(1)Wolverhampton & Midland Counties Eye Infirmary, Royal Wolverhampton Hospitals,
Wednesfield Road, Wolverhampton, UK.

PURPOSE: To determine the value and accuracy of 24-hour intraocular pressure
(IOP) phasing using Icare ONE rebound tonometry (RTONE), in subjects with normal 
tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Eighteen consecutive patients with treated NTG were studied, all
subjects had undergone 24-hour IOP phasing during a 1-year period. Each patient
had daytime (08:00 to 16:00) IOP phasing with Goldmann applanation tonometer at
2-hourly intervals; at these same time points an IOP reading was also obtained by
the patient using RTONE. Self-measured IOPs were then recorded at home using
RTONE between 18:00 and 06:00 (at 2-hourly intervals). The frequency with which
the phasing results altered clinical management was evaluated.
RESULTS: The mean peak IOP was significantly higher during nighttime phasing
(15.78±4.8 mm Hg) compared with daytime phasing (12.83±2.7 mm Hg, P=0.0018) and
clinic IOP measurements (11.8±1.6 mm Hg, P<0.0001). Following IOP phasing a
change in management occurred in 10 of 18 patients (56%). In the majority of
these patients, a peak IOP was identified during nighttime phasing compared with 
daytime phasing, this difference was significant (P=0.0090). There were strong
correlations between the IOP measurements obtained with Goldmann applanation
tonometer and RTONE (Spearman r values >0.60, P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that in patients with NTG with progression that 
is disproportionate to their clinic IOP measurements, 24-hour phasing can reveal 
higher IOP spikes than those identified during typical office hours. RTONE is a
safe, easy to use, and accurate device for self-monitoring of IOP.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000424 
PMID: 27513898  [PubMed - in process]


27. J Glaucoma. 2016 Oct;25(10):854-859.

Identification of the Most Accurate Spectral-domain Optical Coherence Tomography 
Parameters in Eyes With Early High-Tension and Low-Tension Glaucoma.

Gracitelli CP(1), Moreno PA, Leite MT, Prata TS.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Federal University of São Paulo, São Paulo
‡Hospital Oftalmológico Medicina dos Olhos, Osasco, Brazil †Department of
Ophthalmology, Hamilton Glaucoma Center, University of California, San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA.

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to compare the diagnostic ability of macular
ganglion cell complex (GCC) and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (pRNFL)
thickness in high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and low-tension glaucoma (LTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Glaucoma was defined as glaucomatous optic neuropathy and
reproducible visual field defects. Patients were classified as having LTG if
untreated intraocular pressure was ≤21 mm Hg on 2 different occasions. Only eyes 
with early glaucoma (mean deviation <-6 dB) were included. All patients underwent
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT) imaging.
RESULTS: A total of 56 normal subjects, 64 HTG patients, and 35 LTG patients were
enrolled. Overall, after adjusting for mean deviation and age, the average pRNFL 
thickness in eyes with LTG was 18.7 µm thinner than in eyes with HTG (17%
difference, P<0.01). In the HTG group, no significant difference was found
between areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUCs) for
average GCC and average pRNFL thicknesses (0.77 vs. 0.68, P=0.06). In the LTG
group, average pRNFL thickness had a significantly larger AUC compared with
average GCC thickness (0.95 vs. 0.81, P<0.001). Comparing AUCs between HTG and
LTG groups, although the average GCC had similar AUCs in both groups (P=0.47),
the average pRNFL thickness had a significantly larger AUC in the LTG group
(P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In eyes with early glaucoma, the pRNFL thickness scan seems to be a 
more accurate SDOCT protocol to identify those with LTG compared with the GCC
thickness scan.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000406 
PMID: 26950577  [PubMed - in process]


28. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Jul 1;57(9):OCT611-OCT620. doi:
10.1167/iovs.15-18945.

Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography Analysis of Perfused Peripapillary
Capillaries in Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma and Normal-Tension Glaucoma.

Scripsema NK(1), Garcia PM(1), Bavier RD(2), Chui TY(1), Krawitz BD(1), Mo S(1), 
Agemy SA(3), Xu L(1), Lin YB(1), Panarelli JF(1), Sidoti PA(1), Tsai JC(1), Rosen
RB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai
and Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai
and Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States
2Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey, United States.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai
and Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States
3Department of Ophthalmology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center and SUNY Downstate
College of Medicine, Brooklyn, New York, United States.

Purpose: To compare perfused peripapillary capillary density in primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), and normal patients
using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A).
Methods: A retrospective review of POAG, NTG, and normal patients imaged with
OCT-A was performed. En face OCT angiograms identifying peripapillary vessels
were obtained using a spectral-domain OCT system (Avanti RTVue-XR). A custom
image analysis approach identified perfused peripapillary capillaries, quantified
perfused capillary density (PCD), and generated color-coded PCD maps for 3.5- and
4.5-mm-diameter scans. We compared PCD values, PCD maps, standard automated
perimetry (Humphrey visual field [HVF]) parameters, and OCT retinal nerve fiber
layer (RNFL) thickness analyses across all groups.
Results: Forty POAG, 26 NTG, and 26 normal patients were included. Annular PCD in
POAG (34.24 ± 6.76%) and NTG (37.75 ± 3.52%) patients was significantly decreased
compared to normal patients (42.99 ± 1.81%) in 4.5-mm scans (P < 0.01 and P <
0.01, respectively). Similar trends and statistical significances were seen in
3.5-mm scans. Linear regression analysis resulted in moderate correlations
between annular PCD values and other glaucomatous parameters. Pearson
coefficients comparing annular PCD from 4.5-mm scans in POAG and NTG groups to
HVF mean deviation, HVF pattern standard deviation, and average RNFL thickness
all showed statistical significance (P < 0.05). Color maps showed that POAG and
NTG patients had a reduction of perfused capillaries that progressed in size when
comparing early, moderate, and severe glaucoma groups.
Conclusions: Optical coherence tomography angiography can uniquely identify
changes in peripapillary PCD in glaucoma patients. Optical coherence tomography
angiography may offer insights into the pathophysiology of glaucomatous damage
and risk factors for disease progression.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-18945 
PMID: 27742922  [PubMed - in process]


29. Sci Rep. 2016 Sep 27;6:33950. doi: 10.1038/srep33950.

Caloric restriction promotes cell survival in a mouse model of normal tension
glaucoma.

Guo X(1), Kimura A(1), Azuchi Y(1), Akiyama G(1), Noro T(1), Harada C(1),
Namekata K(1), Harada T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Visual Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
Tokyo, Japan.

Glaucoma is characterized by progressive degeneration of retinal ganglion cells
(RGCs) and their axons. We previously reported that loss of glutamate
transporters (EAAC1 or GLAST) in mice leads to RGC degeneration that is similar
to normal tension glaucoma and these animal models are useful in examining
potential therapeutic strategies. Caloric restriction has been reported to
increase longevity and has potential benefits in injury and disease. Here we
investigated the effects of every-other-day fasting (EODF), a form of caloric
restriction, on glaucomatous pathology in EAAC1(-/-) mice. EODF suppressed RGC
death and retinal degeneration without altering intraocular pressure. Moreover,
visual impairment was ameliorated with EODF, indicating the functional
significance of the neuroprotective effect of EODF. Several mechanisms associated
with this neuroprotection were explored. We found that EODF upregulated blood
β-hydroxybutyrate levels and increased histone acetylation in the retina.
Furthermore, it elevated retinal mRNA expression levels of neurotrophic factors
and catalase, whereas it decreased oxidative stress levels in the retina. Our
findings suggest that EODF, a safe, non-invasive, and low-cost treatment, may be 
available for glaucoma therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/srep33950 
PMCID: PMC5037377
PMID: 27669894  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


30. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Sep 1;57(11):5046-5052. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-20017.

Assessing the Association of Mitochondrial Genetic Variation With Primary
Open-Angle Glaucoma Using Gene-Set Analyses.

Khawaja AP(1), Cooke Bailey JN(2), Kang JH(3), Allingham RR(4), Hauser MA(5),
Brilliant M(6), Budenz DL(7), Christen WG(8), Fingert J(9), Gaasterland D(10),
Gaasterland T(11), Kraft P(12), Lee RK(13), Lichter PR(14), Liu Y(15), Medeiros
F(16), Moroi SE(14), Richards JE(17), Realini T(18), Ritch R(19), Schuman JS(20),
Scott WK(21), Singh K(22), Sit AJ(23), Vollrath D(24), Wollstein G(25), Zack
DJ(26), Zhang K(16), Pericak-Vance M(21), Weinreb RN(16), Haines JL(2), Pasquale 
LR(27), Wiggs JL(28).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre,
Moorfields Eye Hospital National Health Service (NHS) Foundation Trust, and
University College London (UCL) Institute of Ophthalmology, London, United
Kingdom. (2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Institute for
Computational Biology, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine,
Cleveland, Ohio, United States. (3)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, United
States. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham,
North Carolina, United States. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, United States 5Department of Medicine,
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, United States.
(6)Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation, Marshfield, Wisconsin, United States.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, United States. (8)Division of Preventive Medicine, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States.
(9)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Iowa, College of Medicine, Iowa
City, Iowa, United States 10Stephen A. Wynn Institute for Vision Research, Iowa
City, Iowa, United States. (10)The Emmes Corporation, Rockville, Maryland, United
States. (11)Scripps Genome Center, University of California at San Diego, San
Diego, California, United States. (12)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T. H.
Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States 14Program in
Genetic Epidemiology and Statistical Genetics, Harvard School of Public Health,
Boston, Massachusetts, United States. (13)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University
of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, United States. (14)Department
of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan, United States. (15)Department of Cellular Biology and Anatomy, Medical 
College of Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, United States 18James
and Jean Culver Vision Discovery Institute, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta
University, Augusta, Georgia, United States. (16)Hamilton Glaucoma Center, Shiley
Eye Institute, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, California, United
States. (17)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States 20Department of Epidemiology,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States. (18)Department of
Ophthalmology, West Virginia University Eye Institute, Morgantown, West Virginia,
United States. (19)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, Department of Ophthalmology,
New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States.
(20)Department of Ophthalmology, New York University, New York, New York, United 
States. (21)Institute for Human Genomics, University of Miami Miller School of
Medicine, Miami, Florida, United States. (22)Department of Ophthalmology,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, California, United States.
(23)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, United
States. (24)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo 
Alto, California, United States. (25)Department of Ophthalmology, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. (26)Wilmer Eye Institute,
Johns Hopkins University Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland, United States.
(27)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States 30Department of
Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary,
Boston, Massachusetts, United States. (28)Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard
Medical School, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, Massachusetts,
United States.

Purpose: Recent studies indicate that mitochondrial proteins may contribute to
the pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). In this study, we
examined the association between POAG and common variations in gene-encoding
mitochondrial proteins.
Methods: We examined genetic data from 3430 POAG cases and 3108 controls derived 
from the combination of the GLAUGEN and NEIGHBOR studies. We constructed
biological-system coherent mitochondrial nuclear-encoded protein gene-sets by
intersecting the MitoCarta database with the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and
Genomes (KEGG) database. We examined the mitochondrial gene-sets for association 
with POAG and with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG) 
subsets using Pathway Analysis by Randomization Incorporating Structure.
Results: We identified 22 KEGG pathways with significant mitochondrial
protein-encoding gene enrichment, belonging to six general biological classes.
Among the pathway classes, mitochondrial lipid metabolism was associated with
POAG overall (P = 0.013) and with NTG (P = 0.0006), and mitochondrial
carbohydrate metabolism was associated with NTG (P = 0.030). Examining the
individual KEGG pathway mitochondrial gene-sets, fatty acid elongation and
synthesis and degradation of ketone bodies, both lipid metabolism pathways, were 
significantly associated with POAG (P = 0.005 and P = 0.002, respectively) and
NTG (P = 0.0004 and P < 0.0001, respectively). Butanoate metabolism, a
carbohydrate metabolism pathway, was significantly associated with POAG (P =
0.004), NTG (P = 0.001), and HTG (P = 0.010).
Conclusions: We present an effective approach for assessing the contributions of 
mitochondrial genetic variation to open-angle glaucoma. Our findings support a
role for mitochondria in POAG pathogenesis and specifically point to lipid and
carbohydrate metabolism pathways as being important.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20017 
PMCID: PMC5040191
PMID: 27661856  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


31. J Glaucoma. 2017 Jan;26(1):46-53. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000498.

Vessel Caliber in Normal Tension and Primary Open Angle Glaucoma Eyes With
Hemifield Damage.

Rao A(1), Agarwal K, Mudunuri H, Padhy D, Roy AK, Mukherjee S.

Author information: 
(1)*Glaucoma Services, LV Prasad Eye Institute †Diagnostic and Imaging Services, 
LV Prasad Eye Institute, Patia, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose of the study was to evaluate retinal vessel
diameter in age-matched normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) eyes with hemifield involvement.
METHODS: Fundus photographs of patients with hemifield defect, good visibility of
retinal nerve fiber layer defect, and vessels were compared with 30 controls. One
eye of each patient (28 NTG and 30 POAG) was randomly chosen for analysis using
Image J software by different clinicians at 2 levels. The structural parameters
analyzed included retinal nerve fiber layer defect width, diameter of vessels
(superotemporal or inferotemporal artery and superotemporal or inferotemporal
vein).
RESULTS: The average superotemporal artery diameter was similar in NTG (71±16.8
µm), POAG (79±26.6 µm), and controls (82±14.1 µm), P=0.2 with similar pattern
seen for other vessels. The affected quadrant in all eyes and those with disc
hemorrhage (n=8) did not have significantly different arteries and veins diameter
as compared with the unaffected quadrant in that eye. No relation of artery or
vein diameter with retinal nerve fiber layer defect width or clinical variables
in NTG or POAG eyes was seen on multivariate regression analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The vessel diameter was not significantly different in the affected 
and unaffected quadrants of age and severity-matched NTG and POAG eyes with
hemifield structural and functional defect as reported in earlier studies. These 
results point toward the possibility that vascular diameter changes may not be
the cause for glaucomatous changes.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000498 
PMID: 27636594  [PubMed - in process]


32. BMC Ophthalmol. 2016 Sep 15;16(1):162. doi: 10.1186/s12886-016-0338-6.

Tolerability and efficacy of bimatoprost 0.01 % in patients with open-angle
glaucoma or ocular hypertension evaluated in the Taiwanese clinical setting: the 
Asia Pacific Patterns from Early Access of Lumigan 0.01 % (APPEAL Taiwan) study.

Chen YY(1), Wang TH(2), Liu C(3), Wu KY(4), Chiu SL(5), Simonyi S(6), Lu DW(7).

Author information: 
(1)Kaohsiung Veterans General Hospital, Kaohsiung City, Taiwan. (2)National
Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei City, Taiwan. (3)Taipei Veterans General
Hospital, Taipei City, Taiwan. (4)Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital,
Kaohsiung City, Taiwan. (5)Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua City, Taiwan.
(6)Allergan Singapore Pte Ltd., Singapore, Singapore. (7)Tri-Service General
Hospital, Taipei City, Taiwan. ludawen@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: In randomized, controlled trials of open-angle glaucoma (OAG) or
ocular hypertension (OHT), bimatoprost 0.01 % improved tolerability while
retaining the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03 %.
Given geographic/racial differences in glaucoma presentation, the APPEAL study
assessed the occurrence and severity of hyperemia produced by bimatoprost 0.01 %,
and its efficacy, in the Taiwanese clinical setting.
METHODS: In this multicenter, open-label, observational study, treatment-naïve
and previously treated patients with OHT or OAG received once-daily bimatoprost
0.01 % for 12 weeks. Hyperemia (primary endpoint) was graded at baseline, week 6,
and week 12 using a photonumeric scale (0, +0.5, +1, +2, +3), grouped (≤ +1, none
to mild; ≥ +2, moderate to severe), and reported as unchanged from baseline,
improved, or worsened. IOP assessments followed the same schedule. Supplemental
efficacy analyses were conducted based on previous therapies.
RESULTS: The intent-to-treat population (N = 312) included treatment-naïve
(13.5 %) and previously treated (86.5 %) patients; mean age was 53.3 years. At
baseline, 46.3 % of previously treated patients were receiving prostaglandin
analog (PGA) monotherapy. At week 12, 91.2 %, 5.9 %, and 2.9 % of treatment-naïve
patients exhibited unchanged, worsened, and improved hyperemia from baseline,
respectively; 77.9 %, 12.9 %, and 9.2 % of previously treated patients showed no 
change, worsening, and improvement, respectively. There were no statistically
significant shifts in hyperemia severity in either group, or in subgroups based
on previous use of any PGA, any non-PGA, latanoprost, or travoprost
monotherapies. In treatment-naïve patients, mean IOP reduction from baseline
(18.0 ± 3.8 mm Hg) was 3.6 mm Hg at week 12 (P < 0.0001); 83.3 % had baseline IOP
≤ 21 mm Hg. In previously treated patients, mean additional IOP reduction from
baseline (17.8 ± 3.9 mm Hg) was 2.6 mm Hg (P < 0.0001); similar results were
observed in patient subgroups based on previous therapies.
CONCLUSIONS: In the Taiwanese clinical setting, bimatoprost 0.01 % provided
significant IOP lowering in treatment-naïve patients (regardless of baseline IOP)
and previously treated patients (even those with relatively low IOP on other
therapies), while causing no significant changes in hyperemia from baseline.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT01814761 . Registered 18 March 2013.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-016-0338-6 
PMCID: PMC5025541
PMID: 27633513  [PubMed - in process]


33. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2016 Jul-Aug;79(4):270-6. doi: 10.5935/0004-2749.20160077.

Normal-tension glaucoma: an update.

Esporcatte BL(1), Tavares IM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Division, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Escola
Paulista de Medicina, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a progressive optic neuropathy with intraocular 
pressure (IOP) within the statistically normal range (≤21 mmHg). The prevalence
of NTG varies widely among different population studies, being the most prevalent
open-angle glaucoma subtype in some reports. The etiology of NTG possibly is
multifactorial and still not well defined. Alternative treatments have been
proposed based on pathogenesis details. However, in clinical practice, adequate
reduction of IOP remains the keystone of managing patients with NTG. We review
the pathogenesis of NTG and the available therapies for this optic neuropathy.

DOI: 10.5935/0004-2749.20160077 
PMID: 27626157  [PubMed - in process]


34. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Aug 24;10:1633-7. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S108213. eCollection
2016.

Comparison study of intraocular pressure reduction efficacy and safety between
latanoprost and tafluprost in Japanese with normal-tension glaucoma.

Ikeda Y(1), Mori K(2), Tada K(3), Ueno M(2), Kinoshita S(4), Sotozono C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine;
Oike-Ganka Ikeda Clinic. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Kyoto Prefectural
University of Medicine. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Japanese Red Cross
Society Kyoto Daini Hospital. (4)Department of Frontier Medical Science and
Technology for Ophthalmology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate and compare the intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction
efficacy and safety between the ophthalmic solutions 0.005% latanoprost (Lat) and
0.0015% tafluprost (Taf) in Japanese patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: In this randomized nonmasked study, we prospectively enrolled 30
Japanese NTG patients who had used Lat monotherapy for more than 4 weeks, and
randomly divided them into the following two groups: 1) Lat-to-Taf group (LT
group) and 2) Taf-to-Lat group (TL group). At the beginning of the study, both
groups were switched from initial Lat to Lat or Taf for 12 weeks, and then
switched over to the other drug (crossover) for 12 additional weeks. At 0, 4, 12,
16, and 24 weeks, we evaluated each patient's IOP, conjunctival injection, and
corneal epitheliopathy score, and at 0, 12, and 24 weeks, we evaluated their
eyelash changes and pigmentation of the eyelids and irises.
RESULTS: The mean IOP of the LT group (15 eyes) was 10.5, 10.6, and 11.1 mmHg, at
0, 12, and 24 weeks, respectively, whereas that of the TL group (15 eyes) was
11.7, 11.1, and 10.5 mmHg at 0, 12, and 24 weeks, respectively. No significant
differences were found between the two groups and in the intragroup comparisons. 
Moreover, no significant differences were found between Lat and Taf in regard to 
the conjunctival injection score and corneal epitheliopathy score. Eyelash
changes and eyelid and iris pigmentation were similar in both groups.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this study show that Lat and Taf have equivalent
efficacy and safety in Japanese patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S108213 
PMCID: PMC5003551
PMID: 27601879  [PubMed]


35. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Aug;95(35):e4761. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000004761.

Maladaptive coping strategies and glaucoma progression.

Freeman EE(1), Lesk MR, Harasymowycz P, Desjardins D, Flores V, Kamga H, Li G.

Author information: 
(1)aResearch Centre, Hôpital Maisonneuve-Rosemont bDepartment of Ophthalmology,
Université de Montréal, Montreal, Canada.

The identification of modifiable risk factors for glaucoma progression is needed.
Our objective was to determine whether maladaptive coping styles are associated
with recent glaucoma progression or worse visual field mean deviation.A
hospital-based case-control study was conducted in the Glaucoma Service of
Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital in Montreal, Canada. Patients with primary open
angle glaucoma or normal tension glaucoma with ≥4 years of follow-up and ≥5
Humphrey visual fields were included. Cases had recent visual field progression
as defined according to the Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial pattern change
probability maps. Controls had stable visual fields. The Brief Cope
questionnaire, a 28-item questionnaire about 14 different ways of coping with the
stress of a chronic disease, was asked. Questions were also asked about
demographic and medical factors, and the medical chart was examined. Outcomes
included glaucoma progression (yes, no) and visual field mean deviation. Logistic
and linear regressions were used.A total of 180 patients were included (82
progressors and 98 nonprogressors). Although none of the 14 coping scales were
associated with glaucoma progression (P > 0.05), higher denial was correlated
with worse visual field mean deviation (r = -0.173, P = 0.024). In a linear
regression model including age, sex, education, depression, intraocular pressure,
and family history of glaucoma, greater levels of denial (β = -1.37, 95%
confidence interval [CI] -2.32, -0.41), Haitian ethnicity (β = -7.78, 95% CI
-12.52, -3.04), and the number of glaucoma medications (β = -1.20, 95% CI -2.00, 
-0.38) were statistically significantly associated with visual field mean
deviation.The maladaptive coping mechanism of denial was a risk factor for worse 
visual field mean deviation. Further prospective research will be required to
verify the pathways by which denial may exert an effect on glaucomatous visual
field loss.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000004761 
PMCID: PMC5008613
PMID: 27583929  [PubMed - in process]


36. BMC Ophthalmol. 2016 Aug 31;16(1):152. doi: 10.1186/s12886-016-0334-x.

Central corneal thickness in newly diagnosed glaucoma patients in South West
Ethiopia: a cross-sectional study.

Tolesa K(1), Gessesse GW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Jimma University, Ethiopia, P.O. Box: 378, Jimma, Ethiopia. (2)Jimma
University, Ethiopia, P.O. Box: 378, Jimma, Ethiopia. girumgw@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Reports of central corneal thickness (CCT) among glaucoma patients,
particularly for pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (PXG) and Primary Angle Closure
Glaucoma (PACG) are scarce in the Sub-Saharan African (SSA) population. The aim
of this study is to evaluate CCT in black patients with newly diagnosed glaucoma 
and ocular hypertension (OHT) in South West Ethiopia.
METHODS: This was a prospective study undertaken with an ultrasonic pachymeter
from June 2014 to February 2015 in Jimma University Specialized Hospital.
Patients aged 18 years and older newly diagnosed with glaucoma or OHT were
included.
RESULTS: A total of 162 eyes of 162 subjects were included. Hundred and fifty
five subjects were glaucomatous: (67 PXG, 42 Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG), 
28 PACG, 14 Normal Tension Glaucoma (NTG), 5 Juvenile Open Angle Glaucoma (JOAG) 
and 6 (OHT). The mean age was 59.3 ± 12.8 years. For the whole sample, CCT was
518.67 (±39.97) μm. OHT group had significantly greater CCT (576.33 ± 49.32 μm)
than the glaucomatous groups (p = 0.004). POAG (506.69 ± 35.08 μm) and NTG
(510.79 ± 44.37 μm) groups had thinner CCT than PXG (520.48 ± 38.95 μm), PACG
(524.00 ± 37.16 μm), and JOAG (518.00 ± 30.82 μm) groups, but this was not
statistically significant (p = 0. 296). There was a statistically significant
decline of CCT with advanced age (P = 0.02). There wasn't significant difference 
of average CCT between the ethnic groups (P = 0.3) and gender (P = 0.064).
CONCLUSION: The mean CCT of Ethiopian glaucoma patients is thinner than
Caucasians and similar to those reported from previous studies in Sub Saharan
Africa. OHT patients had thicker CCT; there was no statistically significant
difference observed in average CCT amongst glaucoma subtypes.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-016-0334-x 
PMCID: PMC5007694
PMID: 27580950  [PubMed - in process]


37. J Glaucoma. 2016 Aug 22. [Epub ahead of print]

The Fluctuation of Intraocular Pressure Measured by a Contact Lens Sensor in
Normal-Tension Glaucoma Patients and Nonglaucoma Subjects.

Tojo N(1), Abe S, Ishida M, Yagou T, Hayashi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Graduate School of Medicine and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan.

PURPOSE: We compared the fluctuation of intraocular pressure (IOP) in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and individuals with nonglaucoma eyes. We 
obtained continuous IOP values using a SENSIMED Triggerfish contact lens sensor.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The eyes of 12 nonglaucoma subjects and 14 NTG patients
were examined. In all 26 subjects, the IOP fluctuation was measured continuously 
for 24 hours with a contact lens sensor. We evaluated the range of IOP
fluctuations over the 24-hour period separately for diurnal IOP and nocturnal IOP
and identified each subject's maximum value. The range of IOP fluctuation were
analyzed, cutoff level of IOP fluctuation was calculated using receiver operating
characteristic curve analyses.
RESULTS: The mean IOP in the NTG eyes was 11.5±2.4 mm Hg and that in the
nonglaucoma eyes was 12.7±2.0 mm Hg, a nonsignificantly difference (P=0.175). The
24-hour range of IOP fluctuations in the NTG group was significantly larger than 
that of the nonglaucoma group (P=0.007). The percentage of NTG patients who had
the peak time of IOP fluctuation during nocturnal sleep was 57.1%, whereas the
corresponding rate for the nonglaucoma eyes was 91.7%. The cutoff level of IOP
fluctuation for glaucoma was 442 mVeq (sensitivity=1.00; specificity=0.571).
CONCLUSIONS: The range of IOP fluctuation was larger in the eyes with NTG than in
the nonglaucoma eyes. This larger fluctuation might be one of the reasons
underlying the aggravation of the visual field by NTG. Measurements of 24-hour
continuous IOP might be one of the useful methods to distinguish NTG from
nonglaucoma eyes.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000517 
PMID: 27552498  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


38. BMC Ophthalmol. 2016 Aug 18;16:145. doi: 10.1186/s12886-016-0323-0.

Short-term reproducibility of intraocular pressure and ocular perfusion pressure 
measurements in Chinese volunteers and glaucoma patients.

Gao Y(1), Wan B(2), Li P(3), Zhang Y(1), Tang X(4).

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin Eye Hospital, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology and Vision
Science, Clinical College of Ophthalmology, Tianjin Medical University, 4, Gansu 
Road, Heping District, Tianjin, 300020, People's Republic of China. (2)Department
of Laboratory, Central Hospital Affiliated to Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang,
China. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, the Second Hospital Affiliated to Dalian
Medical University, Dalian, China. (4)Tianjin Eye Hospital, Tianjin Key
Laboratory of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, Clinical College of
Ophthalmology, Tianjin Medical University, 4, Gansu Road, Heping District,
Tianjin, 300020, People's Republic of China. 34830277@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate the short-term reproducibility of diurnal intraocular
pressure (IOP) and ocular perfusion pressure (OPP) measurements in normal
volunteers, untreated normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) patients.
METHODS: Fifty-four healthy volunteers (control group), 67 NTG patients and 54
POAG patients were recruited. The IOPs of both eyes were measured with a Goldmann
applanation tonometer at 3-h intervals over 2 consecutive days. Blood pressure
(BP) measurements were collected at the same times. The mean IOP/OPP, peak
IOP/OPP, trough IOP/OPP and IOP/OPP fluctuations on each day were also
calculated. The intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) were used to evaluate 
the reproducibilities.
RESULTS: In the control group, the ICCs of mean IOP, peak IOP, trough IOP and IOP
fluctuation were 0.921, 0.889, 0.888, and 0.661, respectively, and the ICCs of
the mean OPP, peak OPP, trough OPP and OPP fluctuations were 0.962, 0.918, 0.953,
and 0.680, respectively. In the NTG group, the ICCs of the mean IOP, peak IOP,
trough IOP and IOP fluctuation were 0.862, 0.741, 0.798, and 0.290, respectively,
and the ICCs of the mean OPP, peak OPP, trough OPP and OPP fluctuations were
0.947, 0.828, 0.927, and -0.008, respectively. In the POAG group, the ICCs of the
mean IOP, peak IOP, trough IOP and IOP fluctuation were 0.857, 0.666, 0.808, and 
0.546, respectively, and the ICCs of the mean OPP, peak OPP, trough OPP and OPP
fluctuation were 0.934, 0.842, 0.910, and 0.093, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The IOP measurements within a single day were not highly reproducible
in the short-term. The normal volunteers exhibited better IOP and OPP
reproducibilities than the glaucoma patients. The IOP and OPP fluctuations could 
not be accurately evaluated based on the IOP or OPP measurements within a single 
day.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-016-0323-0 
PMCID: PMC4989290
PMID: 27538515  [PubMed - in process]


39. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Aug 1;57(10):3974-81. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-19688.

A Common Variant in MIR182 Is Associated With Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma in the 
NEIGHBORHOOD Consortium.

Liu Y(1), Bailey JC(2), Helwa I(3), Dismuke WM(4), Cai J(3), Drewry M(3),
Brilliant MH(5), Budenz DL(6), Christen WG(7), Chasman DI(7), Fingert JH(8),
Gaasterland D(9), Gaasterland T(10), Gordon MO(11), Igo RP Jr(2), Kang JH(12),
Kass MA(11), Kraft P(13), Lee RK(14), Lichter P(15), Moroi SE(15), Realini A(16),
Richards JE(15), Ritch R(17), Schuman JS(18), Scott WK(19), Singh K(20), Sit
AJ(21), Song YE(2), Vollrath D(20), Weinreb R(22), Medeiros F(22), Wollstein
G(18), Zack DJ(23), Zhang K(22), Pericak-Vance MA(19), Gonzalez P(4), Stamer
WD(4), Kuchtey J(24), Kuchtey RW(24), Allingham RR(4), Hauser MA(25), Pasquale
LR(26), Haines JL(2), Wiggs JL(27).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biology and Anatomy Augusta University, Augusta,
Georgia, United States 2James & Jean Culver Vision Discovery Institute, Augusta
University, Augusta, Georgia, United States 3Center for Biotechnology and Genomic
Medicine, Augusta Uni. (2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Case
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States. (3)Department of
Cellular Biology and Anatomy Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, United States.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina, United States. (5)Center for Human Genetics, Marshfield Clinic Research
Foundation, Marshfield, Wisconsin, United States. (6)Department of Ophthalmology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States.
(7)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts,
United States. (8)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College
of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, United States. (9)The Emmes
Corporation, Rockville, Maryland, United States. (10)Scripps Genome Center,
University of California at San Diego, San Diego, California, United States.
(11)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States. (12)Channing Division of Network
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States.
(13)School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts, United
States. (14)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of
Medicine, Miami, Florida, United States. (15)Department of Ophthalmology and
Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States.
(16)Department of Ophthalmology, West Virginia University Eye Institute,
Morgantown, West Virginia, United States. (17)Einhorn Clinical Research Center,
New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States.
(18)Department of Ophthalmology, UPMC Eye Center, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. (19)Hussman Institute for Human
Genomics, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, United
States. (20)Department of Ophthalmology, Stanford University, Palo Alto,
California, United States. (21)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minnesota, United States. (22)Department of Ophthalmology and Hamilton
Glaucoma Center, University of California, San Diego, California, United States. 
(23)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland,
United States. (24)Vanderbilt Eye Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States. (25)Department of Ophthalmology,
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, United States
26Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina,
United States. (26)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States 27Department of Ophthalmology,
Mass Eye & Ear, Boston, Massachusetts, United States. (27)Department of
Ophthalmology, Mass Eye & Ear, Boston, Massachusetts, United States.

PURPOSE: Noncoding microRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of
glaucoma. We aimed to identify common variants in miRNA coding genes (MIR)
associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Using the NEIGHBORHOOD data set (3853 cases/33,480 controls with
European ancestry), we first assessed the relation between 85 variants in 76 MIR 
genes and overall POAG. Subtype-specific analyses were performed in high-tension 
glaucoma (HTG) and normal-tension glaucoma subsets. Second, we examined the
expression of miR-182, which was associated with POAG, in postmortem human ocular
tissues (ciliary body, cornea, retina, and trabecular meshwork [TM]), using miRNA
sequencing (miRNA-Seq) and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Third, miR-182 expression
was also examined in human aqueous humor (AH) by using miRNA-Seq. Fourth,
exosomes secreted from primary human TM cells were examined for miR-182
expression by using miRNA-Seq. Fifth, using ddPCR we compared miR-182 expression 
in AH between five HTG cases and five controls.
RESULTS: Only rs76481776 in MIR182 gene was associated with POAG after adjustment
for multiple comparisons (odds ratio [OR] = 1.23, 95% confidence interval [CI]:
1.11-1.42, P = 0.0002). Subtype analysis indicated that the association was
primarily in the HTG subset (OR = 1.26, 95% CI: 1.08-1.47, P = 0.004). The risk
allele T has been associated with elevated miR-182 expression in vitro. Data from
ddPCR and miRNA-Seq confirmed miR-182 expression in all examined ocular tissues
and TM-derived exosomes. Interestingly, miR-182 expression in AH was 2-fold
higher in HTG patients than nonglaucoma controls (P = 0.03) without controlling
for medication treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our integrative study is the first to associate rs76481776 with POAG
via elevated miR-182 expression.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19688 
PMID: 27537254  [PubMed - in process]


40. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Jul 28;10:1397-403. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S109732. eCollection 
2016.

Relationship between visual field progression and baseline refraction in primary 
open-angle glaucoma.

Naito T(1), Yoshikawa K(2), Mizoue S(3), Nanno M(4), Kimura T(5), Suzumura H(6), 
Umeda Y(7), Shiraga F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine,
Okayama, Japan. (2)Yoshikawa Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Ehime University Graduate School of Medicine, Ehime, Japan.
(4)Kagurazaka Minamino Eye Clinic. (5)Ueno Eye Clinic. (6)Suzumura Eye Clinic,
Tokyo, Japan. (7)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Okayama University
Graduate School of Medicine, Okayama, Japan.

PURPOSE: To analyze the relationship between visual field (VF) progression and
baseline refraction in Japanese patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) 
including normal-tension glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this retrospective study, the subjects were patients
with POAG who had undergone VF tests at least ten times with a Humphrey Field
Analyzer (Swedish interactive thresholding algorithm standard, Central 30-2
program). VF progression was defined as a significantly negative value of mean
deviation (MD) slope at the final VF test. Multivariate logistic regression
models were applied to detect an association between MD slope deterioration and
baseline refraction.
RESULTS: A total of 156 eyes of 156 patients were included in this analysis.
Significant deterioration of MD slope was observed in 70 eyes of 70 patients
(44.9%), whereas no significant deterioration was evident in 86 eyes of 86
patients (55.1%). The eyes with VF progression had significantly higher baseline 
refraction compared to those without apparent VF progression (-1.9±3.8 diopter
[D] vs -3.5±3.4 D, P=0.0048) (mean ± standard deviation). When subject eyes were 
classified into four groups by the level of baseline refraction applying
spherical equivalent (SE): no myopia (SE > -1D), mild myopia (-1D ≥ SE > -3D),
moderate myopia (-3D ≥ SE > -6D), and severe myopia (-6D ≥ SE), the
Cochran-Armitage trend analysis showed a decreasing trend in the proportion of MD
slope deterioration with increasing severity of myopia (P=0.0002). The
multivariate analysis revealed that baseline refraction (P=0.0108, odds ratio
[OR]: 1.13, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.03-1.25) and intraocular pressure
reduction rate (P=0.0150, OR: 0.97, 95% CI: 0.94-0.99) had a significant
association with MD slope deterioration.
CONCLUSION: In the current analysis of Japanese patients with POAG, baseline
refraction was a factor significantly associated with MD slope deterioration as
well as intraocular pressure reduction rate. When baseline refraction was
classified into four groups, MD slope in myopia groups was less deteriorated as
compared to those in the emmetropic/hyperopic group.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S109732 
PMCID: PMC4975143
PMID: 27536055  [PubMed]


41. J Ophthalmol. 2016;2016:4727423. doi: 10.1155/2016/4727423. Epub 2016 Jul 25.

The Application of a Contact Lens Sensor in Detecting 24-Hour Intraocular
Pressure-Related Patterns.

Xu SC(1), Gauthier AC(2), Liu J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA; Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, MN 55905, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.

Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of blindness worldwide. Recent studies
suggest that intraocular pressure (IOP) fluctuations, peaks, and rhythm are
important factors in disease advancement. Yet, current glaucoma management
remains hinged on single IOP measurements during clinic hours. To overcome this
limitation, 24-hour IOP monitoring devices have been employed and include
self-tonometry, permanent IOP, and temporary IOP monitoring. This review
discusses each IOP measuring strategy and focuses on the recently FDA-approved
contact lens sensor (CLS). The CLS records IOP-related ocular patterns for 24
hours continuously. Using the CLS, IOP-related parameters have been found to be
associated with the rate of visual field progression in primary open-angle
glaucoma, disease progression in primary angle-closure glaucoma, and various
clinical variables in ocular hypertension. The CLS has been used to quantify
blink rate and limbal strain and measure the circadian rhythm in a variety of
disease states including normal-tension glaucoma and thyroid eye disease. The
effects of various IOP-lowering interventions were also characterized using the
CLS. CLS provides a unique, safe, and well-tolerated way to study IOP-related
patterns in a wide range of disease states. IOP-related patterns may help
identify patients most at risk for disease progression and assist with the
development of tailored treatments.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/4727423 
PMCID: PMC4976175
PMID: 27525110  [PubMed]


42. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;254(12):2481-2483. Epub 2016 Aug 15.

Congenital optic tract syndrome misdiagnosed with normal tension glaucoma.

Lee EJ(1), Kim JH(2), Hwang JM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea. (2)Department of
Radiology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul National
University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul National University Bundang 
Hospital, Seongnam, Korea. hjm@snu.ac.kr.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-016-3465-0 
PMID: 27524641  [PubMed - in process]


43. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Jul 18;9(7):973-8. doi: 10.18240/ijo.2016.07.06.
eCollection 2016.

Comparison of corneal biomechanical properties in normal tension glaucoma
patients with different visual field progression speed.

Hong Y(1), Shoji N(2), Morita T(3), Hirasawa K(4), Matsumura K(3), Kasahara M(5),
Shimizu K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking University Third Hospital, Key Laboratory 
of Vision Loss and Restoration, Ministry of Education, Beijing 100191, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation, Orthoptics and Visual Science Course, Kitasato
University School of Allied Health Sciences, Sagamihara City 252-0373, Japan;
Department of Ophthalmology, Kitasato University Hospital, Sagamihara City
252-0373, Japan. (3)Kitasato University, Sagamihara City 252-0373, Japan.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation, Orthoptics and Visual Science Course, Kitasato
University School of Allied Health Sciences, Sagamihara City 252-0373, Japan.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Kitasato University Hospital, Sagamihara City
252-0373, Japan.

AIM: To compare the corneal biomechanical properties difference by ocular
response analyzer (ORA) in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with different 
visual field (VF) progression speed.
METHODS: NTG patients with well-controlled Goldmann applanation tonometer (GAT)
who routinely consulted Kitasato University Hospital Glaucoma Department between 
January 2010 and February 2014 were enrolled. GAT and ORA parameters including
corneal compensated intraocular pressure (IOPcc), Goldmann estimated intraocular 
pressure (IOPg), corneal hysteresis (CH), corneal resistance factor (CRF) were
recorded. VF was tested by Swedish interactive threshold algorithm
(SITA)-standard 30-2 fields. All patients underwent VF measurement regularly and 
GAT did not exceed 15 mm Hg at any time during the 3y follow up. Patients were
divided into four groups according to VF change over 3y, and ORA findings were
compared between the upper 25(th) percentile group (slow progression group) and
the lower 25(th) percentile group (rapid progression group).
RESULTS: Eighty-two eyes of 56 patients were studied. There were 21 eyes (21
patients) each in rapid and slow progression groups respectively. GAT, IOPcc,
IOPg, CH, CRF were 12.1±1.4 mm Hg, 15.8±1.8 mm Hg, 12.8±2.0 mm Hg, 8.4±1.1 mm Hg,
7.9±1.3 mm Hg respectively in rapid progression group and 11.5±1.3 mm Hg,
13.5±2.1 mm Hg, 11.2±1.6 mm Hg, 9.3±1.1 mm Hg, 8.2±0.9 mm Hg respectively in slow
progression group (P=0.214, <0.001, 0.007, 0.017, 0.413, respectively). In
bivariate correlation analysis, IOPcc, IOPcc-GAT and CH were significant
correlated with mΔMD (r=-0.292, -0.312, 0.228 respectively, P=0.008, 0.004, 0.039
respectively).
CONCLUSION: Relatively rapid VF progression occurred in NTG patients whose IOPcc 
are rather high, CH are rather low and the difference between IOPcc and GAT are
relatively large. Higher IOPcc and lower CH are associated with VF progression in
NTG patients. This study suggests that GAT measures might underestimate the IOP
in such patients.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.07.06 
PMCID: PMC4951676
PMID: 27500103  [PubMed]


44. Ophthalmol Ther. 2016 Dec;5(2):191-206. Epub 2016 Aug 4.

Prospective Observational Post-marketing Study of Tafluprost 0.0015%/Timolol 0.5%
Combination Ophthalmic Solution for Glaucoma and Ocular Hypertension: Short-Term 
Efficacy and Safety.

Takagi Y(1), Osaki H(2), Yamashita T(3), Kai Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Scientific Information Group, Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Ofukacho
Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan. (2)Safety Vigilance Group, Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd,
Ofukacho Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan. (3)Safety Vigilance Group, Santen Pharmaceutical 
Co., Ltd, Ofukacho Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan. tomohiro.yamashita@santen.co.jp.

INTRODUCTION: The intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering effect and safety of
tafluprost 0.0015%/timolol maleate 0.5% combination ophthalmic solution (Taf-TFC)
were investigated in a real-world clinical setting.
METHODS: A prospective up to 2-year (more than 1 year) observational study has
been initiated to collect data on the IOP, conjunctival hyperemia score, corneal 
staining score, and adverse events suffered by patients with glaucoma or ocular
hypertension treated at 3 months, and up to 2 years (more than 1 year) after
initiating treatment with Taf-TFC. The 3-month findings are reported here.
RESULTS: Among 439 patients enrolled at 100 institutions in Japan, most had
normal tension glaucoma (45.3%) or primary open angle glaucoma (36.0%). Adverse
drug reaction (ADR) occurred in 5.01%. The important ADRs were conjunctival
hyperemia (five patients), blepharitis (four patients), and punctate keratitis
(two patients). Serious adverse reactions occurred in two patients (three
events). In 410 patients with data both before and after treatment, baseline mean
IOP was 17.5 ± 5.0 mmHg, and it was significantly decreased after 1, 2, and
3 months (all P < 0.05, paired-t test). IOP was significantly reduced in patients
switched to Taf-TFC from either prostaglandin or β-blocker monotherapy. IOP also 
decreased significantly in patients switched from a prostaglandin/timolol fixed
combination, but not in patients switched from concomitant use of a prostaglandin
analog and a β-blocker. The use of Taf-TFC did not worsen the adherence in most
patients.
CONCLUSION: Taf-TFC significantly reduced the IOP in patients with glaucoma or
ocular hypertension treated in daily clinical practice with controllable or
recoverable ADRs in short period. Taf-TFC was effective regardless of treatment
patterns, and particularly, Taf-TFC significantly reduced IOP in cases in which
requiring the second line therapy as insufficient of monotherapy.
FUNDING: Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/s40123-016-0057-3 
PMCID: PMC5125119
PMID: 27492380  [PubMed - in process]


45. Ophthalmic Res. 2016 Aug 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Funduscopic versus HRT III Confocal Scanner Vertical Cup-Disc Ratio Assessment in
Normal Tension and Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (The Leuven Eye Study).

Willekens K(1), Bataillie S, Sarens I, Odent S, Abegão Pinto L, Vandewalle E, Van
Keer K, Stalmans I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

PURPOSE: To compare funduscopic and confocal scanning vertical cup-disc ratio
(VCDR) assessments and their respective predictive value for estimating
functional glaucomatous damage.
METHODS: Data from a single eye of open angle glaucoma patients from the Leuven
Eye Study were included: age, gender, intra-ocular pressure, visual acuity,
refractive error, visual field mean deviation and pattern standard deviation,
funduscopic and HRT III VCDRs as well as mean retinal nerve fibre layer
thickness. Non-parametric tests to compare differences within and between
diagnostic groups were used, and receiver-operating characteristic curves as well
as Bland-Altman plots constructed.
RESULTS: Three hundred and one eyes of 301 subjects with primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) were included. The average VCDR
assessed with HRT III was significantly smaller than the funduscopic measurement 
(0.69 ± 0.16 vs. 0.81 ± 0.14, respectively; p < 0.001). The predictive value of
both measurement techniques did not differ in NTG patients, but the funduscopic
estimate yielded a significantly larger predictive power in patients with severe 
POAG.
CONCLUSION: Funduscopic and confocal scanner estimates of VCDR differ
significantly and should not be used interchangeably. In POAG patients with
severe glaucoma, a subjective VCDR predicts functional glaucomatous damage
significantly better.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000446659 
PMID: 27487343  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


46. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Jul 19;10:1315-21. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S96529. eCollection
2016.

Inter-eye comparison of retinal oximetry and vessel caliber between eyes with
asymmetrical glaucoma severity in different glaucoma subtypes.

Cheng CS(1), Lee YF(2), Ong C(3), Yap ZL(2), Tsai A(2), Mohla A(2), Nongpiur
ME(4), Aung T(5), Perera SA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tan Tock Seng Hospital; Department of
Ophthalmology, Singapore National Eye Centre. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
Singapore National Eye Centre. (3)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National
University of Singapore. (4)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National 
Eye Centre, Singapore. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Singapore National Eye
Centre; Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre,
Singapore.

BACKGROUND: To compare retinal vessel oxygenation and vessel caliber in primary
angle-closure glaucoma (PACG), primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG), and normal controls, as well as between eyes of asymmetrical
glaucoma severity.
METHODS: This was a prospective, cross-sectional study. The 159 subjects (PACG,
n=39; POAG, n=41; NTG, n=41; normal controls, n=38) underwent retinal oxygen
saturation measurements using the Oxymap T1 Retinal Oximeter, optical coherence
tomography, and Humphrey visual field testing. Retinal oxygen saturation and
vessel diameter were compared between the glaucoma groups and normal controls, as
well as between eyes of asymmetrical glaucoma severity. Kruskal-Wallis test was
performed for comparison among different subtypes of glaucoma. Wilcoxon
signed-rank test was used to compare the inter-eye differences.
RESULTS: Compared to normal controls, arteriolar oxygen saturation was increased 
in PACG eyes (P=0.048) but not in POAG or NTG eyes. There were no significant
differences in oxygen saturation in venules or arteriovenous (AV) difference in
all three glaucoma groups. Venular diameter was significantly reduced in all
glaucoma groups compared to normal controls (P<0.001), but no such change was
observed in arteriolar diameter (P=0.10). When comparing between eyes of
asymmetrical glaucoma severity, arteriolar oxygen saturation (P=0.03) and AV
difference (P=0.04) were significantly higher, while arteriolar diameter was
significantly lower (P=0.001) in the worse eye in PACG group. There were no
significant differences in oximetric parameters or vessel calibers between the
worse and the better eyes in POAG and NTG groups.
CONCLUSION: Eyes with PACG showed increased arteriolar oxygen saturation and
increased AV difference. This was not observed in POAG and NTG eyes. Arteriolar
diameter in PACG and venular diameter in all three glaucoma groups were reduced. 
The difference observed in PACG eyes may be due to an increased metabolic demand 
in the disease process compared to open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S96529 
PMCID: PMC4958362
PMID: 27486303  [PubMed]


47. Mol Med Rep. 2016 Sep;14(3):2439-48. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5557. Epub 2016 Jul
27.

Molecular analysis of myocilin and optineurin genes in Korean primary glaucoma
patients.

Park J(1), Kim M(1), Park CK(2), Chae H(1), Lee S(1), Kim Y(1), Jang W(1), Chi
HY(3), Park HY(2), Park SH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, College of Medicine, The Catholic
University of Korea, Seoul 06591, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology and Visual Science, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of
Korea, Seoul 06591, Republic of Korea. (3)Department of Laboratory Medicine,
Samkwang Medical Laboratories, Seoul 06742, Republic of Korea.

To investigate the underlying genetic influences of primary glaucoma in Korea,
molecular analysis was performed in 112 sporadic cases, and results compared with
healthy controls. The myocilin (MYOC) and optineurin (OPTN) genes were directly
sequenced in 112 unrelated patients, including 17 with primary open‑angle
glaucoma, 19 with juvenile open‑angle glaucoma, and 76 with normal tension
glaucoma. Healthy unrelated Korean individuals (n=100) were used as the
non‑selected population control. A total of three MYOC and four OPTN variants
potentially associated with primary glaucoma were identified in 4 and
18 patients, respectively. A novel variant of MYOC, p.Leu255Pro, was predicted to
be potentially pathogenic by in silico analysis. Another, p.Thr353Ile, has been
previously reported. These two missense variants were detected in patients with a
family history of glaucoma. Combined heterozygous variants p.[Thr123=;Ile288=]
were identified in 2 of 112 (2%) patients but not in healthy controls. Among OPTN
variants, a novel variant p.Arg271Cys was identified. Homozygous
p.[Thr34=;Thr34=] (4/112, 4%), homozygous p.[Met98Lys;Met98Lys] (4/112, 4%), or
combined heterozygous p.[Thr34=;Arg545Gln] (9/112, 8%) was significantly
associated with the development of primary glaucoma [odds ratio (OR)=8.768, 95%
confidence interval (CI)=1.972‑38.988; relative risk=1.818, 95% CI=1.473‑2.244;
P=0.001]. The present study provides insight into the genetic or haplotype
variants of MYOC and OPTN genes contributing to primary glaucoma. Haplotype
variants identified in the present study may be regarded as potential
contributing factors of primary glaucoma in Korea. Further studies, including
those on additional genes, are required to elucidate the underlying pathogenic
mechanism using a larger cohort to provide additional statistical power.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5557 
PMCID: PMC4991756
PMID: 27485216  [PubMed - in process]


48. Immunol Res. 2016 Jul 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Glaucoma: recent advances in the involvement of autoimmunity.

Rizzo MI(1,)(2), Greco A(2), De Virgilio A(3,)(4), Gallo A(5), Taverniti L(6),
Fusconi M(1), Conte M(1), Pagliuca G(5), Turchetta R(1), de Vincentiis M(1).

Author information: 
(1)ENT Section, Department Organs of Sense, University of Rome "La Sapienza",
Viale del Policlinico 155, 00100, Rome, Italy. (2)Department of Surgical Science,
University of Rome "La Sapienza", Viale del Policlinico 155, 00100, Rome, Italy. 
(3)ENT Section, Department Organs of Sense, University of Rome "La Sapienza",
Viale del Policlinico 155, 00100, Rome, Italy. armando.devirgilio@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Surgical Science, University of Rome "La Sapienza", Viale del
Policlinico 155, 00100, Rome, Italy. armando.devirgilio@gmail.com.
(5)Otorhinolaryngology Section, Department of Medico-Surgical Sciences and
Biotechnologies, ''Sapienza'' University of Rome, Corso della Repubblica, 79,
04100, Latina, LT, Italy. (6)Ophthalmology Section, Department Organs of Sense,
University of Rome "La Sapienza", Viale del Policlinico 155, 00100, Rome, Italy.

Glaucomatous optic neuropathy is the most commonly acquired optic neuropathy
encountered in clinical practice. It is the second leading cause of blindness
globally, after cataracts, but it presents a greater public health challenge than
cataracts, because the blindness it causes is irreversible. It has pathogenesis
still largely unknown and no established cure. Alterations in serum antibody
profiles, upregulation, and downregulation have been described, but it still
remains elusive if the autoantibodies seen in glaucoma are an epiphenomenon or
causative. Hypertension, diabetes, and hearing disorders also are associated.
This review is a glaucoma update with focus about the recent advances in the last
15 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-016-8837-3 
PMID: 27475096  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


49. Eye (Lond). 2016 Nov;30(11):1481-1489. doi: 10.1038/eye.2016.168. Epub 2016 Jul
29.

Twenty-four-hour intraocular pressure and ocular perfusion pressure
characteristics in newly diagnosed patients with normal tension glaucoma.

Quaranta L(1), Katsanos A(2), Riva I(1), Dastiridou A(3), Oddone F(4), Roberti
G(4), Konstas AG(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, Radiological Sciences and
Public Health, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy. (2)Ophthalmology
Department, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece. (3)Moorfields Eye Hospital,
London, UK. (4)IRCCS Fondazione G.B. Bietti, Rome, Italy. (5)Glaucoma Unit, 1st
University Department of Ophthalmology, AHEPA Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.

PurposeTo determine the mean 24-h intraocular pressure (IOP) and mean ocular
perfusion pressure (MOPP) characteristics of newly diagnosed, previously
untreated, Caucasian, normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and to identify
relationships between these features and visual field (VF) loss at
diagnosis.MethodsConsecutive newly diagnosed NTG patients underwent 24-h habitual
IOP and blood pressure (BP) monitoring. Parameters from pooled measurements
obtained in the sitting (0800-2200 hours) and supine (1200-0600 hours) positions 
were compared and associations were sought with VF mean deviation (MD) and
pattern standard deviation (PSD).ResultsSixty-two Caucasian NTG patients (24 men 
and 38 women) successfully completed circadian IOP and BP monitoring. In habitual
position, 8 subjects (12.9%) exhibited a diurnal acrophase, 42 subjects (67.7%)
demonstrated a nocturnal acrophase, one subject (1.6%) showed a flat rhythm and
11 patients (17.7%) revealed a biphasic/polyphasic rhythm. Nighttime MOPP values 
(supine position) were significantly greater than diurnal values (sitting
position); (P<0.001). No association could be demonstrated between glaucomatous
damage, as indicated by VF parameters, and either mean habitual 24-h IOP (P=0.20 
and P=0.12 for MD and PSD, respectively), or habitual 24-h MOPP (P=0.96 and 0.29,
for MD and PSD, respectively).ConclusionsIn this cohort of Caucasian NTG
patients, most patients exhibited a nocturnal IOP acrophase when evaluated in a
habitual position. No association was found between 24-h IOP or MOPP and VF
damage.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2016.168 
PMID: 27472211  [PubMed - in process]


50. Case Rep Ophthalmol. 2016 Jun 13;7(2):328-32. doi: 10.1159/000446423.

The Effect of a Diving Mask on Intraocular Pressure in a Healthy Population.

Goenadi CJ(1), Law DZ(2), Lee JW(1), Ong EL(1), Chee WK(1), Cheng J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences Department, Khoo Teck Puat Hospital,
Singapore, Singapore. (2)National Healthcare Group Eye Institute, Tan Tock Seng
Hospital, Singapore, Singapore; Vision Performance Centre, Military Medicine
Institute, Singapore Armed Forces, Singapore, Singapore.

PURPOSE: Swimming goggles increase the intraocular pressure (IOP) via the
periorbital frame pressure and suction effect. In comparison, diving masks have a
larger frame rim and incorporate the nose. The exact effect(s) of diving masks on
IOP is unknown. This study evaluates the influence of diving masks on IOP in
normal, healthy subjects.
METHODS: Tonometry was performed in both eyes of all subjects with an
AVIA(®)Tono-Pen by a single investigator. Measurements were taken at baseline
without the diving mask and with the subjects wearing a small-volume,
double-window diving mask, but with the mask lenses removed. Two IOP readings in 
each eye were measured, and an additional reading was measured if the difference 
between the initial 2 was ≥2 mm Hg. Central corneal thickness (CCT) was also
measured in each eye, using a contact pachymeter (OcuScan(®)Alcon).
RESULTS: Forty eyes of 20 healthy volunteers (age 29.7 ± 9.3 years; range 21-52) 
were included. The mean CCT was 544.4 ± 43.5 µm. The mean IOP before the diving
mask was worn had been 17.23 ± 2.18 mm Hg (n = 40). The IOP decreased by 0.43 mm 
Hg (p $1003c; 0.05) to 16.80 ± 2.57 mm Hg after the diving mask had been put on. 
There was no correlation between IOP change and age (r = 0.143, p = 0.337),
gender (r = -0.174, p = 0.283) or CCT (r = -0.123, p = 0.445).
CONCLUSION: There was no increase in IOP after the diving mask had been worn. A
small but statistically significant decrease in IOP was observed. This study
demonstrates that unlike swimming goggles, the strap tension and frame pressure
on the periorbital tissue from a diving mask does not increase IOP. Diving masks 
may be a suitable alternative to swimming goggles for patients with advanced
glaucoma or glaucoma filtration surgery.

DOI: 10.1159/000446423 
PMCID: PMC4943308
PMID: 27462262  [PubMed]


51. Adv Ther. 2016 Sep;33(9):1628-34. doi: 10.1007/s12325-016-0389-3. Epub 2016 Jul
20.

Additive Intraocular Pressure Lowering Effects of the Rho Kinase Inhibitor,
Ripasudil in Glaucoma Patients Not Able to Obtain Adequate Control After Other
Maximal Tolerated Medical Therapy.

Sato S(1), Hirooka K(2), Nitta E(1), Ukegawa K(1), Tsujikawa A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, 1750-1
Ikenobe, Miki, Kagawa, 761-0793, Japan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa
University Faculty of Medicine, 1750-1 Ikenobe, Miki, Kagawa, 761-0793, Japan.
kazuyk@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study is to investigate the additive intraocular
pressure (IOP)-lowering effects and safety of the selective Rho kinase inhibitor,
0.4% ripasudil, in patients with glaucoma not adequately controlled by other
maximal tolerated medical therapies.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 92 glaucoma patients who received ripasudil 
as an additive glaucoma treatment. In spite of receiving prior maximal tolerated 
medical therapies, all patients had uncontrolled glaucoma before receiving
ripasudil. IOP was recorded at all follow-up dates.
RESULTS: The study population consisted of 43 primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG),
28 normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), ten secondary glaucoma, seven exfoliation
glaucoma, and four developmental glaucoma patients. After ripasudil
administration, there was a significant decrease in the IOP. The mean
pre-administration IOP and % IOP reduction at the last follow-up were
19.7 ± 4.9 mmHg and 6.5 ± 17.0% for POAG, 15.5 ± 2.0 mmHg and 2.3 ± 10.4% for
NTG, 22.8 ± 8.3 mmHg and 19.1 ± 13.5% for secondary glaucoma, 22.5 ± 4.4 mmHg and
2.1 ± 14.5% for exfoliation glaucoma, and 20.2 ± 8.9 mmHg and 11.4 ± 23.1% for
developmental glaucoma, respectively. Side effects led to ripasudil
discontinuation in 13 patients, with five exhibiting an allergic reaction, six
developing blepharitis, and two having a burning sensation.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of ripasudil as an adjunctive therapy resulted in lowering of
the IOP. Ripasudil was well tolerated.
FUNDING: Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology of Japan (26462689).

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-016-0389-3 
PMID: 27438467  [PubMed - in process]


52. PLoS One. 2016 Jul 19;11(7):e0158983. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0158983.
eCollection 2016.

Eyes with Suspicious Appearance of the Optic Disc and Normal Intraocular
Pressure: Using Clinical and Epidemiological Characteristics to Differentiate
Those with and without Glaucoma.

Dias DT(1,)(2), Ushida M(1,)(2), Sousa MC(1), Dorairaj S(3), Biteli LG(1,)(2),
Leite MT(1), Paranhos A Jr(1), Prata TS(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Federal University of São Paulo, São Paulo, São
Paulo, Brazil. (2)Glaucoma Unit, Hospital Medicina dos Olhos, Osasco, São Paulo, 
Brazil. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida,
United States of America.

Among all glaucoma suspects, eyes with optic nerve head features suspicious or
suggestive of early glaucoma are probably those that offer the greatest challenge
for clinicians. In contrast with the robust longitudinal data published on ocular
hypertension, there is no specific management guideline for these patients.
Therefore, evaluating eyes with suspicious optic disc appearance and normal
intraocular pressure (IOP), we sought to investigate potential differences in
clinical and epidemiological characteristics to differentiate those with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) from those with presumed large physiological optic 
disc cups (pLPC). In this observational case-control study, we consecutively
enrolled individuals with pLPC and NTG. All eyes had vertical cup-to-disc ratio
(VCDR)≥0.6 and untreated IOP<21 mmHg. Glaucomatous eyes had reproducible visual
field defects. Eyes with pLPC required normal visual fields and ≥30 months of
follow-up with no evidence of glaucomatous neuropathy. Clinical and
epidemiological parameters were compared between groups. Eighty-four individuals 
with pLPC and 40 NTG patients were included. Regarding our main results, NTG
patients were significantly older and with a higher prevalence of Japanese
descendants (p<0.01). Not only did pLPC eyes have smaller mean VCDR, but also
larger optic discs (p≤0.04). There were no significant differences for gender,
central corneal thickness, and spherical equivalent (p≥0.38). Significant odds
ratios (OR) were found for race (OR = 2.42; for Japanese ancestry), age (OR =
1.05), VCDR (OR = 5.03), and disc size (OR = 0.04; p≤0.04). In conclusion, in
patients with suspicious optic disc and normal IOP, those with older age,
Japanese ancestry, smaller optic discs, and larger VCDR are more likely to have
NTG, and therefore, deserve deeper investigation and closer monitoring.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0158983 
PMCID: PMC4951128
PMID: 27433805  [PubMed - in process]


53. Curr Eye Res. 2016 Jul 15:1-7. [Epub ahead of print]

Factors Associated with Loss of Visual Function in Medically Treated Advanced
Normal Tension Glaucoma.

Kim S(1), Sung KR(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Asan
Medical Center , Seoul , Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the risk factors associated with a progressive loss of
visual function (LV) in medically treated advanced normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: In this retrospective observational study, a total of 87 eyes of the 87 
NTG patients with a baseline visual field (VF) mean deviation (MD) of worse than 
-10 decibel (dB) (average follow-up period: 5.3 years) were included. All the
participants were categorized into two groups according to the baseline VF MD
[group 1 (≥-16 dB) and group 2 (<-16 dB), respectively]. The participants were
also divided into older (≥64 years) and younger (<64 years) groups according to
the median split of baseline age. Hazard ratios (HRs) for the association between
potential risk factors and LV were obtained using the Cox proportional hazards
models.
RESULTS: Fifty-one eyes were classified as group 1 (VF MD; -13.5 ± 1.8 dB), and
36 eyes as group 2 (-21.0 ± 4.1 dB). LV occurred in 33 eyes (64.7%) in group 1
and in 29 eyes (80.6%) in group 2 during the follow-up period. In total
participants, younger age (HR; 0.971, p = 0.008) and lower initial best-corrected
visual acuity (BCVA) (HR; 18.4, p = 0.007) were found to be significant risk
factors for LV. In group 1, younger age and lower baseline BCVA were associated
with LV; whereas, no significant risk factor was found in group 2. In the younger
group, myopia and disc hemorrhage were found to be the risk factors.
CONCLUSION: The risk factors associated with progressive LV differed according to
the baseline VF stages or the age among advanced medically treated NTG patients.

DOI: 10.1080/02713683.2016.1198487 
PMID: 27420769  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


54. Curr Eye Res. 2016 Jul 15:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Agreement of New Automated Matched Alternation Flicker using Undilated Fundus
Photography for the Detection of Glaucomatous Structural Change.

Yun IS(1), Rho S(2), Jang S(1), Ahn J(1), Choi JJ(3), Lee M(4).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Ajou University School of Medicine , Suwon ,
Korea. (2)b Department of Ophthalmology , CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA
University , Seongnam , Korea. (3)c Department of Digital Media , Ajou University
, Suwon , Korea. (4)d Department of Ophthalmology , DMC Bundang Jesaeng General
Hospital , Seongnam , Korea.

PURPOSE: To determine the agreement among glaucoma experts and general
ophthalmologists regarding detection of glaucomatous structural changes using a
new automated matched alternation flicker (AMAF) method with fundus photographs
(FPs) of undilated eyes.
METHODS: Sixty-six pairs of FPs of normal tension glaucoma patients were
collected. FPs were taken at intervals of more than 12 months. Alternating
flicker images were created using a new AMAF application. In a blinded manner,
two glaucoma experts and two general ophthalmologists compared the presence of
glaucomatous structural changes using either the AMAF method or the side-by-side 
comparison method. The interobserver and intraobserver agreements were compared
using the Bland and Altman plot analysis.
RESULTS: The glaucoma experts detected more glaucoma progression using the AMAF
method (average, 50.7%) compared with the side-by-side method (average, 32.5%).
General ophthalmologists detected more glaucomatous progression with the AMAF
method (average, 40.9%) than with the side-by-side method (average, 25.0%). The
AMAF method showed fair to substantial interreader agreement (k = 0.511-0.724)
and fair to perfect intrareader agreement (k = 0.631-0.943). Interreader and
intrareader agreements using the AMAF method were better for the glaucoma experts
compared with the general ophthalmologists.
CONCLUSIONS: The AMAF method showed more changes in FPs than the classical
side-by-side comparison method. Regarding inter- and intrareader agreements,
agreement for the glaucoma experts was best using the AMAF method, but for the
general ophthalmologists agreement was best using the side-by-side comparison
method.

DOI: 10.1080/02713683.2016.1192194 
PMID: 27420115  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


55. J Ophthalmic Vis Res. 2016 Apr-Jun;11(2):204-8. doi: 10.4103/2008-322X.183914.

Update on Normal Tension Glaucoma.

Mallick J(1), Devi L(2), Malik PK(3), Mallick J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. (2)Department 
of General Medicine, MKCG Medical College, Brahmapur, Odisha, India.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, MKCG Medical College, Brahmapur, Odisha, India.
(4)Department of General Medicine, SCB Medical College, Cuttack, Odisha, India.

Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is labelled when typical glaucomatous disc changes,
visual field defects and open anterior chamber angles are associated with
intraocular pressure (IOP) constantly below 21 mmHg. Chronic low vascular
perfusion, Raynaud's phenomenon, migraine, nocturnal systemic hypotension and
over-treated systemic hypertension are the main causes of normal tension
glaucoma. Goldmann applanation tonometry, gonioscopy, slit lamp biomicroscopy,
optical coherence tomography and visual field analysis are the main tools of
investigation for the diagnosis of NTG. Management follows the same principles of
treatment for other chronic glaucomas: To reduce IOP by a substantial amount,
sufficient to prevent disabling visual loss. Treatment is generally aimed to
lower IOP by 30% from pre-existing levels to 12-14 mmHg. Betaxolol, brimonidine, 
prostaglandin analogues, trabeculectomy (in refractory cases), systemic calcium
channel blockers (such as nifedipine) and 24-hour monitoring of blood pressure
are considered in the management of NTG. The present review summarises risk
factors, causes, pathogenesis, diagnosis and management of NTG.

DOI: 10.4103/2008-322X.183914 
PMCID: PMC4926570
PMID: 27413503  [PubMed]


56. J Glaucoma. 2016 Jul 11. [Epub ahead of print]

Reply to Comment by Gallina et al on "Progression of Normal-Tension Glaucoma
After Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt to Decrease Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure". J
Glaucoma 2016; 25: e50-e52.

Chen B(1), Drucker M, Louis K, Richards DW.

Author information: 
(1)University of South Florida Tampa, Florida.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000483 
PMID: 27404775  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


57. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 May;64(5):358-63. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.185594.

Lamina depth and thickness correlate with glaucoma severity.

Kim M(1), Bojikian KD(2), Slabaugh MA(2), Ding L(2), Chen PP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Dongguk University Ilsan Hospital, Goyang, Korea;
Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA, .
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the correlation between lamina cribrosa (LC) morphology and 
glaucoma severity in patients with primary forms of open-angle glaucoma (OAG)
using enhanced depth imaging spectral-domain optical coherence tomography
(SD-OCT) and Humphrey visual field test (HVF).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Patients with OAG (n = 166), divided into normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG) groups (n = 66 and n = 100), were 
imaged using SD-OCT to obtain horizontal B-scan images of the optic nerve head
(ONH). Laminar depth (LD) and laminar thickness (LT) were measured at the center 
of ONH.
RESULTS: The mean (±standard deviation) values of LD, LT, and visual field mean
deviation (MD) were 555.4 ± 142.3 μm, 179.9 ± 49.7 μm, and - 5.7 ± 6.4 dB,
respectively. In the multivariate linear regression analysis, LD, LT, and
intraocular pressure (IOP) were significantly correlated with MD (P = 0.007, P = 
0.037, and P = 0.004, respectively). In the subgroup analyses, only LD was
associated with MD in the NTG group (n = 66), whereas LT and IOP were correlated 
with MD in the HTG group (n = 100). Neither axial length nor central corneal
thickness was associated with LD or LT.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma severity, as measured by HVF MD, shows significant
correlations with LD and LT, with greater severity associated with increasing LD 
and decreasing LT. Normal- and high-tension OAG patients have different
associations with LD and LT, which implies that the pathogenesis of these two
entities might be different.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.185594 
PMCID: PMC4966372
PMID: 27380974  [PubMed - in process]


58. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Jun 1;57(7):3416-21. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-19401.

Genetic Association at the 9p21 Glaucoma Locus Contributes to Sex Bias in
Normal-Tension Glaucoma.

Ng SK(1), Burdon KP(2), Fitzgerald JT(3), Zhou T(3), Fogarty R(3), Souzeau E(3), 
Landers J(3), Mills RA(3), Casson RJ(4), Ridge B(3), Graham SL(5), Hewitt AW(6), 
Mackey DA(7), Healey PR(8), Wang JJ(9), Mitchell P(9), MacGregor S(10), Craig
JE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre,
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia 2Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, South
Australian Institute of Ophthalmology, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South
Australia, Australia. (2)Department of Ophthalmology Flinders University,
Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia 3Menzies Institute 
for Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania, Australia.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre,
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. (4)Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, South 
Australian Institute of Ophthalmology, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South
Australia, Australia. (5)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and
Health Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(6)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, Royal Victorian
Eye and Ear Hospital, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (7)Centre for
Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Lions Eye Institute, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia. (8)Department of Ophthalmology, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia. (9)Centre for Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology and 
Westmead Millennium Institute, University of Sydney, Westmead, New South Wales,
Australia. (10)Statistical Genetics, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute,
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

PURPOSE: Many genome-wide association studies have identified common single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at the 9p21 glaucoma locus (CDKN2B/CDKN2B-AS1) to
be significantly associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), with
association being stronger in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and advanced
glaucoma. We aimed to determine whether any observed differences in genetic
association at the 9p21 locus are influenced by sex.
METHODS: Sex was assessed as a risk factor for POAG for 2241 glaucoma
participants from the Australian and New Zealand Registry of Advanced Glaucoma,
the Glaucoma Inheritance Study in Tasmania, and the Flinders Medical Centre. A
total of 3176 controls were drawn from the Blue Mountains Eye Study and South
Australia: 1523 advanced POAG and 718 nonadvanced POAG cases were genotyped along
with 3176 controls. We selected 13 SNPs at the 9p21 locus, and association
results were subanalyszd by sex for high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and NTG. Odds
ratios (ORs) between sexes were compared.
RESULTS: A sex bias was present within advanced NTG cases (57.1% female versus
42.9% male, P = 0.0026). In all POAG cases, the strongest associated SNP at 9p21 
was rs1063192 (OR, 1.43; P = 4 × 10-18). This association was stronger in females
(OR, 1.5; P = 5 × 10-13) than in males (OR, 1.35; P = 7 × 10-7), with a
statistically significant difference in female to male OR comparison (P = 1.0 ×
10-2). An NTG to HTG subanalysis yielded statistically significant results only
in females (OR, 1.63; P = 1.5 × 10-4) but not in males (OR, 1.15; P = 2.8 ×
10-1), with a statistically significant difference in female to male OR
comparison (P = 1.4 × 10-4).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that female sex is a risk factor for
developing advanced NTG. The stronger genetic signals at the 9p21 locus among
females may contribute at least in part to the observed sex bias for NTG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19401 
PMID: 27367510  [PubMed - in process]


59. J Glaucoma. 2016 Jun 30. [Epub ahead of print]

A Comment on the "Progression of Normal-tension Glaucoma After
Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt to Decrease Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure". J Glaucoma.
2016;25: e50-e52.

Gallina P(1), Savastano A, Rizzo S, Di Lorenzo N, Porfirio B.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Surgery and Translational Medicine †Clinical and Experimental 
Biomedical Sciences, University of Florence, Italy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000475 
PMID: 27367132  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


60. J Genet. 2016 Jun;95(2):459-61.

TBK1 duplication is found in normal tension and not in high tension glaucoma
patients of Indian origin.

Kaurani L(1), Vishal M, Ray J, Sen A, Ray K, Mukhopadhyay A.

Author information: 
(1)Genomics and Molecular Medicine, CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative
Biology, New Delhi 110 020, India.arijit@igib.res.in.


PMID: 27350692  [PubMed - in process]


61. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Aug;149:40-7. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.06.012. Epub 2016 Jun
23.

What is a typical optic nerve head?

Voorhees AP(1), Grimm JL(1), Bilonick RA(1), Kagemann L(2), Ishikawa H(2),
Schuman JS(3), Wollstein G(2), Sigal IA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, UPMC Eye Center, Eye and Ear Institute,
Ophthalmology and Visual Science Research Center, University of Pittsburgh School
of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, UPMC Eye
Center, Eye and Ear Institute, Ophthalmology and Visual Science Research Center, 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Department of
Bioengineering, Swanson School of Engineering, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, UPMC Eye Center, Eye and Ear
Institute, Ophthalmology and Visual Science Research Center, University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA; McGowan Institute for
Regenerative Science, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh,
PA, USA; Department of Bioengineering, Swanson School of Engineering, University 
of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Fox Center for Vision Restoration of UPMC and
the University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (4)Department of
Ophthalmology, UPMC Eye Center, Eye and Ear Institute, Ophthalmology and Visual
Science Research Center, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh,
PA, USA; McGowan Institute for Regenerative Science, University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Department of Bioengineering, Swanson
School of Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. Electronic 
address: Ian@ocularbiomechanics.com.

Whereas it is known that elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) increases the risk
of glaucoma, it is not known why optic nerve heads (ONHs) vary so much in
sensitivity to IOP and how this sensitivity depends on the characteristics of the
ONH such as tissue mechanical properties and geometry. It is often assumed that
ONHs with uncommon or atypical sensitivity to IOP, high sensitivity in normal
tension glaucoma or high robustness in ocular hypertension, also have atypical
ONH characteristics. Here we address two specific questions quantitatively: Do
atypical ONH characteristics necessarily lead to atypical biomechanical responses
to elevated IOP? And, do typical biomechanical responses necessarily come from
ONHs with typical characteristics. We generated 100,000 ONH numerical models with
randomly selected values for the characteristics, all falling within literature
ranges of normal ONHs. The models were solved to predict their biomechanical
response to an increase in IOP. We classified ONH characteristics and
biomechanical responses into typical or atypical using a percentile-based
threshold, and calculated the fraction of ONHs for which the answers to the two
questions were true and/or false. We then studied the effects of varying the
percentile threshold. We found that when we classified the extreme 5% of
individual ONH characteristics or responses as atypical, only 28% of ONHs with an
atypical characteristic had an atypical response. Further, almost 29% of typical 
responses came from ONHs with at least one atypical characteristic. Thus, the
answer to both questions is no. This answer held irrespective of the threshold
for classifying typical or atypical. Our results challenge the assumption that
ONHs with atypical sensitivity to IOP must have atypical characteristics. This
finding suggests that the traditional approach of identifying risk factors by
comparing characteristics between patient groups (e.g. ocular hypertensive vs.
primary open angle glaucoma) may not be a sound strategy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.06.012 
PMCID: PMC4969131 [Available on 2017-08-01]
PMID: 27339747  [PubMed - in process]


62. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2016 Sep;60(5):377-82. doi: 10.1007/s10384-016-0455-z. Epub
2016 Jun 16.

Effects of a dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination on diurnal intraocular
pressure, heart rate, blood pressure, and ocular perfusion pressure in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Lee NY(1,)(2), Park HY(1,)(3), Park CK(4,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of
Korea and Visual Science, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Incheon
St. Mary's Hospital, Incheon, Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul St.
Mary's Hospital, Seoul, Korea. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, College of
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea and Visual Science, Seoul, Korea.
ckpark@catholic.ac.kr. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
Seoul, Korea. ckpark@catholic.ac.kr. (6)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul St.
Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, 505
Banpo-dong, Seocho-ku, Seoul, 137-701, Korea. ckpark@catholic.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of a
dorzolamide-timolol fixed combination (DTFC) on intraocular pressure (IOP), heart
rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), ocular perfusion pressure (OPP), and diastolic
ocular perfusion pressure (DOPP) in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: A prospective, interventional, single-blind, single-center study was
conducted. Newly diagnosed NTG patients that had not been treated with a glaucoma
medication in the most recent 4 weeks were included. Patients were examined at
baseline (without medication) and week 4 (under medication). Baseline IOP, HR,
systolic and diastolic BP, OPP, and DOPP were measured at 8 am, 12 pm, and 4 pm. 
At week 4, IOP, HR, systolic and diastolic BP, OPP, and DOPP were measured at
10 am and 8 pm as well.
RESULTS: After 4 weeks of DTFC treatment, IOP was significantly reduced at all
time points (1.6-2.6 mmHg, P < 0.001), and the average IOP reduction was 14.4 %. 
HR and systolic BP showed no statistically significant difference at all time
points; however, diastolic BP was decreased significantly at 12 pm and 4 pm
(P = 0.004 and 0.001). OPP and DOPP showed no statistical significant difference 
after DTFC.
CONCLUSIONS: DTFC has favorable effects on IOP and can be used without concerns
of DOPP in patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-016-0455-z 
PMID: 27312903  [PubMed - in process]


63. PLoS One. 2016 Jun 15;11(6):e0156966. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156966.
eCollection 2016.

Does Glaucoma Share Common Pathogenesis with Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion?

Han JC(1), Eo DR(1), Lee TK(1), Shin JH(2), Kee C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
Busan National University Hospital, Busan National University School of Medicine,
Busan, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate the observed prevalence and the optic nerve head (ONH)
characteristics of normal tension glaucoma (NTG)-suspect eyes in branch retinal
vein occulusion (BRVO) eyes in Korean population.
METHODS: This was a retrospective observational study. We investigated 445 BRVO
eyes that were diagnosed in the retina clinic of Samsung Medical Center between
March 2005 and December 2011. The observed prevalence of NTG-suspect in BRVO eyes
was evaluated compared to the previous population based study. In addition,
NTG-suspect cases in BRVO were divided into three groups based on the
characteristics of optic disc morphology.
RESULTS: In 445 BRVO eyes, 30 eyes were excluded from the present study. In 415
BRVO eyes, 4.3% (18 eyes) (95% confident interval [CI], 2.4-6.3%) were diagnosed 
with suspect glaucoma and this is not significantly different from the result in 
the general Korean population (P = 0.09). We classified the NTG-suspect eyes into
three groups such as disc rim notching and thinning type (Group 1; 55.6%), optic 
cup-sited hemorrhage type (Group 2; 16.7%) and disc rim thinning and pallor type 
(Group 3; 27.8%). NTG-suspect in the fellow eye were only found in group 1 (80%) 
and group 2 (67%), but not in group 3 (P = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: BRVO and glaucoma seem to have no common vascular pathogenesis in
consideration of the prevalence of NTG-suspect in BRVO eyes compared to general
Korean population.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156966 
PMCID: PMC4909192
PMID: 27304065  [PubMed - in process]


64. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;94(8):e697-e708. doi: 10.1111/aos.13086. Epub 2016 Jun 
11.

Juxtapapillary choroid is thinner in normal-tension glaucoma than in healthy
eyes.

Lee KM(1), Lee EJ(1), Kim TW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.

PURPOSE: To measure the juxtapapillary choroidal thickness in eyes with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and to compare it with healthy eyes.
METHODS: Twelve radial B-scan images of the optic nerve head (ONH) were obtained 
from 96 patients with NTG and 48 healthy subjects matched by age using
swept-source (SS) optical coherence tomography (OCT). The juxtapapillary
choroidal thickness was defined as the average choroidal thickness within 500 μm 
from the border tissue of Elschnig. Choroidal thinning in patients with NTG was
assessed by calculating the relative choroidal thickness, defined as the ratio of
the measured juxtapapillary choroidal thickness in each meridian to the
corresponding value in age-matched healthy controls. Retinal nerve fibre layer
(RNFL) damage as reflected by circumpapillary RNFL thickness (measured using
spectral-domain OCT) was also assessed.
RESULTS: The juxtapapillary choroid was significantly thinner in NTG eyes than in
healthy control eyes in the inferotemporal and superotemporal sectors. The
relative choroidal thinning was topographically associated with the hemispheric
location of dominant RNFL damage. The average juxtapapillary choroidal thickness 
was not associated with either the global RNFL thickness or the visual field mean
deviation. Age and untreated intraocular pressure were significantly associated
with the juxtapapillary choroidal thickness in NTG eyes in both univariate and
multivariate analyses (all p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Decreased microvascular circulation in the ONH as a result of
juxtapapillary choroidal thinning could be an important part of the pathogenesis 
of optic nerve damage in NTG.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13086 
PMID: 27288014  [PubMed - in process]


65. PLoS One. 2016 Jun 8;11(6):e0156001. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156001.
eCollection 2016.

SQSTM1 Mutations and Glaucoma.

Scheetz TE(1,)(2), Roos BR(1,)(2), Solivan-Timpe F(1,)(2), Miller K(1,)(2),
DeLuca AP(1,)(2), Stone EM(1,)(2), Kwon YH(1,)(2), Alward WL(1,)(2), Wang
K(2,)(3), Fingert JH(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, United States of America. (2)Stephen A. Wynn
Institute for Vision Research, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, United States
of America. (3)Department of Biostatistics, College of Public Health, University 
of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, United States of America.

Glaucoma is the most common cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. One subset
of glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma (NTG) occurs in the absence of high
intraocular pressure. Mutations in two genes, optineurin (OPTN) and TANK binding 
kinase 1 (TBK1), cause familial NTG and have known roles in the catabolic
cellular process autophagy. TKB1 encodes a kinase that phosphorylates OPTN, an
autophagy receptor, which ultimately activates autophagy. The sequestosome
(SQSTM1) gene also encodes an autophagy receptor and also is a target of TBK1
phosphorylation. Consequently, we hypothesized that mutations in SQSTM1 may also 
cause NTG. We tested this hypothesis by searching for glaucoma-causing mutations 
in a cohort of NTG patients (n = 308) and matched controls (n = 157) using Sanger
sequencing. An additional 1098 population control samples were also analyzed
using whole exome sequencing. A total of 17 non-synonymous mutations were
detected which were not significantly skewed between cases and controls when
analyzed separately, or as a group (p > 0.05). These data suggest that SQSTM1
mutations are not a common cause of NTG.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156001 
PMCID: PMC4898711
PMID: 27275741  [PubMed - in process]


66. J Glaucoma. 2016 Aug;25(8):e738-40. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000455.

Juvenile-onset Normal Tension Glaucoma From Chronic, Recurrent Low Cerebrospinal 
Fluid Pressure.

Yusuf IH(1), Ratnarajan G, Kerr RS, Salmon JF.

Author information: 
(1)*The Oxford Eye Hospital †Department of Neurosurgery, West Wing, John
Radcliffe Hospital, Headley Way, Headington, Oxford, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The evidence for low cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP) as a key
parameter in the pathogenesis of glaucoma is increasing. Primate models have
demonstrated the onset normal tension glaucoma (NTG) from experimentally induced 
chronic intrathecal hypotension; an approach not possible in human subjects.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 27-year-old man presented with a central scotoma in his left
eye. He had undergone 8 CSF shunt revision procedures over a 25-year period
secondary to recurrent low CSFP following surgical excision of a pinealoblastoma,
aged 2. A focal nerve fiber layer defect was detected in the left eye associated 
with reduced retinal sensitivity on microperimetry. Three adjacent optic disc
hemorrhages had been documented in the same position over an 18-month period. A
diagnosis of left-sided NTG was made; the patient was started on Latanoprost
0.005%. A new generation CSF shunting device (ProGAV)-which neutralizes CSFP
fluctuations analogously to trabeculectomy surgery for intraocular pressure-was
considered necessary in this patient to alleviate persistent headaches and reduce
the risk of progressive glaucomatous visual loss.
CONCLUSIONS: This exceptional case illustrates how premature onset NTG may occur 
as a result of chronic, recurrent intrathecal hypotension-a "pure" human model.
We describe an original management approach of implanting an adjustable,
programmable CSF shunt valve (ProGAV) to reduce fluctuations in the translaminar 
cribrosa pressure difference, and reduce the risk of glaucomatous visual loss.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000455 
PMID: 27275656  [PubMed - in process]


67. Sci China Life Sci. 2016 Jul;59(7):694-9. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-5073-y. Epub
2016 Jun 4.

Association of three single nucleotide polymorphisms at the SIX1-SIX6 locus with 
primary open angle glaucoma in the Chinese population.

Sang J(1,)(2), Jia L(1,)(2), Zhao B(1,)(2), Wang H(1,)(2), Zhang N(3), Wang
N(4,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical
University, Beijing, 100730, China. (2)Beijing Ophthalmology & Visual Science Key
Laboratory, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 100730, China. (3)The First
Affiliated Hospital of Nanyang Medical College, Nanyang, 473000, China.
(4)Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical
University, Beijing, 100730, China. wningli@vip.163.com. (5)Beijing Ophthalmology
& Visual Science Key Laboratory, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 100730,
China. wningli@vip.163.com. (6)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing
Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 100730, China.
wningli@vip.163.com.

This study investigated the genetic association of three single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs; rs10483727, rs33912345, and rs146737847) at the SIX1-SIX6
locus with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) in the Chinese population. A total 
of 866 subjects with POAG (685 high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and 181 normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG)) and 266 control individuals were included. Significant genetic
association was identified for rs10483727 in HTG (P=0.02; odds ratio (OR)=1.31), 
NTG (P=7.41×10(-6); OR=2.71), and POAG (i.e., HTG and NTG combined; P=0.001;
OR=1.44). rs33912345 was also significantly associated with HTG (P=0.008;
OR=1.36), NTG(P=2.72×10(-6); OR=2.27), and POAG (P=3.84×10(-4); OR=1.49). The
rare SIX6 mutation, rs146737847, was not found in the subjects enrolled in this
study. Stratification by patient age identified that both rs10483727 and
rs33912345 were significantly associated with NTG in patients aged above 40 years
(P=2.08×10(-5); OR=2.28), whereas in patients aged between 20-40 years,
rs33912345 was significantly associated with NTG (P=0.017; OR=2.06). In HTG, the 
genetic associations for both rs10483727 and rs33912345 were significant in
patients aged between 20-40 years (P=0.006; OR=1.56) but not in those aged above 
40 years (P=0.118, OR=1.21 and P=0.042, OR=1.29, respectively). This study
replicated the association of POAG with two SNPs at the SIX1-SIX6 locus and
demonstrated that SNPs, rs10483727 and rs33912345, are significantly associated
with POAG, especially with NTG in patients aged above 40 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-016-5073-y 
PMID: 27260188  [PubMed - in process]


68. Clin Drug Investig. 2016 Jun;36(6):499-508. doi: 10.1007/s40261-016-0413-z.

Tafluprost Ophthalmic Solution 0.0015 %: A Review in Glaucoma and Ocular
Hypertension.

Keating GM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, 0754, Auckland, New Zealand.
demail@springer.com.

Tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % preserved with benzalkonium chloride
(BAK) 0.001 % is available in several Asian countries, including Japan. In
pivotal trials, BAK-preserved tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % lowered
intraocular pressure (IOP) more effectively than placebo in Asian patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and was at least as effective as latanoprost ophthalmic
solution 0.005 % in Asian patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular
hypertension. In other prospective studies in Asian patients with glaucoma or
ocular hypertension, tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % was at least as
effective as latanoprost ophthalmic solution 0.005 % or travoprost ophthalmic
solution 0.004 % in terms of IOP lowering, and was considered easier to use
and/or store. The efficacy of tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % was
maintained in the longer term. Tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % was
generally well tolerated. In conclusion, BAK-preserved tafluprost ophthalmic
solution 0.0015 % remains a useful option for the treatment of Asian patients
with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-016-0413-z 
PMID: 27225879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


69. BMC Ophthalmol. 2016 May 25;16:62. doi: 10.1186/s12886-016-0245-x.

Incidence of and risk factors for glaucoma in lost-to-follow-up normal-tension
glaucoma suspect patients.

Lim JH(1), Park JS(1), Lee SY(1), Hong YJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)06198 Nune Eye Hospital, #404 Seolleung-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)06198 Nune Eye Hospital, #404 Seolleung-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
youngjhong@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: To investigate the incidence and risk factors of glaucoma in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) suspect patients who had been lost-to-follow-up for
at least 24 months.
METHODS: Seventy-two eyes of 72 NTG suspect patients who returned to the hospital
after at least 24 months of follow-up loss were enrolled in this study between
January 2009 and June 2013. The data were collected retrospectively. The
incidence of glaucoma was investigated using a comprehensive glaucoma evaluation 
in lost-to-follow-up NTG suspect patients. The patients were classified into the 
glaucoma group, who developed glaucoma during the study period, and the glaucoma 
suspect group, who did not, to analyse the risk factors for glaucoma.
RESULTS: The number of patients who developed glaucoma was 7 (9.7 %) out of the
72 NTG suspect patients who had been mean lost-to-follow-up for 44 months. The
rate of progression from suspected to glaucoma was 2.6 %/year. In the glaucoma
group, the baseline intraocular pressure (IOP) was 18.43 ± 2.44 mmHg, and the
average retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness was 78.14 ± 7.60 μm; in the
glaucoma suspect group, the baseline IOP was 14.95 ± 2.47 mmHg, and the average
RNFL thickness was 92.55 ± 7.65 μm. The study results showed that the glaucoma
group had higher baseline IOP and a thinner average RNFL (p = 0.003; p < 0.001). 
The results of the multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that the
risk factors for glaucoma were high baseline IOP (OR = 1.63; p = 0.037) and a
thin average RNFL (OR = 0.841; p = 0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of glaucoma in the lost-to-follow-up NTG suspect
patients was 9.7 % for approximately 44 months, at a rate of 2.6 %/year. The risk
factors for glaucoma in these patients were high baseline IOP and a thin average 
RNFL.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-016-0245-x 
PMCID: PMC4880870
PMID: 27225333  [PubMed - in process]


70. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2016 Apr;79(2):100-4. doi: 10.5935/0004-2749.20160030.

Cognitive performance of primary open-angle glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma 
patients.

Bulut M(1), Yaman A(2), Erol MK(1), Kurtuluş F(2), Toslak D(1), Coban DT(1),
Başar EK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Antalya Training and Research Hospital, Antalya,
Turkey. (2)Neurology Department, Antalya Training and Research Hospital, Antalya,
Turkey. (3)Department of Animal Science Biometry and Genetics Unit, Faculty of
Agriculture, Akdeniz University, Akdeniz, Turkey.

PURPOSE: To assess cognitive performance differences among primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) patients, normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients, and healthy
control (C) subjects.
METHODS: A total of 60 participants (20 POAG, 20 NTG, and 20 C subjects) were
included in this study. A detailed ophthalmologic examination was performed on
all participants. A spectral domain-optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) system 
was used to measure the ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GC-IPL) and retinal 
nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thicknesses. To assess the cognitive performance of all 
participants, detailed neurological examinations, including the mini-mental state
examination (MMSE), were performed by the same neurologist.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences among the groups in terms of age
(p =0.348) or gender (p =0.935). The mean RNFL thicknesses were significantly
different among the groups (85.2 ± 14.7, 76.8 ± 10.3, and 91.4 ± 7.7 µm in the
POAG, NTG, and C subjects, respectively; p <0.001). The mean GC-IPL thicknesses
were 77.5 ± 9.7 µm in the POAG group, 73.4 ± 7.8 µm in the NTG group, and 78.8 ± 
3.8 µm in the C group. Differences among the groups were not statistically
significant (p =0.085). MMSE scores were 26.1 ± 1.4, 25.7 ± 2.3, and 28.8 ± 0.9
in the POAG, NTG, and C groups, respectively. There were significant differences 
among the three groups (p <0.001). Specifically, there were significant
differences between the NTG and C groups (p <0.001), and between the POAG and C
groups (p =0.001). There was no significant difference between the POAG and NTG
groups (p =0.595).
CONCLUSIONS: There appear to be similar risk factors in glaucoma and
neurodegenerative disorders that cause deterioration in cognitive performance.
Comparing the low MMSE scores of the POAG and NTG patients with the scores of
healthy C participants supports our hypothesis. Consequently, it is recommended
that a neurologist should also examine glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.5935/0004-2749.20160030 
PMID: 27224073  [PubMed - in process]


71. Curr Eye Res. 2016 Dec;41(12):1553-1560. Epub 2016 May 23.

Association between Genetic Polymorphisms of the Beta Adrenergic Receptor and
Diurnal Intraocular Pressure in Chinese Volunteers and Glaucoma Patients.

Gao Y(1), Li W(1), Yin Z(1), Ma Y(1), Cai H(1), Tang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Tianjin Eye Hospital, Clinical College of Ophthalmology, Tianjin Medical
University , Tianjin , People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the relationship between genetic polymorphisms of the beta
adrenergic receptor (ADR) and diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP) in Chinese
healthy volunteers, normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients, and primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients.
METHODS: Fifty healthy volunteers (control group), 55 untreated NTG patients, and
55 untreated POAG patients were recruited. IOP of both eyes was measured at
3-hour intervals from 0600 to 2400 hours. For control group, IOP data from the
eye with better mean deviation (MD) of visual field was used for statistical
analysis. For glaucoma patients, IOP data from the eye with a greater visual
field defect was used for statistical analysis. Genetic polymorphisms of ADR were
determined by direct DNA sequencing. The relationship between IOP and genetic
polymorphisms was statistically analyzed.
RESULTS: R16G (A/G), L84L (G/A), and R175R (C/A) in β2-ADR showed significantly
different allele in the three groups (p = 0.005, p = 0.045, and p = 0.045,
respectively). For the POAG group, C/C of R389G (C/G) in β1-ADR had a
significantly lower diurnal mean IOP (p < 0.001), peak IOP (p = 0.010), trough
IOP (p < 0.001), and larger IOP range (p = 0.047) than G carriers; C/C of R389G
(C/G) in β1-ADR and G carriers had parallel diurnal IOP curves but significantly 
different diurnal IOP levels (p = 0.001); C/C of Q27E (C/G) in β2-ADR had a
significantly higher diurnal mean IOP (p = 0.045) than G carriers; G/G of L84L
(G/A) in β2-ADR had a significantly higher diurnal mean IOP (p = 0.044) than A
carriers; C/C of R175R (C/A) in β2-ADR had a significantly higher diurnal mean
IOP (p = 0.044) than A carriers; T/T of W64R (T/C) in β3-ADR had a significantly 
smaller IOP range (p = 0.001) than C carriers.
CONCLUSION: Certain polymorphisms of β2-ADR showed significantly different
genotype frequencies in healthy volunteers untreated NTG patients, and POAG
patients. Polymorphisms of the β-ADR gene may alter the untreated IOP level of
POAG patients.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2016.1139727 
PMID: 27216586  [PubMed - in process]


72. Trends Mol Med. 2016 Jun;22(6):511-27. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2016.04.006.

Human TBK1: A Gatekeeper of Neuroinflammation.

Ahmad L(1), Zhang SY(2), Casanova JL(3), Sancho-Shimizu V(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Division of Medicine, Imperial College London, Norfolk
Place, London W2 1 PG, UK. (2)St Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious
Diseases, Rockefeller Branch, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY, USA;
Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM U1163,
Paris, France; University of Paris Descartes, Imagine Institute, Paris, France.
(3)St Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller
Branch, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY, USA; Laboratory of Human
Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM U1163, Paris, France;
University of Paris Descartes, Imagine Institute, Paris, France; Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, New York, NY, USA; Pediatric Hematology and Immunology Unit,
Necker Hospital for Sick Children, Paris, France. (4)Department of Virology,
Division of Medicine, Imperial College London, Norfolk Place, London W2 1 PG, UK;
Department of Pediatrics, Division of Medicine, Imperial College London, Norfolk 
Place, London W2 1 PG, UK. Electronic address: v.sancho-shimizu@imperial.ac.uk.

The importance of TANK binding kinase-1 (TBK1), a multimeric kinase that
modulates inflammation and autophagy, in human health has been highlighted for
the first time by the recent discoveries of mutations in TBK1 that underlie
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) or childhood herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE).
Gain-of-function of TBK1 are associated with NTG, whereas loss-of-function
mutations result in ALS/FTD or in HSE. In light of these new findings, we review 
the role of TBK1 in these seemingly unrelated, yet allelic diseases, and discuss 
the role of TBK1 in neuroinflammatory diseases. This discovery has the potential 
to significantly increase our understanding of the molecular basis of these
poorly understood diseases.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmed.2016.04.006 
PMCID: PMC4890605 [Available on 2017-06-01]
PMID: 27211305  [PubMed - in process]


73. Sci Rep. 2016 May 11;6:25792. doi: 10.1038/srep25792.

Association between systemic oxidative stress and visual field damage in
open-angle glaucoma.

Tanito M(1,)(2), Kaidzu S(1), Takai Y(1), Ohira A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, 89-1
Enya, Izumo, Shimane, 693-8501, Japan. (2)Division of Ophthalmology, Matsue Red
Cross Hospital, 200 Horo-machi, Matsue, Shimane, 690-8506, Japan.

Local and systemic oxidative stress in intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation and
optic nerve damage may be involved in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. We reported
previously that a lower level of systemic antioxidative capacity is associated
with IOP elevation in open-angle glaucoma (OAG). We assessed the correlation
between the visual field sensitivity value, i.e., mean deviation (MD), and
systemic levels of prooxidants and antioxidants by analyzing the blood
biochemistry in 202 patients with glaucoma. Serum levels of lipid peroxides,
ferric-reducing activity, and thiol antioxidant activity were measured using the 
diacron reactive oxygen metabolite (dROM), biological antioxidant potential
(BAP), and sulfhydryl (SH) tests, respectively, using a free-radical analyzer.
Univariate and multivariate analyses suggested a positive correlation between MD 
and BAP (R = 0.005 and P = 0.0442 by a multiple regression model adjusted for
seven demographic parameters), but no significant associations between the MD and
the dROM (R = 0.002 and P = 0.8556) and SH tests (R = -0.001 and P = 0.8280). Use
of more antiglaucoma medication and primary OAG rather than normal tension
glaucoma also were associated significantly with worse visual field damage. This 
large and comprehensive assessment of the association between systemic redox
status and visual field damage in OAG suggests that lower systemic antioxidant
capacity measured by ferric-reducing activity is associated with more severe
visual field damage in OAG that partly explained its roles in IOP elevation.

DOI: 10.1038/srep25792 
PMCID: PMC4863173
PMID: 27165400  [PubMed - in process]


74. Cutis. 2016 Apr;97(4):E21-5.

Prevalence of glaucoma in patients with vitiligo.

Dertlioğlu SB(1), Oğuz H(2), Çiçek D(1), Yücel H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Fırat University Faculty of Medicine, Elazığ,
Turkey. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Harran University Faculty of Medicine,
Sanliurfa, Turkey.

Vitiligo is an acquired idiopathic disease characterized by depigmented maculae
and melanocytic destruction. We determined the prevalence of glaucoma in 49
patients who had presented to the dermatology polyclinic with vitiligo and
compared that with the prevalence of glaucoma in 20 age- and sex-matched healthy 
controls. All patients were given an ophthalmologic examination to identify any
glaucomatous changes. In the vitiligo group, 9 patients (18.4%) were found to
have signs of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), while there were no signs of NTG in 
the control group. This difference between the 2 groups was statistically
significant (P=.04). Because glaucoma can cause permanent vision loss when left
untreated, its greater prevalence among patients with vitiligo suggests that
these patients should be carefully monitored.


PMID: 27163923  [PubMed - in process]


75. Curr Eye Res. 2016 Nov;41(11):1447-1453. Epub 2016 May 9.

Optic Nerve Head Blood Flow, as Measured by Laser Speckle Flowgraphy, Is
Significantly Reduced in Preperimetric Glaucoma.

Shiga Y(1), Kunikata H(2), Aizawa N(1), Kiyota N(1), Maiya Y(1), Yokoyama Y(1),
Omodaka K(1), Takahashi H(1), Yasui T(2), Kato K(3), Iwase A(4), Nakazawa
T(1,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine 
, Miyagi , Japan. (2)b Yasui Eye Clinic , Miyagi , Japan. (3)c Kato Eye Center , 
Miyagi , Japan. (4)d Tajimi Iwase Eye Clinic , Gifu , Japan. (5)e Department of
Retinal Disease Control , Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine , Miyagi 
, Japan. (6)f Department of Advanced Ophthalmic Medicine , Tohoku University
Graduate School of Medicine , Miyagi , Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare optic nerve head (ONH) blood flow in healthy eyes, eyes with 
preperimetric glaucoma (PPG), and eyes with mild normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
using laser speckle flowgraphy (LSFG).
METHODS: In 172 eyes (normal: 44 eyes; PPG: 62 eyes; mild NTG: 66 eyes), LSFG was
used to measure mean blur rate in the ONH tissue area (MBRT), an index of
capillary blood flow. Multiple regression analysis was performed to determine
factors affecting circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (cpRNFLT), 
mean deviation (MD) and pattern standard deviation (PSD) of the visual field.
RESULTS: Despite similar characteristics in age, refractive error and systemic
variables among the study groups, MBRT in the normal eyes differed significantly 
from both the PPG and mild NTG eyes (P = 0.001, P < 0.001, respectively).
Multiple regression analysis revealed that MBRT was an independent factor
affecting cpRNFLT, MD and PSD (P < 0.001, P = 0.001, P = 0.003, respectively).
CONCLUSION: ONH blood flow was detectibly reduced in eyes with PPG, in close
association with structural and visual field damage. This suggests that measuring
ONH tissue-area blood flow with LSFG may be a useful way of monitoring glaucoma
severity, even in the early stages of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2015.1127974 
PMID: 27159148  [PubMed - in process]


76. Ophthalmology. 2016 Jul;123(7):1484-93. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.03.040. Epub
2016 May 6.

Optic Disc Rotation as a Clue for Predicting Visual Field Progression in Myopic
Normal-Tension Glaucoma.

Sung MS(1), Kang YS(1), Heo H(1), Park SW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Research Institute of Medical Sciences,
Chonnam National University Medical School and Hospital, Gwangju, South Korea.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Research Institute of Medical Sciences,
Chonnam National University Medical School and Hospital, Gwangju, South Korea;
Center for Creative Biomedical Scientists, Chonnam National University, Gwangju, 
South Korea. Electronic address: exo70@naver.com.

PURPOSE: To investigate factors associated with visual field (VF) progression in 
myopic normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and to determine the relationship between
optic disc rotation and VF progression.
DESIGN: Retrospective, observational study.
SUBJECTS: Ninety-two patients with myopic NTG, with VF loss confined to a single 
hemifield, who were followed up over a 2-year period.
METHODS: Systemic and ocular findings such as optic disc tilt and optic disc
rotation were evaluated. The eyes with optic disc rotation accompanying a
corresponding VF defect were defined as those with correspondence. Visual field
progression was defined by Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial criteria. The Cox
proportional hazards model was used to determine the risk factors for VF
progression.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Progression of VF.
RESULTS: The mean age of subjects was 37.83±10.89 years, mean spherical
equivalent refractive error was -5.51±3.37 diopters, and mean axial length was
26.18±1.79 mm. Mean follow-up duration was 55.78±30.12 months. Among 92 eyes, 37 
showed VF progression. A multivariate Cox proportional hazard model revealed that
percentage reduction in intraocular pressure (IOP) from baseline (hazard ratio
[HR], 0.965; P = 0.013), optic disc hemorrhage (HR, 2.623; P = 0.019), and optic 
disc rotation-VF defect correspondence (HR, 0.441; P = 0.016) were associated
with VF progression in myopic NTG eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to the percentage reduction in IOP from baseline and
optic disc hemorrhage, optic disc rotation-VF defect correspondence may be an
important prognostic factor for patients with myopic NTG.

Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.03.040 
PMID: 27157844  [PubMed - in process]


77. PLoS One. 2016 May 5;11(5):e0154691. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0154691.
eCollection 2016.

Optic Disc Perfusion in Primary Open Angle and Normal Tension Glaucoma Eyes Using
Optical Coherence Tomography-Based Microangiography.

Bojikian KD(1), Chen CL(1,)(2), Wen JC(1), Zhang Q(2), Xin C(2,)(3), Gupta D(1), 
Mudumbai RC(1), Johnstone MA(1), Wang RK(1,)(2), Chen PP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington,
United States of America. (2)Department of Bioengineering, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of America. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing,
China.

PURPOSE: To investigate optic disc perfusion differences in normal, primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes using optical 
microangiography (OMAG) based optical coherence tomography (OCT) angiography
technique.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional, observational study.
SUBJECTS: Twenty-eight normal, 30 POAG, and 31 NTG subjects.
METHODS: One eye from each subject was scanned with a 68 kHz Cirrus HD-OCT
5,000-based OMAG prototype system centered at the optic nerve head (ONH) (Carl
Zeiss Meditec Inc, Dublin, CA). Microvascular images were generated from the OMAG
dataset by detecting the differences in OCT signal between consecutive B-scans.
The pre-laminar layer (preLC) was isolated by a semi-automatic segmentation
program.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Optic disc perfusion, quantified as flux, vessel area
density, and normalized flux (flux normalized by the vessel area) within the ONH.
RESULTS: Glaucomatous eyes had significantly lower optic disc perfusion in preLC 
in all three perfusion metrics (p<0.0001) compared to normal eyes. The visual
field (VF) mean deviation (MD) and pattern standard deviation (PSD) were similar 
between the POAG and NTG groups, and no differences in optic disc perfusion were 
observed between POAG and NTG. Univariate analysis revealed significant
correlation between optic disc perfusion and VF MD, VF PSD, and rim area in both 
POAG and NTG groups (p≤0.0288). However, normalized optic disc perfusion was
correlated with some structural measures (retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and
ONH cup/disc ratio) only in POAG eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Optic disc perfusion detected with OMAG was significantly reduced in
POAG and NTG groups compared to normal controls, but no difference was seen
between POAG and NTG groups with similar levels of VF damage. Disc perfusion was 
significantly correlated with VF MD, VF PSD, and rim area in glaucomatous eyes.
Vascular changes at the optic disc as measured using OMAG may provide useful
information for diagnosis and monitoring of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0154691 
PMCID: PMC4858256
PMID: 27149261  [PubMed - in process]


78. J Glaucoma. 2016 Jul;25(7):e713-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000391.

Increased Intraocular Pressure in a Patient With Septooptic Dysplasia: A Case
Report.

Ulloa-Padilla JP(1), Izquierdo NJ, Oliver A.

Author information: 
(1)*Medical Sciences Campus, School of Medicine, University of Puerto Rico
Departments of †Surgery ‡Ophthalmology, Medical Sciences Campus, School of
Medicine, University of Puerto Rico, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

INTRODUCTION: Previous studies have described septooptic dysplasia (SOD) to
describe patients who have optic nerve hypoplasia, the absence of septum
pellucidum, and pituitary hypoplasia. Other rare ophthalmic associations have
been described, such as low-tension glaucoma. We report the ocular findings of a 
patient with SOD who had high intraocular pressure (IOP) and glaucoma as a part
of the syndrome.
OBJECTIVES: To report the ocular findings in a Puerto Rican patient with SOD and 
increased IOP.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A patient with De Morsier syndrome underwent a
comprehensive eye examination, Humphrey visual fields, and Stratus optical
coherence tomography, and was referred for neuroradiologic examination. The
patient had increased IOP, visual field loss, and asymmetric optic nerve
hypoplasia. The IOP was lowered with topical hypotensive medications.
CONCLUSIONS: The patient with the De Morsier syndrome had poor visual acuity,
high IOP, visual field, and optical coherence tomography results that were all
compatible with glaucoma. Further studies comparing ocular findings in patients
with several mutations leading to De Morsier syndrome are warranted. To our
knowledge, this is the first report on a patient with glaucoma as a part of the
syndrome.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000391 
PMID: 27136085  [PubMed - in process]


79. Am J Ophthalmol. 2016 Jun;166:209-10. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.03.043. Epub 2016
Apr 28.

Association Between Platelet Function and Disc Hemorrhage in Patients With
Normal-Tension Glaucoma: A Prospective Cross-Sectional Study.

Shim SH(1), Kim JM(1), Sung KR(1), Park KH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Seoul, South Korea.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.03.043 
PMID: 27133015  [PubMed - in process]


80. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2016 Apr 30. [Epub ahead of print]

[Effect of Morphological and Functional Parameters on Ocular Pulse Amplitudes: An
Analysis in Ocular Hypertension and Different Types of Glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Milioti G(1), Langenbucher A(2), Seitz B(2), Löw U(2).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Augenheilkunde, Universitätsklinikum des Saarlandes, Homburg/Saar. 
(2)Experimentelle Ophthalmologie, Medizinische Fakultät der Universität des
Saarlandes, Homburg/Saar.

Background and Purpose: Ocular blood flow imbalance and the loss of
autoregulation are widely believed to be important factors in the pathogenesis of
glaucoma. The purpose of this study was to investigate the impact of morphometric
and functional changes on ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) in normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), pseudoexfoliation-glaucoma (PEX) and
ocular hypertension (OHT). Patients and Methods: This prospective study included 
172 patients with manifest glaucoma and OHT. All patients were examined with
dynamic contour tonometry (DCT), Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT), Heidelberg
retina tomography II (HRT), and Octopus visual field analysis (program 30II). In 
order to identify potential determinants of OPA, a generalised linear model (GLM)
analysis was defined. As effect sizes, we included gender as a factor and
intraocular pressure (measured by DCT [IOP]), optic disc area, cup area, mean
deviation (MD), central corneal thickness (CCT), cup-disc ratio (CDR), and
patient age as covariates. Results: Mean OPA was lower in patients with NTG than 
in other groups. In the generalised linear model in the entire population, a
larger OPA was associated with a larger IOP and female gender. In the NTG group, 
we did not identify effect sizes, whereas, in the OHT group, IOP (measured with
DCT) and MD, in the POAG group IOP (measured with DCT) and gender and in the PEX 
group MD and gender showed a positive effect on OPA. Conclusions: In this study, 
we showed that in the NTG group neither demographic nor morphological or
functional factors affected OPA. However, in the OHT and POAG groups, OPA was
influenced by IOP (measured with DCT), in the OHT and PEX group by MD and in the 
POAG and PEX groups by gender.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0042-101350 
PMID: 27130975  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


81. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Apr 29:1-7. [Epub ahead of print]

The Effects of Nocturnal Dip and Blood Pressure Variability on Paracentral
Scotoma in Early Open-Angle Glaucoma.

Jin SW(1), Seo HR(2), Rho SS(3), Rho SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Dong-A University Hospital , Busan , Republic 
of Korea. (2)b Department of Ophthalmology , Wallace Memorial Baptist Hospital , 
Busan , Republic of Korea. (3)c Department of Ophthalmology , CHA Bundang Medical
Center, CHA University , Seongnam , Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of nocturnal dip and blood pressure (BP)
variability on paracentral scotoma in early open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: The present study included 72 early normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
patients and 34 early primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients. Nocturnal dip 
and weighted standard deviation (wSD) were determined by 24-hour ambulatory BP
monitoring (24-hr ABPM). The mean deviation (MD) and pattern deviation (PD) were 
measured with visual field. Correlations between nocturnal dip and/or BP
variability and paracentral scotoma were assessed using Student's t-test,
Pearson's correlation test, and linear logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: The systolic and diastolic nocturnal dip and paracentral scotoma
occurrence demonstrated a statistically significant correlation in the early NTG 
group (systolic nocturnal dip: p=0.047, diastolic nocturnal dip: p=0.011). In the
early NTG group, the subgroup with paracentral scotoma had a greater nocturnal
dip than those patients without paracentral scotoma (systolic nocturnal dip:
p=0.000; diastolic nocturnal dip: p=0.000). In the early NTG group, the subgroup 
with paracentral scotoma had higher wSD of SBP than the patients without
paracentral scotoma (p=0.003). In the logistic regression analysis of the factors
that can affect paracentral scotoma SBP dip and SBP, wSD appeared to
significantly affect the occurrence of paracentral scotoma in the early NTG
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Early NTG patients with paracentral scotoma have nocturnal dip and
large BP variability. Therefore, in early glaucoma patients, particularly in
early NTG with paracentral scotoma, nocturnal dip and BP variability should be
assessed with 24-hr ABPM.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2015.1123733 
PMID: 27128963  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


82. Am J Med. 2016 Sep;129(9):1000.e7-1000.e13. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2016.03.038.
Epub 2016 Apr 26.

Emerging Concepts in Glaucoma and Review of the Literature.

Greco A(1), Rizzo MI(2), De Virgilio A(3), Gallo A(4), Fusconi M(1), de
Vincentiis M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sense Organs, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy. (2)Department of
Surgical Science, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy. Electronic address:
mariaidarizzo@gmail.com. (3)Department of Surgical Science, Sapienza University, 
Rome, Italy. (4)Department of Medico-Surgical Sciences and Biotechnologies,
Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.

Glaucoma is the most commonly acquired optic neuropathy. It represents a public
health challenge because it causes an irreversible blindness. Emerging evidence
indicates that the pathogenesis of glaucoma depends on several interacting
pathogenetic mechanisms, which include mechanical effects by an increased
intraocular pressure, decreased neutrophine-supply, hypoxia, excitotoxicity,
oxidative stress, and the involvement of autoimmune processes. In particular,
alterations in serum antibody profiles have been described. However, it is still 
unclear whether the autoantibodies seen in glaucoma are an epiphenomenon or
causative. Oxidative stress appears to be a critical factor in the
neurodestructive consequences of mitochondrial dysfunction, glial activation
response, and uncontrolled activity of the immune system during glaucomatous
neurodegeneration. In addition, hearing loss has been identified in association
with glaucoma. A higher prevalence of antiphosphatidylserine antibodies of the
immunoglobulin G class was seen in normal-tension glaucoma patients with hearing 
loss in comparison with normal-tension glaucoma patients with normacusis. This
finding suggests a similar pathological pathway as a sign for generalized
disease.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2016.03.038 
PMID: 27125182  [PubMed - in process]


83. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2016 Jan-Mar;120(1):83-9.

SHORT TERM EVALUATION OF PERIMETRIC PROGRESSION IN PATIENTS WITH OPEN ANGLE
GLAUCOMA AND DIABETES.

Pantalon A, Feraru C, Chiseliţa D.

AIM OF STUDY: Progression rate in patients with glaucoma and diabetes.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: cohort prospective study in Ophthalmology Clinic "Sf.
Spiridon" University Hospital Iasi. We recruited patients with positive history
for diabetes and of open angle glaucoma (OAG). The control group included
subjects with OAG (74 eyes from 74 patients) and the study group (44 eyes, from
44 patients) included subjects with OAG and diabetes. At enrollment all patients 
had a complete ophthalmologic evaluation along with full metabolic status
assessment. There were included only incipient and moderate forms of glaucoma,
with mild or no diabetic retinopathy changes. Perimetric progression was assessed
at 24 months with automated methods.
RESULTS: globally, from 118 investigated eyes, 56.40% cases had primary open
angle glaucoma, 41.03% normal tension glaucoma and 2.36% pseudoexfoliative
glaucoma. Glaucoma severity classification showed early defects (mean deviation <
-6 db) in the study group of 77.27% vs. 83.78% in control group, whereas moderate
defects (mean deviation > -6 db) were found in 22.63% in study group vs. 16.21.0%
in control group. Mean age of the patients was higher in absolute value in the
open angle glaucoma group (64.31 +/- 1.66 years), vs. diabetes + open angle
glaucoma (62.69 +/- 1.8 years), with comparable visual acuities (0.91 +/- 0.15
vs. 0.89 +/- 0.16), CID ratios and other clinical pa- rameters (p > 0.05). Mean
baseline lOP in the study group was 18.18 +/- 3.55 mrnHg vs. 17.08 +/- 2.4 nimHg 
in controls (p > 0.05). Analysis of visual field parameters at baseline showed a 
significant difference (p = 0.48) between groups in MD levels -3.63 +/- 3.35 db
(control group) vs. -4.40 +/- 5.78 db (study group), but no difference (p > 0.05)
in PSD levels: 3.71 +/- 3.06 db (control group) vs. 4.05 +/- 3.04 dB (study
group). Perimetric progression was estimated at 24 months by Glaucoma Progression
Analysis software (GPA-Humphrey Visual Field Analyzer II) using 6 reliable visual
field (VF) exams. Progression rate was similar between groups--0.19 +/- 0.78
dB/year (OAG) vs. -0.18 +/- 0.05 dB/year (OAG+DM), p > 0.05 and no other risk
factor could have been linked to an increased progression rate, except visual
field parameters at final and baseline evaluation, in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: On short term, functional deterioration in open angle glaucoma
patients having early or moderate stages, occurs similarly in the presence or
absence of diabetes.


PMID: 27125077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2016 Apr;233(4):387-90. doi: 10.1055/s-0042-102619. Epub 
2016 Apr 26.

Unexpected Effect of Calcium Channel Blockers on the Optic Nerve Compartment
Syndrome.

Konieczka K(1), Todorova MG(1), Bojinova RI(2), Binggeli T(1), Chackathayil
TN(1), Flammer J(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Basel, Department of Ophthalmology, Basel, Switzerland (Chairman
ad interim: Prof. S. Orguel). (2)McGill University Department of Medicine,
Montreal, Canada (Chair: Dr. James Martin).

BACKGROUND: The optic nerve compartment syndrome is a pathological condition in
which cerebrospinal fluid of the subarachnoid space surrounding the optic nerve
is partly or totally segregated from the cerebrospinal fluid of the intracranial 
subarachnoid space, leading - inter alia - to an increase in the diameter of the 
optic nerve sheath. The pathogenesis of this condition remains unclear. We have
observed clinically that optic nerve compartment syndrome often occurs in normal 
tension glaucoma patients with Flammer syndrome. To treat Flammer syndrome, some 
glaucoma patients received a low dose of a calcium channel blocker and we
analysed whether this treatment also had an effect on the optic nerve compartment
syndrome.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively analysed the data of 10 eyes of seven
patients suffering from a combination of primary open angle glaucoma, optic nerve
compartment syndrome, and Flammer syndrome. We included subjects who had eye
socket echography before and after a few months of therapy with a calcium channel
blocker.
THERAPY AND RESULTS: All patients received a low dose of a calcium channel
blocker (nifedipine or amlodipine) to treat Flammer syndrome. As expected, the
symptoms of Flammer syndrome were mitigated. To our surprise, the optic nerve
compartment syndrome also improved in eight of the 10 eyes (80 %), but remained
unchanged in the remainder.
CONCLUSIONS: To some extent, the optic nerve compartment syndrome is related to
the combination of primary open angle glaucoma and Flammer syndrome. On the basis
of our results, we hypothesise that treatment of Flammer syndrome may also
improve the optic nerve compartment syndrome.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0042-102619 
PMID: 27116489  [PubMed - in process]


85. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Aug;254(8):1609-16. doi:
10.1007/s00417-016-3366-2. Epub 2016 Apr 26.

Quantitative comparison of disc rim color in optic nerve atrophy of compressive
optic neuropathy and glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

Nakano E(1), Hata M(2), Oishi A(1), Miyamoto K(1), Uji A(1), Fujimoto M(1),
Miyata M(1), Yoshimura N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Kyoto University, 54 Shougoin
Kawahara-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8507, Japan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology
and Visual Sciences, Kyoto University, 54 Shougoin Kawahara-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto,
606-8507, Japan. trj74h6@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

PURPOSE: The purpose was to investigate an objective and quantitative method to
estimate the redness of the optic disc neuroretinal rim, and to determine the
usefulness of this method to differentiate compressive optic neuropathy (CON)
from glaucomatous optic neuropathy (GON).
METHODS: In our study there were 126 eyes: 40 with CON, 40 with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG), and 46 normal eyes (NOR). Digital color fundus photographs were
assessed for the redness of disc rim color using ImageJ software. We separately
measured the intensity of red, green, and blue pixels from RGB images. Three disc
color indices (DCIs), which indicate the redness intensity, were calculated
through existing formulas.
RESULTS: All three DCIs of CON were significantly smaller than those of NOR
(P < 0.001). In addition, when compared with NTG, DCIs were also significantly
smaller in CON (P < 0.05). A comparison of mild CON and mild NTG (mean deviation 
(MD) > -6 dB), in which the extent of retinal nerve fiber layer thinning is
comparable, the DCIs of mild CON were significantly smaller than those of mild
NTG (P < 0.05). In contrast, DCIs did not differ between moderate-to-severe
stages of CON and NTG (MD ≤ -6 dB), though the retinal nerve fibers of CON were
more severely damaged than those of NTG. To differentiate between mild CON and
mild NTG, all AUROCs for the three DCIs were above 0.700.
CONCLUSIONS: A quantitative and objective assessment of optic disc color was
useful in differentiating early-stage CON from GON and NOR.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-016-3366-2 
PMID: 27116212  [PubMed - in process]


86. BMC Ophthalmol. 2016 Apr 14;16:39. doi: 10.1186/s12886-016-0215-3.

Ocular perfusion pressure and ophthalmic artery flow in patients with normal
tension glaucoma.

Samsudin A(1), Isaacs N(2), Tai ML(3), Ramli N(2), Mimiwati Z(2), Choo MM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Malaya Eye Research Centre,
University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. amir@ummc.edu.my. (2)Department of 
Ophthalmology, University of Malaya Eye Research Centre, University of Malaya,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (3)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine,
University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND: Vascular insufficiency has been reported to be a cause of normal
tension glaucoma (NTG). The aim of this study was to compare ocular perfusion
pressure (OPP) and ophthalmic artery flow (OAF) between patients with NTG and
those without glaucoma.
METHODS: We considered one eye each from 31 NTG and 15 non-glaucoma control
patients. Blood pressure and intraocular pressure (IOP) were measured in the
sitting position, for calculation of OPP. Humphrey visual field (HVF) assessment 
was then carried out on NTG patients. All patients then underwent Transcranial
Doppler ultrasound measurements of OAF parameters, including mean flow velocity
(MFV), end diastolic velocity (EDV), peak systolic velocity (PSV) and resistive
index (RI). We looked at differences in OPP and OAF parameters between the two
groups, and their correlations in NTG patients. T-tests, χ (2), ANOVA and Pearson
Correlation tests were performed, with p < 0.05 considered statistically
significant.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences in OPP between the
NTG and control groups (60.5+/-8.7 mmHg and 62.9+/-10.2 mmHg respectively,
p = 0.393), and also no statistically significant differences in MFV, EDV, PSV
and RI (all p > 0.05). In the NTG group, there were positive correlations between
OPP and both MFV (r = 0.416, p = 0.020) and EDV (r = 0.369, p = 0.041). There
were no statistically significant correlations between HVF mean deviation and OPP
or OAF parameters (all p > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: There is no difference in OPP and OAF parameters between patients
with NTG and non-glaucoma controls, suggesting that vascular insufficiency or
dysregulation by themselves may not account for the pathogenesis of NTG.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-016-0215-3 
PMCID: PMC4832465
PMID: 27079202  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Int Med Case Rep J. 2016 Mar 18;9:69-72. doi: 10.2147/IMCRJ.S93849. eCollection
2016.

Gold shunt for refractory advanced low-tension glaucoma with spared central
acuity.

Le R(1), Gupta N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Keenan Research Center, Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's
Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada. (2)Keenan Research Center, Li Ka Shing Knowledge
Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada; Ophthalmology and Vision 
Sciences, Glaucoma Unit, St. Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
ON, Canada; Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, St. Michael's Hospital,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

The aim of this study is to report a case of gold shunt surgery for uncontrolled,
low-tension glaucoma with good central vision, after having a previously failed
trabeculectomy and tube shunt surgeries. The patient was receiving maximum
medical glaucoma therapy of four different types with intraocular pressure of 17 
mm Hg prior to gold shunt surgery. Five years later, intraocular pressure is well
controlled in the low teens without the need for ocular medications, and glaucoma
is stable following gold shunt surgery.

DOI: 10.2147/IMCRJ.S93849 
PMCID: PMC4807951
PMID: 27051320  [PubMed]


88. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Mar 18;10:503-10. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S93725. eCollection
2016.

Corneal biomechanics in asymmetrical normal-tension glaucoma.

Helmy H(1), Leila M(2), Zaki AA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Glaucoma and Optic Nerve Diseases, Research Institute of
Ophthalmology, Cairo, Egypt. (2)Retina Department, Research Institute of
Ophthalmology, Cairo, Egypt. (3)Corneal Diseases Department, Research Institute
of Ophthalmology, Cairo, Egypt.

PURPOSE: We aimed to assess corneal biomechanics using the ocular response
analyzer in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), and to evaluate the
relationship between corneal biomechanics and visual field loss.
METHODS: This was a prospective observational case series including patients with
bilateral asymmetric NTG. For all patients, corneal hysteresis (CH), corneal
resistance factor (CRF), CH - CRF difference, and central corneal thickness
values were matched against the mean deviation (MD) of the visual field and the
cup/disc ratio. For paired-eye comparison in each patient, both eyes were
categorized into a better-eyes group and a worse-eyes group according to lower
and higher corneal-compensated intraocular pressure readings, respectively.
Statistical analysis was carried out with the independent-samples Student's
t-test, and the level of statistical significance was set at 0.05. Correlation
was assessed using Pearson's correlation coefficient.
RESULTS: The study included 240 eyes of 120 patients. CH was inversely
proportional to the MD in the visual field (P=0.01). CRF in both eyes was
inversely proportional to the MD of the visual field (P=0.01). CH - CRF
difference was directly proportional to the MD of the visual field (P=0.01). For 
paired-eye comparison, lower corneal-compensated intraocular pressure was
associated with higher CH, higher CRF, smaller cup/disc ratio, and less
deterioration of MD of visual field.
CONCLUSION: CH, CRF, and CH - CRF are more powerful predictors of NTG progression
than central corneal thickness.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S93725 
PMCID: PMC4807948
PMID: 27051272  [PubMed]


89. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Feb;64(2):127-31. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.179718.

Brinzolamide/timolol versus dorzolamide/timolol fixed combinations: A
hospital-based, prospective, randomized study.

Galose MS, Elsaied HM, Macky TA(1), Fouad PH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Diagnostic Laser Unit, Kasr El Aini Hospital,
Cairo University, El-Manial, Cairo, Egypt.

PURPOSE: To compare the efficacy and tolerability of brinzolamide/timolol (BT)
and dorzolamide/timolol (DT) fixed combinations on intraocular pressure (IOP)
reduction.
METHODS: Patients with primary open angle glaucoma or normal tension glaucoma
were randomized to receive either BT or DT. IOPs were measured at baseline, 2
weeks, and 1, 2, and 3 months. The primary outcome measures were the mean change 
in IOP from baseline at each visit. Secondary outcome measures included the
tolerability of each fixed combination.
RESULTS: Seventy-three patients (73 eyes) were included; 37 eyes in BT group and 
36 eyes in DT group. Baseline mean IOP were 24.14 ± 4.5 and 29.53 ± 6 mmHg for BT
and DT, respectively (P < 0.001). Both BT and DT provided statistically
significant mean IOP reductions from baseline values within each group at all
study visits (P < 0.001). DT provided greater mean IOP reductions from baseline
than BT at each visit which was statistically significant at 2 weeks (P = 0.037).
Mean percentage of IOP reduction was 24.35% and 46.33% at 2 weeks (P < 0.001),
and 24.65% and 47% at 3 months (P < 0.001) for BT and DT, respectively. Patients'
tolerability appeared to be better for DT than for BT with complete ocular
comfort without any ocular adverse effects in 31 patients (81.1%) in DT group and
11 patients (29.7%) in BT group (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Both drops provide effective IOP reduction which was greater, and
patients were more likely to achieve lower target pressures with DT than with BT.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.179718 
PMCID: PMC4850807
PMID: 27050347  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


90. PLoS One. 2016 Apr 6;11(4):e0153064. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153064.
eCollection 2016.

Macular Ganglion Cell Analysis Determined by Cirrus HD Optical Coherence
Tomography for Early Detecting Chiasmal Compression.

Yum HR(1), Park SH(2), Park HY(2), Shin SY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Konyang University Hospital, College of Medicine,
Konyang University, Daejeon, South Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual
Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic University 
of Korea, Seoul, South Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the performance of macular ganglion cell-inner plexiform
layer (mGCIPL) measurement with Cirrus high-definition (HD) optical coherence
tomography (OCT) for early detection of optic chiasmal compression.
METHODS: Forty-six eyes of 46 patients with optic chiasmal compression caused by 
a pituitary adenoma (PA group), 31 eyes of 31 patients with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG group), and 32 eyes of 32 normal participants (control group) were 
enrolled. The PA group was subdivided into two subgroups, which comprised
patients with temporal visual field (VF) defects (perimetric PA group, 34 eyes)
and without VF defect (preperimetric PA group, 12 eyes). The mGCIPL thickness and
circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (cpRNFL) thickness were measured using 
Cirrus HD-OCT. We calculated the number of patients who had an abnormal GCA
sector map, defined as at least one yellow or red sector.
RESULTS: Eyes in the perimetric PA group had significantly decreased mGCIPL
thickness in all sectors. Eyes in the preperimetric PA group had significantly
thinner mGCIPL in the superior, superonasal, inferonasal, and inferior sectors
than eyes in control group, but no changes in cpRNFL parameters were observed.
The mGCIPL thickness in inferonasal area showed the greatest AUC value (0.965),
followed by the superonasal area (0.958) for discriminating preperimetric PA
group from the control group. A higher reduction rate of mGCIPL thickness was
noted in the nasal sector compared to other sectors, which was irrespective of
temporal visual field defects. The mGCIPL thickness maps showed superonasal (P = 
0.003) and inferonasal thinning in the PA group (P = 0.003), while inferotemporal
thinning was revealed in the NTG group (P = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Macular GCIPL thickness parameters obtained with the Cirrus HD-OCT
were useful in early detection of chiasmal compression and differentiating from
NTG by characteristic nasal mGCIPL thinning.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153064 
PMCID: PMC4822859
PMID: 27049647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


91. PLoS One. 2016 Apr 1;11(4):e0150242. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0150242.
eCollection 2016.

Comparison of the Deep Optic Nerve Head Structure between Normal-Tension Glaucoma
and Nonarteritic Anterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy.

Lee EJ(1), Choi YJ(1), Kim TW(1), Hwang JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare the deep optic nerve head (ONH) structure between
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy
(NAION) and also in healthy subjects as a control using enhanced depth imaging
(EDI) spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT).
METHODS: This prospective cross-sectional study included 21 NAION patients who
had been diagnosed as NAION at least 6 months prior to study entry, and 42 NTG
patients and 42 healthy controls who were matched with NAION patients in terms of
age, intraocular pressure (IOP), and optic disc area. The retinal nerve fiber
layer (RNFL) thickness in the affected sector was also matched between NAION and 
NTG patients. The ONH was imaged using SD-OCT with the EDI technique. The
anterior lamina cribrosa surface depth (LCD) and average prelaminar tissue (PT)
thickness were measured in a sector of interest in each eye and compared among
the three groups.
RESULTS: In the sector-matched comparison, LCD was largest in NTG patients,
followed by NAION patients, while PT was thinner in NTG patients than in NAION
patients (all P < 0.001). NAION patients had a comparable LCD and a thinner PT
relative to normal controls (P = 0.170 and < 0.001, respectively).
CONCLUSION: The deep ONH configuration is strikingly different between NTG and
NAION. The differing features provide comparative insight into the
pathophysiology of the two diseases, and may be useful for differential
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0150242 
PMCID: PMC4818084
PMID: 27035660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Sep;94(6):e492-500. doi: 10.1111/aos.13012. Epub 2016 Mar
24.

Posterior displacement of the lamina cribrosa in normal-tension and high-tension 
glaucoma.

Li L(1), Bian A(1), Cheng G(1), Zhou Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese
Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

PURPOSE: To compare the in vivo lamina cribrosa position in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG).
METHODS: The comparative cross-sectional study included three age- and
sex-matched groups: 26 eyes of 26 NTG patients, 26 eyes of 26 HTG patients and 25
eyes of 25 healthy controls. Serial horizontal B-scan images of the optic nerve
head were obtained from each eye using enhanced depth imaging optical coherence
tomography. Mean and maximum lamina cribrosa depths were measured in 11 equally
spaced horizontal B-scans. Statistical analysis was conducted to compare lamina
cribrosa depth among the three groups and to correlate lamina cribrosa depth with
age, retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) thickness and visual field (VF) mean
deviation (MD). The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) 
for lamina cribrosa depth was calculated.
RESULTS: Mean and maximum lamina cribrosa depths were significantly greater in
HTG than in NTG eyes, and in NTG than in normal eyes in all 11 scans (all
p < 0.05). The AUCs of the averaged mean and averaged maximum lamina cribrosa
depths in HTG eyes (0.977 and 0.988, respectively) were significantly greater
than those in NTG eyes (0.735 and 0.765, respectively; both p < 0.01). Lamina
cribrosa depth was found to have a negative correlation with age in HTG eyes;
however, the same association was not found in NTG or controls. Neither RNFL
thickness nor VF MD was significantly correlated with lamina cribrosa depth in
each group.
CONCLUSIONS: The lamina cribrosa is more posteriorly located in HTG than in NTG
eyes, as well as in NTG eyes compared with healthy controls. The lamina cribrosa 
depth can help differentiate HTG from normal eyes, but it does not reach a good
level of diagnostic accuracy for detecting NTG.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13012 
PMID: 27009574  [PubMed - in process]


93. Clin Exp Optom. 2016 Jul;99(4):373-81. doi: 10.1111/cxo.12366. Epub 2016 Mar 21.

Comparison of retinal nerve fiber layer and macular thickness for discriminating 
primary open-angle glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma using optical coherence
tomography.

Khanal S(1,)(2), Davey PG(3), Racette L(4), Thapa M(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Optometry and Vision Science, Faculty of Medical and Health
Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. safalkhanal@iom.edu.np, 
s.khanal@auckland.ac.nz. (2)College of Optometry, Western University of Health
Sciences, Pomona, California, USA. safalkhanal@iom.edu.np,
s.khanal@auckland.ac.nz. (3)College of Optometry, Western University of Health
Sciences, Pomona, California, USA. (4)Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute,
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. (5)BP Koirala 
Lions Center for Ophthalmic Studies, Institute of Medicine, Kathmandu, Nepal.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the discrimination capabilities of
macular and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (pRNFL) thickness parameters 
as measured using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) between
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: A total of 90 subjects were enrolled: 30 healthy subjects, 30 subjects
with POAG and 30 subjects with NTG, consecutively. Retinal nerve fiber layer
thickness, macular thickness and volume measurements were obtained with circular 
and radial SD-OCT scans. All parameters were compared between groups using an
analysis of variance test. Areas under receiver-operating characteristic (AROC)
curves with sensitivities at specificities greater than or equal to 90 per cent
were generated to compare discrimination capabilities of various parameters
between POAG and NTG.
RESULTS: Macular thickness and volume measurements were the highest in normal
subjects, followed by NTG and POAG (p < 0.05). Average retinal nerve fiber layer 
thickness had perfect discrimination for normal-POAG (AROC: 1.000; sensitivity:
100 per cent) and near perfect discrimination for normal-NTG (AROC: 0.979;
sensitivity: 93 per cent) as well as NTG-POAG pairs (AROC: 0.900; sensitivity: 60
per cent). Inferior outer macular thickness (IOMT) and total volume were the best
macular thickness and volume parameters having similar AROCs and sensitivities
between normal and POAG (IOMT, AROC: 0.987; sensitivity: 92 per cent and total
volume, AROC: 0.997; sensitivity: 97 per cent), normal and NTG (IOMT, AROC:
0.862, sensitivity: 47 per cent and total volume, AROC: 0.898, sensitivity: 67
per cent) and also between NTG and POAG (IOMT, AROC: 0.910, sensitivity: 53 per
cent and total volume, AROC: 0.922, sensitivity: 77 per cent). In each comparison
group, there was no statistically significant difference in AROCs between average
retinal nerve fiber layer and inferior outer macular thickness, as well as total 
volume.
CONCLUSIONS: The macular parameters offer comparable performance to pRNFL
parameters for the discrimination of NTG and POAG. Average retinal nerve fiber
layer thickness, total macular volume and inferior outer macular thickness were
the best SD-OCT parameters with superior discriminating capabilities.

© 2016 Optometry Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/cxo.12366 
PMID: 26996257  [PubMed - in process]


94. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Mar;95(10):e3055. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000003055.

Association Between Peripheral Vascular Endothelial Function and Progression of
Open-Angle Glaucoma.

Liu CH(1), Su WW, Shie SS, Cheng ST, Su CW, Ho WJ.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology(C-HL, W-WS); Department of Internal
medicine (S-SS), Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University College of
Medicine, Taoyuan; Department of Cardiology (S-TC, C-WS), Buddhist Tzu Chi
General Hospital Taipei Branch, Xindian, New Taipei City; Department of
Cardiology (W-JH), Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University College of
Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan.

The aim of the study is to evaluate the relationship between Humphrey visual
field progression and peripheral vascular endothelial function in patients with
open-angle glaucoma (OAG), assessed by noninvasive endothelium-dependent
flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD).Forty OAG patients, among which 22 had
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and 18 had primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) were 
enrolled. Each enrolled patient underwent a thorough ophthalmological examination
including the Humphrey visual field test and measurement of FMD via
high-resolution 2-dimensional ultrasonographic imaging of the brachial artery.
Blood samples were evaluated for biochemistry and lipid profiles as well as
levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP). The annual change of
threshold sensitivity of the visual field in each test location were analyzed
with pointwise linear regression. The correlation between long-term visual field 
progression and FMD was evaluated.A mean follow-up of 7.47 ± 1.84 years revealed 
a faster progression rate over the superior visual field in all 40 OAG patients
(superior field -0.24 ± 0.67 dB/y, inferior field -0.10 ± 0.59 dB/y, P = 0.37).
However, only the annual sensitivity change of the inferior peripheral field
showed correlation with baseline FMD. There was no significant difference in the 
change slope of visual field between NTG and POAG patients.A correlation between 
baseline brachial artery FMD and visual field progression was observed in the
inferior peripheral field in patients with NTG and POAG. This result suggests
that peripheral vascular endothelial dysfunction may be related to glaucoma
progression.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000003055 
PMCID: PMC4998913
PMID: 26962832  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Sci Rep. 2016 Feb 29;6:22160. doi: 10.1038/srep22160.

Primary Open Angle Glaucoma is Associated with MR Biomarkers of Cerebral Small
Vessel Disease.

Mercieca K(1), Cain J(2), Hansen T(2), Steeples L(1), Watkins A(2), Spencer F(1),
Jackson A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, Oxford Road, Manchester, M13 9WL, UK.
(2)Wolfson Molecular Imaging Centre, University of Manchester, 27 Palatine Road, 
Withington, Manchester, M20 3LJ, UK.

This prospective study tests the hypotheses that: 1) glaucoma is associated with 
evidence of cerebral small vessel disease; 2) that imaging biomarkers of cerebral
small vessel disease in POAG and NTG will show different characteristics. 12
normal controls, 7 patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and 9
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) were recruited. Ophthalmological
clinical assessment and MR imaging of the brain were performed. MR imaging was
used to quantify white matter lesion load, frequency of dilated perivascular
spaces (PVS) and abnormalities in cerebral hydrodynamics. Patients with POAG had 
significantly greater white matter lesion load (p < 0.05), more PVS in the
centrum semiovale (p < 0.05) and had higher overall PVS scores than controls
(p < 0.05). In the POAG group, optic cup-to-disc ratio (CDR) was positively
correlated with deep white matter hyperintensities (R(2) = 0.928, p < 0.01). Mean
deviation on the Humphrey visual field assessment was negatively correlated with 
deep white matter lesion load (R(2) = -0.840, p < 0.01), total white matter
lesion load (R(2) = -0.928, p < 0.01) and total PVS (R(2) = -0.820, p < 0.01). MR
evidence of cerebral small vessel disease is strongly associated with a diagnosis
of POAG and with the severity of abnormalities in CDR and visual field.

DOI: 10.1038/srep22160 
PMCID: PMC4770586
PMID: 26923106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Int Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;36(6):907-914. Epub 2016 Feb 24.

Ophthalmic segment of internal carotid artery aneurysm mimicking normal tension
glaucoma.

Nucci C(1), Aiello F(2,)(3), Giuliano M(2), Colosimo C(4), Mancino R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Unit, Department of Experimental Medicine and Surgery,
University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Via Montpelier 1, 00133, Rome, Italy.
nucci@med.uniroma2.it. (2)Ophthalmology Unit, Department of Experimental Medicine
and Surgery, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Via Montpelier 1, 00133, Rome,
Italy. (3)Moorfields Eye Hospital, NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(4)Department of Bioimaging and Radiological Sciences, Catholic University, Rome,
Italy.

A 41-year-old caucasian male was referred to the Glaucoma clinic at our tertiary 
referral centre with a diagnosis of normal tension glaucoma after the finding of 
increased bilateral asymmetrical cup/disc ratios, with normal intraocular
pressures. On examination, the authors confirmed the presence of bilateral
reduced optic disc rims alongside a left pale residual rim, and a further
discovered a positive dyschromatopsia with a bilateral visual field alteration.
The left visual field showed a relative scotoma confined to the vertical midline.
After initiating investigation for suspected glaucoma, the authors ordered a
magnetic resonance imaging that evidenced an internal carotid aneurysm along the 
ophthalmic segment, stretching across the optic chiasm with a major involvement
of the left optic nerve and partial involvement of the right optic nerve.
Aneurysm embolisation was performed with complete resolution of signs and
symptoms achieved 5 months post-operatively. Despite glaucoma being the most
frequent condition causing optic disc atrophy and visual field loss, it is not
the only cause. Any atypical visual field defect not in keeping with a
glaucomatous field loss should be further investigated. The ophthalmologist
should thoroughly assess all signs that could lead to different diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-016-0206-7 
PMID: 26911718  [PubMed - in process]


97. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2016 Feb;52(2):104-9. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0412-4081.2016.02.006.

[The effect of phacoemulsification on intraocular pressure in eyes with primary
angle closure glaucoma after trabeculectomy].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang WH(1), Han Q, Chen S, Yan H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tianjin Medical University General Hospital,
Tianjin 300052, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of phacoemulsification on intraocular pressure 
(IOP) in filtered eyes with primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG).
METHODS: In this retrospective case series, 47 eyes from 47 PACG patients who
previously had trabeculectomy were consecutively enrolled. All patients had
visually significant cataracts and phacoemulsification was performed at least 3
months after trabeculectomy. The IOPs were recorded preoperatively, 1 day, 1
week, 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and 24 months after
surgery. The best correct visual acuity (BCVA) , the number of glaucoma
medications and the filtered bleb grade were recorded preoperatively and 24
months after phacoemulsification. IOP and BCVA before and after
phacoemulsification were compared by student t test. The frequences of
antiglaucoma medicine, bled grade and IOP control before and after
phacoemulsification were compared by Mann-Whitney Test. Linear regression
analysis, Pearson and Spearman were performed to assess the correlation between
IOP change and other variants.
RESULTS: IOP was decreased significantly from (18.7±6.7) mmHg (1 mmHg=0.133 kPa) 
at baseline to 16.4±2.0 mmHg at final follow-up (t=2.54, P=0.015) . The median
number of glaucoma medications was significantly decreased (P<0.01) at 2 years
postoperatively. The magnitude of IOP reduction was significantly correlated with
preoperative IOP (r=0.95, P<0.01). BCVA (LogMAR) was improved significantly at
month 24 (t=5.62, P<0.01). Filtered bleb decreased insignificantly at 2 years
postoperatively (P=0.113). Complete success, qualified success and failure rates 
in terms of IOP were 61.7%, 27.7% and 10.6% before surgery , 89.4%, 8.5%, 2.1% at
2 years postoperatively. In 29 patients with preoperative IOP≤21 mmHg, mean IOP
increased insignificantly from (14.5±4.0) mmHg to (15.5 ± 2.3) (P=0.195) at 2
years. In the 18 patients with preoperative IOP> 21 mmHg, mean IOP decreased from
(25.3 ± 4.4) mmHg preoperatively to (17.8 ± 2.4) mmHg (P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Phacoemulsification reduces IOP and the number of glaucoma
medications in previously filtered PACG eyes. The IOP remained normal in normal
tension eyes after phacoemulsification in filtered PACG eyes but decreased
significantly in hypertensive eyes.


PMID: 26906705  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Feb;57(2):692-706. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17127.

Morphological Abnormalities of Schlemm's Canal in Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma
From the Aspect of Aging.

Hamanaka T(1), Matsuda A(2), Sakurai T(3), Kumasaka T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Japanese Red Cross Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Ocular Atopic Diseases, Department of Ophthalmology, Juntendo
University, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Department of Center of General Education, Tokyo
University of Science, Suwa, Japan. (4)Department of Pathology, Japanese Red
Cross Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate morphological abnormalities of Schlemm's canal (SC) among
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients with a family history of POAG (group 
A), those without a family history of POAG (group B), and patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (group C) from the aspect of aging.
METHODS: A total of 160 trabeculectomy specimens from 133 POAG patients were
processed for light microscopy using immunohistochemical staining of
thrombomodulin and transmission electron microscopy. The following parameters
were statistically evaluated: SC length, the percentage of the
thrombomodulin-negative area (PTNA) of SC, and the inner-wall SC endothelial cell
density (SC-ECD/100 μm).
RESULTS: No significant differences in age were observed among the three groups
(group A: 56.71 ± 14.83; group B: 58.13 ± 18.13; group C: 56.61 ± 9.78). Length
of SC in the group A patients (198.70 ± 81.65 μm, n = 70 eyes) was significantly 
shorter than in group B (250.30 ± 70.83 μm, n = 67 eyes), and group C (277.70 ±
65.52 μm, n = 23 eyes) patients. A positive correlation of patient age and SC
length was observed in group B (r = 0.45, P = 0.0013), but SC length in group A
tended to decrease with aging (r = -0.22, P = 0.07). No significant difference in
SC was found between group A and B patients before age 50 years (P = 0.30).
Correlations between patient age and increase of PTNA (r = 0.38, P = 0.0013) and 
patient age and decrease of SC-ECD (r = -0.53, P = 3.95 × 10(-6)) were observed
only in the group B cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that SC in group A may easily collapse during
middle age, while SC in group B remains open and SC endothelial cells drop out at
around middle age.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17127 
PMID: 26903228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


99. J Glaucoma. 2016 Apr;25(4):e386-91. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000380.

The Maccabi Glaucoma Study: Treatment Patterns and Persistence With Glaucoma
Therapy in a Large Israeli Health Maintenance Organization.

Goldshtein I(1), Shalev V, Zigman N, Chodick G, Levkovitch-Verbin H.

Author information: 
(1)*Medical Division, Maccabi Healthcare Services †Sackler Faculty of Medicine,
Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv ‡Goldschleger Eye Institute, Sheba Medical Center, 
Tel-Hashomer, Israel.

PURPOSE: To describe treatment patterns, adherence, and persistence with initial 
therapy among glaucoma patients in the community.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A population-based historical prospective cohort study,
using the electronic medical databases of Maccabi Healthcare Services, a 2
million member health maintenance organization in Israel. Newly diagnosed
glaucoma patients between 2003 and 2010, who purchased at least 1 antiglaucoma
medication, were followed up to December 31, 2012. Outcome measures included
medication adherence analyzed by proportion of days covered by drugs during
follow-up time, and persistence with initial therapy measured by time until
switch or discontinuation of first-line therapy.
RESULTS: A total of 5934 incident definite glaucoma patients were identified, 13%
of whom were nonadherent with therapy (covered <20% of the follow-up time), and
only 25% exhibited high adherence (covered at least 80% of the follow-up period).
Adherence was positively associated with female sex, age, socioeconomic status,
frequent follow-up visits, and higher baseline intraocular pressure. Lower median
adherence (P<0.01) was observed among patients of normal tension glaucoma (52%)
and angle closure (59%) as compared with open angle (65%) and exfoliation
glaucoma (68%). Patients treated by glaucoma specialists had similar adherence to
those treated by general ophthalmologists (proportion of days covered=65% vs.
63%, P=0.42). Persistence with initial line of therapy varied by type of
medication, with prostaglandin initiators exhibiting the highest persistence (13%
reduced likelihood of switch or discontinuation as compared with β-blockers,
P<0.01) and α-agonists the lowest persistence (39% increased likelihood of switch
or discontinuation as compared with β-blockers, P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: This large-scale analysis of real-world use of glaucoma medications 
reveals that adherence to glaucoma therapy is associated with medication type,
patient's sex, age, socioeconomic status, type of glaucoma, follow-up visits, and
baseline intraocular pressure.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000380 
PMID: 26900826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Sep;94(6):592-8. doi: 10.1111/aos.12962. Epub 2016 Feb 19.

Ocular blood flow in glaucoma - the Leuven Eye Study.

Abegão Pinto L(1,)(2), Willekens K(1), Van Keer K(1), Shibesh A(3), Molenberghs
G(3,)(4), Vandewalle E(1), Stalmans I(1,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Visual Sciences Study Center, Faculty of Medicine of Lisbon University,
Lisbon, Portugal. (3)I-BioStat, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (4)I-BioStat, Hasselt
University, Hasselt, Belgium. (5)Department of Ophthalmology Neurosciences,
Laboratory of Ophthalmology, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

PURPOSE: Elevated intra-ocular pressure (IOP) has been identified as a major risk
factor for glaucoma. Additionally, extensive literature depicts a vascular
dysfunction to exist in these patients. However, a large ocular blood
flow-oriented trial to integrate these findings in the clinical setting is
lacking. This study would likely help to identify which of these vascular data
can be used as a clinical tool for screening and disease stratification.
METHOD: Prospective, cross-sectional, case-control hospital-based study. Patients
with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), ocular
hypertension (OHT), glaucoma suspects and healthy volunteers were recruited. In
addition to a comprehensive ophthalmological examination, a vascular-oriented
questionnaire was completed and ocular blood flow assessment (colour Doppler
imaging of retrobulbar vessels, retinal oximetry, dynamic contour tonometry,
optical coherent tomography enhanced-depth imaging of the choroid) were
performed. Statistical analysis was based on multiple imputation to account for
missingness.
RESULTS: A total of 614 subjects (291 males) were recruited between March and
December 2013 (POAG: 214, NTG: 192; OHT: 27; glaucoma suspect: 41; healthy
controls: 140). Glaucoma groups (NTG and POAG) were age and gender matched with
the control group (p > 0.05). Glaucoma groups were paired in terms of functional 
and structural parameters (p > 0.08). Mean ocular perfusion pressure was higher
in the glaucoma groups than in controls (p < 0.001). Glaucoma groups had lower
retrobulbar velocities, higher retinal venous saturation and choroidal thickness 
asymmetries when compared to the healthy group, in line with the current
literature.
CONCLUSIONS: The Leuven Eye Study stands as one of the largest clinical trials on
ocular blood flow in glaucoma. The creation of this vast database may help
integrate the vascular aspects of glaucoma into the clinical practice of
glaucoma.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12962 
PMID: 26895610  [PubMed - in process]


101. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Jan-Feb;5(1):63-9. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000175.

Selective Laser Trabeculoplasty: An Update.

Kennedy JB(1), SooHoo JR, Kahook MY, Seibold LK.

Author information: 
(1)From the University of Colorado School of Medicine, Department of
Ophthalmology, Aurora, CO.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) is an effective treatment option for the
reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with ocular hypertension or
open-angle glaucoma. The mechanism by which SLT lowers IOP is not completely
understood and is likely multifactorial. Published studies indicate that SLT is
at least as effective as argon laser trabeculoplasty or medications at lowering
IOP in many forms of glaucoma. In addition to IOP reduction, SLT may decrease IOP
fluctuation and can be successfully used as primary or adjunctive therapy for the
management of both early and advanced glaucoma. However, SLT may not be effective
in certain forms of glaucoma, and the IOP-lowering effect seems to wane with
time. High pretreatment IOP is the strongest predictor of treatment success, even
in patients with normal-tension glaucoma. Repeatability of SLT has been
controversial, but recent evidence suggests that it can be successfully repeated 
to achieve additional or recurrent IOP reduction, even in eyes that only had a
modest response to initial treatment. Adverse events are uncommon after SLT, and 
the most common complications such as discomfort and inflammation are typically
mild and transient. Further investigation is required to determine the optimal
treatment parameters for SLT treatment. Limited evidence suggests that SLT is
cost-effective as primary therapy for patients with glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000175 
PMID: 26886122  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Jan-Feb;5(1):38-44. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000183.

Ocular Blood Flow and Influencing Factors for Glaucoma.

Nakazawa T(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, Retinal Disease Control, Ophthalmology, 
and Advanced Ophthalmic Medicine, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Sendai, Japan.

Open-angle glaucoma (OAG) is characterized by optic nerve fiber atrophy and
deterioration of the visual field, corresponding to damage to the optic nerve
head. Intraocular pressure (IOP) is currently the only evidence-based, treatable 
risk factor for OAG. However, normal-tension glaucoma, the most common type of
OAG in Asia, is a type of glaucoma with an unclear pathogenesis. Glaucoma is
suspected to be a multifactorial disease with IOP-dependent and IOP-independent
risk factors, including decreased ocular blood flow (OBF), oxidative stress,
decreased axoplasmic flow, and genetic background. A number of epidemiological
studies have generated strong evidence that OBF may be an especially important
risk factor for the progression of glaucoma. Recent innovations in laser speckle 
flowgraphy and optical coherence tomography-based angiography have allowed us to 
noninvasively monitor changes in the microcirculation of the optic nerve head
with high reproducibility. Laser speckle flowgraphy-derived measurement
parameters include mean blur rate and pulse wave form parameters, whereas the
main optical coherence tomography angiography-derived parameter is the vessel
index. Decreases in these parameters are associated with the severity of
glaucomatous damage, and changes are detectible even in the earliest,
preperimetric stage of glaucoma. In the future, OBF analysis may improve
significantly because of continuing progress in the development of the relevant
instruments. This review will summarize possible connections between systemic and
OBF abnormalities and OAG, describe the scientific rationale for these
connections, and discuss their potential implications. Thus, this review will
summarize the role of OBF in glaucoma pathogenesis and discuss the wide range of 
IOP-independent risk factors.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000183 
PMID: 26886118  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Jan-Feb;5(1):23-31. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000177.

Update on the Prevalence, Etiology, Diagnosis, and Monitoring of Normal-Tension
Glaucoma.

Kim KE(1), Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide. Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
is a type of open-angle glaucoma with intraocular pressure measurements always 21
mm Hg or less. A controversy surrounding NTG is the question of whether it should
be regarded as a disease within the spectrum of primary open-angle glaucoma or as
a distinctive disease entity. Nonetheless, NTG does have distinctive features
compared with primary open-angle glaucoma: intraocular pressure-independent risk 
factors for development of NTG, characteristic patterns of structural and
functional damage, and a unique disease course. This review provides an overview 
and update on the current issues surrounding the prevalence, etiology, diagnosis,
and monitoring of NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000177 
PMID: 26886116  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Am J Pathol. 2016 Apr;186(4):985-1005. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.11.026. Epub
2016 Feb 13.

Mice Homozygous for a Deletion in the Glaucoma Susceptibility Locus INK4 Show
Increased Vulnerability of Retinal Ganglion Cells to Elevated Intraocular
Pressure.

Gao S(1), Jakobs TC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Xi'an Jiaotong
University Health Science Center, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China; Department of
Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary/Schepens Eye Research
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary/Schepens Eye Research
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic address:
tatjana_jakobs@meei.harvard.edu.

A genomic region located on chromosome 9p21 is associated with primary open-angle
glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma in genome-wide association studies. The
genomic region contains the gene for a long noncoding RNA called CDKN2B-AS, two
genes that code for cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors 2A and 2B
(CDKN2A/p16(INK4A) and CDKN2B/p15(INK4B)) and an additional protein (p14(ARF)).
We used a transgenic mouse model in which 70 kb of murine chromosome 4, syntenic 
to human chromosome 9p21, are deleted to study whether this deletion leads to a
discernible phenotype in ocular structures implicated in glaucoma. Homozygous
mice of this strain were previously reported to show persistent hyperplastic
primary vitreous. Fundus photography and optical coherence tomography confirmed
that finding but showed no abnormalities for heterozygous mice. Optokinetic
response, eletroretinogram, and histology indicated that the heterozygous and
mutant retinas were normal functionally and morphologically, whereas glial cells 
were activated in the retina and optic nerve head of mutant eyes. In quantitative
PCR, CDKN2B expression was reduced by approximately 50% in the heterozygous mice 
and by 90% in the homozygous mice, which suggested that the CDKN2B knock down had
no deleterious consequences for the retina under normal conditions. However,
compared with wild-type and heterozygous animals, the homozygous mice are more
vulnerable to retinal ganglion cell loss in response to elevated intraocular
pressure.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.11.026 
PMID: 26883755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2016 Feb;30(1):40-7. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2016.30.1.40. Epub
2016 Jan 21.

Comparison of the Progression of High- and Low-tension Glaucoma as Determined by 
Two Different Criteria.

Lee JY(1), Sung KR(1), Lee JY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College 
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate and compare the progression of medically treated primary 
open angle glaucoma according to the baseline intraocular pressure (IOP).
METHODS: This study included a total of 345 eyes from 345 patients (mean
follow-up period, 4.5 years). Eyes were classified into either conventional
normal tension glaucoma (cNTG, ≤21 mmHg) or conventional high-tension glaucoma
(cHTG, >21 mmHg) groups according to the conventional cut-off value of the IOP.
Additionally, the median IOP (15 mmHg) was used to create two other groups
(median NTG [mNTG] ≤15 mmHg and median HTG [mHTG] >15 mmHg). Using these values, 
306, 39, 153, and 192 eyes were assigned to the cNTG, cHTG, mNTG, and mHTG
groups, respectively. Glaucoma progression was determined either by optic
disc/retinal nerve fiber layer photographs or serial visual field data.
RESULTS: Mean reduction of IOP after medical treatment and of central corneal
thickness was lower in the cNTG group, while the prevalence of disc hemorrhage
and baseline visual field mean deviation did not differ between the cNTG and cHTG
groups. A mean reduction in the IOP was observed after medical treatment, and
central corneal thickness was lower in the mNTG group; disc hemorrhage was more
frequent in the mNTG than in the mHTG group. Among the 345 analyzed eyes, 100
(29%) showed progression during the follow-up period. In the cHTG group, a higher
baseline IOP (hazard ratio, 1.147; p = 0.024) was associated with glaucoma
progression. Disc hemorrhage (hazard ratio, 15.533; p < 0.001) was also strongly 
associated with progression in the mNTG group.
CONCLUSIONS: Baseline IOP was a significant risk factor for glaucoma progression 
in cHTG patients (10% of our total participants), while disc hemorrhage showed
the strongest association with progression in the mNTG group, indicating that a
cut-off value other than the conventional 21 mmHg is required to define true
low-tension glaucoma in populations where NTG predominates among all glaucoma
patients.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2016.30.1.40 
PMCID: PMC4742644
PMID: 26865802  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Adv Ther. 2016 Mar;33(3):435-46. doi: 10.1007/s12325-016-0297-6. Epub 2016 Feb 9.

Sustainability of Intraocular Pressure Reduction of Travoprost Ophthalmic
Solution in Subjects with Normal Tension Glaucoma.

Naito T(1), Okuma S(2), Nagayama M(3), Mizoue S(4), Ozaki M(5), Namiguchi
K(2,)(4), Miyamoto K(2), Tanito M(6,)(7), Yoshikawa K(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine,
Shikata-cho, Kita-ku, Okayama, Japan. tomokoum@gmail.com. (2)Sumitomo Besshi
Hospital, Oji-cho, Niihama, Ehime, Japan. (3)Nagayama Eye Clinic, Goban-cho,
Kasaoka, Okayama, Japan. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Ehime University
Graduate School of Medicine, Shitsukawa, Toon, Ehime, Japan. (5)Ozaki Eye
Hospital, Kamezaki, Hyuga, Miyazaki, Japan. (6)Department of Ophthalmology,
Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, 89-1 Enya, Izumo, Shimane, Japan.
(7)Division of Ophthalmology, Matsue Red Cross Hospital, 200 Horomachi, Matsue,
Shimane, Japan. (8)Yoshikawa Eye Clinic, Nakamachi, Machida, Tokyo, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: We examined the sustainability of the intraocular pressure
(IOP)-lowering efficacy of travoprost (0.004%) ophthalmic solution in subjects
with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Travoprost ophthalmic solution was given once daily at 9 PM to subjects 
with newly diagnosed NTG or with NTG who had not received any ocular hypotensives
within the previous 30 days. IOP was measured at three time points (9 AM, 1 PM,
and 5 PM) at baseline and week 12 visits, and at one time point (9 AM) at week 4 
and week 8 visits. Conjunctival hyperemia, superficial punctate keratopathy, and 
other adverse events were evaluated during the observation period.
RESULTS: Thirty subjects (12 males and 18 females; mean age 65.6 years) from 32
subjects enrolled were included in the efficacy analysis. The mean IOPs
(±standard deviation) of 16.6 ± 1.4, 15.7 ± 1.8, and 15.7 ± 2.2 mmHg at 9 AM,
1 PM, and 5 PM, respectively, at baseline reduced significantly to the mean IOPs 
of 13.0 ± 1.8, 12.7 ± 1.8, and 12.8 ± 1.6 mmHg, respectively, at week 12
(P < 0.0001 for every time point). Together with the mean IOPs of 13.4 ± 1.9 mmHg
at week 4 and 13.2 ± 1.9 mmHg at week 8, the pooled IOP during the observation
period for up to 12 weeks showed a statistically and clinically significant
reduction of IOP at 9 AM. (3.4 mmHg or 20.3% reduction from baseline,
P < 0.0001). There were no adverse events leading to treatment discontinuation.
CONCLUSION: This multi-center collaborative study suggests that IOP-lowering
efficacy of travoprost ophthalmic solution persists during the day at the
clinically relevant level in subjects with NTG.
FUNDING: Alcon Japan Ltd.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: University Hospital Medical Information Network, UMIN ID:
000011621.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-016-0297-6 
PMCID: PMC4833797
PMID: 26861847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


107. J Glaucoma. 2016 May;25(5):e546-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000388.

The Conjunctiva in Normal Tension Glaucoma Patients is Thinner Than in Primary
Open-Angle Glaucoma Patients: A Comparative Histologic Study.

Van Ginderdeuren R(1), Vandewalle E, Pinto LA, Stalmans I, Zeyen T.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium
†Department of Ophthalmology, Centro Hospitalar Lisboa Norte, Lisbon, Portugal.

PURPOSE: To compare histologically the thickness of conjunctival specimens of
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)
patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this prospective study, 54 patients scheduled for
trabeculectomy were categorized into NTG and POAG based on their maximum
untreated intraocular pressure at any time (IOPmax) as measured by Goldmann
applanation tonometry. Sixteen patients with NTG (IOPmax≤21 mm Hg) and 36
patients with high tension POAG (IOPmax>21 mm Hg) were included in the study.
Biopsies were taken from the superior bulbar conjunctiva during trabeculectomy.
The specimens were fixed in formalin, embedded in methacrylate, histologically
sectioned, stained with toluidine blue, and analyzed with a light microscope. The
stromal conjunctival thickness (CT) was measured in a standardized way and
compared between the 2 groups. Intergroup comparisons were performed using the
Mann-Whitney U test for continuous variables and the Fisher exact test for
categorical variables. The correlation between the central cornea thickness (CCT)
and the CT was investigated by the Spearman test.
RESULTS: The stromal CT was significantly thinner in NTG compared with POAG
(64±31 vs. 103±44 µm, respectively; P=0.002). Stromal CT of the whole group was
positively correlated with IOPmax (r=0.41; P=0.002; 95% confidence interval,
0.15-0.62) but not with central cornea thickness (r=-0.005; P=0.97; 95%
confidence interval, -0.28 to 0.27).
CONCLUSIONS: The conjunctiva in patients with NTG was thinner than in POAG
patients. This finding is an additional feature in the pattern of thinner ocular 
structures in patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000388 
PMID: 26859359  [PubMed - in process]


108. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 May;94(3):e242-3. doi: 10.1111/aos.12979. Epub 2016 Feb 4.

A general decline in cerebrospinal fluid flow and optic nerve compartmentation:
are these sequential steps leading to toxicity in normal-tension glaucoma?

Wostyn P(1), De Groot V(2), Van Dam D(3), Audenaert K(4), De Deyn PP(3,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, PC Sint-Amandus, Beernem, Belgium. (2)Department of 
Ophthalmology, Antwerp University Hospital, Antwerp, Belgium. (3)Laboratory of
Neurochemistry and Behavior, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Institute
Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. (4)Department of Psychiatry,
Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium. (5)Department of Neurology and Memory 
Clinic, Middelheim General Hospital (ZNA), Antwerp, Belgium. (6)Department of
Neurology and Alzheimer Research Center, University of Groningen and University
Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Comment on
    Acta Ophthalmol. 2015 Feb;93(1):9-15.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12979 
PMID: 26843452  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Sep;94(6):e460-7. doi: 10.1111/aos.12963. Epub 2016 Feb 4.

Twenty-four-hour pattern of intra-ocular pressure in untreated patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma.

Cheng J(1,)(2,)(3), Kong X(1,)(2,)(3), Xiao M(4), Sun X(1,)(2,)(3,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College of Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (2)Key
Laboratory of Myopia, Ministry of Health (Fudan University), Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Visual Impairment and Restoration (Fudan
University), Shanghai, China. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Bei Zhan
Hospital, Shanghai, China. (5)State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology,
Institutes of Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: To investigate and compare the 24-hr intra-ocular pressure (IOP) pattern
among different severities of glaucomatous optic neuropathy (GON) together with
different subtypes of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: The IOPs of untreated patients with POAG were measured every 2 hrs over 
a 24-hr period. Subjects were divided into mild, moderate and severe groups
according to the glaucoma staging system 2. The two POAG subtypes, normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) and hypertension glaucoma (HTG) were classified according to peak 
IOP values throughout the 24-hr period. The 24-hr IOP curves were obtained based 
on the average IOP value at each time-point. The mean, peak, trough and
fluctuation of IOP together with the diurnal-to-nocturnal IOP change were
calculated and compared among different groups.
RESULTS: A total of 160 POAG patients (84 NTG and 76 HTG) were enrolled in the
study. Generally, IOP decreased in the diurnal period and increased progressively
during the nocturnal period, with peak IOP occurring from 2:00 AM to 10:00 AM.
The average IOP values at all time-points were significantly higher in the mild
group compared to the moderate and severe groups (p < 0.05). Compared with the
NTG subjects, the IOP parameters including mean, peak, trough and fluctuation
were significantly higher in the HTG subjects (p < 0.001), and IOP increased more
predominantly in the HTG subtype during the nocturnal period.
CONCLUSIONS: There was some regularity in the 24-hr IOP pattern in POAG, but
different severities of GON and different subtypes might present different
characteristics. Other non-IOP factors may lead to pathological IOP fluctuation
and could be correlated with GON.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12963 
PMID: 26843038  [PubMed - in process]


110. PLoS One. 2016 Feb 3;11(2):e0148412. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0148412.
eCollection 2016.

Estimated Trans-Lamina Cribrosa Pressure Differences in Low-Teen and High-Teen
Intraocular Pressure Normal Tension Glaucoma: The Korean National Health and
Nutrition Examination Survey.

Lee SH(1), Kwak SW(2), Kang EM(1), Kim GA(1), Lee SY(1), Bae HW(1), Seong GJ(1), 
Kim CY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology, Severance Hospital,
Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of
Statistics, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia.

BACKGROUND: To investigate the association between estimated trans-lamina
cribrosa pressure difference (TLCPD) and prevalence of normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) with low-teen and high-teen intraocular pressure (IOP) using a
population-based study design.
METHODS: A total of 12,743 adults (≥ 40 years of age) who participated in the
Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES) from 2009 to
2012 were included. Using a previously developed formula, cerebrospinal fluid
pressure (CSFP) in mmHg was estimated as 0.55 × body mass index (kg/m2) + 0.16 × 
diastolic blood pressure (mmHg)-0.18 × age (years)-1.91. TLCPD was calculated as 
IOP-CSFP. The NTG subjects were divided into two groups according to IOP level:
low-teen NTG (IOP ≤ 15 mmHg) and high-teen NTG (15 mmHg < IOP ≤ 21 mmHg) groups. 
The association between TLCPD and the prevalence of NTG was assessed in the low- 
and high-teen IOP groups.
RESULTS: In the normal population (n = 12,069), the weighted mean estimated CSFP 
was 11.69 ± 0.04 mmHg and the weighted mean TLCPD 2.31 ± 0.06 mmHg. Significantly
higher TLCPD (p < 0.001; 6.48 ± 0.27 mmHg) was found in the high-teen NTG
compared with the normal group. On the other hand, there was no significant
difference in TLCPD between normal and low-teen NTG subjects (p = 0.395; 2.31 ±
0.06 vs. 2.11 ± 0.24 mmHg). Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed
that TLCPD was significantly associated with the prevalence of NTG in the
high-teen IOP group (p = 0.006; OR: 1.09; 95% CI: 1.02, 1.15), but not the
low-teen IOP group (p = 0.636). Instead, the presence of hypertension was
significantly associated with the prevalence of NTG in the low-teen IOP group (p 
< 0.001; OR: 1.65; 95% CI: 1.26, 2.16).
CONCLUSIONS: TLCPD was significantly associated with the prevalence of NTG in
high-teen IOP subjects, but not low-teen IOP subjects, in whom hypertension may
be more closely associated. This study suggests that the underlying mechanisms
may differ between low-teen and high-teen NTG patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0148412 
PMCID: PMC4739618
PMID: 26840184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2016 Mar;60(2):78-85. doi: 10.1007/s10384-016-0427-3. Epub 2016
Jan 29.

Rate of progression of total, upper, and lower visual field defects in patients
with open-angle glaucoma and high myopia.

Yoshino T(1), Fukuchi T(2), Togano T(2), Sakaue Y(2), Seki M(2), Tanaka T(2),
Ueda J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Graduate School of Medical and
Dental Science, Niigata University, 1-757 Asahimachi-dori Niigata, Niigata,
951-8510, Japan. takaiko0706@gmail.com. (2)Division of Ophthalmology and Visual
Science, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Science, Niigata University, 1-757
Asahimachi-dori Niigata, Niigata, 951-8510, Japan.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the rate of progression of total, upper, and lower visual
field defects in patients with treated primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) with
high myopia (HM).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Seventy eyes of 70 POAG patients with HM [≤-8 diopters (D)]
were examined. The mean deviation (MD) slope and the upper and lower total
deviation (upper TD, lower TD) slopes of the Humphrey Field Analyzer were
calculated in patients with high-tension glaucoma (HTG) (>21 mmHg) versus
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) (≤21 mmHg). The mean age of all the patients (29
eyes with HTG and 41 eyes with NTG) was 48.5 ± 9.6 years. The MD slope, and upper
and lower TD slopes of the HM group were compared to those of the non-HM group
(NHM) (>-8 D) selected from 544 eyes in 325 age-matched POAG patients. In all, 70
eyes with HM and NHM were examined.
RESULTS: The mean MD slope was -0.33 ± 0.33 dB/year in the HM, and -0.38 ± 0.49
dB/year in the NHM. There were no statistical differences between the HM and NHM 
(p = 0.9565). In the comparison of HTG versus NTG patients in both groups, the MD
slope, and upper and lower TD slopes were similar.
CONCLUSIONS: The rate of progression of total, upper, and lower visual field
defects was similar among patients with HM and NHM. Although HM is a risk factor 
for the onset of glaucoma, HM may not be a risk factor for progression of visual 
field defects as assessed by the progression rate under treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-016-0427-3 
PMID: 26822678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


112. PLoS One. 2016 Jan 25;11(1):e0147540. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147540.
eCollection 2016.

Risk Factors for Normal and High-Tension Glaucoma in Poland in Connection with
Polymorphisms of the Endothelial Nitric Oxide Synthase Gene.

Kosior-Jarecka E(1), Łukasik U(1), Wróbel-Dudzińska D(1), Kocki J(2), Bartosińska
J(3), Witczak A(4), Chodorowska G(3), Mosiewicz J(4), Żarnowski T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostics and Microsurgery of Glaucoma, Medical University,
Lublin, Poland. (2)Department of Clinical Genetics, Medical University, Lublin,
Poland. (3)Department of Dermatology, Venerology and Paediatric Dermatology,
Medical University, Lublin, Poland. (4)Department of Internal Diseases, Medical
University, Lublin, Poland.

AIM: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the influence of polymorphisms of 
the eNOS gene on the clinical status of patients with normal and high tension
glaucoma.
METHODS: 266 Polish Caucasian patients with primary open angle glaucoma were
studied. Of the 266, 156 had normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and 110 high tension
glaucoma (HTG). DNA material was isolated from peripheral venous blood using
commercial kits. Real-time PCR reaction was used to amplify the promoter site of 
the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) gene, including the single
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) site T-786C and part of the 7th exon of eNOS,
including G894T SNP. Genotypes were determined with TaqMan SNP Genotyping Assays.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in frequencies of the allelic
variants of both polymorphisms. In G894T SNP, however, the wild GG form was more 
common in the HTG group. The SNP of the eNOS gene did not significantly influence
the progression rate in either of the groups studied. There were no differences
in variants of the eNOS gene regarding the necessity for and success of surgery
and the progression of the disease. In the NTG group, no statistical correlation 
was observed between G894T, T786C polymorphism variants, and risk factors such as
optic disc haemorrhages, optic disc notches, and peripapillary atrophy. Mean
diastolic and systolic pressure during the day and night were lowest in NTG
patients with the CC variant of the T786C polymorphism. No statistical
correlation was observed between the G894T and T786C polymorphisms and
capillaroscopic examination results.
CONCLUSIONS: Genotype frequencies are similar for both the eNOS G894T and T-786C 
polymorphisms in NTG and HTG patients. These polymorphisms do not correlate with 
risk factors and do not influence the state of the capillary system in NTG
patients. Systolic blood pressure is lower in NTG patients with mutated alleles
of both polymorphisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147540 
PMCID: PMC4726562
PMID: 26807726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Ophthalmology. 2016 Apr;123(4):783-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.12.010. Epub
2016 Jan 14.

Glaucoma Structural and Functional Progression in American and Korean Cohorts.

Kostanyan T(1), Sung KR(2), Schuman JS(3), Ling Y(4), Lucy KA(1), Bilonick RA(4),
Ishikawa H(5), Kagemann L(5), Lee JY(2), Wollstein G(5).

Author information: 
(1)UPMC Eye Center, Eye and Ear Institute, Ophthalmology and Visual Science
Research Center, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (2)Asan Medical Center, Department of
Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, Swanson School of Engineering, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Electronic address: schumanjs@upmc.edu.
(4)UPMC Eye Center, Eye and Ear Institute, Ophthalmology and Visual Science
Research Center, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Department of Biostatistics, Graduate School 
of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (5)UPMC Eye
Center, Eye and Ear Institute, Ophthalmology and Visual Science Research Center, 
Department of Ophthalmology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Department of Bioengineering, Swanson School of
Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

PURPOSE: To compare the rate of glaucoma structural and functional progression in
American and Korean cohorts.
DESIGN: Retrospective longitudinal study.
PARTICIPANTS: Three hundred thirteen eyes from 189 glaucoma and glaucoma
suspects, followed up for an average of 38 months.
METHODS: All subjects were examined semiannually with visual field (VF) testing
and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. All subjects had 5 or more
reliable visits.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: The rates of change of retinal nerve fiber layer
(RNFL) thickness, cup-to-disc (C/D) ratios, and VF mean deviation (MD) were
compared between the cohorts. Variables affecting the rate of change for each
parameter were determined, including ethnicity, refraction, baseline age and
disease severity, disease subtype (high- vs. normal-tension glaucoma), clinical
diagnosis (glaucoma vs. glaucoma suspect), and the interactions between
variables.
RESULTS: The Korean cohort predominantly demonstrated normal-tension glaucoma,
whereas the American cohort predominantly demonstrated high-tension glaucoma.
Cohorts had similar VF parameters at baseline, but the Korean eyes had
significantly thicker mean RNFL and larger cups. Korean glaucoma eyes showed a
faster thinning of mean RNFL (mean, -0.71 μm/year vs. -0.24 μm/year; P < 0.01).
There were no detectable differences in the rate of change between the glaucoma
cohorts for C/D ratios and VF MD and for all parameters in glaucoma suspect eyes.
Different combinations of the tested variables significantly impacted the rate of
change.
CONCLUSIONS: Ethnicity, baseline disease severity, disease subtype, and clinical 
diagnosis should be considered when comparing glaucoma progression studies.

Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.12.010 
PMCID: PMC5069198 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 26778345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Bosn J Basic Med Sci. 2016 Jan 1;16(1):21-7. doi: 10.17305/bjbms.2016.830.

Higher serum lipids and oxidative stress in patients with normal tension
glaucoma, but not pseudoexfoliative glaucoma.

Yilmaz N(1), Coban DT, Bayindir A, Erol MK, Ellidag HY, Giray O, Sayrac S, Tekeli
SO, Eren E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Central Laboratories of Antalya Training 
and Research Hospital, Antalya, Turkey,. necatyilmaz@hotmail.com.

This study entailed a cross-examination of oxidant/antioxidant balance,
high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-linked paraoxonase 1 (PON1) phenotypes, and levels
of serum routine lipids among patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) or
pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (PEXG) compared with healthy control groups. We aimed 
to investigate the links between oxidative stress (OS), HDL-related antioxidant
enzyme activities and dyslipidemia in distinct subtypes of glaucoma. The study
included 32 patients with NTG, 31 patients with PEXG, and 40 control subjects.
Levels of PON1 and arylesterase enzymatic activity, total oxidant status (TOS),
and total antioxidant status were measured by spectrophotometry and OS indexes
(OSI) were calculated. The phenotype distribution of PON1 was determined using
the dual substrate method. Blood serum levels of HDL, low-density lipoprotein,
total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were measured. The TOS and OSI
values in the NTG group were significantly higher compared with the other groups 
(both p < 0.01). The phenotype distribution found in the glaucoma and control
groups were NTG: QQ, 59.4%; QR, 37.5%; RR, 3.1%; PEXG: QQ, 45.1%; QR, 48.4%; RR, 
6.5%; and in the control group: QQ, 42.5%; QR, 50.0%; RR, 7.5%. Serum TC levels
were significantly higher than the control in both NTG and PEXG groups, whereas
TG was significantly higher in NTG only (p < 0.01 and p < 0.02, respectively).
Hyperlipidemia, OS and variations in phenotype distribution of PON1 may play a
role in the pathogenesis of different types of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.17305/bjbms.2016.830 
PMCID: PMC4765935
PMID: 26773174  [PubMed - in process]


115. Ophthalmic Genet. 2016 Jun;37(2):194-200. doi: 10.3109/13816810.2015.1028649.
Epub 2016 Jan 15.

SLC1A1 Gene Variants and Normal Tension Glaucoma: An Association Study.

Nishisako M(1), Meguro A(1), Nomura E(1), Yamane T(1), Takeuchi M(1,)(2), Ota
M(3), Kashiwagi K(4), Mabuchi F(4), Iijima H(4), Kawase K(5), Yamamoto T(5),
Nakamura M(6), Negi A(6), Sagara T(7), Nishida T(7), Inatani M(8,)(9), Tanihara
H(8), Aihara M(10), Araie M(10), Fukuchi T(11), Abe H(11), Higashide T(12),
Sugiyama K(12), Kanamoto T(13), Kiuchi Y(13), Iwase A(14), Chin S(15), Ohno
S(15), Inoko H(16), Mizuki N(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Yokohama City University School of Medicine , 
Yokohama , Kanagawa , Japan . (2)b Inflammatory Disease Section, National Human
Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health , Bethesda , Maryland , 
USA . (3)c Department of Legal Medicine , Shinshu University School of Medicine ,
Nagano , Japan . (4)d Department of Ophthalmology , University of Yamanashi,
Faculty of Medicine , Yamanashi , Japan . (5)e Department of Ophthalmology , Gifu
University Graduate School of Medicine , Gifu , Japan . (6)f Department of
Surgery, Division of Ophthalmology , Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine 
, Kobe , Hyogo , Japan . (7)g Department of Ophthalmology , Yamaguchi University 
School of Medicine , Ube , Yamaguchi , Japan . (8)h Department of Ophthalmology
and Visual Science , Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kumamoto University ,
Kumamoto , Japan . (9)i Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medical Science ,
University of Fukui , Fukui , Japan . (10)j Department of Ophthalmology ,
University of Tokyo School of Medicine , Tokyo , Japan . (11)k Division of
Ophthalmology and Visual Science , Graduate School of Medical and Dental
Sciences, Niigata University , Niigata , Japan . (12)l Department of
Ophthalmology and Visual Science , Kanazawa University Graduate School of Medical
Science , Kanazawa , Ishikawa , Japan . (13)m Department of Ophthalmology and
Visual Science , Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Hiroshima University ,
Hiroshima , Japan . (14)n Department of Ophthalmology , Tajimi Municipal Hospital
, Gifu , Japan . (15)o Department of Ophthalmology , Hokkaido University Graduate
School of Medicine , Sapporo , Hokkaido , Japan , and. (16)p Department of
Genetic Information, Division of Molecular Life Science , Tokai University School
of Medicine , Sagamihara , Kanagawa , Japan.

BACKGROUND: It has been hypothesized that dysfunction of the solute carrier
family 1, member1 gene (SLC1A1), which encodes the glutamate aspartate
transporter, may play a role in normal tension glaucoma. In this study we
investigate whether SLC1A1 is associated with normal tension glaucoma in Japanese
patients.
METHODS: A total of 292 Japanese patients with normal tension glaucoma and 500
healthy control subjects were recruited. We genotyped 12 single-nucleotide
polymorphisms in SLC1A1. We also performed an imputation analysis to evaluate the
potential association of un-genotyped SLC1A1 single-nucleotide polymorphisms, and
165 single-nucleotide polymorphisms were imputed.
RESULTS: We observed an increased frequency of the G allele of rs10739062 in
patients compared to controls (p = 0.043, OR = 1.25). The rs10739062 polymorphism
exhibited a dominant effect: individuals with genotype GG and GC showed a
1.91-fold increase in risk compared to genotype CC (p = 0.0082). However, the
statistical significance disappeared after Bonferroni correction for multiple
testing (pc > 0.05). We did not find any significant association between any of
the remaining 176 single-nucleotide polymorphisms and disease risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed a lack of association between SLC1A1 variants and
normal tension glaucoma in Japanese patients, suggesting that the SLC1A1 gene
does not play a critical role in the development of the disorder in this patient 
population. However, further genetic studies with larger sample sizes are needed 
to clarify whether SLC1A1 may make some contribution that affects the risk of
developing normal tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.3109/13816810.2015.1028649 
PMID: 26771863  [PubMed - in process]


116. PLoS One. 2016 Jan 12;11(1):e0146680. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146680.
eCollection 2016.

Comparison of the Effects of Dorzolamide/Timolol Fixed Combination versus
Latanoprost on Intraocular Pressure and Ocular Perfusion Pressure in Patients
with Normal-Tension Glaucoma: A Randomized, Crossover Clinical Trial.

Lee NY(1), Park HY(2), Park CK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, College of Medicine, Incheon
St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic University of Korea, Incheon, Korea.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, College of Medicine, Seoul St.
Mary's Hospital, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUD: To assess the noninferiority of a dorzolamide-timolol fixed
combination (DTFC) versus latanoprost in terms of intraocular pressure (IOP) and 
to compare blood pressure (BP), ocular perfusion pressure (OPP) and diastolic
ocular perfusion pressure (DOPP) between the latanoprost and DTFC groups in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Prospective, interventional, randomized, single-blinded, crossover
design study. Patients with newly diagnosed NTG that had not been treated with a 
glaucoma medication in the most recent 2 months were recruited. In total, 44
patients with NTG were randomly allocated to one of two groups. Patients in group
A were treated with DTFC, lubricant, and latanoprost for 4 weeks each, whereas
patients in group B were treated with latanoprost, lubricant, and DTFC for 4
weeks each. Patients were examined on day 1 (without medication), week 4 (under
medication), week 8 (without medication), and week 12 (under medication). At
weeks 4 and 12, diurnal IOP, systolic and diastolic BP, and OPP were measured at 
8:00 AM, 10:00 AM, 12:00 PM, 4:00 PM, and 8:00 PM.
RESULTS: Baseline demographic characteristics showed no difference in terms of
age, sex, central corneal thickness, spherical equivalent, or stage of glaucoma
between the groups. The between-group difference was -0.19 ± 0.18 mmHg (mean ±
SE, upper bound of one-sided 95% CI, 0.12). Diurnal IOP showed no difference
between the groups with an average IOP reduction of 13.1% using latanoprost and
12.3% using DTFC. Diurnal systolic and diastolic BP were lower in the DTFC group 
than the latanoprost group; however, the difference between the groups was not
statistically significant. Diurnal OPP and DOPP also showed no statistically
significant difference between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: IOP lowering efficacy of DTFC was noninferior to that of latanoprost
in newly diagnosed NTG patients. There was no difference in BP, OPP, or DOPP
between the latanoprost and DTFC groups. This prospective, randomized,
single-blinded, crossover study demonstrated the noninferiority of DTFC versus
latanoprost in terms of IOP in patients with NTG.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01175902.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146680 
PMCID: PMC4710520
PMID: 26756747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Turk J Med Sci. 2015;45(5):1106-14.

Neurodegeneration in ocular and central nervous systems: optical coherence
tomography study in normal-tension glaucoma and Alzheimer disease.

Eraslan M, Çerman E, Çekiç O, Balci S, Dericioğlu V, Sahin Ö, Süer D, Chabou B,
Tuncer Elmaci EN.

BACKGROUND/AIM: To evaluate, in vivo, the optical coherence tomography (OCT) of
the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) and ganglion cell complex (GCC) in patients 
with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and those with Alzheimer disease (AD) in
comparison with healthy subjects.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This cross-sectional study included 18 patients with NTG, 
20 with AD, and 20 control subjects. An ophthalmologic examination and OCT scans 
of both eyes were performed in all patients.
RESULTS: There was a significant reduction in peripapillary RNFL thickness and
macular GCC thickness and a significant increase in the global loss volume (GLV) 
rate in both the NTG and AD patients when compared to the control subjects (P =
0.004, P = 0.006, P < 0.001, respectively). The statistical evaluation showed no 
difference in any RNFL or GCC parameters between the AD and NTG groups (P >
0.05). There was a negative correlation between disease duration and average RNFL
and GCC thicknesses (r = -0.350, P = 0.027 and r = -0.471, P = 0.002,
respectively) and a positive correlation between duration and GLV (r = 0.427, P =
0.006) in the AD group.
CONCLUSION: The average RNFL thickness, GCC thickness, and GLV rates may help in 
the diagnosis of AD as an additional examination and may provide some important
clues about the duration of the disease.


PMID: 26738355  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2015 Sep-Oct;143(9-10):525-30.

The Role of 24-hour Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring in Hypertensive Patients
with Normal-tension Glaucoma.

Marjanović I, Marjanović M, Stojanov V, Hentova-Senćanić P, Marković V, Božić M, 
Vukčević-Milošević G.

INTRODUCTION: Extreme dippers are patients with a nocturnal fall of blood
pressure (BP) of more than 20%, dippers have normal diurnal rhythm and decrease
of BP of 10-15%, while patients with a nocturnal BP fall of less than 10% are
considered to be non-dippers.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare 24-hour ambulatory BP monitoring 
results of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with NTG suspects, as well as
to determine whether NTG patients are more prone to daytime/nighttime systemic
arterial BP and heart rate oscillations in comparison to NTG suspects.
METHODS: This was a prospective, cross-sectional and observational study of 57
hypertensive patients (39 female and 18 male), all examined at the Eye and the
Cardiology Clinic, Clinical Center of Serbia in Belgrade, between November 2011
and March 2012. Before 24-hour ambulatory BP monitoring, complete
ophthalmological examination was performed (intraocular pressure was measured
with both Goldmann applanation and dynamic contour tonometer, as well as with
computerized perimetry and Heidelberg retinal tomography).
RESULTS: There was no statistically significant difference between NTG patients
and NTG suspects both in systolic daytime (131.86-141.81 mmHg, SD=±l 4.92 vs.
129.67-141.83 mmHg, SD=±l3; p=0.53) and nighttime measurements (117.1-129.7 mmHg,
SD=±l 8.96 vs. 112.11-127.59 mmHg, SD=±16.53; p=0.53) as well as diastolic
daytime (74.55-80.37 mmHg, SD=±8.72 vs. 75.19-82.41 mmHg, SD=±7.72; p=0.58) and
nighttime measurements (65.66-71.48 mmHg, SD=±8.73 vs. 67.12-73.78 mmHg, SD=±7.1 
1; p=0.34). There was no statistically significant difference between NTG
patients and NTG suspects in heart rate during the day (72.73-76.36 beats per
minute [bpm], SD=±5.44 vs. 72.15-76.45 bpm, SD=±4.59; p=0.43) nor during the
night (64.4-71.9 bpm, SD=±6.74 vs. 68.02-72.48 bpm, SD=±4.76; p=0.11).
CONCLUSION: No statistically significant difference was found between NTG
patients and NTG suspects in regard to their systolic and diastolic BP measured
both during daytime and nighttime. NTG patients had fall (both systolic and
diastolic) than NTG suspects.


PMID: 26727858  [PubMed - in process]


119. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2016 Mar;27(2):94-101. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000245.

Vascular and autonomic dysregulation in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Pasquale LR(1).

Author information: 
(1)aMass Eye and Ear Infirmary bDivision of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review is to discuss whether vascular
dysfunction and autonomic dysfunction are related to primary open-angle glaucoma 
stratified by the intraocular pressure (IOP) level.
RECENT FINDINGS: Patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) across the
spectrum of IOP exhibit a variety of ocular and nonocular vascular abnormalities.
Interestingly, common genetic variation in nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3) and the
caveolin 1/caveolin 2 (CAV1/CAV2) genomic regions, which code for proteins
involved in setting vascular tone, are associated with POAG. These markers seem
to stratify with POAG subtypes stratified by sex or pattern of initial visual
field loss and not by IOP level. Overall, it is clear that there is also
cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction in high-tension glaucoma and normal-tension 
glaucoma but it is unclear if this dysfunction is more common in normal-tension
glaucoma compared with high-tension glaucoma.
SUMMARY: Overall, POAG is likely a heterogeneous disease but stratifying cases by
IOP level associated with initial optic nerve damage may be less useful than
using other endophenotype approaches. Embracing the evidence suggesting systemic 
endothelial and autonomic dysfunction are operative in POAG will help us move
beyond an IOP-centric view of the disease and facilitate 'tearing down the wall' 
that divides treating physicians and a better understanding of POAG pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000245 
PMCID: PMC4740225 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26720776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Dec;56(13):7999-8007. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17274.

Migraine and Vasospasm in Glaucoma: Age-Related Evaluation of 2027 Patients With 
Glaucoma or Ocular Hypertension.

Gramer G(1), Weber BH(2), Gramer E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Paediatric and Adolescent Medicine Division for Neuropaediatrics
and Metabolic Medicine, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany.
(3)University Eye Hospital, University of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany.

PURPOSE: To evaluate frequency of migraine, vasospasm (VS), family history (FH)
of migraine, and family history of glaucoma (FHG) in different types of glaucoma 
in relation to age and stage of visual field loss (VFL) at diagnosis.
METHODS: A total of 2170 patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension (OH) were 
interviewed by using standardized questions concerning FHG, age at diagnosis, and
potential risk factors, including migraine and VS. Of 2027 patients providing
information on migraine, 1244 had primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 140 normal 
tension glaucoma (NTG), 49 pigmentary glaucoma, 64 pseudoexfoliation glaucoma
(PEX), 138 OH, and 218 primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG).
RESULTS: Of all patients, 13.7% reported migraine, 19.0% VS, 30.8% FH of
migraine, and 40.3% FHG. Patients with FHG had a significantly higher frequency
of migraine than patients without FHG (15.7% vs. 12.3%, P = 0.02). Migraine was
significantly more frequent in NTG (21.4%) than POAG (13.1%; P = 0.01), PEX
(7.8%; P = 0.02), and PACG (10.1%; P = 0.004). Compared to patients with POAG,
patients with NTG had a 63.5% higher age-corrected probability for migraine (P = 
0.007). There was no evidence for migraine or VS being prognostic factors
regarding the extent of VFL at diagnosis. Migraine and VS were significantly more
frequent in females.
CONCLUSIONS: The higher frequency of migraine and VS in females could contribute 
to the female preponderance in NTG. Our findings suggest an association of NTG
and migraine and a common, possibly polygenetic, vascular etiology of these two
diseases both with familial predisposition.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17274 
PMID: 26720447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


121. J Ophthalmol. 2015;2015:368792. doi: 10.1155/2015/368792. Epub 2015 Dec 1.

Risk Factors in Normal-Tension Glaucoma and High-Tension Glaucoma in relation to 
Polymorphisms of Endothelin-1 Gene and Endothelin-1 Receptor Type A Gene.

Wróbel-Dudzińska D(1), Kosior-Jarecka E(1), Łukasik U(1), Kocki J(2), Witczak
A(3), Mosiewicz J(3), Żarnowski T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostics and Microsurgery of Glaucoma, Medical University,
Chmielna 1, 20-079 Lublin, Poland. (2)Department of Clinical Genetics, Medical
University, Radziwiłłowska 11, 20-080 Lublin, Poland. (3)Department of Internal
Diseases, Medical University, Staszica 16, 20-081 Lublin, Poland.

The aim of the research is to analyse the influence of polymorphisms of
endothelin-1 gene and endothelin-1 receptor type A gene on the clinical condition
of patients with primary open angle glaucoma. Methods. 285 Polish patients took
part in the research (160 normal-tension glaucoma and 125 high-tension glaucoma).
DNA was isolated by standard methods and genotype distributions of four
polymorphisms in genes encoding endothelin-1 (K198N) and endothelin-1 receptor
type A polymorphisms (C1222T, C70G, and G231A) were determined. Genotype
distributions were compared between NTG and HTG groups. The clinical condition of
participants was examined for association with polymorphisms. Results. A similar 
frequency of occurrence of the polymorphic varieties of the studied genes was
observed in patients with NTG and HTG. There is no relation between NTG risk
factors and examined polymorphisms. NTG patients with TT genotype of K198N
polymorphism presented with the lowest intraocular pressure in comparison to GG +
GT genotype (p = 0.03). In NTG patients with CC genotype of C1222T polymorphism
(p = 0.028) and GG of C70G polymorphism (p = 0.03) the lowest values of mean
blood pressure were observed. Conclusions. The studied polymorphic varieties
(K198N, C1222T) do have an influence on intraocular pressure as well as arterial 
blood pressure in NTG patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/368792 
PMCID: PMC4678083
PMID: 26697209  [PubMed]


122. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2016 Jun 10;26(4):315-20. doi: 10.5301/ejo.5000722. Epub 2015
Dec 17.

Opportunistic detection of glaucomatous optic discs within a diabetic retinopathy
screening service.

Treacy MP(1), O'Neill EC(1), Murphy M(1), O'Toole L(2), Delaney Y(1), O'Brien
C(1), Connell PP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mater Misericordiae University Hospital, Dublin -
Ireland. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Mater Private Hospital, Dublin -
Ireland.

PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence of glaucoma among patients referred to a
glaucoma service with suspicious disc photographs from the diabetic retinopathy
(DR) screening program.
METHODS: A clinical audit of all patients attending a single-center DR screening 
program in the Mater Misericordiae University Hospital, Dublin, between July 2010
and October 2011 was conducted with a minimum follow-up of 30 months. The DR
screening service uses trained technician graders to assess 2-field color retinal
photographs for the features of DR. Recently, the service was enhanced so that
optic discs are also assessed for signs of glaucoma.
RESULTS: In the 16-month study period, 3,697 diabetic patients were photographed.
Following photograph grading, 91 (2.46%) were judged to require referral for
assessment at the glaucoma clinic. Of these, 63 (69.23%) presented for
assessment. Thirteen patients (20.63%) were diagnosed with glaucoma, comprising 7
cases of low-tension glaucoma and 6 cases of primary open-angle glaucoma.
Thirty-six patients (57.14%) were classified as glaucoma suspects and 14 patients
(22.22%) were discharged back to the DR screening program following normal ocular
examination. Only 6 (9.52%) of the 63 patients examined had an intraocular
pressure greater than 21 mm Hg.
CONCLUSIONS: The assessment of DR screening photographs for signs of glaucomatous
optic nerve damage should be considered as part of a strategy to improve glaucoma
case detection and to reduce the burden of this disease on society.

DOI: 10.5301/ejo.5000722 
PMID: 26692063  [PubMed - in process]


123. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Dec;56(13):7915-22. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-18087.

Diagnostic Ability of Retinal Vessel Diameter Measurements in Open-Angle
Glaucoma.

Yoo E, Yoo C, Lee BR, Lee TE, Kim YY.

Comment in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Apr 1;57(4):2166.

PURPOSE: To determine the diagnostic ability of retinal vessel diameter (RVD)
measurements and the factors related to retinal vascular diameters in patients
with open-angle glaucoma (OAG).
METHODS: This retrospective observational study included 145 patients with OAG
(63 with high-tension and 82 with low-tension glaucoma) and 60 healthy controls. 
The central retinal arteriolar equivalent (CRAE) and central retinal venular
equivalent (CRVE) were measured using the IVAN software version 1.3. Receiver
operating characteristic (ROC) curves were obtained for the average retinal nerve
fiber layer (RNFL) thickness and RVD indices including CRAE, CRVE, and CRAE/CRVE 
ratio. Areas under the ROC curves (AUCs), 95% confidence intervals (CIs), and
sensitivities at a fixed specificity (>90% and >80%) were calculated. Factors
related to CRAE were analyzed by simple and multiple linear regression analyses.
RESULTS: Among the RVD indices, the CRAE had the largest AUC for discriminating
glaucomatous changes between eyes with glaucoma and those without (0.803; 95% CI,
0.742-0.855). The AUC of CRAE did not significantly differ from that of average
RNFL thickness (P = 0.134). However, CRAE showed lower sensitivity than average
RNFL thickness at a specificity greater than 90%. Factors significantly
associated with CRAE in both simple and multiple linear regression analyses were 
age, spherical equivalent, average RNFL thickness, presence of diabetes mellitus,
and a glaucoma diagnosis (all P ≤ 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnostic ability of CRAE for detecting OAG was good, which was
not much worse than that of average RNFL thickness. This finding suggests the
potential usefulness of RVD for glaucoma detection.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-18087 
PMID: 26670828  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Mar;254(3):523-8. doi:
10.1007/s00417-015-3239-0. Epub 2015 Dec 15.

Estimation of the Disc Damage Likelihood Scale in primary open-angle glaucoma:
the Glaucoma Stereo Analysis Study.

Kitaoka Y(1), Tanito M(2,)(3), Yokoyama Y(4), Nitta K(5), Katai M(6), Omodaka
K(4), Nakazawa T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, St. Marianna University School of Medicine,
2-16-1 Sugao Miyamae-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, 216-8511, Japan.
kitaoka@marianna-u.ac.jp. (2)Division of Ophthalmology, Matsue Red Cross
Hospital, 200 Horomachi, Matsue, Shimane, 690-8506, Japan. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, Enya 89-1, Izumo, Shimane,
693-8501, Japan. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate
School of Medicine, 1-1 Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai, 980-8574, Japan.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Fukui-ken Saiseikai Hospital, 7-1 Funabashi,
Wadanaka-machi, Fukui, 918-8503, Japan. (6)Department of Ophthalmology, Sapporo
Teishin Hospital, 14-Jo 1-5-1 Kawazoe, Minami-ku, Sapporo, 005-8798, Japan.

PURPOSE: The Glaucoma Stereo Analysis Study (GSAS), a cross-sectional multicenter
collaborative study, used a stereo fundus camera (nonmyd WX) to assess various
morphological parameters of the optic nerve head (ONH) in glaucoma patients. We
examined the associations between the Disc Damage Likelihood Scale (DDLS), a
grading system for estimating glaucomatous ONH damage, and each parameter.
METHODS: The study included 187 eyes of 187 patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma. ONH morphological parameters including the
DDLS stage were calculated with prototype analysis software. Three independent
graders classified each optic disc appearance into four different types: focal
ischemic, myopic glaucomatous, senile sclerotic, and generalized enlargement. The
correlations between the DDLS and patient characteristics or each ONH parameter
were analyzed with Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.
RESULTS: The DDLS was correlated positively with baseline intraocular pressure
and visual field pattern standard deviation, and negatively with visual field
mean deviation. The DDLS was strongly correlated with vertical cup-to-disc ratio 
and horizontal cup-to-disc ratio positively, and with minimum rim-disc ratio
negatively. The mean DDLS stage in the myopic glaucomatous type tended to be
higher than the scores in other types.
CONCLUSION: The DDLS obtained through three-dimensional ONH analysis correlates
well with the severity of glaucomatous ONH and visual field damage.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-015-3239-0 
PMCID: PMC4769720
PMID: 26666233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Sep;100(9):1251-6. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307292.
Epub 2015 Dec 11.

The height of the posterior staphyloma and corneal hysteresis is associated with 
the scleral thickness at the staphyloma region in highly myopic normal-tension
glaucoma eyes.

Park JH(1), Choi KR(2), Kim CY(1), Kim SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Vision Research, Yonsei University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and
Institute of Ophthalmology & Optometry, Ewha Womans University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

AIMS: To evaluate the characteristics of the posterior segments of eyes with high
myopia and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and identify which ocular factors are
most associated with scleral thickness and posterior staphyloma height.
METHODS: The study included 45 patients with highly myopic NTG and 38 controls
with highly myopic eyes (≤-6D or axial length ≥26.0 mm). The subfoveal retinal,
choroidal, scleral thickness and the posterior staphyloma heights were examined
from enhanced depth imaging spectral-domain optical coherence tomography and
compared between two groups.
RESULTS: Highly myopic NTG eyes had thinner subfoveal scleral thickness
(473.03±43.75 vs 579.46±75.87 µm, p<0.001) and higher posterior staphyloma
(97.80±70.10 vs 62.83±32.01 µm, p=0.027) than highly myopic, non-glaucomatous
eyes. Subfoveal scleral thickness was significantly correlated with age, axial
length, corneal hysteresis and the posterior staphyloma height of the superior
quadrant, the nasal quadrant and the arithmetic mean of four quadrants in highly 
myopic NTG eyes. Corneal hysteresis (β=2.694, p=0.015), corneal resistance factor
(β=-2.916, p=0.010) and the posterior staphyloma height of the nasal quadrant
(β=-0.463, p=0.017) were significantly associated with the subfoveal scleral
thickness in highly myopic NTG eyes.
CONCLUSION: Subfoveal scleral thinning and non-uniform posterior staphyloma were 
closely related in highly myopic NTG eyes. Corneal hysteresis, corneal resistance
factor and the nasal posterior staphyloma height were associated with the scleral
thickness.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307292 
PMID: 26659712  [PubMed - in process]


126. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 Dec;94(49):e2075. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000002075.

MicroPulse Laser Trabeculoplasty for the Treatment of Open-Angle Glaucoma.

Lee JW(1), Yau GS, Yick DW, Yuen CY.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre (JWYL, GSKY,
DWFY, CYFY); and Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong, Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region, China (JWYL).

The aim of the study was to investigate the safety and efficacy of using MLT in
the treatment of open-angle glaucoma (OAG).This prospective cohort included
subjects ≥18 years of age with OAG, defined as the open angle on gonioscopy with 
glaucomatous optic neuropathy evident from optical coherence tomography. Subjects
with IOP < 21 mm Hg were classified as normal tension glaucoma and those with IOP
≥21 mm Hg were classified as primary open-angle glaucoma. Those with angle
closure, secondary glaucoma, prior laser trabeculoplasty, use of systemic
IOP-lowering medications, corneal pathologies, follow-up <6 months, recent
intraocular surgery, or only 1 functional eye were excluded. A single session of 
unilateral MLT treatment was delivered using a 577 nm diode laser to 360° of the 
trabecular meshwork to reduce IOP or medication load. Medications were titrated
up or down at 1 month after laser to achieve a 25% IOP reduction from
presentation or an IOP <18 mm Hg, whichever was lower. The following were
compared using the Repeated Measures ANOVA with Bonferroni's Multiple Comparison 
Test: IOP (on presentation, pre-MLT, day 1, 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, and 6
months after MLT) and the number of medications (pre-MLT, 3 months, and 6 months 
after MLT). After 6 months, responders with initial success to MLT (IOP reduction
≥20% at 1 month) received treatment in the fellow eye.In 48 subjects with OAG,
the mean number of MLT shots applied was 120.5 ± 2.0 shots using a mean energy of
1000 mW per shot. Only 7.5% had a mild, self-limiting anterior uveitis postlaser 
with no change in the Snellen visual acuity at 6 months (P's > 0.5). The IOP and 
number of medications were significantly reduced at all time intervals following 
MLT compared to the pre-MLT level (P's < 0.0001). At 6 months, the IOP was
reduced by 19.5% in addition to a 21.4% reduction in medication compared to
pretreatment levels. The MLT success rate was 72.9%. During the first 6 months
only 2.1% required a repeated laser trabeculoplasty.MLT was effective in reducing
IOP and medications in OAG with minimal postlaser inflammation and low failure
rate at 6 months following laser.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000002075 
PMCID: PMC5008476
PMID: 26656331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


127. J Optom. 2016 Apr-Jun;9(2):118-25. doi: 10.1016/j.optom.2015.10.002. Epub 2015
Dec 1.

Intraeye retinal nerve fiber layer and macular thickness asymmetry measurements
for the discrimination of primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension
glaucoma.

Khanal S(1), Davey PG(2), Racette L(3), Thapa M(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Optometry and Vision Science, Faculty of Medical and Health
Sciences, University of Auckland, New Zealand. Electronic address:
s.khanal@auckland.ac.nz. (2)College of Optometry, Western University of Health
Sciences, Pomona, USA. (3)Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute, Indiana
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA. (4)B.P. Koirala Lions Center
for Ophthalmic Studies, Institute of Medicine, Nepal.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic capability of
intraeye retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness and macular thickness (MT)
asymmetry measurements for the discrimination of normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) using spectral domain optical coherence
tomography (SD-OCT).
METHODS: A total of 90 subjects were enrolled including 30 consecutive healthy
subjects, 30 consecutive subjects with POAG, and 30 consecutive subjects with
NTG. RNFL thicknesses around the optic disc as well as MT measurements were taken
with circular and radial SD-OCT scans. Intraeye retinal and MT asymmetry were
calculated as the absolute difference between superior and inferior hemispheres
of the eye using posterior pole asymmetry analysis protocol. Analysis of variance
was used for comparison and areas under the receiver operating characteristic
(AROC) were obtained for different parameters among the three diagnostic groups.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference in MT asymmetry for all comparison
groups (normal-NTG, p<0.05; normal-POAG, p<0.001; and NTG-POAG, p<0.001).
Intraeye retinal nerve fiber thickness asymmetry measurements were not different 
between the groups (normal-NTG, p<0.187; normal-POAG, p<0.056; and NTG-POAG,
p<0.837). The area under ROC curves exceeded 0.800 for all the studied
parameters, including the MT asymmetry except for intraeye RNFL thickness
asymmetry which had the lowest AROC as well as the least sensitivity for
identifying subjects with NTG from normal (AROC=0.626, sensitivity=30%); POAG
from normal (AROC=0.644, sensitivity=37%) and NTG from POAG (AROC=0.533,
sensitivity=13%).
CONCLUSION: The intraeye MT asymmetry holds significant potential as a
distinguishing parameter for NTG and POAG.

Copyright © 2015 Spanish General Council of Optometry. Published by Elsevier
Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.optom.2015.10.002 
PMCID: PMC4812004
PMID: 26652244  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 Nov 26;9:2217-22. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S94497. eCollection
2015.

Relationship between consecutive deterioration of mean deviation value and
progression of visual field defect in open-angle glaucoma.

Naito T(1), Yoshikawa K(2), Mizoue S(3), Nanno M(4), Kimura T(5), Suzumura H(6), 
Takeda R(7), Shiraga F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine,
Okayama, Japan. (2)Yoshikawa Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Ehime University Graduate School of Medicine, Ehime, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Kagurazaka Minamino Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. (5)Ueno Eye Clinic, Tokyo,
Japan. (6)Suzumura Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. (7)Department of Agriculture, Kinki 
University, Nara, Japan.

PURPOSE: To analyze the relationship between consecutive deterioration of mean
deviation (MD) value and glaucomatous visual field (VF) progression in open-angle
glaucoma (OAG), including primary OAG and normal tension glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The subjects of the study were patients undergoing
treatment for OAG who had performed VF tests at least 10 times with a Humphrey
field analyzer (SITA standard, C30-2 program). The VF progression was defined by 
a significantly negative MD slope (MD slope worsening) at the final VF test
during the follow-up period. The relationship between the MD slope worsening and 
the consecutive deterioration of MD value were retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 165 eyes of 165 patients were included in the analysis.
Significant progression of VF defects was observed in 72 eyes of 72 patients
(43.6%), while no significant progression was evident in 93 eyes of 93 patients
(56.4%). There was significant relationship between the frequency of consecutive 
deterioration of MD value and MD slope worsening (P<0.0001, Cochran-Armitage
trend test). A significant association was observed for MD slope worsening in the
eyes with three (odds ratio: 2.1, P=0.0224) and four (odds ratio: 3.6, P=0.0008) 
consecutive deterioration of MD value in multiple logistic regression analysis,
but no significant association in the eyes with two consecutive deterioration
(odds ratio: 1.1, P=0.8282). The eyes with VF progression had significantly lower
intraocular pressure reduction rate (P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: This retrospective study has shown that three or more consecutive
deterioration of MD value might be a predictor to future significant MD slope
worsening in OAG.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S94497 
PMCID: PMC4664511
PMID: 26648689  [PubMed]


129. J Ophthalmol. 2015;2015:919610. doi: 10.1155/2015/919610. Epub 2015 Oct 29.

Color Doppler Imaging Analysis of Ocular Blood Flow Velocities in Normal Tension 
Glaucoma Patients: A Meta-Analysis.

Xu S(1), Huang S(1), Lin Z(1), Liu W(2), Zhong Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated Medical School,
Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai 200025, China. (2)Hubei Provincial Center 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Wuhan, Hubei 430079, China.

Background. To evaluate the potential diagnostic value of CDI of retrobulbar
hemodynamic changes in NTG patients. Methods. Relevant publications which
included PSV, EDV, and RI of OA, CRA, NPCA, and TPCA in NTG patients and normal
controls measured by CDI were retrieved from the Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials, PubMed, the ISI Web of Knowledge, and EMBASE from 1990 to
2014. Subgroup analyses were made based on IOP-lowering medications uses. Result.
In OA, there was significant decrease of PSV with moderate heterogeneity (P <
0.00001, I (2) = 49%) and significant decrease of EDV with significant
heterogeneity (P = 0.0005, I (2) = 87%) in NTG patients. In CRA, similar results 
of PSV (P < 0.00001, I (2) = 42%) and EDV (P < 0.00001, I (2) = 80%) were
detected. Significant decrease of PSV and EDV with significant heterogeneity was 
also found in both NPCA (P < 0.0001, I (2) = 70%; P < 0.0001, I (2) = 76%; resp.)
and TPCA (P < 0.00001, I (2) = 54%; P < 0.00001, I (2) = 65%; resp.).
Statistically significant increases of RI were found in CRA (P = 0.0002, I (2) = 
89%) and TPCA (P = 0.02, I (2) = 81%) with significant heterogeneities, though RI
in OA (P = 0.25, I (2) = 94%) and in NPCA (P = 0.15, I (2) = 86%) showed no
statistical changes with significant heterogeneities. Conclusions. Ischemic
change of retrobulbar hemodynamics is one of the important manifestations of NTG.
Hemodynamic parameters measured by CDI might be potential diagnostic tools for
NTG.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/919610 
PMCID: PMC4641947
PMID: 26634152  [PubMed]


130. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Mar;32(2):90-6. doi: 10.1089/jop.2015.0086. Epub 2015
Dec 1.

Nonresponders to Prostaglandin Analogs Among Normal-Tension Glaucoma Patients.

Inoue K(1), Setogawa A(1), Tomita G(2).

Author information: 
(1)1 Inouye Eye Hospital , Tokyo, Japan . (2)2 Department of Ophthalmology, Toho 
University Ohashi Medical Center , Tokyo, Japan .

PURPOSE: To investigate patients whose intraocular pressure (IOP) did not
decrease after treatment using a prostaglandin analog (nonresponders).
METHODS: This was an open-label, retrospective, case series study from a single
institution. We retrospectively investigated the mean IOP reduction rates, and
the proportions of nonresponders, among normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients
(209 cases, 209 eyes) treated using 1 of 4 prostaglandin analogs: latanoprost (40
patients), travoprost (64 patients), tafluprost (52 patients), or bimatoprost (53
patients). Absolute IOP was compared with pretreatment values for all 4 groups at
the first and second visits after commencement of prostaglandin analog
monotherapy. The IOP reduction rate was compared between groups. The proportion
of nonresponders, defined as patients with IOP reduction rate <10% at both
visits, was calculated in each group.
RESULTS: The average IOP had significantly decreased from the pretreatment value 
at the first visit after treatment; the average IOP reduction rate ranged from
15.3% to 22.6%. The IOP reduction rate in the bimatoprost group was significantly
higher than those in the travoprost and tafluprost groups (P < 0.001). We
identified 6 nonresponders (15.0%) in the latanoprost group, 9 (14.1%) in the
travoprost group, 4 (7.7%) in the tafluprost group, and none (0.0%) in the
bimatoprost group; nonresponse rates were significantly lower in the bimatoprost 
group than in the other groups (P ≤ 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Among NTG patients treated using prostaglandin analogs, from 0% to
15% were classified as nonresponders, depending on the prostaglandin analog used.
The proportion of nonresponders was significantly lower in the bimatoprost group.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2015.0086 
PMID: 26624245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Am J Epidemiol. 2016 Jan 15;183(2):147-55. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwv204. Epub 2015 Nov
25.

Diabetes Pathology and Risk of Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma: Evaluating Causal
Mechanisms by Using Genetic Information.

Shen L, Walter S, Melles RB, Glymour MM, Jorgenson E.

Although type 2 diabetes (T2D) predicts glaucoma, the potential for unmeasured
confounding has hampered causal conclusions. We performed separate sample genetic
instrumental variable analyses using the Genetic Epidemiology Research Study on
Adult Health and Aging cohort (n = 69,685; 1995-2013) to estimate effects of T2D 
on primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG; 3,554 cases). Genetic instrumental
variables for overall and mechanism-specific (i.e., linked to T2D via influences 
on adiposity, β-cell function, insulin regulation, or other metabolic processes) 
T2D risk were constructed by using 39 genetic polymorphisms established to
predict T2D in other samples. Instrumental variable estimates indicated that T2D 
increased POAG risk (odds ratio = 2.53, 95% confidence interval: 1.04, 6.11). The
instrumental variable for β-cell dysregulation also significantly predicted POAG 
(odds ratioβ-cell = 5.26, 95% confidence interval: 1.75, 15.85), even among
individuals without diagnosed T2D, suggesting that metabolic dysregulation may
increase POAG risk prior to T2D diagnosis. The T2D risk variant in the melatonin 
receptor 1B gene (MTNR1B) predicted risk of POAG independently of T2D status,
indicating possible pleiotropic physiological functions of melatonin, but
instrumental variable effect estimates were significant even excluding MTNR1B
variants. To our knowledge, this is the first genetic instrumental variable study
of T2D and glaucoma, providing a novel approach to evaluating this hypothesized
relationship. Our findings substantially bolster observational evidence that T2D 
increases POAG risk.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwv204 
PMCID: PMC4706681 [Available on 2017-01-15]
PMID: 26608880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Aug;100(8):1134-8. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307570.
Epub 2015 Nov 23.

Neuroretinal rim area and ocular haemodynamic parameters in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma with differing intracranial pressures.

Siaudvytyte L(1), Januleviciene I(1), Daveckaite A(1), Ragauskas A(2), Siesky
B(3), Harris A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences, Kaunas, Lithuania.
(2)Health Telematics Science Centre of Kaunas, University of Technology, Kaunas, 
Lithuania. (3)Glaucoma Research and Diagnostic Center, Eugene and Marilyn Glick
Eye Institute, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

PURPOSE: To assess the differences in the neuroretinal rim area (NRA) and ocular 
haemodynamic parameters in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) with
differing intracranial pressure (ICP) values.
METHODS: 40 patients (11 males) with NTG (age 61.1 (11.5)) were included in the
prospective study. Intraocular pressure (IOP), non-invasive ICP, retrobulbar
blood flow (RBF) and confocal laser scanning tomography for optic nerve disc
(OND) structural parameters were assessed. Non-invasive ICP was measured using a 
novel two-depth Transcranial Doppler device. RBF was measured using colour
Doppler imaging in the ophthalmic artery (OA). The patients were divided into two
groups, ICP ≥ and <8.3 mm Hg, based on the statistical median of ICP. p Values
<0.05 were considered statistically significant.
RESULTS: Patients with NTG had mean ICP 8.8 (2.5) mm Hg, IOP 13.6 (2.1) mm Hg,
OND size 2.3 (0.6) mm(2), NRA 1.2 (0.4) mm(2). Lower ICP was correlated with
decreased NRA (r=0.51, p=0.001). Patients with NTG having lower ICP (N=20) had
significantly lower NRA 1.0 (0.3) mm(2), than patients with NTG having higher ICP
(N=20) 1.3 (0.3) mm(2), p=0.002, although there were no significant differences
in OND size (accordingly, 2.2 (0.5) and 2.3 (0.6) mm(2), p=0.55) and IOP
(accordingly, 13.5 (2.4) and 13.7 (1.8) mm Hg, p=0.58). Patients with NTG having 
lower ICP had significantly lower OA blood flow velocities (peak systolic volume 
(PSV) 28.7 (8.0), end-diastolic volume (EDV) 6.9 (3.0) cm/s), compared with
patients with NTG having higher ICP (PSV 35.5 (10.2), EDV 9.4 (4.1) cm/s),
p<0.04.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with NTG having lower ICP have decreased neuroretinal rim
area and OA blood flow parameters compared with patients having higher ICP.
Further longitudinal studies are needed to analyse the involvement of ICP in NTG 
management.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307570 
PMID: 26598575  [PubMed - in process]


133. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2015 Dec;38(10):983-95. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2015.08.006. Epub 2015
Nov 17.

[Vascular factors in glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Mottet B(1), Aptel F(2), Geiser M(3), Romanet JP(1), Chiquet C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Université Joseph-Fourier - Grenoble 1, 38041 Grenoble, France; Clinique
universitaire d'ophtalmologie, CHU de Grenoble, 38043 Grenoble, France.
(2)Université Joseph-Fourier - Grenoble 1, 38041 Grenoble, France; Clinique
universitaire d'ophtalmologie, CHU de Grenoble, 38043 Grenoble, France; Inserm
U1042, hypoxie et physiopathologie, 38043 Grenoble cedex 9, France.
(3)Département d'optique, HES-SO, haute école valaisanne, Sion, Suisse.
(4)Université Joseph-Fourier - Grenoble 1, 38041 Grenoble, France; Clinique
universitaire d'ophtalmologie, CHU de Grenoble, 38043 Grenoble, France; Inserm
U1042, hypoxie et physiopathologie, 38043 Grenoble cedex 9, France. Electronic
address: cchiquet@chu-grenoble.fr.

The exact pathophysiology of glaucoma is not fully understood. Understanding of
the vascular pathophysiology of glaucoma requires: knowing the techniques for
measuring ocular blood flow and characterizing the topography of vascular disease
and the mechanisms involved in this neuropathy. A decreased mean ocular perfusion
pressure and a loss of vascular autoregulation are implicated in glaucomatous
disease. Early decrease in ocular blood flow has been identified in primary
open-angle glaucoma and normal pressure glaucoma, contributing to the progression
of optic neuropathy. The vascular damage associated with glaucoma is present in
various vascular territories within the eye (from the ophthalmic artery to the
retina) and is characterized by a decrease in basal blood flow associated with a 
dysfunction of vasoregulation.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2015.08.006 
PMID: 26597554  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2016 Jan;60(1):20-6. doi: 10.1007/s10384-015-0420-2. Epub 2015 
Nov 18.

Comparison of the intraocular pressure-lowering effect and safety of
brimonidine/timolol fixed combination and 0.5% timolol in normal-tension glaucoma
patients.

Kim JM(1), Kim TW(2), Kim CY(3), Kim HK(4), Park KH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seongnam, Republic of Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (4)Department of
Ophthalmology, Myung-Gok Eye Research Institute, Kim's Eye Hospital, Konyang
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (5)Department of
Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul National
University Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea. kihopark@snu.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: To compare the therapeutic efficacy and safety of brimonidine/timolol
fixed-combination (BTFC) and 0.5% timolol ophthalmic solution in normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: This was a multi-institution, randomized, active-controlled, open-label,
parallel-group study. After a full ophthalmic and glaucoma examination, a total
of 110 NTG patients--55 undergoing therapy with BTFC and 55 0.5%, with
timolol--participated in this study. Among them, 1 failed to meet the
inclusion/exclusion criteria, 10 revoked their consent to participate in the
study, 3 had adverse reactions, and 1 had a drug adherence rate of less than 70%.
Ultimately, a total of 95 patients--48 in the BTFC group and 47 in the 0.5%
timolol group--completed the study. The study visits took place at baseline and
at 4 and 12 weeks. Diurnal IOP was measured at 9 a.m., 11 a.m., and 5 p.m. during
the baseline visit and the visit at 12 weeks after eye-drop instillation. At each
follow-up visit, compliance was assessed. Throughout the study, all adverse
events were recorded and monitored by the investigators.
RESULTS: The average difference in IOP change measured at 11 a.m. 12 weeks after 
administration between the two groups was 2.10 ± 2.59 mmHg. The BTFC group had a 
better IOP-lowering effect at all time points than did the 0.5% timolol group.
The ratio of patients whose average IOP had decreased by >20% after 4 and 12
weeks was 50 and 56% in the BTFC group, respectively, whereas it was 29.41 and
23.53% in the 0.5% timolol group, respectively (p = 0.034, <0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: BTFC has a superior IOP-lowering effect than 0.5% timolol in NTG
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-015-0420-2 
PMID: 26578422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Adv Ther. 2015 Nov;32(11):1128-39. doi: 10.1007/s12325-015-0260-y. Epub 2015 Nov 
12.

Evaluation of the Effect of Latanoprostene Bunod Ophthalmic Solution, 0.024% in
Lowering Intraocular Pressure over 24 h in Healthy Japanese Subjects.

Araie M(1,)(2), Sforzolini BS(3), Vittitow J(4), Weinreb RN(5).

Author information: 
(1)Kanto Central Hospitals, Mutual Aid Association of Public School Teachers,
Setagaya-Ku, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Medical Affairs, Bausch & Lomb Incorporated,
Bridgewater, NJ, USA. (4)Clinical Affairs, Bausch & Lomb Incorporated,
Bridgewater, NJ, USA. Jason.Vittitow@bausch.com. (5)Hamilton Glaucoma Center,
Shiley Eye Institute and Department of Ophthalmology, University of California
San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Latanoprostene bunod is a novel nitric oxide (NO)-donating
prostaglandin F2α receptor agonist in clinical development for the reduction of
intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular
hypertension. We evaluated the effect of latanoprostene bunod 0.024% instilled
once daily (QD) on lowering IOP over a 24-h period in healthy Japanese subjects
following 14 days of treatment.
METHODS: This was a single-arm, single-center, open-label clinical study of 24
healthy Japanese male volunteers. A baseline IOP profile was established in both 
eyes in the sitting position at 8 PM, 10 PM, 12 AM, 2 AM, 4 AM, 8 AM, 10 AM,
12 PM, and 4 PM using a Goldmann applanation tonometer. Subjects subsequently
instilled latanoprostene bunod 0.024% QD at 8 PM for 14 days in both eyes. The
absolute and change from baseline in sitting IOP was assessed on day 14.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) age of the subjects was 26.8 (6.3) years, and mean (SD)
baseline IOP was 13.6 (1.3) mmHg in the study eye. Latanoprostene bunod 0.024%
instilled QD for 14 days reduced IOP at all the evaluated time points (P < 0.001)
with a mean (SD) 24-h reduction of 3.6 (0.8) mmHg or 27% from the baseline in the
study eye. Peak and trough IOP lowering occurred at 8 AM and 8 PM (12 and 24 h
following instillation) with a mean reduction of 4.2 (1.8) mmHg, or 30%, and 2.8 
(2.2) mmHg, or 20%, respectively. Punctate keratitis and ocular hyperemia, both
mild in severity, were the most common adverse events.
CONCLUSION: Latanoprostene bunod ophthalmic solution 0.024%, dosed QD for
14 days, significantly lowered mean IOP in healthy Japanese subjects during the
entire 24-h period. Studies of latanoprostene bunod in patients diagnosed with
normal tension glaucoma are warranted.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT01895985.
FUNDING: Bausch & Lomb, Inc.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-015-0260-y 
PMCID: PMC4662725
PMID: 26563323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:308505. doi: 10.1155/2015/308505. Epub 2015 Oct 19.

Ocular Blood Flow and Normal Tension Glaucoma.

Fan N(1), Wang P(2), Tang L(2), Liu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Shenzhen Eye Hospital, Jinan
University, Shenzhen 518040, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, West China
Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.

Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is known as a multifactorial optic neuropathy
characterized by progressive retinal ganglion cell death and glaucomatous visual 
field loss, even though the intraocular pressure (IOP) does not exceed the normal
range. The pathophysiology of NTG remains largely undetermined. It is
hypothesized that the abnormal ocular blood flow is involved in the pathogenesis 
of this disease. A number of evidences suggested that the vascular factors played
a significant role in the development of NTG. In recent years, the new imaging
techniques, fluorescein angiography, color Doppler imaging (CDI), magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI), and laser speckle flowgraphy (LSFG), have been used to
evaluate the ocular blood flow and blood vessels, and the impaired vascular
autoregulation was found in patients with NTG. Previous studies showed that NTG
was associated with a variety of systemic diseases, including migraine,
Alzheimer's disease, primary vascular dysregulation, and Flammer syndrome. The
vascular factors were involved in these diseases. The mechanisms underlying the
abnormal ocular blood flow in NTG are still not clear, but the risk factors for
glaucomatous optic neuropathy likely included oxidative stress, vasospasm, and
endothelial dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/308505 
PMCID: PMC4628977
PMID: 26558263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:435874. doi: 10.1155/2015/435874. Epub 2015 Oct 18.

Comparison of Ocular Pulse Amplitude Lowering Effects of Preservative-Free
Tafluprost and Preservative-Free Dorzolamide-Timolol Fixed Combination Eyedrops.

Seo du R(1), Ha SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Soonchunhyang University College of Medicine,
Soonchunhyang University Seoul Hospital, Seoul 140-743, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare the ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) lowering effects of
preservative-free tafluprost and dorzolamide-timolol fixed combination (DTFC)
using dynamic contour tonometry.
METHODS: In total, 66 eyes of 66 patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) (n =
34) or primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) (n = 32) were included. Patients were
divided into two groups: the preservative-free tafluprost-treated group (n = 33) 
and the preservative-free DTFC-treated group (n = 33). Intraocular pressure (IOP)
was measured using Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT). OPA was measured using
dynamic contour tonometry; corrected OPA (cOPA) was calculated at baseline and at
1 week and 1, 3, and 6 months after treatment.
RESULTS: After 6 months of treatment, tafluprost significantly reduced IOP (P <
0.001). The OPA lowering effects differed significantly between the two treatment
groups (P = 0.003). The cOPA-lowering effect of tafluprost (1.09 mmHg) was
significantly greater than that of DTFC (0.36 mmHg) after 6 months of treatment
(P = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Tafluprost and DTFC glaucoma treatments provided marked OPA and IOP 
lowering effects. Tafluprost had a greater effect than DTFC; thus, this drug is
recommended for patients at risk of glaucoma progression, due to the high OPA
caused by large fluctuations in IOP.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/435874 
PMCID: PMC4628750
PMID: 26557671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:425835. doi: 10.1155/2015/425835. Epub 2015 Oct 18.

The Role of Systemic Arterial Stiffness in Open-Angle Glaucoma with Diabetes
Mellitus.

Shim SH(1), Kim CY(2), Kim JM(1), Kim da Y(1), Kim YJ(1), Bae JH(1), Sung KC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, 29 Saemunan-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-746, Republic of Korea. 
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Republic of Korea. (3)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Kangbuk
Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, 29 Saemunan-ro,
Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-746, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the role of systemic arterial stiffness in glaucoma
patients with diabetes mellitus (DM).
DESIGN: Retrospective, cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: DM subjects who underwent brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity
(baPWV) were recruited.
METHODS: Glaucoma patients (n = 75) and age-matched control subjects (n = 92)
were enrolled. Systemic examination including BaPWV and detailed eye examination 
were performed. The glaucoma group was divided into subgroups of normal tension
glaucoma (NTG, n = 55) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) based on an IOP of 
21 mmHg. BaPWV was used to stratify the population into 4 groups based on the
rate. Stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis by baPWV quartiles was used 
to compare the glaucoma group with the control group.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: BaPWV in glaucoma with DM patients.
RESULTS: Faster baPWV was positively associated with glaucoma (odds ratio: 3.74; 
95% CI: 1.03-13.56, stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis) in patients
with DM. Increasing baPWV was also positively associated with glaucoma (p for
trend = 0.036). The NTG subgroup showed similar results to those of the glaucoma 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, increased arterial stiffness was shown to be
associated with glaucoma and may contribute to the pathogenesis of glaucoma in DM
patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/425835 
PMCID: PMC4628752
PMID: 26557669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:418159. doi: 10.1155/2015/418159. Epub 2015 Oct 18.

Evaluation of the Effect of Hypercapnia on Vascular Function in Normal Tension
Glaucoma.

Quill B(1), Henry E(2), Simon E(2), O'Brien CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)UCD School of Medicine and Medical Science, University College Dublin,
Belfield, Dublin, Ireland. (2)Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion, Edinburgh, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Altered ocular perfusion and vascular dysregulation have been
reported in glaucoma. The aim of this paper was to evaluate the vascular response
to a hypercapnic stimulus.
METHODS: Twenty normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and eighteen age- and
gender-matched controls had pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) measurements,
systemic cardiovascular assessment, and laser Doppler digital blood flow (DBF)
assessed. Measurements were taken at baseline, after 10-minutes rest, in the
stable sitting and supine positions and following induction and stabilization of 
hypercapnia, which induced a 15% increase in end-tidal pCO2. The POBF response to
hypercapnia was divided into high (>20%) and low responders (<20%).
RESULTS: 65% of NTG patients had a greater than 41% increase in POBF following
CO2 rebreathing (high responders). These high responders had a lower baseline
POBF, lower baseline DBF, and a greater DBF response to thermal stimulus.
CONCLUSION: NTG patients that have a greater than 20% increase in POBF after a
hypercapnic stimulus have lower baseline POBF and DBF values. This suggests that 
there is impaired regulation of blood flow in a significant subgroup of NTG
patients. This observation may reflect a generalised dysfunction of the vascular 
endothelium.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/418159 
PMCID: PMC4628756
PMID: 26557667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:158097. doi: 10.1155/2015/158097. Epub 2015 Oct 18.

Retrobulbar Hemodynamics and Visual Field Progression in Normal Tension Glaucoma:
A Long-Term Follow-Up Study.

Kuerten D(1), Fuest M(1), Koch EC(1), Koutsonas A(1), Plange N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, RWTH Aachen University, Pauwelsstraße 30, 52072
Aachen, Germany.

PURPOSE: Vascular risk factors are important factors in the pathogenesis of
glaucoma. The purpose of this research was to investigate retrobulbar
hemodynamics and visual field progression in patients with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 31 eyes of 16 patients with NTG were included in a
retrospective long-term follow-up study. Colour Doppler imaging was performed at 
baseline to determine various CDI parameters in the different retrobulbar
vessels. The rate of visual field progression was determined using the Visual
Field Index (VFI) progression rate per year (in %). To be included in the
analysis, patients had at least 4 visual field examinations with a follow-up of
at least 2 years.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 7.6 ± 4.1 years with an average of 10 ± 5 visual
field tests. The mean MD (mean defect) at baseline was -7.61 ± 7.49 dB. The
overall VFI progression was -1.14 ± 1.40% per year. A statistical significant
correlation between VFI progression and the RI of the NPCA and PSV of the CRA was
found.
CONCLUSION: Long-term visual field progression may be linked to impaired
retrobulbar hemodynamics in patients with NTG only to a limited degree.
Interpretation of the data for an individual patient seems to be limited due to
the variability of parameters.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/158097 
PMCID: PMC4628771
PMID: 26557652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:141905. doi: 10.1155/2015/141905. Epub 2015 Oct 18.

Systemic and Ocular Hemodynamic Risk Factors in Glaucoma.

Choi J(1), Kook MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Central Seoul Eye Center, 224 Ichon-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul 04427, Republic of
Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, Asan Medical Center, 
Seoul 05505, Republic of Korea.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a multifactorial disease characterized by
progressive retinal ganglion cell death and visual field loss. It is known that
alterations in intraocular pressure (IOP), blood pressure (BP), and ocular
perfusion pressure (OPP) can play a significant role in the pathogenesis of the
disease. Impaired autoregulatory capacity of ocular blood vessels may render
tissues vulnerable to OPP changes and potentially harmful tissue
ischemia-reperfusion damage. Vascular risk factors should be considered more
important in a subgroup of patients with POAG, and especially in patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) with evidence of unphysiological BP response. For
example, reduction of BP during the nighttime has an influence on OPP, and
increased circadian OPP fluctuation, which might stand for unstable ocular blood 
flow, has been found to be the consistent risk factor for NTG development and
progression. Central visual field may be affected more severely than peripheral
visual field in NTG patients with higher 24-hour fluctuation of OPP. This review 
will discuss the current understanding of allegedly major systemic and ocular
hemodynamic risk factors for glaucoma including systemic hypertension, arterial
stiffness, antihypertensive medication, exaggerated nocturnal hypotension, OPP,
and autonomic dysregulation.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/141905 
PMCID: PMC4628774
PMID: 26557650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


142. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2016 Jan;134(1):108-10. doi: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2015.4105.

Proteomic Analysis of Macular Fluid Associated With Advanced Glaucomatous
Excavation.

Patel S(1), Ling J(1), Kim SJ(1), Schey KL(2), Rose K(2), Kuchtey RW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt Eye Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee. (2)Vanderbilt Eye Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, Tennessee2Department of Biochemistry, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, Tennessee. (3)Vanderbilt Eye Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center, Nashville, Tennessee3Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2015.4105 
PMID: 26540576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Doc Ophthalmol. 2015 Dec;131(3):197-206. doi: 10.1007/s10633-015-9519-5. Epub
2015 Nov 2.

Correlation between N2 amplitude of multifocal ERGs and retinal sensitivity and
retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in glaucomatous eyes.

Kato F(1), Miura G(2), Shirato S(1), Sato E(1), Yamamoto S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Chiba University Graduate
School of Medicine, Inohana 1-8-1, Chuo-ku, Chiba, 260-8670, Chiba, Japan.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Chiba University Graduate
School of Medicine, Inohana 1-8-1, Chuo-ku, Chiba, 260-8670, Chiba, Japan.
gmiura2@chiba-u.jp.

PURPOSE: To determine whether there are significant correlations between the N2
amplitude of the multifocal electroretinograms (mfERGs) and the retinal
sensitivity and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness in glaucomatous and
normal eyes.
METHODS: Thirty-eight glaucomatous and 11 normal eyes were studied. The mfERGs
were elicited by red stimuli presented on a blue background. The responses from
the central five elements within a 20° stimulated area were analyzed. The retinal
sensitivity was determined by Humphrey Field Analyzer and the RNFL thickness by
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. The correlations between the N2
amplitude and the retinal sensitivity and the RNFL thickness were calculated.
RESULTS: The N2 amplitude was significantly smaller in the glaucomatous eyes than
the normal eyes in all areas (P < 0.05). There was a significant correlation
between the N2 amplitude and the retinal sensitivity (1/Lambert linear unit) of
the HFA for the superior retina (r = 0.36, P = 0.01), for the central retina (r =
0.54, P < 0.0001), and for the inferior retina (r = 0.51, P = 0.0001). There were
significant correlations between the N2 amplitude and the RNFL thicknesses in the
superior retina (r = 0.49, P = 0.0003), the central retina (r = 0.79, P <
0.0001), and the inferior retina (r = 0.52, P = 0.0001) for both normal and
glaucomatous eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that the activity of the retinal ganglion
cells contribute to the amplitude of the N2 of the mfERGs and thus can be used as
an objective monitor of retinal ganglion cell function.

DOI: 10.1007/s10633-015-9519-5 
PMID: 26521929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Prog Brain Res. 2015;221:213-32. doi: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.05.007. Epub 2015 Oct
1.

Advance in the pathogenesis and treatment of normal-tension glaucoma.

Mastropasqua R(1), Fasanella V(2), Agnifili L(2), Fresina M(3), Di Staso S(4), Di
Gregorio A(4), Marchini G(1), Ciancaglini M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Unit Department of Neurological, Neuropsychological,
Morphological and Movement Sciences, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(2)Department of Medicine and Aging Science, Ophthalmology Clinic, University G. 
d'Annunzio of Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, Italy. (3)Department of Specialist,
Diagnostics and Experimental Medicine (DIMES), Ophthalmology Service, University 
of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. (4)Ophthalmic Clinic Department of Surgical Science, 
Eye Clinic, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy. (5)Ophthalmic Clinic
Department of Surgical Science, Eye Clinic, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila,
Italy. Electronic address: marco.ciancaglini@cc.univaq.it.

Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a multifactorial disease where mechanical
stresses and vascular alterations to the optic nerve head probably represent the 
key pathogenic moments. Although intraocular pressure (IOP) plays a crucial role 
in the retinal ganglion cell loss, the IOP reduction does not necessarily reduces
the disease progression. Therefore, several IOP-independent factors such as
glutamate toxicity, oxidative stress, autoimmunity, and vascular dysregulation
have been considered in the pathogenesis of NTG. Numerous evidences documented an
impairment of the ocular blood flow, involved both in the onset and progression
of the disease. The IOP reduction remains the main strategy to reduce the damage 
progression in NTG. Recently, new treatment strategies have been proposed to
improve the control of the disease. Neuroprotection is a rapidly expanding area
of research, which represents a promising tool. In the present review, we
summarize the recent scientific advancements in the pathogenesis and treatment of
NTG.

© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.05.007 
PMID: 26518080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Feb;254(2):333-41. doi:
10.1007/s00417-015-3203-z. Epub 2015 Oct 30.

The association between systemic oxidative stress and ocular blood flow in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Himori N(1), Kunikata H(1,)(2), Shiga Y(1), Omodaka K(1), Maruyama K(1),
Takahashi H(1), Nakazawa T(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
1-1 Seiryo, Aoba, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan. (2)Department of Retinal
Disease Control, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
1-1 Seiryo, Aoba, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan. ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp.
(4)Department of Retinal Disease Control, Tohoku University Graduate School of
Medicine, Sendai, Japan. ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp. (5)Department of Advanced
Ophthalmic Medicine, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai,
Japan. ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association between ocular blood flow and biomarkers of 
systemic oxidative stress, as well as the potential of these biomarkers to assess
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This study included 73 eyes of 73 patients with NTG. We assessed ocular 
blood flow by measuring mean blur rate (MBR) in the optic nerve head using laser 
speckle flowgraphy, both overall and separately in the vessel and tissue areas.
We also measured urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and skin
autofluorescence (SAF), and lastly, determined correlations between these
measurements and with other clinical parameters.
RESULTS: SAF was correlated with age, circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber layer
thickness (cpRNFLT), mean deviation (MD), and overall MBR (P = 0.003, P = 0.013, 
P = 0.015 and P = 0.006, respectively). SAF and 8-OHdG were both correlated with 
tissue-area MBR (P = 0.006 and P = 0.010, respectively). Visual acuity, cpRNFLT, 
mean deviation and tissue-area MBR had a significant tendency to change with NTG 
severity (P = 0.014, P < 0.001, P < 0.001 and P = 0.006, respectively). Multiple 
regression analysis revealed that cpRNFLT and 8-OHdG were independent
contributing factors to MD (P < 0.001 and P = 0.040, respectively), and that
cpRNFLT and 8-OHdG were independent contributing factors to tissue-area MBR
(P = 0.005 and P = 0.028, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: We found a close relationship between cpRNFLT, MD, tissue MBR, SAF
and 8-OHdG, suggesting that systemic oxidative stress is associated with
decreased ocular blood flow and may be involved in the pathogenesis of NTG.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-015-3203-z 
PMID: 26514963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Oct;232(10):1190-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0041-104772. Epub
2015 Oct 29.

[Dynamic Contour Tonometry and Goldmann Applanation Tonometry: Difference of
Intraocular Pressure Values Between Eyes with and without Glaucomatous Damage in 
Thin Corneas].

[Article in German]

Umurhan Akkan JC(1), Akkan F(2), Sezgin Akcay BI(3), Ayintap E(1), Tuncer K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Fakultät, Augenklinik, Bezmialem Vakif Universität, Istanbul,
Türkei. (2)Augenklinik Istanbul, Lehr- und Forschungs-Krankenhaus, Istanbul,
Türkei. (3)Augenklinik Ümraniye, Lehr- und Forschungs-Krankenhaus, Istanbul,
Türkei.

BACKGROUND: To examine the differences in intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements
obtained with Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT) and Pascal dynamic contour
tonometry (DCT) in subjects with thin corneas and to correlate these with
structural and functional parameters of glaucoma damage.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred and thirty participants (130 eyes) with central
corneal thickness lower than 500 µm were included in five groups in this
cross-sectional observational study: 52 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG), 19 eyes with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), 27 eyes with ocular
hypertension (OHT), 21 participants suspected of having glaucoma (GS), and 11
healthy subjects. The measurements were obtained with GAT and DCT in a masked
fashion. The corrected GAT-IOP for central corneal thickness (CCT), the
difference between DCT and GAT (ΔIOP = DCT-GAT) and corrected ΔIOP (corrected
ΔIOP = DCT-corrected GAT) were calculated. Age, mean deviation (MD) from the most
recent reliable visual field examination, average retinal nerve fibre layer
thickness (RNFL), cup-to-disc ratio (CDR), ocular pulse amplitude (OPA), and
treatment status were recorded for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: In all of the subjects (n = 130), the mean DCT, GAT and corrected GAT
values were 17.6 ± 3.4 mmHg, 13.2 ± 3.8 mmHg, and 15.5 ± 2.1 mmHg, respectively. 
ΔIOP and corrected ΔIOP were 4.4 ± 2 mmHg and 1.7 ± 2 mmHg, respectively. ΔIOP
was correlated negatively with MD (rs = -0.32, p < 0.0001) and average RNFL
thickness (r = -0.46, p < 0.0001) and positively with CDR (rs = 0.50,
p < 0.0001). The mean IOP measured by GAT differed statistically significantly
between eyes with glaucoma (n = 71, POAG and NTG) and eyes without damage
(n = 59; OHT, GS, and healthy) (p < 0.0001), whereas the mean IOP by DCT did not 
(p = 0.935). The mean ΔIOP values were also statistically significantly higher in
the glaucomatous group, with and without correction for CCT (p < 0.001). OPA and 
glaucoma diagnoses statistically significantly predicted ΔIOP (R(2) = 0.41,
F2.127 = 47.46, p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: Greater underestimation of IOP by GAT was observed in the
glaucomatous eyes with thin corneas. Performing DCT on patients with thin corneas
might be advantageous in establishing the need for more aggressive treatment.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0041-104772 
PMID: 26512850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Vestn Oftalmol. 2015 Jul-Aug;131(4):15-20.

[Tomography findings in optic nerve head and retina in differential diagnosis
between normal-tension glaucoma and ischemic optic neuropathies].

[Article in Russian]

Mamikonyan VR, Galoyan NS, Sheremet NL, Kazaryan EE, Shmeleva-Demir OA, Rafaelyan
AA.

AIM: to determine tomography findings in optic nerve head (ONH) and retinal nerve
fiber layer (RFNL) that may be valuable for differential diagnosis between
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and ischemic optic neuropathy (ION) outcome.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Group 1 consisted of 17 patients (32 eyes) with NTG, group 
2--17 patients (24 eyes) with ION outcome. The control group included 22 patients
(22 eyes) with no sighs of optic neuropathy. Optic nerve head and retina
assessment included scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (HRT 111) and optical coherence
tomography (Stratus OCT 3000). Statistical analyses were performed using
Statistica 10 software suite.
RESULTS: Statistically significant changes in HRT parameters, namely, the mean
RNFL thickness, retinal height variation along the contour line, and RB
discriminant function, were observed in both study groups as compared to the
controls. NTG patients also showed lower rim indices, larger cups, smaller values
of the FSM discriminant function, and lower GPS (glaucoma probability score) than
both ION patients and the controls. OCT findings included a statistically
significant decrease in RNFL thickness in both study groups as compared to the
controls. As for the difference between the groups, it was unreliable. Quadrant
comparisons of RNFL thicknesses revealed that lower quadrant RNFL thinning was
more significant in NTG patients, while temporal quadrant RNFL thinning--in ION
patients.
CONCLUSION: Both conditions are associated with a similar degree of RNFL
thinning, as confirmed by OCT, however, HRT changes are much more pronounced in
NTG than in ION patients.


PMID: 26489115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Ophthalmologe. 2015 Nov;112(11):943-54; quiz 955-6. doi:
10.1007/s00347-015-0140-5.

[Current aspects on the management of normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Töteberg-Harms M(1), Rosentreter A(2), Lappas A(3), Funk J(1), Dietlein TS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, UniversitätsSpital Zürich, Zürich, Schweiz.
(2)Universitäts-Augenklinik Münster, Münster, Deutschland. (3)Zentrum für
Augenheilkunde, Universität Köln, Joseph-Stelzmann-Str. 9, 50931, Köln,
Deutschland. (4)Zentrum für Augenheilkunde, Universität Köln,
Joseph-Stelzmann-Str. 9, 50931, Köln, Deutschland. Thomas.Dietlein@uk-koeln.de.

In a considerable proportion of glaucoma patients (25-50 %) the intraocular
pressure (IOP) is not elevated higher than 22 mmHg at first diagnosis and during 
subsequent follow-up controls. Although the IOP level remains in the low range < 
22 mmHg, progression of glaucoma can still occur. A multitude of different
factors are assumed to be involved in glaucoma progression, such as very low
nocturnal diastolic blood pressure values, a low mean ocular perfusion pressure, 
extensive fluctuations in perfusion (e.g. in cases of vascular dysregulation), an
increased vulnerability of the optic nerve support structures, an increased
translaminar pressure gradient and various underlying systemic diseases. The most
important evidence-based aspect of treatment in normal tension glaucoma is
pharmaceutical or surgical reduction of the IOP by 30 % or more in comparison to 
the initial pressure level. Vascular and neuroprotective concepts of treatment
for normal tension glaucoma have been strongly advocated and the object of
experimental and clinical studies. As yet a clear clinical benefit has not been
proven by large prospective randomized studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-015-0140-5 
PMID: 26443680  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Oct;56(11):6344-51. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17248.

Residual and Dynamic Range of Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Thickness in Glaucoma:
Comparison of Three OCT Platforms.

Mwanza JC(1), Kim HY(2), Budenz DL(1), Warren JL(3), Margolis M(2), Lawrence
SD(1), Jani PD(1), Thompson GS(1), Lee RK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, United States. (2)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Department of
Ophthalmology, University of Miami, Miami, Florida, United States. (3)Department 
of Biostatistics, Yale School of Public Health, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut, United States.

PURPOSE: To estimate visual field (VF) sensitivity at which retinal nerve fiber
layer (RNFL) thinning reaches the measurement floor and at which RNFL stops
thinning (change points), the dynamic range of RNFL thickness, and the number of 
steps from normal to RNFL floor among three optical coherence tomography (OCT)
devices.
METHODS: Glaucomatous patients (n = 58) and healthy subjects (n = 55-60)
prospectively underwent VF testing and RNFL thickness measurement with Cirrus,
Spectralis, and RTVue. Change points and corresponding RNFL thicknesses were
estimated with simple linear regression (SLR) and Bayesian change point (BCP)
analyses. The dynamic range and number of steps to RNFL floor were determined.
RESULTS: The average VF change points and corresponding residual thickness at the
time RNFL stopped thinning were -22.2 dB and 57.0 μm (Cirrus), -25.3 dB and 49.2 
μm (Spectralis), and -24.6 dB and 64.7 μm (RTVue). The RNFL dynamic ranges
derived from SLR values were wider on Spectralis (52.6 μm) than on Cirrus (35.4
μm) and RTVue (35.5 μm); the corresponding number of steps to reach the RNFL
floor were 9.0 on Cirrus, 10.6 on Spectralis, and 8.3 on RTVue.
CONCLUSIONS: The relative VF sensitivity at which average RNFL thickness reaches 
the measurement floor, the residual layer thickness, and RNFL dynamic measurement
range differ among the three devices. However, the number of steps from normal to
the RNFL thickness floor is comparable.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17248 
PMCID: PMC5109982
PMID: 26436887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Adv Ther. 2015 Sep;32(9):823-37. doi: 10.1007/s12325-015-0246-9. Epub 2015 Sep
30.

Fixed Combination of Travoprost and Timolol Maleate Reduces Intraocular Pressure 
in Japanese Patients with Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma or Ocular Hypertension: A
Prospective Multicenter Open-Label Study.

Nakano T(1), Mizoue S(2), Fuse N(3), Iwase A(4), Matsumoto S(5), Yoshikawa K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Nishi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan. tnakano@jikei.ac.jp. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Ehime University Graduate School of Medicine, Shitsukawa, Toon,
Ehime, Japan. (3)Department of Integrative Genomics, Tohoku Medical Megabank
Organization, Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan. (4)Tajimi Iwase Eye
Clinic, Honmachi, Tajimi, Gifu, Japan. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo
Teishin Hospital, Fujimi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan. (6)Yoshikawa Eye Clinic,
Nakamachi, Machida, Tokyo, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: The efficacy of lowering intraocular pressure (IOP) and safety of
switching to travoprost/timolol fixed combination ophthalmic solution
(Duotrav(®), Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Fort Worth, TX, USA) in patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma or ocular hypertension
undergoing prostaglandin analog (PGA) monotherapy was investigated.
METHODS: Patients treated with travoprost, latanoprost, tafluprost, or
bimatoprost for ≥3 months and requiring additional medication were switched to
Duotrav without washout. Baseline IOP was calculated from measurements at two
visits during PGA monotherapy. IOP reductions at 4, 8, and 12 weeks after
switching to Duotrav and adverse events were assessed.
RESULTS: Of 162 patients enrolled, 157 patients (96.9%) with ≥4 weeks of
follow-up after switching to Duotrav were analyzed. The mean IOP decreased
significantly (baseline = 16.3 ± 3.1 mmHg; 4 weeks = 14.6 ± 3.1 mmHg, 8 weeks =
14.7 ± 3.3 mmHg, 12 weeks = 14.6 ± 3.2 mmHg; all P < 0.0001). When study eyes
were divided into three groups according to baseline IOP (≥19 mmHg: 33 eyes,
21.0%; ≥15 to <19 mmHg: 78 eyes, 49.7%; <15 mmHg: 46 eyes, 29.3%), all groups
showed significant IOP reductions (P = 0.0324 ~ P < 0.0001) after switching to
Duotrav. Twenty-seven of 166 patients (16.3%) in the safety analysis experienced 
adverse events and 26/166 patients (15.7%) experienced adverse events, for which 
a relationship to Duotrav could not be ruled out. Adverse events in five patients
led to treatment discontinuation (eye pruritus; eye irritation; increased blood
pressure and rash; increased blurred vision; deepening of the eyelid sulcus and
blepharoptosis). Twelve weeks after treatment switching, eyelash changes,
blepharal pigmentation and deepening of the eyelid sulcus occurred in 42 (26.8%),
29 (18.5%), and 13 (8.3%) cases, respectively, among 157 patients with follow-up.
There was no significant worsening from baseline for superficial punctate
keratopathy (SPK) or conjunctival hyperemia after switching (SPK score: baseline 
= 0.58 ± 1.31; 12 weeks = 0.92 ± 1.76, P = 0.1819; conjunctival hyperemia score: 
baseline = 0.41 ± 0.64; 12 weeks = 0.49 ± 0.63, P = 0.3774).
CONCLUSION: Our findings confirm that switching to Duotrav(®) in PGA monotherapy 
patients shows IOP-lowering effect with minimal safety concerns.
FUNDING: Japan Association of Health Service and Alcon Japan. Ltd.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: UMIN Clinical Trials Registry identifier, UMIN000007028.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-015-0246-9 
PMCID: PMC4604505
PMID: 26424331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Sep 1;56(10):6190-5. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17119.

Relationship Between Location of Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Defect and Curvature
of Retinal Artery Trajectory in Eyes With Normal Tension Glaucoma.

Yamashita T(1), Nitta K(2), Sonoda S(1), Sugiyama K(3), Sakamoto T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical
and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Japan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Fukui-ken 
Saiseikai Hospital, Fukui, Japan. (3)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual
Science, Kanazawa University Graduate School of Medical Science, Kanazawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: To quantify the degree of curvature of the retinal artery trajectory
(RAT) and to investigate the relationship between the curvature and the location 
of a retinal nerve fiber layer defect (NFLD) in eyes with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG).
METHODS: This was a retrospective observational study of 88 eyes of 88 NTG
patients who had a wedge-shaped NFLD. The retinal artery trajectory and the
position of the NFLD were assessed in the fundus photographs. The course of the
supra and infratemporal retinal arteries were marked on a color fundus photograph
and fitted to a second degree polynomial curve (ax[x]/100 + bx + c) using ImageJ.
The coefficient "a" was used for the curvature of the trajectory. The proximity
of the NFLD to the fovea (supra-NFLD angle, infra-NFLD angle) was determined by
two methods. The relationship between the RAT and the supra-NFLD angle and the
infra-NFLD angle was determined by linear regression analyses.
RESULTS: Fifty-six eyes had a supratemporal NFLD and 69 eyes had an infratemporal
NFLD. The steepness of the RAT was significantly correlated with the supra-NFLD
angle 1 (R = -0.27, P = 0.041) and angle 2 (R = -0.28, P = 0.040), but not with
the infra-NFLD angle 1 (R = -0.06, P = 0.61) and angle 2 (R = -0.21, P = 0.078).
CONCLUSIONS: The supratemporal NFLDs were located closer to the fovea in eyes
with the retinal artery closer to the fovea in NTG patients. The steepness of the
trajectory of the temporal retinal artery can be one predictor of the proximity
of the NFLD to the fovea.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17119 
PMID: 26416093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Apr;44(3):207-9. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12656. Epub 2015 Dec 
10.

Estimated retinal ganglion cells counts are a valuable parameter in normal
tension glaucoma.

Yamazaki M(1), Omodaka K(1), Aizawa N(1), Nakazawa T(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Graduate School of Medicine, Tohoku University,
Sendai, Japan. (2)Department of Retinal Disease Control, Ophthalmology, Graduate 
School of Medicine, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan. (3)Department of Advanced
Ophthalmic Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Tohoku University, Sendai,
Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12656 
PMID: 26385558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Dec;160(6):1191-1199.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.09.006.
Epub 2015 Sep 14.

Association Between Platelet Function and Disc Hemorrhage in Patients With
Normal-Tension Glaucoma: A Prospective Cross-Sectional Study.

Shim SH(1), Kim JM(2), Woo HY(3), Shin KU(1), Koh JW(4), Park KH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Kangbuk
Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
Electronic address: joonmo1.kim@samsung.com. (3)Department of Laboratory
Medicine, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine,
Seoul, South Korea. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Chosun University School of
Medicine, Gwangju, South Korea. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National
University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association between platelet function and disc
hemorrhage in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional study.
METHODS: Study involved a total of 315 subjects, including patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and disc hemorrhage (n = 120), patients with
normal-tension glaucoma without disc hemorrhage (n = 75), and healthy individuals
(control group, n = 120). A detailed eye examination including visual field
testing, color disc photography, optical coherence tomography scanning, and
measurement of collagen/epinephrine closure time using a platelet function
analyzer were performed for all subjects.
RESULTS: The collagen/epinephrine closure time (s) as measured by the platelet
function analyzer was approximately 14%-24% longer in the normal-tension glaucoma
and disc hemorrhage group compared with the other groups (141.92 ± 53.44 [with
normal-tension glaucoma and disc hemorrhage] vs 124.60 ± 46.72 [with
normal-tension glaucoma without disc hemorrhage] vs 114.84 ± 34.84 [healthy
individuals], 1-way analysis of variance test, P < .001). The activated partial
thromboplastin time (s) value of the normal-tension glaucoma with disc hemorrhage
group was also higher than the control group. Stepwise multiple logistic
regression analysis revealed that only a longer collagen/epinephrine closure time
(OR adjusted for age, sex, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin
time, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypotension, heart disease,
hypothyroidism, migraine, stroke, hypercholesterolemia: 2.94; 95% CI: 1.40-6.17) 
was independently associated with disc hemorrhage. A similar trend was observed
when platelet function was compared among the 3 groups with respect to age.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that platelet function is significantly
associated with disc hemorrhage in patients with normal-tension glaucoma. Delayed
absorption resulted from prolonged bleeding due to delayed platelet aggregation
may have an effect on the detectability of disc hemorrhage in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.09.006 
PMID: 26384167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


154. PLoS One. 2015 Sep 16;10(9):e0138289. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138289.
eCollection 2015.

A Glaucoma-Associated Variant of Optineurin, M98K, Activates Tbk1 to Enhance
Autophagosome Formation and Retinal Cell Death Dependent on Ser177
Phosphorylation of Optineurin.

Sirohi K(1), Kumari A(1), Radha V(1), Swarup G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research, Hyderabad, 500 007, India.

Certain missense mutations in optineurin/OPTN and amplification of TBK1 are
associated with normal tension glaucoma. A glaucoma-associated variant of OPTN,
M98K, induces autophagic degradation of transferrin receptor (TFRC) and death in 
retinal cells. Here, we have explored the role of Tbk1 in M98K-OPTN-induced
autophagy and cell death, and the effect of Tbk1 overexpression in retinal cells.
Cell death induced by M98K-OPTN was dependent on Tbk1 as seen by the effect of
Tbk1 knockdown and blocking of Tbk1 activity by a chemical inhibitor. Inhibition 
of Tbk1 also restores M98K-OPTN-induced transferrin receptor degradation.
M98K-OPTN-induced autophagosome formation, autophagy and cell death were
dependent on its phosphorylation at S177 by Tbk1. Knockdown of OPTN reduced
starvation-induced autophagosome formation. M98K-OPTN expressing cells showed
higher levels of Tbk1 activation and enhanced phosphorylation at Ser177 compared 
to WT-OPTN expressing cells. M98K-OPTN-induced activation of Tbk1 and its ability
to be phosphorylated better by Tbk1 was dependent on ubiquitin binding.
Phosphorylated M98K-OPTN localized specifically to autophagosomes and endogenous 
Tbk1 showed increased localization to autophagosomes in M98K-OPTN expressing
cells. Overexpression of Tbk1 induced cell death and caspase-3 activation that
were dependent on its catalytic activity. Tbk1-induced cell death possibly
involves autophagy, as shown by the effect of Atg5 knockdown, and requirement of 
autophagic function of OPTN. Our results show that phosphorylation of Ser177
plays a crucial role in M98K-OPTN-induced autophagosome formation, autophagy flux
and retinal cell death. In addition, we provide evidence for cross talk between
two glaucoma associated proteins and their inter-dependence to mediate
autophagy-dependent cell death.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138289 
PMCID: PMC4574030
PMID: 26376340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


155. J Glaucoma. 2016 Mar;25(3):e241-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000306.

The Frequency of Optical Coherence Tomography Testing in Glaucoma at a Single
Academic Medical Center.

Griffith JF(1), Goldberg JL.

Author information: 
(1)*Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, FL †Cole Eye Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH ‡Shiley Eye
Center, University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA.

PURPOSE: To determine the frequency of optical coherence tomography (OCT)
examinations compared with clinical examinations and visual field (VF) tests in
patients with 5 types of glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective, longitudinal cohort study was conducted of
5154 patients treated between 2003 and 2010 at a single academic medical center. 
Patients were classified using billing records as having primary open-angle
glaucoma, low-tension open-angle glaucoma (NTG), pigmentary open-angle glaucoma, 
chronic angle-closure glaucoma, or pseudoexfoliation glaucoma. Analysis of
variance, χ test, and exact χ test were performed to identify associations
between glaucoma type and test frequency.
RESULTS: Pigmentary open-angle glaucoma and NTG patients had a higher rate of
undergoing at least 2 VFs (94.4%, 94.9%), and chronic angle-closure glaucoma
patients had a lower rate of undergoing at least 2 OCTs (25.3%) than all other
glaucoma types. NTG patients also had the highest rate of undergoing at least 2
OCTs and at least 2 VFs (36.6%). Overall, the rate of clinical examinations (2.68
examinations/y) exceeded the rates of OCTs (1.39 examinations/y), which exceeded 
the rate of VF tests (1.24 tests/y). There were no differences in OCT frequency
between glaucoma types (0.91 to 1.63 OCTs/y). Within each glaucoma diagnosis,
patients had clinical examinations more frequently than OCTs and clinical
examinations more frequently than VFs. Primary open-angle glaucoma and
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma patients also had OCTs more frequently than VFs. More 
patients had at least 2 VF tests than at least 2 OCTs (4481 vs. 1679).
CONCLUSION: The relative use of clinical examinations, VF testing, and OCT
imaging varies among glaucoma diagnoses.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000306 
PMCID: PMC4885912 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26372155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


156. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Dec;31(10):617-22. doi: 10.1089/jop.2014.0122. Epub
2015 Sep 8.

Comparison of Ocular Pulse Amplitude-Lowering Effects of Tafluprost and
Latanoprost by Dynamic Contour Tonometry.

Park SH(1), Yoo SH(1), Ha SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Soonchunhyang University College of Medicine,
Soonchunhyang University Seoul Hospital , Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: A prospective study was performed to compare the ocular pulse amplitude 
(OPA)-lowering effects of tafluprost and latanoprost, used in the treatment of
glaucoma, using dynamic contour tonometry.
METHODS: The study population consisted of patients with normal-tension glaucoma 
(NTG) (n = 27) or primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) (n = 14) treated with
tafluprost and latanoprost. All patients were newly diagnosed with NTG and POAG
and had undergone no previous treatment. Intraocular pressure (IOP) was measured 
by Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT), OPA was measured by dynamic contour
tonometry, and corrected OPA (cOPA) was calculated before and after 1 week, 1-3
months of treatment.
RESULTS: Initial IOP and OPA were 17.12 ± 3.75, 2.30 ± 0.56 mmHg and
17.53 ± 2.87, 2.65 ± 0.94 mmHg in the tafluprost and latanoprost groups,
respectively. After 3 months of treatment, IOP and OPA were 13.00 ± 2.04 mmHg
(24.1%) and 1.51 ± 0.30 mmHg (34.3%), respectively, in the tafluprost group.
These values were 15.40 ± 2.32 mmHg (12.2%) and 2.08 ± 0.83 mmHg (21.5%),
respectively, in the latanoprost group. Therefore, tafluprost significantly
reduced IOP (P = 0.01), but OPA-lowering effects did not differ significantly
between the 2 groups (P = 0.17). However, the cOPA-lowering effect of tafluprost 
(1.27 mmHg, 55.2%) was significantly greater than that of latanoprost (0.84 mmHg,
31.7%) after 3 months of treatment (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Tafluprost and latanoprost, used to treat glaucoma, have marked
OPA-lowering effects as well as IOP-lowering effects. Moreover, tafluprost has a 
greater effect than latanoprost. Therefore, it can be used for patients in need
of IOP reduction and at risk of glaucoma progression.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2014.0122 
PMID: 26348718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


157. J Glaucoma. 2016 Jun;25(6):487-92. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000316.

Vitamin A Palmitate and Carbomer Gel Protects the Conjunctiva of Patients With
Long-term Prostaglandin Analogs Application.

Cui X(1), Xiang J, Zhu W, Wei A, Le Q, Xu J, Zhou X.

Author information: 
(1)*Ophthalmology Department, Eye and ENT Hospital of Fudan University
†Ophthalmology Department, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: To investigate the protective effects of vitamin A palmitate and
carbomer gel on the morphology of conjunctival epithelium and density of goblet
cells (GCs) in patients on long-term prostaglandin analogs (PGAs) application.
METHODS: In this prospective cohort study, 23 primary open-angle glaucoma
patients and 7 normal-tension glaucoma patients prescribed PGAs for >1 year were 
enrolled into 3 identical clinical trials and randomized into 3 groups (10 per
group). Patients were treated twice daily with vitamin A palmitate eye gel 0.1%, 
or carbomer eye gel 0.2%, or no additional application of these 2 drugs. Ocular
surface disease index questionnaires, Schirmer 1 test without anesthesia, tear
break-up time test, and GCs density assessment by in vivo confocal microscopy and
conjunctival impression cytology analysis were performed at baseline and at
months 1, 3, and 6 of the study.
RESULTS: Both vitamin A palmitate and carbomer gel led to a significant
improvement in ocular surface disease index questionnaires score and prevented
the gradual decline in tear break-up time. Vitamin A palmitate significantly
increased the GC density after treatment. The GC density assessed by in vivo
confocal microscopy positively correlated with that measured by conjunctival
impression cytology.
CONCLUSIONS: Vitamin A palmitate and carbomer eye gel can effectively relieve dry
eye symptom caused by long-term application of PGAs by increasing the GCs density
and thereby reducing the toxicity to the conjunctiva. Vitamin A palmitate and
carbomer eye gel may be valuable alternatives for glaucoma patients who
prescribed long-term PGAs.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000316 
PMID: 26317483  [PubMed - in process]


158. Open Ophthalmol J. 2015 Jun 26;9:116-20. doi: 10.2174/1874364101509010116.
eCollection 2015.

Long Term Results of Visual Field Progression Analysis in Open Angle Glaucoma
Patients Under Treatment.

Kocatürk T(1), Bekmez S(1), Katrancı M(2), Çakmak H(1), Dayanır V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Adnan Menderes University,
Aydın, Turkey. (2)Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Medicine, Adnan
Menderes University, Aydın, Turkey.

PURPOSE: To evaluate visual field progression with trend and event analysis in
open angle glaucoma patients under treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifteen year follow-up results of 408 eyes of 217 glaucoma
patients who were followed at Adnan Menderes University, Department of
Ophthalmology between 1998 and 2013 were analyzed retrospectively. Visual field
data were collected for Mean Deviation (MD), Visual Field Index (VFI), and event 
occurrence.
RESULTS: There were 146 primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 123 pseudoexfoliative
glaucoma (XFG) and 139 normal tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes. MD showed significant 
change in all diagnostic groups (p<0.001). The difference of VFI between first
and last examinations were significantly different in POAG (p<0.001), and XFG
(p<0.003) but not in NTG. VFI progression rates were -0.3, -0.43, and -0.2 %
loss/year in treated POAG, XFG, and NTG, respectively. The number of empty
triangles were statistically different between POAG-NTG (p=0.001), and XFG-NTG
(p=0.002) groups. The number of half-filled (p=0.002), and full-filled (p=0.010) 
triangles were significantly different between XFG-NTG groups.
CONCLUSION: Functional long-term follow-up of glaucoma patients can be monitored 
with visual field indices. We herein report our fifteen year follow-up results in
open angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2174/1874364101509010116 
PMCID: PMC4541337
PMID: 26311586  [PubMed]


159. BMC Ophthalmol. 2015 Aug 26;15:115. doi: 10.1186/s12886-015-0104-1.

Is it necessary to cover the macular hole with the inverted internal limiting
membrane flap in macular hole surgery? A case report.

Chung CY(1,)(2), Wong DS(3), Li KK(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, United Christian Hospital, Room A, 1/F, Block G, 
130 Hip Wo Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. chungchungyee@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong
Kong, Room 301, Level 3, Block B, Cyberport 4, 100 Cyberport Road, Hong Kong,
Hong Kong. chungchungyee@gmail.com. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, LKS Faculty
of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Room 301, Level 3, Block B, Cyberport
4, 100 Cyberport Road, Hong Kong, Hong Kong. shdwong@hku.hk. (4)Department of
Ophthalmology, United Christian Hospital, Room A, 1/F, Block G, 130 Hip Wo
Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. kennethli@rcsed.ac.uk. (5)Department of
Ophthalmology, LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Room 301,
Level 3, Block B, Cyberport 4, 100 Cyberport Road, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
kennethli@rcsed.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: To report a case of late closure of idiopathic full-thickness macular
hole (FTMH) after vitrectomy with the inverted internal limiting membrane (ILM)
technique.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 68-year-old lady with a stage IV FTMH underwent pars plana
vitrectomy with 25 gauge plus transconjunctival system, ILM peeling and gas
tamponade. The inverted ILM flap technique was adopted, except that no extra
surgical manipulation was used to cover the macular hole with the ILM flap.
Surgical outcome was monitored with serial optical coherence tomography (OCT).
Complete closure of the FTMH with resolution of intraretinal cystic changes was
confirmed on OCT at 16 months postoperatively. Visual acuity improved from a
baseline level of 0.1 to 0.4.
CONCLUSION: Idiopathic macular hole closure could be delayed to beyond 1 year
following the inverted ILM flap technique, especially if the macular hole was not
covered with the ILM flap. Not all macular holes that fail to close in the early 
postoperative period need to be re-operated and there may be no risk of further
visual deterioration.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-015-0104-1 
PMCID: PMC4550061
PMID: 26307540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


160. BMC Res Notes. 2015 Aug 19;8:360. doi: 10.1186/s13104-015-1339-x.

Characteristics of patients with primary open angle glaucoma and normal tension
glaucoma at a university hospital: a cross-sectional retrospective study.

Yokoyama Y(1), Maruyama K(2), Konno H(3), Hashimoto S(4), Takahashi M(5), Kayaba 
H(6), Kokubun T(7), Nakazawa T(8,)(9,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
1-1, Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan.
yu-yokoyama@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku
University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1, Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai,
Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan. maruyama-k@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1, Seiryo-machi, 
Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan. konno-h@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
1-1, Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan.
hashimoto-s@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku
University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1, Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai,
Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan. tsukanishi-m@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp. (6)Department of
Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1, Seiryo-machi, 
Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan. kobayashi-h@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
1-1, Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan.
t-kokubun@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp. (8)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University
Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1, Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi,
980-8574, Japan. ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp. (9)Department of Retinal Disease
Control, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Miyagi, Japan.
ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp. (10)Department of Advanced Ophthalmic Medicine,
Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Miyagi, Japan.
ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: The characteristics of glaucoma patients and their response to
therapy may differ by institution, region and country. Therefore, clinicians
should understand the distinctiveness of their patients. Here, we profile primary
open angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients at a major 
university hospital in Japan.
METHODS: This study included 523 eyes from 523 POAG and NTG patients who
underwent full clinical ophthalmologic evaluations at Tohoku University Hospital.
Clinical characteristics such as age, sex, visual acuity, intraocular pressure,
Humphrey field analyzer-measured mean deviation (MD) and MD slope were collected 
retrospectively. MD slope was calculated from MD data that included the first
baseline measurement of MD and 4 subsequent, consecutive, reliable measurements
of MD. Refractive error was analyzed in a subgroup with no history of refractive 
surgery, including intraocular lens implantation. Patient characteristics were
analyzed separately in the groups of patients with low (<15 mmHg) and high IOP
(≥15 mmHg) and in the groups with MD slope ≥-1.0 and <-1.0 dB/year.
RESULTS: Mean age, visual acuity (median), IOP, pre-treatment IOP (from patient
history), refractive error and MD were 61.7 ± 12.5 years, -0.08 (interquartile
range -0.08 to 0.05) LogMAR, 13.87 ± 3.37 mmHg, 18.35 ± 6.26 mmHg, -4.48 ± 3.81
diopters and -11.73 ± 8.83 dB, respectively. POAG and NTG patients had
significant differences in mean age (63.4 ± 12.4 vs. 60.7 ± 12.5 years, P <
0.01), visual acuity, IOP (14.95 ± 4.20 vs. 13.21 ± 2.54 mmHg, P < 0.01) and MD
(-13.85 ± 9.32 vs. -10.45 ± 8.27 dB, P < 0.01). Interestingly, MD slope was
slightly steeper in the low-IOP group than in the high-IOP group, although the
difference was not statistically significant (-0.85 vs. -0.70 dB/year, P = 0.31).
Baseline MD was significantly worse in the group with MD slope <-1.0 dB/year than
in the group with MD slope ≥-1.0 dB/year (-11.56 vs. -7.64 dB/year, P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: We identified characteristics of glaucoma patients at a university
hospital that may reflect the specialized nature of such an institution.

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-015-1339-x 
PMCID: PMC4541728
PMID: 26286038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


161. J Neuroophthalmol. 2015 Sep;35 Suppl 1:S4-7. doi: 10.1097/WNO.0000000000000297.

Phenotypic differences in normal vs high tension glaucoma.

Pruzan NL(1), Myers JS.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

BACKGROUND: Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and high tension open angle glaucoma
(HTG) are associated with characteristic patterns of optic nerve findings and
corresponding patterns of visual field loss. In the past, clinicians viewed NTG
and HTG as distinct entities, with separate underlying pathophysiologies and
often different clinical presentations and courses.
METHODS: Literature review.
RESULTS: Optic nerve and visual field findings in NTG have been reported to be
dissimilar to those in HTG. In more recent years, however, there has been
increasing recognition of the shared features NTG and HTG.
CONCLUSION: There is now a trend to consider these two entities as part of a
spectrum of glaucoma with overlapping pathophysiology and clinical
characteristics.

DOI: 10.1097/WNO.0000000000000297 
PMID: 26274836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Apr;100(4):537-41. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-306861.
Epub 2015 Aug 12.

Postural and diurnal fluctuations in intraocular pressure across the spectrum of 
glaucoma.

Gautam N(1), Kaur S(1), Kaushik S(1), Raj S(1), Pandav SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Eye Centre, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research,
Chandigarh, India.

AIMS: To evaluate postural fluctuations (PFs) and diurnal variation (DV) of
intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with untreated glaucoma, glaucoma suspects
and healthy volunteers, and study their relationship, if any, to the extent of
glaucomatous damage.
METHODS: This prospective, observational cross-sectional study was carried out in
a tertiary care referral institution. The patient population included five groups
of patients comprising the following: 19 with ocular hypertension (OHT), 26 with 
optic discs suspicious for glaucoma (DS), 18 with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), 
19 with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and 20 normal subjects. The IOP was
measured at four time periods using Perkins tonometer, in sitting and supine
positions. The main outcome measures were change in IOP with posture, the DV in
both postures and the relationship between PF, DV and the extent of visual field 
damage.
RESULTS: The supine IOP was significantly higher than the sitting IOP, at all
time points of the day, in all groups (p<0.001). The PF at 04:30 was
significantly higher in POAG, OHT and NTG. The PF at 09:00 correlated
significantly with the mean deviation (MD) on visual fields in the NTG group
(r=0.735; p=0.001). The DV did not correlate with the MD in any of the five
groups studied.
CONCLUSIONS: The significantly higher supine IOP is frequently missed in routine 
glaucoma practice. An early morning supine IOP measurement may reveal a peak IOP 
hitherto not picked up during routine office IOP measurements, and may be a
useful measurement in unexplained progressive glaucoma.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-306861 
PMID: 26269532  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Ophthalmology. 2016 Jan;123(1):92-101. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.07.002. Epub
2015 Aug 8.

The Association of Refractive Error with Glaucoma in a Multiethnic Population.

Shen L(1), Melles RB(2), Metlapally R(3), Barcellos L(4), Schaefer C(5), Risch
N(6), Herrinton LJ(5), Wildsoet C(3), Jorgenson E(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland,
California; Division of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of
California - Berkeley, Berkeley, California. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
Redwood City Medical Center, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Redwood City,
California. (3)School of Optometry/Vision Science Program, University of
California - Berkeley, Berkeley, California. (4)Division of Epidemiology, School 
of Public Health, University of California - Berkeley, Berkeley, California.
(5)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland,
California. (6)Institute for Human Genetics, University of California San
Francisco - San Francisco, California; Department of Epidemiology and
Biostatistics, University of California - San Francisco, San Francisco,
California. (7)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California,
Oakland, California. Electronic address: eric.jorgenson@kp.org.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2016 Jan;123(1):7-8.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association between refractive error and the prevalence 
of glaucoma by race or ethnicity.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Kaiser Permanente Northern California Health Plan members with
refractive error measured at 35 years of age or older between 2008 and 2014 and
with no history of cataract surgery, refractive surgery, or a corneal disorder.
METHODS: We identified 34 040 members with glaucoma or ocular hypertension (OHTN;
cases) and 403 398 members without glaucoma (controls). Glaucoma cases were
classified as primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG); 1 of the 4 forms of
open-angle glaucoma: primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension glaucoma 
(NTG), pigmentary glaucoma (PIGM), and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEX); or OHTN.
Refractive error, expressed as spherical equivalent (SE), was coded as a
continuous trait and also as categories. Logistic regression analyses were used
to estimate the association between refractive error and the prevalence of
glaucoma overall and in specific racial or ethnic groups.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The association between refractive error and glaucoma
subtypes evaluated as odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: In controls, the mean SE was -0.59 diopters (D) (standard deviation,
2.62 D). Each 1-D reduction in SE was associated with a 22% decrease in the odds 
of PACG (OR, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.77-0.80) and with increases in the odds of
open-angle glaucoma ranging from 1.23 (95% CI, 1.20-1.26) for PIGM, to 1.07 (95% 
CI, 1.03-1.11) for PEX, and to 1.05 (95% CI, 1.04-1.06) for OHTN. In addition, we
observed a stronger association between myopia and POAG among non-Hispanic whites
(OR, 1.12; 95% CI, 1.11-1.13) and NTG among Asians (OR, 1.17; 95% CI, 1.15-1.20) 
and non-Hispanic whites (OR, 1.19; 95% CI, 1.15-1.22).
CONCLUSIONS: Myopia was associated with an increased prevalence of all forms of
open-angle glaucoma and OHTN, whereas hyperopia was associated with a
substantially increased prevalence of PACG. Although high myopia is a strong risk
factor for glaucoma subtypes, low and moderate myopia also have a significant
effect on glaucoma risk. Additionally, there were moderate racial differences in 
the association of myopia with the risk of POAG and NTG.

Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.07.002 
PMCID: PMC4695304
PMID: 26260281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Aug;56(9):5271-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17062.

Relationship Between Nocturnal Intraocular Pressure Elevation and Diurnal
Intraocular Pressure Level in Normal-Tension Glaucoma Patients.

Moon Y(1), Lee JY(1), Jeong DW(1), Kim S(1), Han S(2), Kook MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology College of Medicine, University of Ulsan, Asan
Medical Center, Seoul, Korea. (2)Division of Biostatistics, Center for Medical
Research and Information, College of Medicine, University of Ulsan, Asan Medical 
Center, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: We studied the relationship between nocturnal habitual position IOP
elevation and diurnal IOP level in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: A total of 70 young NTG patients with a low diurnal IOP level (mean
diurnal seated IOP < 15.0 mm Hg; low IOP group) and 79 age-, axial length-, and
disease severity-matched NTG patients with a high diurnal IOP level (mean diurnal
seated IOP ≥ 15.0 mm Hg; high IOP group) were recruited prospectively.
Intraocular pressure was recorded 11 times over a 24-hour period by a single,
well-trained ophthalmology resident using a hand-held tonometer.
RESULTS: The mean habitual position IOP during nighttime (14.2 mm Hg) was
significantly higher than that of daytime (12.8 mm Hg) in the low IOP group (P < 
0.001), whereas no such difference was found in the high IOP group (16.4 vs. 16.3
mm Hg, P = 0.706). The low IOP group showed an overall nocturnal acrophase in
habitual-position IOP, with 11 patients (15.7%) having a diurnal, 30 (42.8%) a
nocturnal, and 29 (41.4%) no evident acrophase. By contrast, the high IOP group
showed no evident peak in habitual-position IOP, with 28 patients (35.4%) having 
a diurnal, 12 (15.2%) a nocturnal, and 39 (49.4%) no evident acrophase.
CONCLUSIONS: In NTG eyes with a low diurnal IOP, there are significant IOP
increases at nighttime in the habitual position, whereas there is no significant 
nocturnal IOP elevation in NTG eyes with a high diurnal IOP.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17062 
PMID: 26258611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Aug;56(9):5238-45. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17059.

The Relationship Between Helicobacter pylori Infection and Open-Angle Glaucoma: A
Meta-Analysis.

Zeng J, Liu H, Liu X, Ding C.

Comment in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Dec;56(13):8029-30.

PURPOSE: Previous studies assessed the associations between Helicobacter pylori
infection and open-angle glaucoma (OAG) and produced inconsistent results.
Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to evaluate the effects of H. pylori
infection on OAG risk.
METHODS: Relevant studies that reported the associations between H. pylori
infection and OAG were identified through an extensive search of the Exerpta
Medica Database (EMBASE), Web of Science, and PubMed databases in English and
Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure, VIP, and Wan Fang databases in
Chinese, and by reviewing the reference lists of the key articles. The summary
odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated using the
random-effects model.
RESULTS: This meta-analysis involved 695 glaucoma patients and 1580 control
individuals. The overall combined ORs showed a significant correlation between H.
pylori infection and OAG (OR = 2.08, 95% CI = 1.42-3.04). The subgroup analysis
showed the association of H. pylori infection with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG; OR = 3.06, 95% CI = 1.27-2.46) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG; OR =
1.77, 95% CI = 1.76-5.34), but not with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PXFG; OR =
1.46, 95% CI = 0.40-5.30).
CONCLUSIONS: The result of this meta-analysis suggested a statistically
significant association between H. pylori infection and OAG. Further analysis
showed that this positive relation is observed only in POAG and NTG patients, but
not in the PXFG patients.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17059 
PMID: 26258610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2016 Mar;51:107-24. doi: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2015.07.006.
Epub 2015 Jul 29.

Clinical impact of migraine for the management of glaucoma patients.

Nguyen BN(1), Lek JJ(2), Vingrys AJ(2), McKendrick AM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences, The University of Melbourne,
Parkville, Victoria, Australia. Electronic address: bnguyen@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences, The University of Melbourne,
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

Migraine is a common and debilitating primary headache disorder that affects
10-15% of the general population, particularly people of working age. Migraine is
relevant to providers of clinical eye-care because migraine attacks are
associated with a range of visual sensory symptoms, and because of growing
evidence that the results of standard tests of visual function necessary for the 
diagnosis and monitoring of glaucoma (visual fields, electrophysiology, ocular
imaging) can be abnormal due to migraine. These abnormalities are measureable
in-between migraine events (the interictal period), despite patients being
asymptomatic and otherwise healthy. This picture is further complicated by
epidemiological data that suggests an increased prevalence of migraine in
patients with glaucoma, particularly in patients with normal tension glaucoma. We
discuss how migraine, as a co-morbidity, can confound the results and
interpretation of clinical tests that form part of contemporary glaucoma
evaluation, and provide practical evidence-based recommendations for the clinical
testing and management of patients with migraine who attend eye-care settings.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2015.07.006 
PMID: 26232725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Jul;56(8):5012-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17142.

Spermidine Ameliorates Neurodegeneration in a Mouse Model of Normal Tension
Glaucoma.

Noro T(1), Namekata K(2), Azuchi Y(2), Kimura A(2), Guo X(2), Harada C(2), Nakano
T(3), Tsuneoka H(3), Harada T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Visual Research Project Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
Tokyo, Japan 2Department of Ophthalmology, The Jikei University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Visual Research Project Tokyo Metropolitan Institute
of Medical Science, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, The Jikei
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To assess the therapeutic potential of spermidine in mice with
excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) deletion (EAAC1 knockout [KO] mice), a
mouse model of normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Spermidine, at 30 mM in drinking water, was administered to EAAC1 KO
mice from 5 to 12 weeks old. Optical coherence tomography, multifocal
electroretinograms, and the measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) were
performed at 5, 8, and 12 weeks old. Histopathology analyses were carried out at 
8 and 12 weeks old, and immunoblot and immunohistochemical analyses of
4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE) in the retina were performed at 8 weeks old.
RESULTS: Spermidine ameliorated retinal degeneration and improved visual function
in EAAC1 KO mice at both 8 and 12 weeks old, without affecting IOP. A significant
increase of 4-HNE was observed in vehicle-treated EAAC1 KO mice, but spermidine
treatment reduced this increase, suggesting that spermidine alleviated the
severity of the glaucoma-like phenotype by acting as an antioxidant.
CONCLUSIONS: The results from this study suggest that oral spermidine
administration could be a useful treatment for retinal degenerative disorders
including glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17142 
PMID: 26230766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 Jul 23;9:1373-8. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S86450. eCollection
2015.

Relationship between progression of visual field defect and intraocular pressure 
in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Naito T(1), Yoshikawa K(2), Mizoue S(3), Nanno M(4), Kimura T(5), Suzumura H(6), 
Shiraga F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine,
Okayama, Japan. (2)Yoshikawa Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Ehime University Graduate School of Medicine, Ehime, Japan.
(4)Kagurazaka Minamino Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. (5)Ueno Eye Clinic, Tokyo,
Japan. (6)Suzumura Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To analyze the relationship between intraocular pressure (IOP) and the
progression of visual field defects in Japanese primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The subjects of the study were patients undergoing
treatment for POAG or NTG who had performed visual field tests at least ten times
with a Humphrey field analyzer (Swedish interactive thresholding algorithm
standard, C30-2 program). The progression of visual field defects was defined by 
a significantly negative value of the mean deviation slope at the final visual
field test during the follow-up period. The relationships between the progression
of visual field defects and IOP, as well as other clinical factors, were
retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 156 eyes of 156 patients were included in the analysis.
Significant progression of visual field defects was observed in 70 eyes of 70
patients (44.9%), while no significant progression was evident in 86 eyes of 86
patients (55.1%). The eyes with visual field defect progression had significantly
lower baseline IOP (P<0.05), as well as significantly lower IOP reduction rate
(P<0.01). The standard deviation of IOP values during follow-up was significantly
greater in the eyes with visual field defect progression than in eyes without
(P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Reducing IOP is thought to be useful for Japanese POAG or NTG
patients to suppress the progression of visual field defects. In NTG, IOP
management should take into account not only achieving the target IOP, but also
minimizing the fluctuation of IOP during follow-up period.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S86450 
PMCID: PMC4516176
PMID: 26229431  [PubMed]


169. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 Jul 22;9:1365. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S91388. eCollection 2015.

Erratum: The efficacy and safety of add-on 0.1% brimonidine tartrate preserved
with sodium chlorite in on-treatment Japanese normal-tension glaucoma patients
[Corrigendum].

[No authors listed]

Erratum for
    Clin Ophthalmol. 2014;8:1681-7.

[This corrects the article on p. 1681 in vol. 8, PMID: 25214761.].

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S91388 
PMCID: PMC4516178
PMID: 26229429  [PubMed]


170. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2015 Sep;59(5):312-7. doi: 10.1007/s10384-015-0398-9. Epub 2015
Jul 30.

Changes in filtering bleb morphology after bleb-related infection.

Sawada A(1), Kuwayama Y(2), Yamamoto T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1 
Yanagido, Gifu-shi, 501-1194, Japan. sawadaa-gif@umin.ac.jp. (2)Fukushima Eye
Clinic, Osaka, Japan. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate
School of Medicine, 1-1 Yanagido, Gifu-shi, 501-1194, Japan.

PURPOSE: To verify, by use of data collected by the Japan Glaucoma Society Survey
of Bleb-related Infection (JGSSBI), that bleb morphology changes within 12 months
of the development of bleb-related infection.
METHODS: JGSSBI data from 57 eyes of 57 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
and normal tension glaucoma who developed a bleb-related infection were analyzed.
Morphological features of the blebs were graded by use of a predetermined grading
system. Multiple logistic regression analysis was conducted to identify factors
relating to bleb morphology which were associated with poor outcome.
RESULTS: Bleb sizes, including both circumferential and tangential lengths, were 
significantly smaller for stage IIIa/IIIb infections than for stage I/II bleb
infections (P = 0.009 and P = 0.026 for the circumferential and tangential
lengths, respectively; Fisher's direct probability test). The bleb wall also
became significantly thicker during stage IIIa/IIIb infections (P = 0.003). After
infection, intraocular pressure (IOP) increased significantly for all cases but
was no different in the three subgroups (i.e. stage I, stage II, and stage
IIIa/IIIb bleb infections). Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that a
stage III infection was significantly associated with a poor outcome for the
bleb.
CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed that the filtering bleb became smaller, both
tangentially and circumferentially, and thicker, after stage III infections than 
after stage I or II infections.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-015-0398-9 
PMID: 26220820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 Jul 13;9:1275-84. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S85851. eCollection
2015.

Prevalence of comorbid retinal disease in patients with glaucoma at an academic
medical center.

Griffith JF(1), Goldberg JL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cole Eye Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, USA. (2)Shiley
Eye Center, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients with various retinal diseases and patients who have
undergone retinal procedures and surgeries have an increased risk of developing
ocular hypertension and glaucoma. Little is known about the epidemiology of
comorbid retinal diseases in glaucoma patients. This study evaluated the
prevalence of retinal comorbidities in a population of patients with five types
of glaucoma.
METHODS: A longitudinal, retrospective study was conducted using International
Classification of Disease (ICD-9) billing records from 2003 to 2010 at an
academic medical center. Patients were classified as having primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG), low tension open-angle glaucoma (NTG), pigmentary open-angle
glaucoma, chronic-angle closure glaucoma (CACG), or pseudoexfoliation glaucoma
(PXG) if they had at least three clinic visits with the same ICD-9 code. Patients
were classified as having a retinal comorbidity if they had two visits with the
same code. Variables were analyzed with the independent t-test, χ (2) test,
analysis of variance, or Fisher's exact test.
RESULTS: A total of 5,154 patients had glaucoma, and 14.8% of these had a retinal
comorbidity. The prevalence of comorbid retinal disease was higher in patients
with POAG (15.7%) than in those with NTG (10.7%), PXG (10.1%), or pigmentary
open-angle glaucoma (3.7%; P<0.05). Two hundred and two patients had diabetic
retinopathy, with POAG patients (4.5%) having a higher prevalence than those with
CACG (1.4%) or PXG (0.6%; P<0.001). There were 297 patients who had macular
degeneration and both POAG (2.0%) and PXG patients (2.9%) had a higher prevalence
of nonexudative macular degeneration than those with CACG (0%; P<0.01). Patients 
with comorbid retinal disease had a higher prevalence of blindness and low vision
than those without comorbid retinal disease (1.97% versus 1.02%, P=0.02).
CONCLUSION: The high prevalence of comorbid retinal disease and the nearly
twofold increase in blindness and low vision in this population demonstrate the
need for ophthalmologists to determine if patients have multiple etiologies for
their vision loss. The higher prevalence of certain retinal diseases in POAG
patients may reflect common pathophysiological processes that warrant further
investigation.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S85851 
PMCID: PMC4508087
PMID: 26203217  [PubMed]


172. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2015 Sep;59(5):325-34. doi: 10.1007/s10384-015-0392-2. Epub
2015 Jul 23.

Bimatoprost 0.01 % for previously treated patients with open-angle glaucoma or
ocular hypertension in the Korean clinical setting.

Kook MS(1), Simonyi S(2), Sohn YH(3), Kim CY(4), Park KH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Asan Medical Centre, 388-1 Pungnap-dong,
Songpa-Gu, Seoul, Korea. mskook@amc.seoul.kr. (2)Allergan Singapore Pte, Ltd.,
Mapletree Business City, Singapore, Singapore. (3)Kim's Eye Hospital, Seoul,
Korea. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei University, College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the occurrence of hyperemia with, and efficacy of,
bimatoprost 0.01 % for patients in Korea previously treated for open-angle
glaucoma (OAG; including normal tension glaucoma) or ocular hypertension (OHT).
METHODS: In this multicenter, observational study (Asia Pacific Patterns from
Early Access of Lumigan 0.01 % in Korea; APPEAL Korea), patients with unachieved 
target intraocular pressure (IOP) despite previous treatment received bimatoprost
0.01 % daily for 12 weeks. The primary endpoint was incidence of hyperemia and
its severity, graded using the standard 5-point photographic scale and grouped as
"none to mild" and "moderate to severe". Hyperemia shifts were reported. IOP and 
adverse events (AEs) were recorded.
RESULTS: Of 800 patients (intent-to-treat/safety population), 248 were switched
from previous treatment to bimatoprost 0.01 % monotherapy. Hyperemia shifts from 
baseline at weeks 6 and 12 were unchanged (84.8, 89.8 %), improved (4.4, 4.8 %), 
or worsened (10.8, 5.4 %), respectively. The shift was significant at week 6 (P <
0.0001). Hyperemia did not worsen significantly in patients previously receiving 
a prostaglandin analog or prostamide (PGA/PSD). Baseline mean IOP ± SD was 17.0 ±
5.7 mmHg, decreasing to 14.6 ± 3.8 mmHg (P < 0.0001) after 6 weeks, and to 14.7 ±
3.6 mmHg (P < 0.0001) after 12 weeks. Patients switched from PGA or PSD
(excluding bimatoprost 0.03 %) to bimatoprost 0.01 % experienced significant IOP 
reductions from baseline. Treatment-related ocular AEs were reported by 37
patients, the most common being hyperemia (7.3 %).
CONCLUSIONS: This subanalysis of the APPEAL Korea study supports use of
bimatoprost 0.01 % for previously treated patients with OAG (including normal
tension glaucoma) or OHT who did not reach target IOP or were intolerant of
previous treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-015-0392-2 
PMID: 26202440  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Mar;100(3):332-8. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-306872.
Epub 2015 Jul 21.

Trabeculectomy for normal tension glaucoma: outcomes using the Moorfields Safer
Surgery technique.

Jayaram H(1), Strouthidis NG(2), Kamal DS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK NIHR Biomedical Research
Centre for Ophthalmology, UCL Institute of Ophthalmology & Moorfields Eye
Hospital, London, UK Casey Eye Institute, Portland, Oregon, USA. (2)Glaucoma
Service, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for 
Ophthalmology, UCL Institute of Ophthalmology & Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, 
UK Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore, Singapore Discipline of Clinical 
Ophthalmology and Eye Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia. (3)Glaucoma Service, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK.

AIMS: To evaluate long-term outcomes and complications of trabeculectomy for
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) with contemporary surgical techniques.
METHODS: Retrospective consecutive, non-comparative case series of 131 eyes of 98
patients undergoing trabeculectomy between 2007 and 2013 in a dedicated NTG
clinic. Data collected during routine clinical care were analysed. Assessment of 
clinical outcomes included intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction, bleb function,
final visual acuity, evidence of glaucoma progression, postoperative
complications and further surgical intervention. Surgical failure was defined as 
a failure to meet specified IOP-related criteria, the need to undergo further
glaucoma surgery for raised IOP or loss of light perception vision. A further
analysis was also performed which considered failure as glaucoma progression
following surgery. Outcomes were evaluated using Kaplan-Meier life-table
analysis.
RESULTS: The cumulative percentages of unqualified success as defined by a ≥30%
reduction of IOP from baseline preoperative maximum (95% CI; IOP of all eyes:
mean±SD) at 1, 2, 3 and 4 years after surgery were 91.1% (84.1% to 95.1%;
9.7±2.9 mm Hg), 74.1% (63.7% to 81.8%; 10.3±3.0 mm Hg), 64.8% (52.7% to 74.6%;
10.6±2.5 mm Hg) and 62.1% (49.3% to 72.6%; 10.2±2.1 mm Hg), respectively. At
2 years of follow-up there was no significant association between either previous
cataract surgery or ethnicity and failure. Cumulative percentages of unqualified 
success at 4 years after surgery as defined by a filtering trabeculectomy bleb or
absence of glaucoma progression were 91.6% (83.2% to 95.9%) and 92.3% (81.3% to
97.0%), respectively. Postoperative complications such as early (2.3%) and late
(0.8%) hypotony were significantly lower than suggested by the current
literature.
CONCLUSIONS: Trabeculectomy in NTG patients undertaken using contemporary
surgical techniques and intensive postoperative management is associated with
more successful long-term outcomes and fewer complications than the currently
available literature suggests.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-306872 
PMID: 26198279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Oct;160(4):845-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.06.021. Epub 2015
Jul 16.

Reply: To PMID 26052089.

Lee J(1), Choi J(1), Jeong D(1), Kim S(1), Kook MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Seoul, South Korea.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Oct;160(4):844-5.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Sep;160(3):522-537.e1.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.06.021 
PMID: 26188602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Glaucoma. 2016 Feb;25(2):e94-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000269.

Plasma Homocysteine, Serum Folic Acid, Serum Vitamin B12, Serum Vitamin B6,
MTHFR, and Risk of Normal-Tension Glaucoma.

Li J(1), Xu F, Zeng R, Gong H, Lan Y.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital †Zhongshan
Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, P.R. China.

BACKGROUND: This meta-analysis aims to comprehensively evaluate the association
between total homocysteine (tHcy) levels, serum folic acid, vitamin B12, vitamin 
B6 levels, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T genotype, and risk
of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic search of the EMBASE and PubMed databases was
performed to evaluate plasma tHcy levels, serum folic acid, B vitamins' mean
difference, and odds ratios of MTHFR C677T genotype between cases and controls.
RESULTS: A total of 7 studies including 458 cases and 555 controls meeting the
inclusion criteria were involved in this meta-analysis. There were 4 studies for 
tHcy (149 cases and 148 controls), 2 studies for vitamin B6, vitamin B12, and
folate (90 cases and 82 controls), and 4 studies for MTHFR (343 cases and 449
controls). Overall, the mean plasma tHcy levels, serum folic acids, vitamin B12, 
and vitamin B6 levels were 1.16 μmol/L [95% confidence interval (CI), -0.13,
2.45], -0.62 μmol/L (95% CI, -1.98, 0.74), 5.81 μmol/L (95% CI, -3.53, 15.14),
and -16.79 μmol/L (95% CI, -86.09, 52.51). MTHFR TT genotype was found to be
unrelated to NTG risk (odds ratio=1.08; 95% CI, 0.69, 1.69).
CONCLUSION: NTG is not associated with elevated plasma tHcy, serum folic acid,
serum vitamin B12, serum vitamin B6, and MTHFR C677T genotype.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000269 
PMID: 26171850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Oct;160(4):844-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.06.022. Epub 2015
Jul 11.

Relationship Between Daytime Variability of Blood Pressure or Ocular Perfusion
Pressure and Glaucomatous Visual Field Progression.

Sodhi PK(1), Chawla AK(1).

Author information: 
(1)New Delhi, India.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Oct;160(4):845-6.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Sep;160(3):522-537.e1.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.06.022 
PMID: 26168915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2016 Jan;233(1):72-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1545993. Epub
2015 Jul 13.

[Ganglion Cell Complex Map for Detecting Early Damage in High Tension and Normal 
Tension Glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Vidinova CN(1), Gouguchkova PT(2), Vidinov KN(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Military Medical Academy, Sofia, "Khan Asparuh", 
Bulgaria. (2)Retina, Eye Hospital "Pro Light", Sofia, Bulgaria. (3)Department of 
Endocrine Ophthalmology, Medical Academy Sofia, Bulgaria.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness
worldwide. We aimed to compare the findings of a ganglion cell complex (GCC) test
with a test of the retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) in high and normal tension
glaucoma patients.
METHODS: Sixty-two patients were enrolled in the study: 12 glaucoma suspects, 30 
with diagnosed glaucoma and 20 with normal tension glaucoma. All subjects had
visual acuity testing, tonometry, computer perimetry (Humphrey) and optical
coherence tomography (OCT) with an OCT RTvue (RNFL 3.45, NHM4 and GCC).
RESULTS: In 58 % of the glaucoma suspects, there were no changes in the perimetry
results, as well as with OCT. In 42 % of the subjects, pathological changes in
the GCC map preceded those of the RNFL. In patients with HTG, an almost linear
correlation was found between the RNFL changes and GCC alterations. Statistical
analysis showed that, in glaucoma suspects, the diagnostic value of the average
GCC thickness was more significant than the average NFL thickness (0.90 [0.02] to
0.78 [0.02] µm). In 56 % of normal tension glaucoma patients, changes in the RNFL
prevailed over those in the GCC.
CONCLUSIONS: OCT diagnosis is an important tool for detecting early glaucoma
changes. In glaucoma suspects, however, GCC changes can be more sensitive. In
NTG, the results are still considered controversial. Nevertheless, in the
majority of subjects, the RNFL changes prevailed over the GCC changes. The
findings in NTG are similar to those in neurological diseases such as multiple
sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1545993 
PMID: 26167636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Mar;144:73-80. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.06.029. Epub 2015 Jul
2.

Optineurin: The autophagy connection.

Ying H(1), Yue BY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Illinois at
Chicago, College of Medicine, 1855 W. Taylor Street, Chicago, IL 60612, USA.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Illinois at
Chicago, College of Medicine, 1855 W. Taylor Street, Chicago, IL 60612, USA.
Electronic address: beatyue@uic.edu.

Optineurin is a cytosolic protein encoded by the OPTN gene. Mutations of OPTN are
associated with normal tension glaucoma and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Autophagy is an intracellular degradation system that delivers cytoplasmic
components to the lysosomes. It plays a wide variety of physiological and
pathophysiological roles. The optineurin protein is a selective autophagy
receptor (or adaptor), containing an ubiquitin binding domain with the ability to
bind polyubiquitinated cargoes and bring them to autophagosomes via its
microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3-interacting domain. It is involved
in xenophagy, mitophagy, aggrephagy, and tumor suppression. Optineurin can also
mediate the removal of protein aggregates through an ubiquitin-independent
mechanism. This protein in addition can induce autophagy upon overexpression or
mutation. When overexpressed or mutated, the optineurin protein also serves as a 
substrate for autophagic degradation. In the present review, the multiple
connections of optineurin to autophagy are highlighted.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.06.029 
PMCID: PMC4698099 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26142952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 Sep;253(9):1547-55. doi:
10.1007/s00417-015-3081-4. Epub 2015 Jul 2.

Visual and structural prognosis of the untreated fellow eyes of unilateral normal
tension glaucoma patients.

Cho HK(1), Suh W, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sungmo Eye Hospital, Busan, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the visual and structural prognosis of untreated initial 
non-glaucomatous fellow eyes of unilateral normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
patients.
METHODS: In this retrospective observational cohort study, 50 NTG patients with
unilateral visual field (VF) loss and no VF defect, retinal nerve fiber layer
(RNFL) defect or neuroretinal rim (NRR) notching in the fellow eyes, and those
who had initial non-glaucomatous fellow eyes untreated were included. For the
fellow eyes, the development of VF defect, RNFL defect, and NRR notching was
inspected retrospectively by two observers. Baseline clinical characteristics
including initial intraocular pressure (IOP), central corneal thickness, and
spherical equivalent (SE) were compared between glaucomatous and fellow eyes.
RESULTS: During the mean follow-up period of 8.77 ± 2.92 years, five patients (10
%) developed RNFL defect and four patients (8 %) developed NRR notching in the
fellow eye. Among six patients (12 %) who had developed either RNFL defect or NRR
notching, only three patients (6 %) developed VF loss in 1.81, 3.09, and 9.27
years respectively. The initial IOP was significantly higher (p = 0.031), SE was 
more myopic (p = 0.025), and the occurrence of disc hemorrhage (p = 0.049) was
significantly higher in glaucomatous eyes than that in fellow eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of glaucoma development in the fellow eye is rather
low. Therefore, the initial non-glaucomatous fellow eye of the unilateral NTG
patient may be observed without treatment until glaucoma develops.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-015-3081-4 
PMID: 26126583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Exp Eye Res. 2015 Dec;141:42-56. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.06.019. Epub 2015 Jun
24.

Using genetic mouse models to gain insight into glaucoma: Past results and future
possibilities.

Fernandes KA(1), Harder JM(2), Williams PA(2), Rausch RL(3), Kiernan AE(4), Nair 
KS(5), Anderson MG(6), John SW(7), Howell GR(2), Libby RT(8).

Author information: 
(1)Flaum Eye Institute, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY,
USA. (2)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME, USA. (3)Flaum Eye Institute,
University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA; Interdepartmental
Graduate Program in Neuroscience, University of Rochester Medical Center,
Rochester, NY, USA. (4)Flaum Eye Institute, University of Rochester Medical
Center, Rochester, NY, USA; Department of Biomedical Genetics, University of
Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA. (5)Department of Ophthalmology,
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. (6)Department of 
Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA; 
Center for the Prevention and Treatment of Visual Loss, Iowa City Veterans
Affairs (VA) Health Care System, Iowa City, IA, USA. (7)The Jackson Laboratory,
Bar Harbor, ME, USA; The Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bar Harbor, ME, USA.
(8)Flaum Eye Institute, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY,
USA; Department of Biomedical Genetics, University of Rochester Medical Center,
Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address: richard_libby@urmc.rochester.edu.

While all forms of glaucoma are characterized by a specific pattern of retinal
ganglion cell death, they are clinically divided into several distinct
subclasses, including normal tension glaucoma, primary open angle glaucoma,
congenital glaucoma, and secondary glaucoma. For each type of glaucoma there are 
likely numerous molecular pathways that control susceptibility to the disease.
Given this complexity, a single animal model will never precisely model all
aspects of all the different types of human glaucoma. Therefore, multiple animal 
models have been utilized to study glaucoma but more are needed. Because of the
powerful genetic tools available to use in the laboratory mouse, it has proven to
be a highly useful mammalian system for studying the pathophysiology of human
disease. The similarity between human and mouse eyes coupled with the ability to 
use a combination of advanced cell biological and genetic tools in mice have led 
to a large increase in the number of studies using mice to model specific
glaucoma phenotypes. Over the last decade, numerous new mouse models and genetic 
tools have emerged, providing important insight into the cell biology and
genetics of glaucoma. In this review, we describe available mouse genetic models 
that can be used to study glaucoma-relevant disease/pathobiology. Furthermore, we
discuss how these models have been used to gain insights into ocular hypertension
(a major risk factor for glaucoma) and glaucomatous retinal ganglion cell death. 
Finally, the potential for developing new mouse models and using advanced genetic
tools and resources for studying glaucoma are discussed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.06.019 
PMCID: PMC4628898
PMID: 26116903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2014 Sep-Oct;3(5):263-6. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000020.

Visual Field Progressive Rate in Normal Tension Glaucoma Before and After
Trabeculectomy: A Subfield-Based Analysis.

Mataki N(1), Murata H, Sawada A, Yamamoto T, Shigeeda T, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)From the *Department of Ophthalmology, Graduate School of Medicine, University
of Tokyo, and †Division of Ophthalmology, Kanto Central Hospital of the Mutual
Aid Association of Public School Teachers, Tokyo; and ‡Department of
Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine, Gifu, Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare pretrabeculectomy and posttrabeculectomy progression rates in
normal-tension glaucoma in 6 subfields of the central 30 visual field.
DESIGN: A retrospective study.
METHODS: Clinical records of 34 patients with normal-tension glaucoma (12 males
and 22 females) with progressive visual field loss undergoing successful
trabeculectomy were studied. The time course of the mean deviation (MD) and mean 
of total deviation in the superior/inferior arcuate, paracentral, and cecocentral
subfields were analyzed using a linear mixed-effects model.
RESULTS: Patients' age, intraocular pressure (IOP), MD, and pretrabeculectomy and
posttrabeculectomy follow-up averaged 57.7 ± 9.6 years, 15.7 ± 1.7 mm Hg, -12.7 ±
5.5 dB, and 4.6 ± 1.5 and 5.7 ± 1.2 years, respectively. Average IOP was lowered 
by 6.1 ± 3.3 to 10.3 ± 2.7 mm Hg (5-14 mm Hg) over the postoprerative period with
MD change rate of -0.25 dB/y (P < 0.003), which was slower (P < 0.001) than the
preoperative one (-0.70 dB/y). The preoperative mean of total deviation change
rate (-0.31 to -1.35 dB/y) improved postoperatively in the superior and inferior 
paracentral subfields (P < 0.001), whereas it remained unchanged in the inferior 
cecocentral/arcuate subfields (P > 0.10). The postoperative rate of progression
showed no significant variation in these subfields.
CONCLUSIONS: The rate of progression significantly varied among the 6 subfields
preoperatively. It was significantly slowed down in the superior subfields by
surgical IOP reduction, but not in the inferior cecocentral/arcuate subfields.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000020 
PMID: 26107911  [PubMed]


182. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2014 Sep-Oct;3(5):262. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000087.

Visual Field Progressive Rate in Normal Tension Glaucoma Before and After
Trabeculectomy.

Wang N(1), Qiao C.

Author information: 
(1)From the Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing Tongren Hospital, Beijing
Ophthalmology Institute, Capital Medical University, Beijing Ophthalmology &
Visual Sciences Key Laboratory, Beijing, China.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000087 
PMID: 26107910  [PubMed]


183. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 Dec;43(9):841-3. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12562. Epub 2015 Jul 
16.

Large vessel area of the optic nerve head, measured with laser speckle
flowgraphy, is significantly reduced in eyes with preperimetric glaucoma.

Kiyota N(1), Shiga Y(1), Takahashi H(1), Nakazawa T(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Miyagi, Japan. (2)Department of Retinal Disease Control, Tohoku
University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan. (3)Department of
Advanced Ophthalmic Medicine, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Miyagi, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12562 
PMID: 26100245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Neuroophthalmology. 2015 Jun 23;39(4):166-174. eCollection 2015.

Enhanced Depth Imaging of Central Laminar Thickness in Optic Neuropathy:
Comparison with Normal Eyes.

Thitiwichienlert S(1), Ishikawa H(1), Asakawa K(1), Ikeda T(1), Shimizu K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kitasato University School of Medicine ,
Kanagawa, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to compare central laminar thickness (LT) among
patients with glaucomatous optic neuropathy (GON), patients with non-GON, and
normal subjects using enhanced-depth imaging optical coherence tomography
(EDI-OCT). Enrolled were 57 patients (n = 64 eyes), including 30 women and 27
men. Three groups were identified: GON (n = 18 eyes), non-GON (n = 16 eyes), and 
control (n = 30 eyes). The GON group comprised eyes with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) (n = 9) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) (n = 9). The non-GON
group comprised eyes with demyelinating optic neuritis (n = 9), anterior ischemic
optic neuropathy (AION) (n = 2), compressive ON (n = 2), Leber hereditary ON
(n = 2), and traumatic ON (n = 1). GON and non-GON groups were further divided
into mild, moderate, and severe subgroups. Inclusion in the GON group was based
on mean deviations (MDs) of visual fields; inclusion in the non-GON group was
based on critical flicker frequency (CFF) responses. Intraclass correlation
coefficients (ICCs) were used to verify reproducibility of measurements. LTs of
GON and non-GON group eyes were thinner than those of control group eyes
(p < 0.01); LTs of GON group eyes were thinner than those of non-GON group eyes
(p = 0.01). LTs of severe GON subgroup eyes were thinner than those of moderate
and mild GON subgroup eyes (p < 0.001; p = 0.024, respectively). LTs of severe
non-GON subgroup eyes were thinner than those of mild non-GON subgroup eyes
(p = 0.002). These results show that EDI-OCT is valuable for documenting
structural abnormalities in optic neuropathy (ON).

DOI: 10.3109/01658107.2015.1018443 
PMCID: PMC5123025
PMID: 27928350  [PubMed - in process]


185. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 Jun;94(24):e984. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000984.

Two-Year Clinical Results After Selective Laser Trabeculoplasty for Normal
Tension Glaucoma.

Lee JW(1), Shum JJ, Chan JC, Lai JS.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology (JWYL), Caritas Medical Centre;
Department of Ophthalmology (JWYL, JJWS, JSML), The University of Hong Kong; and 
Department of Ophthalmology (JCHC), Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong.

This article aims to investigate the clinical results at 2 years after selective 
laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) for normal tension glaucoma (NTG). This prospective
cohort study recruited NTG patients taking antiglaucoma medication. Subjects were
excluded if they had previous glaucoma surgery/laser or corneal pathologies. All 
subjects underwent a 1-month washout. A single session of SLT was performed to
360° of the trabecular meshwork. Medication was resumed at 1 month to achieve a
targeted 30% intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction from the post-washout/pre-SLT
IOP. IOP was measured every 3 months and medication use was recorded at 3, 6, 12,
and 24 months. Subjects with a secondary SLT or cataract extraction were excluded
from IOP and medication analyses. At 24 months, 34 of the initial 45 right eyes
were eligible for analyses. There were significant IOP reductions at all time
intervals (except at 1 week) following SLT when compared to the prestudy (without
medication) or pre-SLT (post-washout) IOP (P < 0.0001). Medications were likewise
significantly reduced at all time intervals following SLT (P < 0.0001). At 24
months, the IOP was 11.5% lower than the prestudy IOP, 22.0% lower than the
pre-SLT IOP, and medication use was reduced by 41.1% (P < 0.0001). Six out of 45 
eyes (13.3%) required a secondary SLT. Absolute success (IOP reduction >20% from 
pre-SLT, without medication) was achieved in 11.1% (5/45). Reductions in IOP and 
medication use were evident at 2 years following SLT for the treatment of NTG
whereas 11% remained medication free.TRIAL REGISTRATIONS: The Clinical Trials
Register of the University of Hong Kong HKCTR1847. The European Clinical Trials
Database 2014-003305-15 (August 11, 2014).

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000984 
PMCID: PMC4616563
PMID: 26091474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Int J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jun 18;8(3):476-83. doi:
10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2015.03.08. eCollection 2015.

Association of n3 and n6 polyunsaturated fatty acids in red blood cell membrane
and plasma with severity of normal tension glaucoma.

Yu M(1), Chen B(1), Gong B(2), Shuai P(3), Wu ZZ(1), Lin W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sichuan Academy of Medical Sciences & Sichuan
Provincial People's Hospital, Chengdu 610072, Sichuan Province, China. (2)Sichuan
Key Laboratory for Human Disease Gene Study, Sichuan Academy of Medical Sciences 
& Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, Chengdu 610072, Sichuan Province, China. 
(3)Center of Health Physical Examination and Health Management, Sichuan Academy
of Medical Sciences & Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, Chengdu 610072,
Sichuan Province, China.

AIM: To determine whether red blood cell (RBC) membrane and plasma lipids,
particularly long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids such as eicosapentaenoic acid
(EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), arachidonic acid (AA) are significantly
correlated with severity of normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This study included 35 patients with NTG and 12 healthy normal control
subjects, matched for age and sex with the study group. The stage of glaucoma was
determined according to the Hodapp-Parrish-Anderson classification. Lipids were
extracted from RBC membranes and plasma, and fatty acid methyl esters prepared
and analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS).
RESULTS: When RBC lipids were analyzed, the levels of EPA, the levels of DHA and 
the ratio of n3 to n6 were positively associated with the Humphrey Perimetry mean
deviation (MD) score (r=0.617, P<0.001; r=0.727, P<0.001 and r=0.720, P<0.001,
respectively), while the level of AA was negatively associated with the MD score 
(r=-0.427, P=0.001). When plasma lipids were analyzed, there was a significant
positive relationship between the levels of EPA and the MD score (r=0.648,
P<0.001), and the levels of AA were inversely correlated with the MD score
(r=-0.638, P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: The levels of n3 and n6 polyunsaturated fatty acids in RBC membrane
and plasma lipids were associated with severity of NTG.

DOI: 10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2015.03.08 
PMCID: PMC4458649
PMID: 26085994  [PubMed]


187. J Ophthalmol. 2015;2015:641204. doi: 10.1155/2015/641204. Epub 2015 May 13.

The Different Characteristics of Cirrus Optical Coherence Tomography between
Superior Segmental Optic Hypoplasia and Normal Tension Glaucoma with Superior
Retinal Nerve Fiber Defect.

Han JC(1), Choi DY(1), Kee C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul 135-710, Republic of Korea.

Purpose. To evaluate the different characteristics in superior segmental optic
hypoplasia (SSOH) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) with superior retinal nerve
fiber layer (RNFL) defect (NTG-SRD) compared to normal control using cirrus
optical coherence tomography (OCT). Methods. SSOH eyes and NTG-SRD eyes were
reviewed. The peripapillary RNFL (pRNFL) and ganglion cell inner plexiform layer 
(GCIPL) of the two groups were compared to age-matched normal controls using
cirrus OCT. Results. Included in this study were 31 SSOH eyes, 33 NTG patients,
and 49 healthy normal controls. Compared to normal controls, pRNFL thickness in
SSOH eyes was thinner except in the inferotemporal to the temporal segment.
NTG-SRD eyes had thinner pRNFL except in the nasal to inferonasal segment.
Meanwhile, GCIPL thickness in SSOH eyes was thinner in the global and sectoral
segment, but not in the superonasal and inferonasal sectors compared to normal
controls. NTG-SRD eyes showed thinner GCIPL in all sectors compared to normal
controls. In case of comparison between SSOH and NTG-SRD, superonasal sector was 
thinner in NTG-SRD than in SSOH (P = 0.03). Conclusions. The different
distributions of nerve fiber layer were shown in pRNFL and GCIPL between SSOH
eyes and NTG-SRD eyes.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/641204 
PMCID: PMC4444597
PMID: 26075086  [PubMed]


188. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Jun;56(6):3635-41. doi: 10.1167/iovs.14-16093.

Progression to Legal Blindness in Patients With Normal Tension Glaucoma:
Hospital-Based Study.

Sawada A, Rivera JA, Takagi D, Nishida T, Yamamoto T.

PURPOSE: To determine the probability of an eye with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) progressing to legal blindness under standard ophthalmic care.
METHODS: Patients diagnosed with NTG (n = 382) between 1985 and 2007 at Gifu
University Hospital were followed for at least 5 years under standard ophthalmic 
care. The collected data included the best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA),
intraocular pressure (IOP), and visual field status. Blindness was defined as a
BCVA of <20/400 or a constriction of the central visual field to <10° according
to the World Health Organization criteria. Kaplan-Meier life table analysis was
used to estimate the probability of progressing to blindness in one or both eyes.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up period after diagnosis was 13.3 ± 5.4 years with a
range of 5.0 to 29.1 years. At diagnosis, 18 patients (4.7%) had unilateral
blindness due to glaucoma. At final examination, 34 patients had progressed to
unilateral blindness and 5 to bilateral blindness. The Kaplan-Meier life table
analysis estimate for unilateral blindness was 5.8 ± 1.3% at 10 years and 9.9 ±
1.9% at 20 years. Similarly, that for bilateral blindness was 0.3 ± 0.3% at 10
years and 1.4 ± 0.8% at 20 years. A Cox proportional hazard model analysis showed
that a lower initial BCVA (P < 0.001), a worse initial AGIS (Advanced Glaucoma
Intervention Study) score (P = 0.002), and the frequency of changing glaucoma
medications during the follow-up periods (P < 0.001) were significantly
correlated with the development of blindness in at least one eye.
CONCLUSIONS: The probability of blindness in eyes with NTG is much lower than
previously reported in patients with high-tension glaucoma. Nevertheless, special
care should be taken to follow NTG patients, and especially those with worse BCVA
and more advanced visual field loss at diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.14-16093 
PMID: 26066741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 Jun;94(23):e947. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000947.

The Correlation of Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Thickness With Blood Pressure in a
Chinese Hypertensive Population.

Gangwani RA(1), Lee JW, Mo HY, Sum R, Kwong AS, Wang JH, Tsui WW, Chan JC, Lai
JS.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong (RAG, JWYL, 
JSML), Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Mary Hospital (RAG, JCHC, JSML),
Department of Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre (JWYL), Department of Family 
Medicine and Primary Health Care, Hospital Authority (HYM, ASKK, JHLW, WWST), and
School of Optometry, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong (RS).

To investigate the association between retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness
and blood pressure (BP) in subjects with systemic hypertension. Subjects with
systemic hypertension on anti-hypertensive medications were screened by fundus
photography and referred for glaucoma work-up if there was enlarged vertical
cup-to-disc (VCDR) ratio ≥0.6, VCDR asymmetry ≥0.2, or optic disc hemorrhage.
Workup included a complete ophthalmological examination, Humphrey visual field
test, and RNFL thickness measurement by optical coherence tomography. The
intraocular pressure (IOP) and RNFL thicknesses (global and quadrant) were
averaged from both eyes and the means were correlated with: the systolic BP
(SBP), diastolic BP (DBP), and mean arterial pressure (MAP) using Pearson
correlation. Among 4000 screened hypertensive subjects, 133 were referred for
glaucoma workup and 110 completed the workup. Of the 4000 screened subjects, 1.3%
had glaucoma (0.9% had normal tension glaucoma [NTG], 0.2% had primary open angle
glaucoma, and 0.2% had primary angle closure glaucoma), whereas 0.3% were NTG
suspects. The SBP was negatively correlated with the mean superior RNFL thickness
(P = 0.01). The DBP was negatively correlated with the mean global (P = 0.03),
superior (P = 0.02), and nasal (P = 0.003) RNFL thickness. The MAP was negatively
correlated with the mean global (P = 0.01), superior (P = 0.002), and nasal
(P = 0.004) RNFL thickness while positively correlated with the mean IOP
(P = 0.02). In medically treated hypertensive subjects, glaucoma was present in
1.3%, with NTG being most prevalent. MAP control may help with IOP lowering and
RNFL preservation, although future prospective studies will be needed.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000947 
PMCID: PMC4616465
PMID: 26061324  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Oct;82:78-85. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.05.012. Epub 2015 Jun
6.

Resistance to the most common optic neuropathy is associated with systemic
mitochondrial efficiency.

Lascaratos G(1), Chau KY(2), Zhu H(3), Gkotsi D(4), King R(2), Gout I(5), Kamal
D(4), Luthert PJ(6), Schapira AH(2), Garway-Heath DF(4).

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation
Trust and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK. Electronic address:
glascaratos@gmail.com. (2)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, UCL Institute of 
Neurology, London, UK. (3)Department of Optometry and Visual Science, City
University, London, UK. (4)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Moorfields Eye
Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.
(5)UCL Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, London, UK. (6)NIHR
Biomedical Research Centre at Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and
UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK; Department of Pathology, UCL
Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.

Glaucomatous optic neuropathy, an important neurodegenerative condition and the
commonest optic neuropathy in humans, is the leading cause of irreversible
blindness worldwide. Its prevalence and incidence increase exponentially with
ageing and raised intraocular pressure (IOP). Using glaucomatous optic neuropathy
as an exemplar for neurodegeneration, this study investigates putative factors
imparting resistance to neurodegeneration. Systemic mitochondrial function,
oxidative stress and vascular parameters were compared from isolated lymphocytes,
whole blood and urine samples between 30 patients who have not developed the
neuropathy despite being exposed for many years to very high IOP ('resistant'),
30 fast deteriorating glaucoma patients despite having low IOP ('susceptible'),
and 30 age-similar controls. We found that 'resistant' individuals showed
significantly higher rates of ADP phosphorylation by mitochondrial respiratory
complexes I, II and IV, hyperpolarised mitochondrial membrane potential, higher
levels of mitochondrial DNA, and enhanced capacity to deal with cytosolic calcium
overload and exogenous oxidative stress, as compared to both controls and
glaucoma patients. While it has been known for some years that mitochondrial
dysfunction is implicated in neurodegeneration, this study provides a fresh
perspective to the field of neurodegeneration by providing, for the first time,
evidence that systemic mitochondrial efficiency above normal healthy levels is
associated with an enhanced ability to withstand optic nerve injury. These
results demonstrate the importance of cellular bioenergetics in glaucomatous
disease progression, with potential relevance for other neurodegenerative
disorders, and raise the possibility for new therapeutic targets in the field of 
neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.05.012 
PMID: 26054436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Sep;160(3):522-537.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.05.034. Epub
2015 Jun 4.

Relationship between daytime variability of blood pressure or ocular perfusion
pressure and glaucomatous visual field progression.

Lee J(1), Choi J(2), Jeong D(1), Kim S(1), Kook MS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, University of Ulsan, Asan
Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea. (2)Central Seoul Eye Center, Seoul, South
Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, University of Ulsan, 
Asan Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: mskook@amc.seoul.kr.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Oct;160(4):844-5.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Oct;160(4):845-6.

PURPOSE: To study daytime or nighttime variability of mean arterial pressure and 
ocular perfusion pressure in untreated normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and
determine whether increased short-term mean arterial pressure and/or ocular
perfusion pressure variability are associated with greater risk of visual field
(VF) progression.
DESIGN: Longitudinal, retrospective, observational study.
METHODS: This study enrolled 237 eyes of 237 untreated NTG patients who underwent
24-hour intraocular pressure and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in the
habitual position, and had ≥5 reliable VF tests during follow-up. Kaplan-Meier
analyses were performed to compare outcomes with reference to the level of
short-term mean arterial pressure and ocular perfusion pressure standard
deviation for VF deterioration. Hazard ratios for the association between
clinical factors, including short-term mean arterial pressure and ocular
perfusion pressure standard deviation, and VF progression were obtained using Cox
proportional hazards models.
RESULTS: Over-dipper NTG patients showed significantly larger daytime and
nighttime mean arterial pressure and ocular perfusion pressure standard deviation
than non-dippers or dippers. Both increased daytime and nighttime mean arterial
pressure or ocular perfusion pressure standard deviation were associated with
greater VF progression probabilities. Increased daytime mean arterial pressure or
ocular perfusion pressure standard deviation was a significant predictor of
subsequent VF progression (P = .023 and P < .001, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Over-dipper NTG eyes showed significantly higher daytime or
nighttime mean arterial pressure and ocular perfusion pressure variabilities than
non-dipper and dipper NTG eyes. Increased daytime mean arterial pressure and
ocular perfusion pressure standard deviation at baseline were significant
predictors of future VF progression in NTG.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.05.034 
PMID: 26052089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


192. J Ophthalmic Vis Res. 2015 Jan-Mar;10(1):68-76. doi: 10.4103/2008-322X.156120.

Glaucoma in iran and contributions of studies in iran to the understanding of the
etiology of glaucoma.

Suri F(1), Yazdani S(2), Elahi E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, School of Biology, College of
Science, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran. (2)Ocular Tissue Engineering
Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran ;
Ophthalmic Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran. (3)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, School of Biology,
College of Science, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran ; Department of
Biotechnology, College of Science, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.

Epidemiologic and genetic/molecular research on glaucoma in Iran started within
the past decade. A population-based study on the epidemiology of glaucoma in
Yazd, a city in central Iran, revealed that 4.4% of studied individuals were
affected with glaucoma: 1.6% with high tension primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG), 1.6% with normal tension POAG, and 0.4% each with primary angle closure
glaucoma (PACG) and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEXG), and other types of
secondary glaucoma. Two notable observations were the relatively high frequency
of normal tension glaucoma cases (1.6%) and the large fraction of glaucoma
affected individuals (nearly 90%) who were unaware of their condition. The first 
and most subsequent genetic studies on glaucoma in Iran were focused on primary
congenital glaucoma (PCG) showing that cytochrome P450 1B1 (CYP1B1) is the cause 
of PCG in the majority of Iranian patients, many different CYP1B1 mutations are
present among Iranian patients but only four mutations constitute the vast
majority, and the origins of most mutations in the Iranians are identical by
descent (IBD) with the same mutations in other populations. Furthermore, most of 
the PCG patients are from the northern and northwestern provinces of Iran. A
statistically significant male predominance of PCG was observed only among
patients without CYP1B1 mutations. Clinical investigations on family members of
PCG patients revealed that CYP1B1 mutations exhibit variable expressivity, but
almost complete penetrance. A great number of individuals harboring CYP1B1
mutations become affected with juvenile onset POAG. Screening of JOAG patients
showed that an approximately equal fraction of the patients harbor CYP1B1 and
(myocilin) MYOC mutations; MYOC is a well-known adult onset glaucoma causing
gene. Presence of CYP1B1 mutations in JOAG patients suggests that in some cases, 
the two conditions may share a common etiology. Further genetic analysis of
Iranian PCG patients led to identification of Latent-transforming growth factor
beta-binding protein 2 (LTBP2) as a causative gene for both PCG and several
diseases which are often accompanied by glaucomatous presentations, such as
Weill-Marchesani syndrome 3 (WMS3). The findings on LTBP2 have contributed to
recognize the importance of the extracellular matrix in pathways leading to
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.4103/2008-322X.156120 
PMCID: PMC4424722
PMID: 26005556  [PubMed]


193. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 May 11;9:833-41. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S53490. eCollection
2015.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty: current perspectives.

Leahy KE(1), White AJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW, Australia. (2)Westmead Hospital, Westmead,
NSW, Australia ; Centre for Vision Research, Westmead Millennium Institute,
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia ; Save Sight Institute, University
of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) has been used in the treatment of glaucoma 
for just over a decade. Here, we review the current literature in terms of
suggested mechanism, efficacy, method of treatment, predictors of success,
adverse events, repeatability, and cost of SLT. The exact mechanism by which SLT 
lowers intraocular pressure (IOP) remains unknown although circumstantial
evidence has come in many forms in relation to structural alteration; oxidative
stress and inflammatory responses; tight junction integrity; proliferative
responses; and microbubble formation. SLT is as effective as argon laser
trabeculoplasty and medications in reducing IOP in glaucoma and ocular
hypertension. The treatment is not uniformly effective in all eyes, and its
IOP-lowering effect decreases over time. High pretreatment IOP is the strongest
predictor of success; however, significant pressure reduction has also been shown
in normal-tension glaucoma and in patients already taking multiple antiglaucoma
drops. Mild, transient adverse effects are common. Transient IOP spikes usually
resolve quickly with or without antiglaucoma treatment but may be problematic in 
pigmented angles. The limited available evidence suggests SLT is repeatable and
cost-effective for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S53490 
PMCID: PMC4433047
PMID: 26005327  [PubMed]


194. PLoS One. 2015 May 21;10(5):e0127920. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127920.
eCollection 2015.

Central retinal venous pressure in eyes of normal-tension glaucoma patients with 
optic disc hemorrhage.

Kim KE(1), Kim DM(1), Flammer J(2), Kim KN(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Chungnam National University Hospital, Daejeon,
Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To compare central retinal venous pressure (CRVP) among eyes with and 
without optic disc hemorrhage (ODH) in bilateral normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
patients and NTG eyes without an episode of ODH.
METHODS: In this prospective study, 22 bilateral NTG patients showing a
unilateral ODH and 29 bilateral NTG patients without an episode of ODH were
included. Eyes were categorized into group A (n = 22, eyes with ODH), group B (n 
= 22, fellow eyes without ODH), and group C (n = 29, NTG eyes without an episode 
of ODH). A contact lens ophthalmodynamometer was used to measure CRVP and central
retinal arterial pressure (CRAP).
RESULTS: Intraocular pressure (IOP) measured on the day of contact lens
ophthalmodynamometry showed no difference among groups. However, the mean
baseline IOP in group A was significantly lower than that in group C (P = .008). 
The CRVP in group A (29.1 ± 10.8 mmHg) was significantly lower than that in group
C (40.1 ± 8.8 mmHg, P = .001), but similar to that in group B (30.5 ± 8.7 mmHg, P
= .409). A similar relationship was noted for CRAP. No significant eye-associated
variable for ODH was found in group A and B by conditional logistic regression
analysis (all P > 0.05). However, multivariate logistic regression analysis in
groups A and C revealed that low mean baseline IOP (odds ratio [OR] = 0.69, 95%
confidence interval [CI] 0.49-0.98, P = 0.043) and low CRVP (OR = 0.88, 95% CI
0.80-0.95, P = 0.003) were associated with ODH.
CONCLUSIONS: CRVP was lower in NTG eyes with ODH than in eyes without an episode 
of ODH, but similar to that of fellow eyes without ODH. These imply less
likelihood of association between increased central retinal venous resistance and
ODH.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127920 
PMCID: PMC4440829
PMID: 25996599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2015 Nov-Dec;25(6):490-5. doi: 10.5301/ejo.5000624. Epub 2015
May 12.

Long-term (>8 years) evaluation of progression in patients with low-pressure
glaucoma.

Erdem E(1), Williams A(1), Kuchar SD(1), Waisbourd M(1), Spaeth GL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Research Center, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, PA - USA.

PURPOSE: To describe the long-term clinical course of patients with low-pressure 
glaucoma (LPG) and to assess the risk factors for disease progression.
METHODS: The Wills Eye Glaucoma Research Center retrospectively reviewed the
charts of LPG patients with documented follow-up of &gt;8 years between 2000 and 
2013. Medical records were evaluated for systemic diseases, family history of
glaucoma, best-corrected visual acuity, refractive error, treatments, central
corneal thickness (CCT), intraocular pressure (IOP), IOP change after pupil
dilation, optic disc evaluation, visual field (VF) mean deviation (MD), VF
grading, and time to progression. Progression was determined when both disc and
VF appeared to have worsened.
RESULTS: From 850 charts classified as LPG between 2000 and 2013, 49 eyes of 49
patients were included in our analysis. The mean ( ± SD) follow-up time was 9.3 (
± 1.9) years. Glaucoma progressed in 25 eyes and remained stable in 24 eyes over 
the follow-up period. Eyes with progression had higher peak IOP (p = 0.043).
There was a trend towards progression in patients with thinner CCT (p = 0.085)
and disc hemorrhage (p = 0.098). Estimated annual change in MD was -0.57 dB in
the progressing group and -0.10 dB in the stable group (p&lt;0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Nearly half of the patients with LPG showed glaucoma progression
despite treatment after &gt;8 years. High peak IOP was a significant risk factor 
for progression. Identifying patients at risk may warrant closer follow-up and
more aggressive treatment in order to preserve visual function in patients with
LPG.

DOI: 10.5301/ejo.5000624 
PMID: 25982210  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 Jul;253(7):1143-52. doi:
10.1007/s00417-015-3026-y. Epub 2015 May 6.

Sensitivity and specificity for detecting early glaucoma in eyes with high myopia
from normative database of macular ganglion cell complex thickness obtained from 
normal non-myopic or highly myopic Asian eyes.

Nakanishi H(1), Akagi T, Hangai M, Kimura Y, Suda K, Kumagai KK, Morooka S, Ikeda
HO, Yoshimura N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Kyoto University Graduate
School of Medicine, Shogoin Kawahara-cho 54, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8507, Japan,
hideon@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

PURPOSE: We aimed to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the normative
database of non-myopic and highly myopic eyes of the macular ganglion cell
complex (mGCC) thickness embedded in the NIDEK RS-3000 spectral-domain optical
coherence tomography (SD-OCT) for detecting early glaucoma in highly myopic eyes.
METHODS: Forty-seven highly myopic eyes (axial length ≥26.0 mm) of 47 subjects
were studied. The SD-OCT images were used to determine the mGCC thickness within 
a 9-mm diameter circle centered on the fovea. The sensitivity and specificity of 
the non-myopic database were compared to that of the highly myopic database for
distinguishing the early glaucomatous eyes from the non-glaucomatous eyes. The
mGCC scans were classified as abnormal if at least one of the eight sectors of
the significance map was < 1 % of the normative thickness.
RESULTS: Twenty-one eyes were diagnosed to be non-glaucomatous and 26 eyes to
have early glaucoma. . The average mGCC thickness was significantly thinner
(80.9 ± 8.5 μm) in the early glaucoma group than in the non-glaucomatous group
(91.2 ± 7.5 μm; p <1 × 10(-4)). The sensitivity was 96.2 % and specificity was
47.6 % when the non-myopic database was used, and the sensitivity was 92.3 % and 
the specificity was 90.5 % when the highly myopic database was used. The
difference in the specificity was significant (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The significantly higher specificity of the myopic normative
database for detecting early glaucoma in highly myopic eyes will lead to fewer
false positive diagnoses. The database obtained from highly myopic eyes should be
used when evaluating the mGCC thickness of highly myopic eyes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-015-3026-y 
PMID: 25944452  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


197. BMC Cell Biol. 2015 May 6;16:14. doi: 10.1186/s12860-015-0060-x.

Induction of autophagy in rats upon overexpression of wild-type and mutant
optineurin gene.

Ying H(1), Turturro S(2), Nguyen T(3), Shen X(4), Zelkha R(5), Johnson EC(6),
Morrison JC(7), Yue BY(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Illinois at
Chicago, College of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. hying@uic.edu. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago, College of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. sanja.turturro@gmail.com. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago, College of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. tnguye40@uic.edu. (4)Department of Ophthalmology and 
Visual Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago, College of Medicine, Chicago,
IL, USA. shenxia2@uic.edu. (5)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences,
University of Illinois at Chicago, College of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
ruzelk@uic.edu. (6)Department of Ophthalmology, Casey Eye Institute, Oregon
Health and Science University, Portland, OR, USA. johnsoel@ohsu.edu.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, Casey Eye Institute, Oregon Health and Science
University, Portland, OR, USA. morrisoj@ohsu.edu. (8)Department of Ophthalmology 
and Visual Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago, College of Medicine,
Chicago, IL, USA. beatyue@uic.edu.

BACKGROUND: Optineurin is a gene associated with normal tension glaucoma and
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It has been reported previously that in cultured
RGC5 cells, the turnover of endogenous optineurin involves mainly the
ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP). When optineurin is upregulated or mutated,
the UPP function is compromised as evidenced by a decreased proteasome β5 subunit
(PSMB5) level and autophagy is induced for clearance of the optineurin protein.
RESULTS: Adeno-associated type 2 viral (AAV2) vectors for green fluorescence
protein (GFP) only, GFP-tagged wild-type and Glu50Lys (E50K) mutated optineurin
were intravitreally injected into rats for expression in retinal ganglion cells
(RGCs). Following intravitreal injections, eyes that received optineurin vectors 
exhibited retinal thinning, as well as RGC and axonal loss compared to GFP
controls. By immunostaining and Western blotting, the level of PSMB5 and
autophagic substrate degradation marker p62 was reduced, and the level of
autophagic marker microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) was
enhanced. The UPP impairment and autophagy induction evidently occurred in vivo
as in vitro. The optineurin level, RGC and axonal counts, and apoptosis in
AAV2-E50K-GFP-injected rat eyes were averted to closer to normal limits after
treatment with rapamycin, an autophagic enhancer.
CONCLUSIONS: The UPP function was reduced and autophagy was induced when
wild-type and E50K optineurin was overexpressed in rat eyes. This study validates
the in vitro findings, confirming that UPP impairment and autophagy induction
also occur in vivo. In addition, rapamycin is demonstrated to clear the
accumulated mutant optineurin. This agent may potentially be useful for rescuing 
of the adverse optineurin phenotypes in vivo.

DOI: 10.1186/s12860-015-0060-x 
PMCID: PMC4429416
PMID: 25943884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Glaucoma. 2016 May;25(5):e504-6. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000273.

No Evidence of Association of Heterozygous Galactosylceramidase Deletion With
Normal-Tension Glaucoma in a Korean Population.

Shin HY(1), Park SW, Jung SH, Park HY, Jung KI, Chung YJ, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital †Department of
Microbiology, Intergrated Research Center for Genome Polymorphism ‡Department of 
Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine,
The Catholic University of Korea, Seocho-ku, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: A significant association between primary open-angle glaucoma risk and
copy-number variation in the galactosylceramidase (GALC) gene was reported
recently. This study investigated whether a heterozygous deletion of the GALC
gene plays a significant role in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) in Koreans.
METHODS: A 3-primer polymerase chain reaction assay was used to examine the
heterozygous deletion of GALC in all Korean NTG cases (n=276) and controls
(n=135).
RESULTS: We did not identify any deletion variant of GALC gene in the NTG
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first copy-number variation study of the GALC gene in
the Korean population with NTG. We demonstrated that a heterozygous GALC deletion
does not play a significant role in the pathogenesis of NTG in a representative
clinic-based population of South Koreans, unlike whites.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000273 
PMID: 25943734  [PubMed - in process]


199. Ophthalmology. 2015 Jul;122(7):1294-307. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.03.021. Epub 
2015 May 2.

The Effect of Phacoemulsification on Intraocular Pressure in Glaucoma Patients: A
Report by the American Academy of Ophthalmology.

Chen PP(1), Lin SC(2), Junk AK(3), Radhakrishnan S(4), Singh K(5), Chen TC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, California. (3)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Miller School of Medicine,
University of Miami; Miami Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Miami, Florida.
(4)Glaucoma Center of San Francisco; Glaucoma Research and Education Group, San
Francisco, California. (5)Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California. (6)Harvard Medical School, Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts
Eye & Ear Infirmary, Glaucoma Service, Boston, Massachusetts.

OBJECTIVE: To examine effects of phacoemulsification on longer-term intraocular
pressure (IOP) in patients with medically treated primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG; including normal-tension glaucoma), pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PXG), or
primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG), without prior or concurrent incisional
glaucoma surgery.
METHODS: PubMed and Cochrane database searches, last conducted in December 2014, 
yielded 541 unique citations. Panel members reviewed titles and abstracts and
selected 86 for further review. The panel reviewed these articles and identified 
32 studies meeting the inclusion criteria, for which the panel methodologist
assigned a level of evidence based on standardized grading adopted by the
American Academy of Ophthalmology. One, 15, and 16 studies were rated as
providing level I, II, and III evidence, respectively.
RESULTS: All follow-up, IOP, and medication data listed are weighted means. In
general, the studies reported on patients using few glaucoma medications (1.5-1.9
before surgery among the different diagnoses). For POAG, 9 studies (total, 461
patients; follow-up, 17 months) showed that phacoemulsification reduced IOP by
13% and glaucoma medications by 12%. For PXG, 5 studies (total, 132 patients;
follow-up, 34 months) showed phacoemulsification reduced IOP by 20% and glaucoma 
medications by 35%. For chronic PACG, 12 studies (total, 495 patients; follow-up,
16 months) showed phacoemulsification reduced IOP by 30% and glaucoma medications
by 58%. Patients with acute PACG (4 studies; total, 119 patients; follow-up, 24
months) had a 71% reduction from presenting IOP and rarely required long-term
glaucoma medications when phacoemulsification was performed soon after medical
reduction of IOP. Trabeculectomy after phacoemulsification was uncommon; the
median rate reported within 6 to 24 months of follow-up in patients with
controlled POAG, PXG, or PACG was 0% and was 7% in patients with uncontrolled
chronic PACG.
CONCLUSIONS: Phacoemulsification typically results in small, moderate, and marked
reductions of IOP and medications for patients with POAG, PXG, and PACG,
respectively, and using 1 to 2 medications before surgery. Trabeculectomy within 
6 to 24 months after phacoemulsification is rare in such patients. However,
reports on its effects in eyes with advanced disease or poor IOP control before
surgery are few, particularly for POAG and PXG.

Copyright © 2015 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.03.021 
PMID: 25943711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2015 Feb;51(2):103-8.

[Distribution of peak intraocular pressure in 24-hour and correlation between
peak nocturnal intraocular pressure with diurnal intraocular pressure level in
primary open angle glaucoma patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Cheng J(1), Sun X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eye & ENT Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai
200031, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Eye & ENT Hospital, Fudan
University, Shanghai 200031, China. Email: xhsun@shmu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To study the distribution of peak intraocular pressure (IOP) in
24-hour in untreated primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) patients, and to explore 
the correlation between nocturnal peak IOP and office hour or diurnal IOP level.
METHODS: A Cross-sectional study.One hundred and twenty-one untreated POAG
patients (121 eyes), including 78 normal tension patients (78 eyes) and 43
hyper-tension patients (43 eyes), were enrolled in this study. All the patients
underwent 24-hour IOP monitoring with non-contact tonometer. The distribution of 
peak IOP in 24-hour and the correlation between nocturnal peak IOP and office
hour or diurnal mean and peak IOP were evaluated. Categorical variables were
described as frequency and constituent ratio, and analyzed by chi-square test.
Continuous variables were described as mean, standard deviation, range, and
analyzed by independent samples t test, pearson correlation test and linear
regression.
RESULTS: In all glaucoma patients, peak IOP occurred mainly from 8:00 to 10:00
and 8:00 to 10:00.In normal tension group, peak IOP appeared mainly from 8:00 to 
10:00 and from 0:00 to 6:00, the highest frequency showed at 8:00 (17 eyes
18.48%).In hyper-tension group, the probability of IOP reaching peak was more in 
night time, mainly from 0:00 to 6:00, the highest frequency showed at 2:00 (10
eyes 21.28%). If only the peak IOP during office hours or diurnal hours were
considered, then only 32.55% (14/43) and 44.19% (19/43) patients could be
correctly diagnosed. The remaining patients would be missed because of low IOP
and/or mild structure and/or functional damages. There were good linear
correlations between office hours or diurnal peak and mean IOP and nocturnal peak
IOP in glaucoma patients.
CONCLUSIONS: More than 50% peak IOP occurred out of office hour in POAG patients.
There is a good correlation between peak nocturnal IOP and office hour or diurnal
IOP level.


PMID: 25908000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Apr;232(4):414-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1545792. Epub 
2015 Apr 22.

Correlation between Central Corneal Thickness and Intraocular Pressure Measured
by Goldmann Applanation Tonometry or Pascal Dynamic Contour Tonometry.

Katsimpris JM(1), Theoulakis PE(2), Vasilopoulos K(1), Skourtis G(1),
Papadopoulos GE(3), Petropoulos IK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, General Hospital of Patras "Agios Andreas",
Patras, Greece. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Royal Free London NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, United Kingdom. (3)Ophthalmology, Surgical Unit, General Hospital 
of Aigio, Aigio, Greece. (4)Ophthalmological Center of Rive, Geneva, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between
central corneal thickness and intraocular pressure measured by Goldmann
applanation tonometry and Pascal dynamic contour tonometry.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 45 persons (90 eyes), divided into 4
groups: a) 10 normal volunteers (20 eyes); b) 16 patients (32 eyes) with primary 
open-angle glaucoma; c) 8 patients (16 eyes) with normal-tension glaucoma; and d)
11 patients (22 eyes) with ocular hypertension. Intraocular pressure was measured
by Goldmann applanation tonometry and Pascal dynamic contour tonometry, and
central corneal thickness was measured by ultrasound pachymetry. The relationship
between intraocular pressure and central corneal thickness was evaluated.
RESULTS: Intraocular pressure was correlated positively but not strongly enough
with central corneal thickness when it was measured by Goldmann applanation
tonometry. On the contrary, there was no correlation between intraocular pressure
and central corneal thickness when intraocular pressure was measured by Pascal
dynamic contour tonometry.
CONCLUSION: Central corneal thickness is an important variable in the evaluation 
of intraocular pressure by Goldmann applanation tonometry. This factor does not
interfere with the intraocular pressure measurements taken by Pascal dynamic
contour tonometry.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1545792 
PMID: 25902089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Apr;232(4):399-404. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1545813.
Epub 2015 Apr 22.

[Visual outcome after trabeculectomy - a retrospective study].

[Article in German]

Dülli L(1), Winkler N(1), Töteberg-Harms M(1), Funk J(1), Schweier C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universitätsspital Zürich, Zürich, Schweiz.

BACKGROUND: Trabeculectomy (TE) is the standard operation for glaucoma. An
alternative interventional treatment of glaucoma is the cyclophotocoagulation
(CPC). In a data analysis in 2012, a visual loss was found after transscleral
CPC. The aim of this study was to investigate the outcome after TE.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 91 patients with pseudoexfoliation (n=38), open angle
(n=22), normal tension (n=8), congenital (n=1) and secondary glaucoma (n=22) were
included. The follow-up time was 24 months. Intraocular pressure (IOP), best
corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and the total number of antiglaucoma drugs (AGD)
were recorded.
RESULTS: The mean age was 68.18±12.12 years. Mean IOP reduction after 24 months
was 14.76±10.62 mmHg (-49%, p<0.001). On average, 2.34±1.17 (-85%, p<0.001) AGDs 
could be reduced. A mean BCVA decrease of 0.15 logMAR (±0.26, p<0.001) was found.
CONCLUSION: TE is a successful method for lowering the IOD. However,
postoperative visual loss is possible.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1545813 
PMID: 25902086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


203. PLoS One. 2015 Apr 15;10(4):e0122347. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0122347.
eCollection 2015.

3D evaluation of the lamina cribrosa with swept-source optical coherence
tomography in normal tension glaucoma.

Omodaka K(1), Horii T(2), Takahashi S(1), Kikawa T(3), Matsumoto A(3), Shiga
Y(1), Maruyama K(1), Yuasa T(2), Akiba M(3), Nakazawa T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Japan. (2)Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Yamagata
University, Yamagata, Japan. (3)Topcon Corporation, Tokyo, Japan. (4)Department
of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan;
Department of Retinal Disease Control, Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan; Department of Advanced Ophthalmic Medicine,
Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.

PURPOSE: Although the lamina cribrosa (LC) is the primary site of axonal damage
in glaucoma, adequate methods to image and measure it are currently lacking.
Here, we describe a noninvasive, in vivo method of evaluating the LC, based on
swept-source optical coherence tomography (SS-OCT), and determine this method's
ability to quantify LC thickness.
METHODS: This study comprised 54 eyes, including normal (n = 18), preperimetric
glaucoma (PPG; n = 18), and normal tension glaucoma (NTG; n = 18) eyes. We used
SS-OCT to obtain 3 x 3 mm cube scans of an area centered on the optic disc, and
then synchronized reconstructed B- and en-face images from this data. We
identified the LC in these B-scan images by marking the visible borders of the LC
pores. We marked points on the anterior and posterior borders of the LC in 12
B-scan images in order to create a skeleton model of the LC. Finally, we used
B-spline interpolation to form a 3D model of the LC, including only reliably
measured scan areas. We calculated the average LC thickness (avgLCT) in this
model and used Spearman's rank correlation coefficient to compare it with
circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (cpRNFLT).
RESULTS: We found that the correlation coefficient of avgLCT and cpRNFLT was 0.64
(p < 0.01). The coefficient of variation for avgLCT was 5.1%. AvgLCT differed
significantly in the groups (normal: 282.6 ± 20.6 μm, PPG: 261.4 ± 15.8 μm, NTG: 
232.6 ± 33.3 μm). The normal, PPG and NTG groups did not significantly differ in 
age, sex, refractive error or intraocular pressure (IOP), although the normal and
NTG groups differed significantly in cpRNFLT and Humphrey field analyzer
measurements of mean deviation.
CONCLUSION: Thus, our results indicate that the parameters of our newly developed
method of measuring LC thickness with SS-OCT may provide useful and important
data for glaucoma diagnosis and research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0122347 
PMCID: PMC4398555
PMID: 25875096  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Can J Ophthalmol. 2015 Apr;50(2):155-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2014.11.013.

Nailfold capillaroscopy assessment in patients with glaucoma with a current optic
disc hemorrhage.

Patel HY(1), Buys YM(1), Trope GE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, Toronto Western Hospital,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ont. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision
Sciences, Toronto Western Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ont..
Electronic address: Graham.Trope@uhn.ca.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether there is an increased prevalence of nailfold
hemorrhages in patients with glaucoma with a current optic disc hemorrhage (ODH) 
compared with those without a history of ODH.
DESIGN: Prospective observational study.
PARTICIPANTS: Group 1 (n = 40) consisted of patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma or normal tension glaucoma (POAG/NTG) with a current ODH who met the
specified inclusion/exclusion criteria. Group 2 (n = 20) consisted of age- and
sex-matched patients with glaucoma without a history of ODH who met specified
criteria (control group).
METHODS: This study was performed in a clinical practice setting. Nailfold
capillaroscopy was performed in each participant to determine the presence of
nailfold hemorrhages and other capillary morphologic changes.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in mean age (68 ± 10 years for Group
1 vs 71 ± 12 years for Group 2; p = 0.20) or sex (62% female in Group 1 vs 59%
female in Group 2; p = 0.80) between the groups. There was no significant
difference in the proportion of patients with nailfold hemorrhage(s) between
Group 1 (23%, 10/42) and Group 2 (26%, 11/42; p = 0.8). Subanalysis of Group 1
identified no significant difference in the prevalence of nailfold hemorrhages
between patients with POAG (23%, 6/26) and NTG (25%, 4/16; p = 0.9).
CONCLUSIONS: We report no increase in nailfold haemorrhages in patients with
glaucoma with a current ODH compared with patients with glaucoma without a
history of ODH. However, the prevalence of nailfold hemorrhages in patients with 
glaucoma either with or without an ODH is significantly greater than that
identified in normal (nonglaucoma) control subjects in other studies.

Copyright © 2015 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2014.11.013 
PMID: 25863857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jul;59(4):223-9. doi: 10.1007/s10384-015-0379-z. Epub 2015
Apr 11.

Characteristic correlations of the structure-function relationship in different
glaucomatous disc types.

Omodaka K(1), Takada N, Yamaguchi T, Takahashi H, Araie M, Nakazawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
1-1 Seiryo-machi, Aoba-Ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the influence of the optic disc type on the overall and
regional correlation between structure and function in open angle glaucoma (OAG).
METHODS: We divided 144 eyes of 144 patients with OAG into four groups according 
to Nicolela et al.'s classification of optic disc type: focal ischemic (FI),
myopic glaucomatous (MY), senile sclerotic (SS), and generalized enlargement
(GE). We measured the circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness
(cpRNFLT) with the 3D OCT-2000 and the mean deviation (MD) with the Humphrey
Field Analyzer in each group and determined the influence of the disc type on
these parameters with the Spearman rank correlation.
RESULTS: We found that cpRNFLT and MD were significantly correlated in the MY (r 
= 0.61, P < 0.001), GE (r = 0.62, P < 0.001), and SS groups (r = 0.52, P =
0.002), but not in the FI group (r = 0.25, P = 0.130). The region of the optic
disc with the highest correlation coefficient between structure and function
differed according to the disc type.
CONCLUSIONS: The correlation between cpRNFLT and MD varied according to the optic
disc morphology in OAG. This suggests that different disc types have
characteristic regional variations in the correlation between structure and
function. The disc type should therefore be considered in investigations of the
correlation between structure and function in glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-015-0379-z 
PMID: 25860862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2015 Mar;119(3):168-93; discussion 194.

[Aiming for zero blindness].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakazawa T.

Glaucoma is the leading cause of acquired blindness in Japan. One reason that it 
often leads to blindness is that it can continue to worsen even after effective
medical reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP), the only evidence-based
treatment. The limitations of current treatments make it critical to identify
IOP-independent factors that can cause glaucoma and develop new drugs to target
these factors. This is a challenging task, as the pathology of glaucoma is
thought to be very complex, with different combinations of factors underlying its
development and progression in different patients. Additionally, there is a
deficiency in methods to efficiently perform clinical evaluations and reliably
probe the state of the disease over relatively short periods. In addition, newly 
developed drugs need to be evaluated with clinical trials, for which human and
financial resources are limited, before they can be widely used for treatment.
Taking all these issues into consideration, it is evident that there are two
urgent issues to consider: the development of methods to classify glaucoma in
detail based on its pathology, and the improvement of clinical evaluation
methods. In this review, we discuss some of our efforts to develop new
neuroprotective agents for glaucoma, with a focus on the following three areas:
1. Clinical research and development of methods to classify glaucoma in detail
based on IOP-independent factors, and the exploration of possibilities for the
improvement of clinical evaluation of glaucoma. 2. Pathology-based research and
development of new drugs for glaucoma, focusing on comprehensive gene expression 
analysis and the development of molecule-targeting drugs, using murine optic
nerve crush as a disease model. 3. Development of next generation in vivo imaging
modalities and the establishment of infrastructure enabling "big-data" analysis. 
First, we discuss our clinical research and the development of methods to
classify glaucoma in detail based on IOP-independent factors, as well as our
investigation of ways to improve the clinical evaluation of the disease. Our
research was prompted by the multifactorial nature of glaucoma. There is a high
degree of variability in the pattern and speed of the progression of visual field
defects in individual patients, presenting a major obstacle for successful
clinical trials. To overcome this, we classified the eyes of glaucoma patients
into 4 types, corresponding to the 4 patterns of glaucomatous optic nerve head
morphology described: by Nicolela et al. and then tested the validity of this
method by assessing the uniformity of clinical features in each group. We found
that in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes, each disc morphology group had a
characteristic location in which the loss of circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber 
layer thickness (cpRNFLT; measured with optical coherence tomography: OCT) was
most likely to occur. Furthermore, the incidence of reductions in visual acuity
differed between the groups, as did the speed of visual field loss, the
distribution of defective visual field test points, and the location of test
points that were most susceptible to progressive damage, measured by Humphrey
static perimetry. These results indicate that Nicolela's method of classifying
eyes with glaucoma was able to overcome the difficulties caused by the diverse
nature of the disease, at least to a certain extent. Building on these findings, 
we then set out to identify sectors of the visual field that correspond to the
distribution of retinal nerve fibers, with the aim of detecting glaucoma
progression with improved sensitivity. We first mapped the statistical
correlation between visual field test points and cpRNFLT in each temporal
clock-hour sector (from 6 to 12 o'clock), using OCT data from NTG patients. The
resulting series of maps allowed us to identify areas containing visual field
test points that were prone to be affected together as a group. We also used a
similar method to identify visual field sectors within a 10 x 10 grid displayed
by an OCT map of the macula. By analyzing both the visual field and the macular
map sectors, we anticipate that a more accurate and sensitive detection of
glaucoma progression can become possible. We also used laser speckle flowgraphy
(LSFG) to assess optic nerve blood flow. We found that compared to healthy eyes, 
eyes with early-stage NTG had decreased blood flow, and the peak of the blood
flow wave form of each heartbeat was delayed. Finally, we used a method combining
swept source OCT (SS-OCT) and newly developed analysis software to reconstruct
the entire lamina cribrosa, a structure situated deep in the optic nerve head.
This morphological analysis returned preliminary data suggesting that alterations
in the morphology of the lamina cribrosa are already present in the early stages 
of glaucoma. This result indicates that axonal injury, mediated by morphological 
abnormalities of the lamina cribrosa, is involved in the pathogenesis of
glaucoma. The next topic discussed is the pathology-based drug research and
development, focusing on the use of comprehensive gene expression analysis and
the development of molecule-targeting drugs in a murine model of optic nerve
injury. Learning from clinical data on glaucoma and the lamina cribrosa, we
carried out basic research to first determine what factors regulate axonal
injury, and then develop drugs targeting these factors. Specifically, we
performed a comprehensive gene expression analysis, using a next generation
sequencer, and pathway analysis of retinal samples obtained from a murine model
of axonal injury. This analysis revealed a characteristic upregulation of genes
(such as Chop) that belongs to the endoplasmic reticulum stress pathway. An
immunohistological analysis revealed that these changes in gene expression took
place in the retinal ganglion cells, suggesting that endoplasmic reticulum stress
molecules may be suitable therapeutic targets. Among these molecules, we chose
CHOP as our primary target for drug development. Currently, we are in the process
of screening a library of 1274 drugs, all of which are already used in human
subjects, for CHOP inhibitors. The last topic of our discussion is future
possibilities for glaucoma management. First, we discuss the development of next 
generation in vivo imaging modalities that allow detailed description of
pathomechanisms of this multifactorial disease, glaucoma. The purpose of this
research was to improve the efficacy of glaucoma diagnosis and to visualize its
pathology at a cellular/molecular level and develop molecule-specific therapies. 
Currently available visual field tests are subjective, since they rely on a
determination of the threshold of light perception, and are affected by poor
reproducibility. The current dependence on visual field tests to ascertain the
progression of glaucoma is thus a serious limitation on an important task of
ophthalmologists. We, therefore, turned our focus to the establishment of an in
vivo imaging method to detect dying retinal ganglion cells, which would highlight
the pathologic state of glaucoma with high sensitivity. To this end, we used
confocal scanning ophthalmoscopy to assess the usefulness of SYTOX Orange as a
cell death probe. Our results showed that this probe could reveal dying retinal
ganglion cells clearly, quickly and with high sensitivity. We, therefore, believe
that the clinical application of probes that can sensitively detect dying retinal
ganglion cells is a highly promising approach. This also applies to the use of
molecular tools that can provide information on the molecular pathology of
glaucoma. Finally, we would like to introduce our national collaborative work on 
the analysis of "big-data". The project aims to collect as wide a range of data
as possible at an unprecedented scale. The data to be registered ranges from
basic glaucoma data, such as IOP and visual field test results, to data from the 
most sophisticated comprehensive expression analyses or imaging data. This is an 
important area of research, since it promises to enable the exploration of
targets for drug discovery and the identification of new biomarkers to
efficiently detect glaucoma progression by applying new analysis strategies to
the complex mass data. The project not only depends on the collaborative efforts 
of various types of clinical settings including private practices, medical
centers and university hospitals, but also contributions of the pharmaceutical
and the medical device industries. Thus, uniting a wide range of Japanese
interests and resources is the key for success. In summary, in order to aim for
ZERO BLINDNESS, a drastic improvement in the quality of our patient care, drug
development research for unmet medical demands, and a strategic collaboration of 
various professionals in the ophthalmic industry are essential. With the deep
appreciation we fell towards the selfless support extended during the earthquake 
disaster, we wish to translate our "gratitude" into "power" from Tohoku. In doing
so, we as academicians are determined to keep on contributing to the society by
making progress in the medicine.


PMID: 25854109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 Mar 9;9:453. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S81448. eCollection 2015.

Erratum: The efficacy and safety of add-on 0.1% brimonidine tartrate preserved
with sodium chlorite in on-treatment Japanese normal-tension glaucoma patients
[Corrigendum].

[No authors listed]

Erratum for
    Clin Ophthalmol. 2014;8:1681-7.

[This corrects the article on p. 1681 in vol. 8, PMID: 25214761.].

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S81448 
PMCID: PMC4358649
PMID: 25834381  [PubMed]


208. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2015 Apr;29(2):102-8. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2015.29.2.102. Epub
2015 Mar 17.

Comparison of risk factors for initial central scotoma versus initial peripheral 
scotoma in normal-tension glaucoma.

Kang JW(1), Park B(1), Cho BJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Konkuk University Medical Center, Konkuk
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the risk factors for initial central scotoma (ICS)
compared with initial peripheral scotoma (IPS) in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Fifty-six NTG patients (56 eyes) with an ICS and 103 NTG patients (103
eyes) with an IPS were included. Retrospectively, the differences were assessed
between the two groups for baseline characteristics, ocular factors, systemic
factors, and lifestyle factors. Also, the mean deviation of visual field was
compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: Patients from both ICS and IPS groups were of similar age, gender,
family history of glaucoma, and follow-up periods. Frequency of disc hemorrhage
was significantly higher among patients with ICS than in patients with IPS.
Moreover, systemic risk factors such as hypotension, migraine, Raynaud's
phenomenon, and snoring were more prevalent in the ICS group than in the IPS
group. There were no statistical differences in lifestyle risk factors such as
smoking or body mass index. Pattern standard deviation was significantly greater 
in the ICS group than in the IPS group, but the mean deviation was similar
between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: NTG Patients with ICS and IPS have different profiles of risk
factors and clinical characteristics. This suggests that the pattern of initial
visual field loss may be useful to identify patients at higher risk of central
field loss.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2015.29.2.102 
PMCID: PMC4369511
PMID: 25829826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 Apr;253(4):583-9. doi:
10.1007/s00417-014-2895-9. Epub 2015 Jan 21.

Retinal vascular caliber between eyes with asymmetric glaucoma.

De Leon JM(1), Cheung CY, Wong TY, Li X, Hamzah H, Aung T, Su DH.

Author information: 
(1)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore, Singapore.

PURPOSE: To compare differences in retinal arterial and venular caliber (RAC and 
RVC respectively) between fellow eyes with glaucoma of asymmetric severity.
METHODS: We included subjects with bilateral primary glaucoma that had vertical
cup-disc ratios (VCDR) >0.2 between both eyes, or visual field (VF) mean
deviation (MD) >6.0 decibels (dB) between both eyes.
RESULTS: Among 158 subjects, the average RAC in glaucoma eyes was 131.5 ± 17.8 μm
vs 141.6 ± 18.8 μm in fellow eyes with mild disease (p < 0.001). RVCs in glaucoma
eyes were 201.0 ± 21.4 μm vs 211.7 ± 25.3 μm in fellow eyes with mild disease
(p < 0.001). This relationship held in clustered linear regression models
adjusted for age, gender, vascular risk factors, visual acuity, axial length, and
intraocular pressure, with RVCs narrower in eyes with worse disease vs mild
disease. Eyes with worse disease had greater VCDR (0.9 ± 0.1 vs 0.7 ± 0.1, p <
0.001), and worse VF MD (-18.5 ± 8.6 vs -6.6 ± 5.6, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: In glaucoma with asymmetric severity between fellow eyes, retinal
vascular caliber is less in the eye with more severe disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-014-2895-9 
PMID: 25795058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


210. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 20;10(3):e0120634. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120634.
eCollection 2015.

Comparison of prelaminar thickness between primary open angle glaucoma and normal
tension glaucoma patients.

Jung YH(1), Park HY(1), Jung KI(1), Park CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, The Catholic University of
Korea, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

MAIN OBJECTIVE: The thinning of prelaminar tissue and prelamina cupping is known 
to occur by ischemia, as we see in anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. Since
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is thought to be more related to vascular factor
than in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), we hypothesized that prelamina
thinning may occur prominently in NTG patients. This study investigated the
difference in prelaminar tissue thickness between patients with POAG and NTG and 
verified the factors related to prelaminar thinning.
METHODS: Complete ophthalmic examination including standard automatic perimetry
was performed in all patients. The prelaminar tissue thickness was measured in
all patients by performing enhanced depth imaging with a Heidelberg Spectralis
Optical Coherence Tomography. The retinal nerve fiber layer and optic nerve head 
parameters were obtained using the Heidelberg Retina Tomography II and Cirrus
Optical Coherence Tomography. Various ocular factors and their relationships with
prelaminar thickness were analyzed.
RESULTS: The mean prelaminar tissue thickness was significantly thinner in
patients with POAG than in those with NTG. The difference in the prelaminar
thickness between patients with POAG and those with NTG was greater in the early 
field defect group than in the moderate and severe field groups. In multivariate 
analysis, the mean prelaminar thickness was related to the intraocular pressure, 
mean deviation, cup-disc ratio, and cup volume.
CONCLUSIONS: The prelaminar tissue was thinner in patients with POAG than in
patients with NTG, and intraocular pressure had a strong influence on the
prelaminar thickness in both POAG and NTG. This may indicate that mechanical
compression is the main pathogenic factor in both POAG and NTG.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120634 
PMCID: PMC4368800
PMID: 25793734  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Cell Death Dis. 2015 Mar 19;6:e1693. doi: 10.1038/cddis.2015.45.

Arundic acid attenuates retinal ganglion cell death by increasing
glutamate/aspartate transporter expression in a model of normal tension glaucoma.

Yanagisawa M(1), Aida T(1), Takeda T(1), Namekata K(2), Harada T(2), Shinagawa
R(3), Tanaka K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Medical Research Institute, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8510, Japan. 
(2)Visual Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
2-1-6 Kamikitazawa, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan. (3)Discovery Research
Laboratories I, Minase Research Institute, Ono Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., 1-1,
Sakurai 3-chome, Shimamoto-cho, Mishima-gun, Osaka 618-8585, Japan. (4)1]
Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Medical Research Institute, Tokyo Medical
and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8510, Japan [2] The
Center for Brain Integration Research, Tokyo Medical and Dental University,
1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8510, Japan [3] JST, CREST, 7, Gobancho,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-0076, Japan.

Glaucoma is the second leading cause of blindness worldwide and is characterized 
by gradual visual impairment owing to progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells 
(RGCs) and their axons. Glutamate excitotoxicity has been implicated as a
mechanism of RGC death in glaucoma. Consistent with this claim, we previously
reported that glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST)-deficient mice show optic
nerve degeneration that is similar to that observed in glaucoma. Therefore, drugs
that upregulate GLAST may be useful for neuroprotection in glaucoma. Although
many compounds are known to increase the expression of another glial glutamate
transporter, EAAT2/GLT1, few compounds are shown to increase GLAST expression.
Arundic acid is a glial modulating agent that ameliorates delayed ischemic brain 
damage by attenuating increases in extracellular glutamate. We hypothesized that 
arundic acid neuroprotection involves upregulation of GLAST. To test this
hypothesis, we examined the effect of arundic acid on GLAST expression and
glutamate uptake. We found that arundic acid induces GLAST expression in vitro
and in vivo. In addition, arundic acid treatment prevented RGC death by
upregulating GLAST in heterozygous (GLAST(+/-)) mice. Furthermore, arundic acid
stimulates the human GLAST ortholog, EAAT1, expression in human neuroglioblastoma
cells. Thus, discovering compounds that can enhance EAAT1 expression and activity
may be a novel strategy for therapeutic treatment of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2015.45 
PMCID: PMC4385923
PMID: 25789968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Med Sci Monit. 2015 Mar 19;21:828-32. doi: 10.12659/MSM.893349.

Levels of antibodies against human heat shock protein (HSP) 60 in patients with
glaucoma in Poland.

Grabska-Liberek I(1), Skonieczna K(1), Olesińska M(2), Terelak-Borys B(1),
Kocięcki J(3), Sikora M(2), Jamrozy-Witkowska A(1), Tesla P(1), Czarnocka B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centre of Postgraduate Medical Education, Warsaw,
Poland. (2)Department of Connective Tissue Diseases, Institute of Rheumatology,
Warsaw, Poland. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Poznań University of Medical
Sciences, Poznań, Poland. (4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Centre of Postgraduate Medical Education, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Although elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor for the
development of glaucoma, there is increasing evidence that the immune system may 
be involved in the development of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). The aim of this 
study was to determine if NTG is associated with elevated levels of antibodies
against human heat shock protein (HSP) 60.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study was conducted in 139 subjects (35 subjects with
NTG [Group 1], 34 subjects with primary open-angle glaucoma /POAG/ [Group 2], 24 
subjects with autoimmune rheumatic diseases [Group 3], and 36 healthy controls
[Group 4]). All subjects had complete ophthalmologic examination (visual acuity, 
slit-lamp examination, tonometry, gonioscopy; visual-field examination, and
optical coherence tomography /OCT/ of the optic nerve head and the macula). Blood
samples were collected for the measurements of serum levels of antibodies against
human HSP60.
RESULTS: The subjects with rheumatic diseases had the highest median serum level 
of antibodies against HSP60 - 20.49 ng/mL. The values in the subjects with NTG,
POAG, and in controls were 18.79 ng/mL, 18.61 ng/mL and 17.61 ng/mL, respectively
(p=0.96).
CONCLUSIONS: This study does not confirm the hypothesis that normal-tension
glaucoma is associated with elevated blood levels of antibodies against human
heat shock protein (HSP) 60.

DOI: 10.12659/MSM.893349 
PMCID: PMC4378524
PMID: 25786333  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Int J Clin Exp Med. 2015 Jan 15;8(1):297-303. eCollection 2015.

Obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome increases glaucoma risk: evidence from 
a meta-analysis.

Wu X(1), Liu H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, The 425th Hospital of PLA Sanya 572000,
Hainan, China.

Associations between Obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) and risk
of glaucoma remained controversial. Therefore, we performed this meta-analysis to
investigate this association. We searched Pubmed, EMBASE, and Wangfang databases 
for studies before Oct. 10 2014. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals 
(CIs) were used to calculate the strength of association. A total of 12 studies
with 36909 subjects on the association between OSAHS and glaucoma risk were
included for this meta-analysis. OSAHS was associated with a significantly
increased risk of glaucoma (OR = 1.65; 95% CI, 1.44-1.88; I (2) = 43%). In the
race subgroup analysis, both Asians (OR = 1.78; 95% CI, 1.49-2.12; I (2) = 0%)
and Caucasians (OR = 2.03; 95% CI, 1.12-3.69; I (2) = 57%) with OSAHS had
increased glaucoma risk. In the subgroup analysis according to gender, both women
and men were significantly associated with risk of glaucoma (OR = 1.81; 95% CI,
1.27-2.57; I (2) = 22% and OR = 1.62; 95% CI, 1.29-2.03; I (2) = 0%,
respectively). In the subgroup analysis by glaucoma type, OSAHS patients showed
increased primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) risk (OR = 1.87; 95% CI, 1.54-2.33; 
I (2) = 0%) but not normal tension glaucoma (NTG) risk (OR = 3.57; 95% CI,
0.89-14.43; I (2) = 0%). In addition, severe OSAHS patients had an increased
glaucoma risk (OR = 5.49; 95% CI, 1.04-33.83; I (2) = 0%), while mild and
moderate OSAHS patients did not show significantly increased glaucoma risk. This 
meta-analysis suggested that the OSAHS may be a risk factor for glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC4358455
PMID: 25785000  [PubMed]


214. Am J Hypertens. 2015 Sep;28(9):1077-82. doi: 10.1093/ajh/hpv016. Epub 2015 Mar
11.

Circadian Variation in Arterial Blood Pressure and Glaucomatous Optic
Neuropathy--A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Bowe A(1), Grünig M(2), Schubert J(2), Demir M(2), Hoffmann V(2), Kütting F(2),
Pelc A(2), Steffen HM(2).

Author information: 
(1)EbM Working Group, Clinic for Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University
Hospital of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. andrea.bowe@uk-koeln.de. (2)EbM Working
Group, Clinic for Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital of
Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Comment in
    Am J Hypertens. 2015 Sep;28(9):1184-5.
    Am J Hypertens. 2015 Sep;28(9):1182-3.

BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies have led to equivocal results concerning the 
role of arterial blood pressure as a risk factor for the development of
glaucomatous damage and progressive visual field loss in glaucoma has been
attributed to low nighttime blood pressure, especially when oral
antihypertensives have been combined with beta-blocking eyedrops. In order to
answer the question whether nocturnal blood pressure or blood pressure dip during
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring are associated with progressive visual field
loss we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies in patients
with primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: After searching MEDLINE, the Cochrane Library, and EMBASE, only 5
studies could be found reporting information on the method of ambulatory blood
pressure measurements, separate data for daytime and nighttime blood pressure,
definition of nocturnal blood pressure dip, and assessment of visual fields over 
a period of at least 2 years.
RESULTS: There was no difference in mean systolic or diastolic diurnal and
nocturnal blood pressure between patients with or without progressive visual
field loss. The odds ratio for deteriorating visual fields over 2 years with
nocturnal dips >10% in systolic or diastolic blood pressure was 3.32 (1.84-6.00) 
and 2.09 (1.20-3.64), respectively. Data allowing a separate analysis of
over-dipping were not available.
CONCLUSIONS: Nocturnal blood pressure fall is a risk factor for progressive
visual field loss in glaucoma. However, prospective studies are needed to define 
a tolerable degree of dipping. Antihypertensive therapy in glaucomatous patients 
should be controlled with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.

© American Journal of Hypertension, Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/hpv016 
PMID: 25767134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Int Ophthalmol. 2015 Dec;35(6):819-26. doi: 10.1007/s10792-015-0053-y. Epub 2015 
Feb 27.

Optic nerve head characteristics in eyes with papillomacular bundle defects in
glaucoma.

Rao A(1), Mukherjee S(2), Padhy D(2).

Author information: 
(1)LV Prasad Eye Institute, Patia, Bhubaneswar, India. vinodini10375@yahoo.com.
(2)LV Prasad Eye Institute, Patia, Bhubaneswar, India.

To evaluate the pattern of retinal nerve fibre layer defects (RNFLD) with regard 
to involvement of papillomacular bundle (PMB) in glaucoma. This observational
study included patients attending glaucoma imaging services at our centre from
2011 to 2012. All images were exported to Image J software for analysis and
rescaled to a unified scale for measurement of degree of RNFLD defined by its
angular width, pattern of involvement with regard to involvement or sparing of
PMB in particular and horizontal and vertical distance of central vessel trunk
(CVT) from the disc margin. Association of clinical data with pattern of defects 
with regard to PMB involvement was analysed. Sixty-two fundus photographs with
discernible nerve fibre layer defects on red free images were selected, including
48 normal tension glaucoma, two primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) and 12
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) eyes. Discernible PMB involvement was seen in 
35 eyes which included 31 defects in inferior quadrant while CVT exit was placed 
in the quadrant opposite to the quadrant of RNFLD in that eye. The mean vertical 
distance from the nearest disc margin was greater in eyes without PMB
involvement, 0.4 ± 0.02 mm, than eyes with PMB defects, 0.3 ± 0.01 mm, p < 0.001.
On multivariate logistic regression, PMB involvement was significantly associated
with decreased linear horizontal of the CVT from the disc margin, p = 0.003.
Selective involvement of superior and inferior PMB suggests different retinotopic
representation within the optic disc. Exit of the CVT towards the disc margin may
be a predisposing factor for RNFLD and involvement of the PMB.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-015-0053-y 
PMID: 25721564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Eye (Lond). 2015 Oct;29(10):1308-14. doi: 10.1038/eye.2015.17. Epub 2015 Feb 27.

Comparison of visual field progression between temporally tilted disc and
nontilted disc, in patients with normal tension glaucoma.

Choy YJ(1), Kwun Y(2), Han JC(2), Kee C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eul-ji University Hospital, Daejeon, Korea.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the long-term visual field (VF) progression of temporally
tilted disc and nontilted disc in normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Retrospective, observational case series. Forty-seven patients with
temporally tilted disc (47 eyes), 44 patients with nontilted disc in NTG (44
eyes) patients, who were examined by at least 5 VF tests, and were followed-up
over a 5-year period, at the Department of Ophthalmology of the Samsung Medical
Center, from May 1998 to 2013. VF progression was defined by modified
Anderson-Hodapp criteria, and Glaucoma Progression Analysis (GPA). Multivariate
analysis was used to identify the risk factors for VF progression in the
temporally tilted disc.
RESULTS: According to the Anderson-Hodapp criteria, progression rates of the
temporally tilted disc and nontilted disc at 60 months were 19% and 72%,
respectively (P<0.0001). According to GPA, they were 25% and 53%, respectively
(P<0.0001). Twenty of 47 patients in the temporally tilted disc did not show
progression. Among them, the more tilted disc showed the more VF defects. The
hazard ratio of retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defect type was 3.08 (95% CI,
1.17-8.14; P=0.02). The simultaneous superior and inferior RNFL defect type was
the most common in progressors in the temporally tilted disc (P=0.04).
CONCLUSION: Through long-term follow-up, the cumulative survival rate of
temporally tilted disc was higher than that of nontilted disc. Caution is
required in the treatment of the temporally tilted disc. New treatment policy for
the temporally tilted disc may follow.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2015.17 
PMCID: PMC4815697
PMID: 25721518  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Glaucoma. 2016 May;25(5):408-14. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000240.

Effectiveness of Single-Digit IOP Targets on Decreasing Global and Localized
Visual Field Progression After Filtration Surgery in Eyes With Progressive
Normal-Tension Glaucoma.

Iverson SM(1), Schultz SK, Shi W, Feuer WJ, Greenfield DS.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, FL.

PURPOSE: To examine the effectiveness of achieving single-digit intraocular
pressure (IOP) targets with filtration surgery on decreasing global and localized
visual field (VF) progression in eyes with progressive normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG).
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was conducted to identify NTG patients who 
underwent trabeculectomy with mitomycin C between 2006 and 2010 for progressive
VF loss with preoperative IOP≤15 mm Hg during the 12 months before surgery. All
eyes had glaucomatous optic neuropathy and progressive VF loss, uncontrolled IOP 
on maximum therapy, and a minimum of 2 baseline preoperative and 4 postoperative 
VF examinations. VF progression was assessed using Guided Progression Analysis
(GPA) and Progressor software.
RESULTS: Fifteen eyes of 14 patients (mean age 71.8±7.5 y) were enrolled with
mean follow-up of 71±26 months. Mean postoperative IOP (8.5±3.5 mm Hg) was
significantly (P<0.001) reduced compared with preoperatively (13.1±1.5 mm Hg).
The probability of achieving an IOP goal ≤10 mm Hg was 66% at 4 years' follow-up.
The overall rate of postoperative VF progression using any method was 13.3% (1
eye using Progressor; 1 eye using GPA and Progressor). Average postoperative
slope of MD (-0.25±0.86 dB/y) and pattern SD (0.49±0.83 dB/y) were improved
(P=0.05 and 0.07) compared with the preoperative slopes (-1.05±0.66 and 1.21±0.71
dB/y).
CONCLUSIONS: Achieving single-digit IOP targets with filtration surgery has a
beneficial effect on reducing global and localized rates of VF progression in NTG
eyes with progression at low IOP.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000240 
PMID: 25719235  [PubMed - in process]


218. J Glaucoma. 2016 Apr;25(4):e308-12. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000236.

The Effect of Trabeculectomy on Astigmatism.

Delbeke H(1), Stalmans I, Vandewalle E, Zeyen T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

PURPOSE: To investigate the change in corneal astigmatism after trabeculectomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between January and April 2012, patients who underwent a
primary trabeculectomy were enrolled in this prospective study. We measured the
visual acuity, automated keratorefractometry, and the intraocular pressure
preoperatively and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months. Changes in astigmatism 
were quantified using the vector analysis described by Cravy. A Friedman test and
a linear model for longitudinal measures were used to compare changes in the
refraction and the intraocular pressure. A binomial test was used to compare the 
proportion of eyes with a shift in astigmatism with or against-the-rule.
RESULTS: A total of 47 eyes (47/48 patients) were included for analysis. The mean
(±SD) intraocular pressure decreased from 17.5 ± 5.4 mmHg preoperatively to 9.8 ±
4.0 mmHg after 6 months (P<0.001). At this time-point, 32/47 eyes showed a shift 
in astigmatism with-the-rule (P=0.02), with a median difference in cylinder of
+0.50 D (range, 0 to 4 D) (P=0.004). The mean (±SD) axis of the positive cylinder
changed from 169 ± 148 to 135 ± 146 degrees after 6 months (P=0.12) and the mean 
(±SD) spherical equivalent changed from -0.47 ± 2.27 to -0.07 ± 1.93 D (P=0.15). 
The mean (±SD) logMAR was 0.17 ± 0.22 preoperatively and 0.14 ± 0.14 after 6
months (P=0.9).
CONCLUSIONS: Trabeculectomy induced a small but statistically significant shift
in astigmatism with-the-rule after 6 months. The spherical equivalent did not
change compared with the preoperative value. Most often, glasses will not need to
be changed after trabeculectomy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000236 
PMID: 25719233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Ophthalmologe. 2015 Apr;112(4):325-31. doi: 10.1007/s00347-014-3160-7.

[Trabeculectomy versus canaloplasty].

[Article in German]

Matlach J(1), Klink T.

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust 
and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, 162 City Road, EC1V 2PD, London, UK,
juliane.matlach@moorfields.nhs.uk.

BACKGROUND: Trabeculectomy provides an excellent reduction of intraocular
pressure (IOP) and is the reference technique in the treatment of glaucoma
patients. Canaloplasty is a relatively new surgical non-penetrating procedure for
restoring the natural outflow pathway of aqueous humour. The aim of canaloplasty 
is to permanently distend the collapsed Schlemm's canal with the placement of a
360° intracanalicular tension suture.
OBJECTIVES: This review article describes the comparison between trabeculectomy
and canaloplasty with and without cataract surgery.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Original studies, case reports and reviews are described
and the results are discussed.
RESULTS: Although canaloplasty may not be as effective in reducing IOP,
trabeculectomy can be associated with severe vision-threatening complications
however, the combination of canaloplasty with cataract surgery achieves a higher 
IOP reduction than canaloplasty alone. In contrast, trabeculectomy alone provides
better IOP control than phacotrabeculectomy due to a higher risk of early bleb
scarring induced by an increased intraocular inflammatory reaction.
CONCLUSION: If a higher postoperative IOP is acceptable and additional topical
glaucoma medication tolerable, canaloplasty can be considered as an alternative
to trabeculectomy as the incidence of complications is low and postoperative care
less intensive. Canaloplasty may also be suitable for patients with high risk of 
bleb failure and early glaucoma with a target IOP not necessarily requiring a
filtering procedure. Therefore, canaloplasty offers a treatment option for the
management of open-angle glaucoma, especially in combination with cataract
surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-014-3160-7 
PMID: 25712418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Apr;56(4):2595-600. doi: 10.1167/iovs.14-16269.

Genetic Variants Associated With Different Risks for High Tension Glaucoma and
Normal Tension Glaucoma in a Chinese Population.

Chen Y(1), Hughes G(2), Chen X(1), Qian S(1), Cao W(3), Wang L(1), Wang M(1), Sun
X(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, Shanghai Medical College, Eye 
and Ear Nose Throat Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (2)University of
California Irvine School of Medicine, Irvine, California, United States.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Eye and Ear Nose Throat Hospital, Fudan
University, Shanghai, China. (4)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science,
Shanghai Medical College, Eye and Ear Nose Throat Hospital, Fudan University,
Shanghai, China 4State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, Institutes of
Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: We investigated the association of genetic factors with primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG), including high tension glaucoma (HTG) and normal tension
glaucoma (NTG), in a Han Chinese population.
METHODS: We recruited 1157 POAG cases, including 860 HTG and 297 NTG, and 934
normal controls. A total of 13 previously reported single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) located at four gene regions (TMCO1, CDKN2B-AS1, ATOH7, and 
SIX1/SIX6) was genotyped. Distributions of allele frequencies were compared
between cases and controls as well as in the HTG and NTG subgroups. The IOP,
vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR), central corneal thickness (CCT), axial length 
(AL), and age at diagnosis also were investigated as quantitative phenotypes with
genotypes of these SNPs.
RESULTS: The SNPs rs4656461 and rs7555523 at TMCO1, rs523096 and rs2157719 at
CDKN2B-AS1, as well as rs33912345 and rs10483727 at SIX1/SIX6 showed
statistically significant association with POAG. The SNPs at ATOH7 did not show
statistically significant association with POAG in our dataset. In the subgroup
analysis of HTG and NTG, multiple variants at CDKN2B-AS1 and SIX1/SIX6 showed
stronger association with NTG than HTG. The SNPs rs523096 and rs2157719 at
CDKN2B-AS1 as well as rs33912345 and rs10483727 at SIX1/SIX6 were found to be
associated with IOP where the minor alleles were associated with an increase in
IOP. In contrast, SNPs at TMCO1 showed significant association with HTG only.
CONCLUSIONS: Genetic variants in CDKN2B-AS1, SIX1/SIX6, and TMCO1 were associated
with POAG in a Han Chinese population. Genes CDKN2B-AS1 and SIX1/SIX6 seem to
harbor a tendency toward POAG with lower IOP, while carriers of risk alleles at
TMCO1 seem to be predisposed to developing POAG with higher IOP.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.14-16269 
PMID: 25711633  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Ghana Med J. 2014 Sep;48(3):143-7.

Presentation of glaucoma in the greater Accra metropolitan area of Ghana.

Gyasi ME(1), Francis AW(2), Chen Y(3), Harrison RS(4), Kodjo AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Emmanuel Eye Centre, Accra, Ghana. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, University of Illinois College of Medicine at Chicago, Chicago, IL,
USA. (3)Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, USA. (4)Department of
Ophthalmology, Royal United Hospital Bath NHS Trust, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: This study addresses the prevalence and clinical presentation of
patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) in the greater Accra
metropolitan area.
METHODS: This is a retrospective case series of 455 patients (813 eyes) at the
Emmanuel Eye Clinic. Patients were diagnosed from May 2008 to Nov 2011. The
definition of POAG conformed to the International Society of Geographical and
Epidemiological Ophthalmology (ISGEO) criteria. Information collected included
basic demographic data, distribution of glaucoma subtypes, measured intraocular
pressure (IOP), best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and optic disc measurements.
RESULTS: Nearly 24% presented blind in at least one eye. The average age was 56.7
+/-16.7 years and the average IOP was 33.9 mmHg +/- 12.7 mmHg for right eyes and 
33.5 mmHg +/-12.0 mmHg for left eyes. The mean vertical cup to disc ratio (vCDR) 
was 0.83 for right eyes versus 0.82 for left eyes. A total of 32 patients (53
eyes) were diagnosed with normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Statistically
significant differences between the NTG and high tension groups included age
(45.3 +/- 16.7 vs. 56.7 +/-16.7, p<0.001), mean IOP (19.1 mmHg +/- 4.5 mmHg vs.
33.7 +/- 12.4 mmHg, p<0.001) and mean vCDR (0.76 +/- 0.17 vs. 0.83 +/-0.10,
p<0.01). Comparing age-matched NTG patients with high tension glaucoma patients
showed no significant difference in vCDR.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical presentation of POAG at the Emmanuel Eye Center is
characterized by elevated IOP and grossly advanced optic neuropathy. Significant 
differences between high tension glaucoma and NTG were identified.


PMCID: PMC4335450
PMID: 25709123  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Feb;232(2):152-61. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1396210. Epub
2015 Feb 20.

[Ocular blood flow regulation in glaucoma - examination with the ocular pressure 
flow analyzer (OPFA)].

[Article in German]

Ulrich WD(1), Moeller A(1), Ulrich C(1), Siebert G(2), Wernecke KD(2), Erb C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Augenarztpraxis, 04552 Borna. (2)Sostana GmbH, 10117 Berlin. (3)Augenklinik am
Wittenbergplatz, 10787 Berlin.

Comment in
    Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Aug;232(8):1001-2.
    Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Aug;232(8):995-6.

BACKGROUND: The results of studies of ocular blood flow (BF) regulation of
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
and ocular hypertension (OH) are presented.
METHODS AND PATIENTS: Examinations were carried out with the "OPFA", a newly
developed ocular pressure flow analyzer (producer: tpm Lüneburg) on 92 patients
with newly diagnosed glaucomas, among whom 48 patients had POAG, 22 NTG and 22
OH, and compared with age-matched groups of healthy subjects. The OPFA uses
pneumatic coupling through special scleral suction cups to record ocular pulses
with highly sensitive transducers and a suction pump for simultaneously
increasing intraocular pressure (IOP). Following local drop anaesthesia on both
eyes, IOP is artificially raised to suprasystolic values. While continuously
lowering IOP, the ocular pulse is then recorded with increasing ocular perfusion 
pressure. We obtain the relative ocular pulse blood volume by correlating the
ocular pulse amplitudes with a calibration volume of 1 µl. This enables us to
collect reproducible data on intra- and inter-individual pulse blood volume
(PVoc). The ocular perfusion pressure pulse blood volume curve characterizes the 
respective individual ocular circulation as well as systolic and diastolic ocular
perfusion pressures.
RESULTS: In healthy subjects, the ocular pulse blood volume remains stable over a
certain range of ocular perfusion pressure (ppoc) changes. After exceeding a
critical point (CP), the ocular pulse blood volume drops. We refer to the
difference between the CP and IOP as the autoregulatory capacity (AC). In
patients with POAG and in patients with NTG, the AC was reduced significantly
compared with the groups of healthy subjects. The mean AC of patients with OH
remained within the normal range. The ROC curves showed at an optimal cut-off
value for POAG a sensitivity of 75.0 % and a specificity of 97.9 %, for NTG a
sensitivity of 77.3 % and a specificity of 100 %. In patients with POAG and OH,
the ocular arterial pressures were elevated. In patients with NTG they remained
unchanged compared with the healthy subjects. The ocular perfusion pressures did 
not change in POAG as well as in NTG and OH.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with POAG and in patients with NTG the ocular BF
regulation was impaired and detected by the OPFA device with a high level of
reliability. Ocular arterial blood pressures were increased as a result of
vascular regulation to keep up the ocular perfusion pressure and to maintain
ocular perfusion.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1396210 
PMID: 25700253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan 29;9:197-202. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S75344. eCollection
2015.

Continuous 24-hour ocular dimensional profile recording in medically treated
normal-tension glaucoma.

Lee JW(1), Fu L(2), Shum JW(2), Chan JCh(3), Lai JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong ;
Department of Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre, Hong Kong. (2)Department of 
Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong.

PURPOSE: To analyze the 24-hour ocular dimensional profile in normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients on medical treatment.
METHODS: Consecutive, medically treated NTG subjects were recruited from a
university eye center. Subjects were on a mean of 1.7±0.7 types of antiglaucoma
medications and 56.6% were on a prostaglandin analog. A contact lens-based sensor
device was worn in one eye of NTG patients to record the intraocular pressure
(IOP)-related profile for 24 hours, recording the following: variability from
mean over 24 hours, nocturnally and diurnally, as well as the number of peaks and
troughs diurnally and nocturnally.
RESULTS: In 18 NTG subjects, the nocturnal variability around the mean contact
lens-based sensor device signal was 48.9% less than the diurnal variability
around the mean. The number of peaks was 54.7% less during the nocturnal period
than during the diurnal period. The rate of increase in the ocular dimensional
profile when going to sleep was significantly greater than the rate of decrease
upon waking (P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: In medically treated NTG subjects, there was more variability in the 
IOP-related pattern during the daytime and there were fewer peaks during sleep.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S75344 
PMCID: PMC4322878
PMID: 25678768  [PubMed]


224. BMJ Case Rep. 2015 Feb 6;2015. pii: bcr2014207634. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2014-207634.

Giant prolactinoma mimicking low-tension glaucoma at presentation.

Karl D(1), Gillan SN(1), Goudie C(2), Sanders R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, NHS Tayside, Dundee, Angus, UK Ophthalmology
Department, Queen Margaret Hospital, Dunfermline, UK. (2)Ophthalmology
Department, Queen Margaret Hospital, Dunfermline, UK.

We describe a case of a 68-year-old man, referred by his optometrist with
suspected low-tension glaucoma, who presented with advanced cupped optic discs
and field of vision loss that were subsequently found to be due to a giant
prolactinoma. Failing vision in low-tension glaucoma suspects should have a low
threshold for neuroimaging.

2015 BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2014-207634 
PMID: 25661749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Curr Eye Res. 2015;40(10):1001-7. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2014.971937. Epub 2015
Feb 6.

The Association of Nailfold Capillaroscopy with Systemic Matrix
Metalloproteinase-9 Concentration in Normal-Tension Glaucoma.

Lee NY(1,)(2), Park HY(1,)(3), Park SH(1,)(4), Park CK(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)a College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea , Seoul , Republic of 
Korea . (2)b Department of Ophthalmology , Incheon St. Mary's Hospital , Seoul , 
Republic of Korea . (3)c Department of Ophthalmology , Seoul St. Mary's Hospital 
, Seoul , Republic of Korea , and. (4)d Division of Rheumatology, Department of
Internal Medicine , Seoul St. Mary's Hospital , Seoul , Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the association of nailfold capillaroscopy, heart rate
variability (HRV), and clinical characteristics of glaucoma with the plasma
matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) level in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a prospective, cross-sectional study on 25
patients with NTG. Subjects with systemic diseases were excluded. The patients
underwent a complete ophthalmic examination and were referred to the Rheumatology
Department, where nailfold capillaroscopy and HRV assessment were performed. The 
patients were assigned to the lowest and highest HRV groups according to the
standard deviation value of the qualified normal-to-normal intervals of the HRV
assessment. Blood samples from all the subjects were assayed for MMP-9
concentrations.
RESULTS: The systemic MMP-9 level was significantly associated with the nailfold 
capillaroscopy result (ρ = 0.439, p = 0.032). Of the 25 patients, seven had optic
disc hemorrhage (ODH). The mean MMP-9 concentration was 4375.6 ± 2923.2 pg/ml in 
ODH patients and 5932.1 ± 1265.4 pg/ml in patients without ODH. However, there
was no significant association of HRV parameters or disc hemorrhage with the
systemic MMP-9 level.
CONCLUSIONS: The systemic MMP-9 level was associated with the nailfold
capillaroscopy results in patients with NTG but had no direct association with
ODH.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2014.971937 
PMID: 25658690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Glaucoma. 2015 Jun-Jul;24(5):e128-31. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000215.

Optimal selective laser trabeculoplasty energy for maximal intraocular pressure
reduction in open-angle glaucoma.

Lee JW(1), Wong MO, Liu CC, Lai JS.

Author information: 
(1)*The Department of Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre †The Department of
Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong ‡The Department of Ophthalmology,
Queen Mary Hospital §Department of Applied Mathematics, The Hong Kong Polytechnic
University, Hong Kong, SAR, People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: To identify the optimal energy level to be used in selective laser
trabeculoplasty (SLT) for maximal intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction in
open-angle glaucoma (OAG) patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This cohort sequentially recruited OAG subjects in Hong
Kong, China during 2011 to 2012. All subjects received a single session of SLT
with near confluent spots to 360 degrees of the trabecular meshwork. An initial
energy of 0.8 mJ was titrated until bubble formation was just visible. The main
outcomes included: change in IOP (pre-SLT to 1 mo post-SLT) and total SLT energy 
(SLT spots multiplied by the mean energy). For statistical analysis, only the
right eye of each subject was used. Bandwidth selection by generalized
cross-validation was used to determine the optimal interval and point of total
SLT energy that resulted in the largest IOP reduction.
RESULTS: A total of 49 Chinese OAG subjects had a mean age of 64.2±11.1 years.
The pre-SLT IOP was 17.1±2.9 mm Hg while on 1.9±1.1 types of antiglaucoma eye
drops. The mean total energy was 167.1±41.4 mJ (171.5±41.2 spots at 1.0±0.06 mJ).
The 1 month post-SLT IOP was 13.5±2.8 mm Hg. The percentage of SLT success was
57.1% (28/49). The 95% confidence band by bootstrap method was plotted showing
that a total energy between 214.6 and 234.9 mJ significantly decreased the
IOP>25%, with the optimal total energy at 226.1 mJ.
CONCLUSIONS: A higher SLT energy, in the range of 214.6 to 234.9 mJ, seems to be 
associated with an improved IOP-lowering response. Further randomized control
trials with treatment stratification are needed to confirm these results.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000215 
PMID: 25651204  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2015 Feb;29(1):31-9. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2015.29.1.31. Epub
2015 Jan 22.

Detecting the progression of normal tension glaucoma: a comparison of perimetry, 
optic coherence tomography, and Heidelberg retinal tomography.

Yoon JY(1), Na JK(2), Park CK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Saevit Eye Hospital, Goyang, Korea. ; Department 
of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic
University of Korea College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic
University of Korea College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: We compared the abilities of Stratus optical coherence tomography (OCT),
Heidelberg retinal tomography (HRT) and standard automated perimetry (SAP) to
detect the progression of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in patients whose eyes
displayed localized retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defect enlargements.
METHODS: One hundred four NTG patients were selected who met the selection
criteria: a localized RNFL defect visible on red-free fundus photography, a
minimum of five years of follow-up, and a minimum of five reliable SAP, Stratus
OCT and HRT tests. Tests which detected progression at any visit during the
5-year follow-up were identified, and patients were further classified according 
to the state of the glaucoma using the mean deviation (MD) of SAP. For each test,
the overall rates of change were calculated for parameters that differed
significantly between patients with and without NTG progression.
RESULTS: Forty-seven (45%) out of 104 eyes displayed progression that could be
detected by red-free fundus photography. Progression was detected in 27 (57%)
eyes using SAP, 19 (40%) eyes using OCT, and 17 (36%) eyes using HRT. In early
NTG, SAP detected progression in 44% of eyes, and this increased to 70% in
advanced NTG. In contrast, OCT and HRT detected progression in 50 and 7% of eyes 
during early NTG, but only 30 and 0% of eyes in advanced NTG, respectively. Among
several parameters, the rates of change that differed significantly between
patients with and without progression were the MD of SAP (p = 0.013), and the
inferior RNFL thickness (p = 0.041) and average RNFL thickness (p = 0.032)
determined by OCT.
CONCLUSIONS: SAP had a higher detection rate of NTG progression than other tests,
especially in patients with advanced glaucoma, when we defined progression as the
enlargement of a localized RNFL defect. The rates of change of the MD of SAP,
inferior RNFL thickness, and average RNFL thickness differed between NTG patients
with and without progression.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2015.29.1.31 
PMCID: PMC4309866
PMID: 25646058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Hum Mol Genet. 2015 May 1;24(9):2689-99. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddv027. Epub 2015 Jan
30.

ARHGEF12 influences the risk of glaucoma by increasing intraocular pressure.

Springelkamp H(1), Iglesias AI(2), Cuellar-Partida G(3), Amin N(2), Burdon KP(4),
van Leeuwen EM(2), Gharahkhani P(3), Mishra A(3), van der Lee SJ(2), Hewitt
AW(5), Rivadeneira F(6), Viswanathan AC(7), Wolfs RC(8), Martin NG(9), Ramdas
WD(8), van Koolwijk LM(2), Pennell CE(10), Vingerling JR(1), Mountain JE(11),
Uitterlinden AG(6), Hofman A(12), Mitchell P(13), Lemij HG(14), Wang JJ(13),
Klaver CC(1), Mackey DA(15), Craig JE(16), van Duijn CM(2), MacGregor S(17).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Department of Epidemiology and. (2)Department of 
Epidemiology and. (3)Statistical and. (4)School of Medicine, Menzies Research
Institute Tasmania, University of Tasmania, Hobart, TAS 7000, Australia.
(5)School of Medicine, Menzies Research Institute Tasmania, University of
Tasmania, Hobart, TAS 7000, Australia, Centre for Eye Research Australia (CERA), 
University of Melbourne, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, Melbourne, VIC
3002, Australia. (6)Department of Epidemiology and Department of Internal
Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands, Netherlands
Consortium for Healthy Ageing, Netherlands Genomics Initiative, 2593 CE The
Hague, The Netherlands. (7)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Moorfields Eye
Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London EC1V
2PD, UK. (8)Department of Ophthalmology. (9)Genetic Epidemiology, QIMR Berghofer 
Medical Research Institute, Royal Brisbane Hospital, Brisbane, QLD 4006,
Australia. (10)School of Women's and Infants' Health, University of Western
Australia, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia. (11)Telethon Kids Institute, Subiaco, WA 
6008, Australia. (12)Department of Epidemiology and Netherlands Consortium for
Healthy Ageing, Netherlands Genomics Initiative, 2593 CE The Hague, The
Netherlands. (13)Centre for Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology and
Westmead Millennium Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
(14)Glaucoma Service, The Rotterdam Eye Hospital, 3011 BH Rotterdam, The
Netherlands. (15)School of Medicine, Menzies Research Institute Tasmania,
University of Tasmania, Hobart, TAS 7000, Australia, Centre for Ophthalmology and
Visual Science, Lions Eye Institute, University of Western Australia, Perth, WA
6009, Australia and. (16)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University,
Adelaide, SA 5042, Australia. (17)Statistical and
stuart.macgregor@qimrberghofer.edu.au.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a blinding disease. Two important risk
factors for this disease are a positive family history and elevated intraocular
pressure (IOP), which is also highly heritable. Genes found to date associated
with IOP and POAG are ABCA1, CAV1/CAV2, GAS7 and TMCO1. However, these genes
explain only a small part of the heritability of IOP and POAG. We performed a
genome-wide association study of IOP in the population-based Rotterdam Study I
and Rotterdam Study II using single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) imputed to
1000 Genomes. In this discovery cohort (n = 8105), we identified a new locus
associated with IOP. The most significantly associated SNP was rs58073046 (β =
0.44, P-value = 1.87 × 10(-8), minor allele frequency = 0.12), within the gene
ARHGEF12. Independent replication in five population-based studies (n = 7471)
resulted in an effect size in the same direction that was significantly
associated (β = 0.16, P-value = 0.04). The SNP was also significantly associated 
with POAG in two independent case-control studies [n = 1225 cases and n = 4117
controls; odds ratio (OR) = 1.53, P-value = 1.99 × 10(-8)], especially with
high-tension glaucoma (OR = 1.66, P-value = 2.81 × 10(-9); for normal-tension
glaucoma OR = 1.29, P-value = 4.23 × 10(-2)). ARHGEF12 plays an important role in
the RhoA/RhoA kinase pathway, which has been implicated in IOP regulation.
Furthermore, it binds to ABCA1 and links the ABCA1, CAV1/CAV2 and GAS7 pathway to
Mendelian POAG genes (MYOC, OPTN, WDR36). In conclusion, this study identified a 
novel association between IOP and ARHGEF12.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddv027 
PMID: 25637523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


229. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Apr;31(3):152-5. doi: 10.1089/jop.2014.0109. Epub
2015 Jan 26.

Long-term effect of latanoprost on central corneal thickness in normal-tension
glaucoma: five-year follow-up results.

Lee H(1), Cho BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Konkuk University Medical Center, Konkuk
University School of Medicine , Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term effect of latanoprost on central corneal
thickness (CCT) in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This retrospective study included 41 eyes of 41 NTG patients and 40 eyes
of 40 individuals with glaucoma suspect (controls). Newly diagnosed NTG patients 
with no previous glaucoma treatment were administered latanoprost 0.005%
monotherapy once a day. CCTs were measured by ultrasound pachymetry before
treatment and followed up annually for 5 years.
RESULTS: A significant reduction in mean CCT was observed in the NTG group
[542.3±36.2 μm vs. 533.7±32.9 μm (n=41), P<0.001], but not in the control group
[547.4±24.7 μm vs. 546.8±25.0 μm (n=40), P=0.59] at 5-year follow-up. In the NTG 
group, the CCT reduction mainly occurred during the first year of treatment
(542.3±36.2 μm vs. 536.9±32.8 μm, P=0.001), and no significant correlation was
found between CCT and intraocular pressure reductions (r=0.16, P=0.32).
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost significantly reduced CCT in NTG patients after 5 years 
of treatment. Serial observations of CCT might be helpful for the proper
interpretation of glaucoma status in NTG patients.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2014.0109 
PMID: 25621500  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 Jan;94(2):e425. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000425.

Vascular dysregulation in normal-tension glaucoma is not affected by structure
and function of the microcirculation or macrocirculation at rest: a case-control 
study.

Bossuyt J(1), Vandekerckhove G, De Backer TL, Van de Velde S, Azermai M, Stevens 
AM, Kestelyn P, Raemdonck T, Segers P, Vanmolkot F, Van Bortel LM.

Author information: 
(1)From the Heymans Institute of Pharmacology (JB, TLMDB, SVV, MA, LMVB),
Clinical Pharmacology, Ghent University; Department of Ophthalmology (GV, A-MS,
PK, TR), Ghent University Hospital; Institute of Biomedical Technology (IBiTech) 
(PS), Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium; and Department of Internal Medicine (FV),
Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

In normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), optic nerve damage occurs despite a normal
intraocular pressure. Studies implicating systemic blood pressure or, more
recently, arterial stiffness in the pathophysiology of NTG have produced
conflicting results. Our aim was to investigate whether NTG is associated with
alterations in the macrocirculation or microcirculation, cardiac function, and
peripheral and central hemodynamics. Thirty patients with NTG (mean age 65 years,
range 46-79) and 33 healthy subjects (mean age 67 years, range 42-79) matched for
age and sex were included in the study. Exclusion criteria (for both cases and
controls) were history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, severe
hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia. Aortic stiffness was measured using
carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV), central hemodynamics using carotid
artery applanation tonometry, and diameter, stiffness, and intima-media thickness
(IMT) of the carotid and femoral artery using echo-tracking. Total peripheral
resistance index (TPRI) was derived from mean arterial pressure and cardiac
index, measured using ultrasound. There were no statistically significant
differences in arterial structure nor function between NTG patients and age and
sex-matched controls. NTG versus controls, respectively: brachial blood pressure 
126 ± 15/77 ± 8 versus 127 ± 16/76 ± 7 mm Hg, P = 0.81; carotid-femoral PWV 9.8 ±
2.1 versus 10.1 ± 1.9 m/s, P = 0.60; TPRI 1833 ± 609 versus 1779 ± 602
dyne.s/cm5/m2, P = 0.79; and carotid IMT 0.65 ± 0.14 versus 0.68 ± 0.13 mm, P =
0.39. This study could not show an association of NTG with altered IMT, arterial 
stiffness, total peripheral resistance, cardiac output, and peripheral or central
hemodynamics at rest. Although the majority of these NTG patients do exhibit
symptoms of vascular dysregulation, in the present study this was not translated 
into alterations in the microcirculation or macrocirculation at rest.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000425 
PMCID: PMC4602537
PMID: 25590850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Ophthalmol. 2014;2014:468908. doi: 10.1155/2014/468908. Epub 2014 Dec 9.

Correlation of optic nerve microcirculation with papillomacular bundle structure 
in treatment naive normal tension glaucoma.

Kobayashi W(1), Kunikata H(2), Omodaka K(1), Togashi K(3), Ryu M(1), Akiba M(4), 
Takeuchi G(4), Yuasa T(3), Nakazawa T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
1-1 Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8574, Japan. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1 Seiryo-machi,
Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8574, Japan ; Department of Retinal Disease Control,
Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1 Seiryo-machi,
Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8574, Japan. (3)Department of Bio-Systems Engineering,
Faculty of Engineering, Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Yamagata
University, 4-3-16 Jonan, Yonezawa-shi, Yamagata 992-8510, Japan. (4)Topcon
Corporation, 75-1 Hasunuma-cho, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 174-8580, Japan. (5)Department
of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1
Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8574, Japan ; Department of Retinal Disease
Control, Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1
Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8574, Japan ; Department of Advanced Ophthalmic
Medicine, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1 Seiryo-machi,
Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8574, Japan.

Purpose. To assess the association between optic nerve head (ONH)
microcirculation, central papillomacular bundle (CPB) structure, and visual
function in eyes with treatment naive normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Methods.
This study included 40 eyes of 40 patients with NTG and 20 eyes of 20 normal
patients. We used laser speckle flowgraphy (LSFG) to measure mean blur rate (MBR)
in all eyes and calculated the ratio of MBR in the horizontal quadrants of tissue
area ONH (temporal/nasal ratio of MBR in the tissue area: T/N MT). Clinical
findings also included retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (RNFLT) and ganglion
cell complex thickness (GCCT) in the CPB and macular areas, best-corrected visual
acuity (BCVA), mean deviation (MD), and refractive error. Results. T/N MT was
correlated with both BCVA and MD. The OCT parameters most highly correlated with 
T/N MT were macular RNFLT and mid-CPB RNFLT. Furthermore, T/N MT, mid-CPB RNFLT, 
and macular RNFLT were higher in NTG than in normal eyes. A discrimination
analysis revealed that T/N MT and refractive error were independent factors
indicating NTG. Conclusions. Our results suggest that T/N MT is a candidate
biomarker of NTG. Furthermore, T/N MT reflects visual function, including acuity 
and sensitivity, and CPB structure.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/468908 
PMCID: PMC4276121
PMID: 25574382  [PubMed]


232. BMC Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan 8;15:1. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-15-1.

Efficacy of selective laser trabeculoplasty for normal tension glaucoma: 1 year
results.

Lee JW(1,)(2), Ho WL(3), Chan JC(4), Lai JS(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre, 111 Wing Hong Street,
Kowloon, Hong Kong. jackywylee@gmail.com. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, The
University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. jackywylee@gmail.com. (3)Department 
of Ophthalmology, Queen Mary Hospital, Kowloon, Hong Kong. wlho88@yahoo.com.hk.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Mary Hospital, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
jonnochan@yahoo.com. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong,
Kowloon, Hong Kong. laism@hku.hk.

BACKGROUND: Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is commonly treated with anti-glaucoma 
medications. Recently, selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) has been
demonstrated to lower the intraocular pressure (IOP) and medication use in NTG.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of a single session of 
SLT for NTG at 1 year.
METHODS: This prospective cohort study recruited NTG patients taking
anti-glaucoma medication. Potential subjects were excluded if they had had
previous glaucoma surgery or laser and also if intraocular surgery or additional 
SLT procedures were performed after the first treatment. All subjects underwent a
1-month washout. A 30% IOP reduction was set as the target IOP. A single session 
of SLT was performed to 360 degrees of the trabecular meshwork. At 1-month after 
SLT, medication was resumed to achieve the target IOP. The IOP was measured every
3 months, and the number of medications was recorded at 3, 6, and 12 months. Only
the right eye was used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: In 41 right eyes, the mean pre-study IOP was 14.3 ± 3.4 mmHg while on
1.5 ± 0.8 eye drops. The post-washout IOP was 16.2 ± 2.2 mmHg. A mean of 191.1 ± 
26.3 SLT shots at 1.0 ± 0.07 mJ were applied. There was significant IOP reduction
at all time intervals following SLT when compared to the post-washout IOP (P <
0.0001). The number of medications was significantly reduced at all time
intervals following SLT when compared to the pre-study level (P < 0.0001). At 12 
months, the mean IOP was 12.2 ± 2.2 mmHg while on 1.1 ± 0.9 eye drops.
CONCLUSIONS: A single session of SLT for NTG achieved an additional 15% IOP
reduction while using 27% less medication at 1 year compared to pre-study levels.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The Clinical Trials Register of the University of Hong Kong
HKCTR1847 The European Clinical Trials Database 2014-003305-15 (August 11, 2014) 
( https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=2014-003305-15 ).

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-15-1 
PMCID: PMC4417344
PMID: 25571769  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Jan 6;56(1):451-7. doi: 10.1167/iovs.14-15577.

Comparison of rates of change between binocular and monocular visual fields.

Chun YS(1), Shin JH(2), Park IK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chung-Ang University College of Medicine,
Chung-Ang University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Kyung Hee University College of Medicine, Kyung Hee University
Hospital at Gangdong, Seoul, South Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Kyung
Hee University College of Medicine, Kyung Hee University Hospital, Seoul, South
Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare rates of change between binocular and monocular visual
fields.
METHODS: The study included 1264 visual fields from 62 normal-tension glaucoma
patients with a minimum of nine pairs of visual fields for at least 5 years of
follow-up. Integrated binocular visual fields (BVFs) were calculated from the two
monocular visual fields using a binocular summation. Linear regression of mean
deviation (MD) values was used to evaluate the rates of change of the BVFs and
monocular visual fields. For each patient, the eye with the worse MD value at
baseline was defined as the worse MD eye. The eye with the faster rate of change 
of monocular visual fields was defined as the faster-changing eye.
RESULTS: The mean age of subjects was 61.8 years at baseline, the mean number of 
paired visual field tests was 10.2, and the mean follow-up was 8.1 years. The
mean rate of change in the BVFs (-0.10 dB/y) was significantly slower than that
of the faster-changing eyes (-0.34 dB/y) and faster than that of the
slower-changing eyes (-0.06 dB/y; P < 0.001 for both comparisons). Forty-five
eyes (64.5%) among the worse MD eyes at baseline were identified as
faster-changing eyes at last follow-up, and having a worse MD value at baseline
was a risk factor for being the faster-changing eye (P = 0.025).
CONCLUSIONS: The rate of change in BVFs was intermediate between the rates of the
faster-changing and slower-changing eyes.

Copyright 2015 The Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.14-15577 
PMID: 25564449  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging Retina. 2015 Jan;46(1):107-10. doi:
10.3928/23258160-20150101-21.

Vitrectomy without gas tamponade for macular retinoschisis associated with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Orazbekov L, Yasukawa T, Hirano Y, Ogura S, Usui H, Nozaki M, Ogura Y.

The authors present the case of a patient with normal-tension glaucoma and
pit-like maculopathy observed by high-definition optical coherence tomography.
Surgical management of macular retinoschisis was associated with improved vision 
and full resolution of intraretinal fluid and macular detachment. The patient had
progressive vision loss over 6 months preoperatively; best corrected visual
acuity and high-definition optical coherence tomography changes improved
postoperatively. Optic disc pit-like maculopathy can occur in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma in the absence of obvious congenital anomalies of the
disc. The intraretinal fluid might have migrated from the vitreous cavity through
a microhole at the optic disc margin or in the area with the nerve fiber defect. 
Vitrectomy without gas tamponade might lead to anatomic and functional recovery. 
Further studies are needed to better understand the pathogenesis of this disease.

Copyright 2015, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/23258160-20150101-21 
PMID: 25559522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Neurosci Lett. 2015 Feb 19;588:108-13. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2014.12.054. Epub
2014 Dec 30.

Valproic acid prevents retinal degeneration in a murine model of normal tension
glaucoma.

Kimura A(1), Guo X(1), Noro T(1), Harada C(1), Tanaka K(2), Namekata K(1), Harada
T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Visual Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
Tokyo, Japan. (2)Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Medical Research
Institute, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Visual Research 
Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Tokyo, Japan.
Electronic address: harada-tk@igakuken.or.jp.

Valproic acid (VPA) is widely used for treatment of epilepsy, mood disorders,
migraines and neuropathic pain. It exerts its therapeutic benefits through
modulation of multiple mechanisms including regulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid
and glutamate neurotransmissions, activation of pro-survival protein kinases and 
inhibition of histone deacetylase. The evidence for neuroprotective properties
associated with VPA is emerging. Herein, we investigated the therapeutic
potential of VPA in a mouse model of normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Mice with
glutamate/aspartate transporter gene deletion (GLAST KO mice) demonstrate
progressive retinal ganglion cell (RGC) loss and optic nerve degeneration without
elevated intraocular pressure, and exhibit glaucomatous pathology including
glutamate neurotoxicity and oxidative stress in the retina. VPA (300mg/kg) or
vehicle (PBS) was administered via intraperitoneal injection in GLAST KO mice
daily for 2 weeks from the age of 3 weeks, which coincides with the onset of
glaucomatous retinal degeneration. Following completion of the treatment period, 
the vehicle-treated GLAST KO mouse retina showed significant RGC death.
Meanwhile, VPA treatment prevented RGC death and thinning of the inner retinal
layer in GLAST KO mice. In addition, in vivo electrophysiological analyses
demonstrated that visual impairment observed in vehicle-treated GLAST KO mice was
ameliorated with VPA treatment, clearly establishing that VPA beneficially
affects both histological and functional aspects of the glaucomatous retina. We
found that VPA reduces oxidative stress induced in the GLAST KO retina and
stimulates the cell survival signalling pathway associated with
extracellular-signal-regulated kinases (ERK). This is the first study to report
the neuroprotective effects of VPA in an animal model of NTG. Our findings raise 
intriguing possibilities that the widely prescribed drug VPA may be a novel
candidate for treatment of glaucoma.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2014.12.054 
PMID: 25555796  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Br J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jun;99(6):746-51. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-305962.
Epub 2015 Jan 2.

Significance of corneal biomechanical properties in patients with progressive
normal-tension glaucoma.

Park JH(1), Jun RM(1), Choi KR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Ophthalmology & Optometry, Ewha
Womans University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

AIM: To investigate the clinical significance of corneal biomechanical properties
assessed using an ocular response analyser in patients with progressing
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: In this retrospective study, we included 82 eyes of 82 NTG patients who 
had been receiving topical anti-glaucoma medications. Patients were allocated to 
two groups based on the mean value of corneal hysteresis (CH) and the status of
progression. The assessment of progression was based on the trend analysis using 
mean deviation slope. Uni- and multivariable logistic analyses were constructed
to identify factors associated with increased odds of progression, including CH, 
central corneal thickness (CCT), and retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) thickness.
RESULTS: Forty-six eyes (56.1%) reached the progression criteria. Eyes with
progression had lower CCT (530.2±38.6 vs 549.4±38.3 μm, p=0.03), thinner average 
RNFL thickness (70.6±16.1 vs 82.8±17.4 μm, p<0.01), lower CH (9.4±1.3 vs
10.8±1.4 mm Hg, p<0.01), and lower corneal resistance factor (9.3±1.3 vs
10.4±1.8 mm Hg, p<0.01) than eyes without progression. CH and CCT were
significantly correlated (r=0.44, p<0.01). Upon multivariable analysis, CH (β
(B)=0.32 per mm Hg lower, p<0.01) and average RNFL thickness (β=0.96 per μm
lower, p=0.04) remained statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Corneal biomechanical properties are correlated and associated with 
the progression of visual field damage in NTG patients. These findings suggest
that CH can be used as one of the prognostic factors for progression, independent
of corneal thickness or intraocular pressure.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-305962 
PMID: 25555704  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec 12;8:2533-9. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S71136. eCollection
2014.

Optic disc topography in Malay patients with normal-tension glaucoma and primary 
open-angle glaucoma.

Adlina AR(1), Alisa-Victoria K(2), Shatriah I(2), Liza-Sharmini AT(2), Ahmad
MS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medical Sciences, Health Campus,
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Kubang Kerian, Kelantan, Malaysia ; Department of
Ophthalmology, Hospital Sultanah Bahiyah, Alor Setar, Kedah, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medical Sciences, Health Campus,
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Kubang Kerian, Kelantan, Malaysia. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Hospital Sultanah Bahiyah, Alor Setar, Kedah, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND: There are limited data concerning the optic disc topography in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients
living in Southeast Asian countries. This study aims to compare optic disc
parameters in patients with NTG and POAG in Malaysia and to discuss the results
in comparison with studies of NTG and POAG in other Asian countries.
METHODS: This prospective cross-sectional study was performed in two hospitals
with glaucoma service in Malaysia from 2010 to 2012. Seventy-seven patients of
Malay ethnicity were enrolled in this study, including 32 NTG patients and 45
POAG patients. Using the Heidelberg Retinal Tomograph III, we measured optic disc
area, cup area, rim area, cup volume, rim volume, cup-to-disc area ratio, mean
cup depth, maximum cup depth, cup shape measure, height variation contour, mean
retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, and retinal nerve fiber layer
cross-sectional area.
RESULTS: The eyes for NTG patients had significantly larger optic disc areas
(2.65 [standard deviation, 0.41] vs 2.40 [standard deviation, 0.36] mm(2),
respectively; P=0.006) and cup areas (1.54 [standard deviation, 0.43] vs 1.32
[standard deviation, 0.40] mm(2), respectively; P=0.027) compared with the eyes
of POAG patients. Comparison of the other parameters between the two groups
revealed no significant difference (P>0.050). The moderate and severe NTG
patients showed significantly deeper cups and larger disc and cup areas when
compared with the moderate and severe POAG patients (P<0.050).
CONCLUSION: The NTG patients in this study have notably larger optic disc and cup
areas than the POAG patients. Our observations are consistent with those reported
in studies of NTG and POAG patients in Korea. The deeper cups and larger disc and
cup areas may serve as indicators of severity when comparing NTG with POAG.
However, these findings require verification with IOP and visual field results.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S71136 
PMCID: PMC4270355
PMID: 25540578  [PubMed]


238. Medicine (Baltimore). 2014 Dec;93(28):e236. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000236.

Predictors of success in selective laser trabeculoplasty for normal tension
glaucoma.

Lee JW(1), Liu CC, Chan JC, Lai JS.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre, (JWYL); The
Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong, (JWYL, JSML);
Department of Applied Mathematics, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (CCLL);
and The Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong, SAR,
People's Republic of China (JCHC).

To determine the predictors of success for selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) 
in normal tension glaucoma (NTG). This prospective cohort study recruited
subjects with unilateral or bilateral NTG on medication. All subjects received a 
single session of 360° SLT treatment. SLT success was defined as IOP
reduction≥20% at 1-month. The following covariates were analyzed via univariate
and multivariate analyses: age; sex; lens status; presenting, pre-SLT, and
post-SLT IOP's; number and type of medications; SLT shots and energy; and pre-SLT
investigations. In 60 eyes of 32 subjects with NTG, there were 30 right eyes and 
28 left eyes. The success rate of SLT was 61.7%. Using 3 types of anti-glaucoma
medications (coefficient=-2.2, OR=0.1, P=0.02) and a thicker retinal nerve fiber 
layer thickness (coefficient=-0.04, OR=0.96, P=0.04) were associated with failure
(univariate analysis). In multivariate analysis, a higher pre-SLT IOP
(coefficient=1.1, OR=3.1, P=0.05) and a lower 1-week IOP (coefficient=-0.8,
OR=0.5, P=0.04) were associated with success. SLT was successful in over 60% of
treated NTG patients. A higher pre-SLT IOP and a greater IOP reduction at 1-week 
post-SLT were predictors of a successful outcome.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000236 
PMCID: PMC4603124
PMID: 25526445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


239. BMC Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec 17;14:160. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-160.

Bimatoprost 0.01% in treatment-naïve patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension: an observational study in the Korean clinical setting.

Park KH(1), Simonyi S, Kim CY, Sohn YH, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, 101
Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-744, Korea. kihopark@snu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: This study evaluates the efficacy and tolerability (ie, occurrence
and severity of hyperemia) of bimatoprost 0.01% in treatment-naïve patients with 
open-angle glaucoma (OAG) or ocular hypertension in the Korean clinical setting.
METHODS: In this multicenter, open-label, observational study, treatment-naïve
patients with OAG, including patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG, defined 
as IOP ≤21 mm Hg), or ocular hypertension received bimatoprost 0.01% once daily. 
Hyperemia was assessed at baseline and weeks 6 and 12, graded by a masked
evaluator using a photonumeric scale (0, +0.5, +1, +2, +3), and grouped as (0 to 
+1) and (+2 to +3). Shifts between groupings were reported as no change, improved
([+2 to +3] to [0 to +1]), or worsened ([0 to +1] to [+2 to +3]). Other adverse
events were monitored. Mean IOP changes from baseline at weeks 6 and 12 were
reported. Supplemental analyses were conducted for IOPs >21 versus ≤21 mm Hg.
RESULTS: Of 295 treatment-naïve patients included in the intent-to-treat/safety
population, 73 (24.7%) had baseline IOP >21 mm Hg (mean, 25.7 ± 5.0 mm Hg) and
222 (75.3%) had baseline IOP ≤21 mm Hg (mean, 16.3 ± 3.0 mm Hg); 96.3% had
hyperemia graded none (36.3%) to mild (17.3%). At week 12, hyperemia was graded
none to mild in 83.7% (n = 220). Worsening occurred in 12.3% of patients by week 
6 and 12.7% by week 12. Small improvements occurred in 0.8% and 0.5% of patients 
at weeks 6 and 12, respectively. Hyperemia scores were generally low and the
majority of patients had no change in severity during the study. Mean IOP at
weeks 6 and 12 was reduced to 16.4 ± 4.0 mm Hg (-34.5%; P < 0.0001) and 16.7 ±
3.9 mm Hg (-32.0%; P < 0.001) in the baseline-IOP >21 mm Hg group versus 13.3 ±
2.6 mm Hg (-17.8%; P < 0.001) and 13.7 ± 2.8 mm Hg (-15.9%; P < 0.001) in the
baseline-IOP ≤21 mm Hg group, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In treatment-naïve patients, bimatoprost 0.01% induced low shifts in
worsening of hyperemia and significant reductions in IOP, regardless of baseline 
IOP.
TRIAL REGISTRATION:
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT01594970.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-160 
PMCID: PMC4289567
PMID: 25519810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2014 Oct;118(10):826-30.

[Initial scotomas in normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Mizoue S, Iwase A, Matsumoto S, Yoshikawa K.

PURPOSE: To investigate risk factors for initial visual field pattern in normal
tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied 107 subjects, who underwent 24-2 or 30-2 Swedish
interactive threshold algorithm standard visual fields as part of a multicenter
study of newly diagnosed NTG patients. Only the eyes with initial parafoveal
scotoma (IPFS) or initial nasal step (INS) Were included. IPFS was defined as a
glaucomatous visual field (VF) defect in 1 hemifield (≥ 3 adjacent points with p 
< 5% within the central 10 degrees of fixation, ≥ 1 point with p < l% lying at
the innermost paracentral points, and no VF abnormality outside the central 10
degrees). INS was defined in 1 hemifield (≥ 3 adjacent points with p < 5% in the 
nasal periphery outside 10 degrees of fixation, the nasal- most point with p <
1%, and no VF abnormality within the central 10 degrees). Clinical
characteristics were compared between the 2 groups.
RESULTS: Mean untreated intraocular pressure (IOP) (14.0 ± 1.3 vs. 16.0 ± l.4
mmHg; p = 0.0102) was significantly lower in patients with an IPFS than in
patients with an INS. There were no significant differences in age (p = 0.6487)
or spherical equivalent (p = 0.7561).
CONCLUSION: Initial visual field pattern of NTG is influenced by untreated IOP
level.


PMID: 25507589  [PubMed - in process]


241. J Ophthalmol. 2014;2014:720385. doi: 10.1155/2014/720385. Epub 2014 Nov 19.

Effect on intraocular pressure of switching from latanoprost and travoprost
monotherapy to timolol fixed combinations in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma.

Igarashi R(1), Togano T(1), Sakaue Y(1), Yoshino T(1), Ueda J(1), Fukuchi T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Niigata University Graduate
School of Medical and Dental Sciences, 1-757 Asahimachi-dori, Chuo-ku, Niigata
951-8510, Japan.

Purpose. To evaluate the effect on intraocular pressure (IOP) of switching from
latanoprost and travoprost monotherapy to timolol fixed combinations in Japanese 
patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Methods. 27 NTG patients (54 eyes)
were compared IOP, superficial punctuate keratitis (SPK) scores, and conjunctival
injection scores in eyes treated with prostaglandin (PG) or PG
analog/beta-blocker (PG/b) fixed-combination 6 months after the change in
therapy. Results. The mean baseline intraocular pressure was 17.4 ± 1.59 mmHg in 
eyes receiving PG therapy only and 17.4 ± 1.69 mmHg in eyes switched to PG/b.
Switching to fixed combination therapy from PG monotherapy, the mean IOP was 13.1
± 1.79 mmHg (P < 0.001)  (-24.71% reduction from baseline) at 6 months. The mean 
conjunctival injection score was 0.69 for eyes on PG monotherapy and 0.56 for
eyes on fixed combination therapy (P = 0.028). The mean SPK scores were 0.46 and 
0.53. This difference was not statistically significant (P = 0.463). Conclusions.
Switching from PG monotherapy to PG/b fixed combination therapy for NTG resulted 
in a greater intraocular pressure reduction than PG alone without increasing the 
number of instillations.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/720385 
PMCID: PMC4258362
PMID: 25505978  [PubMed]


242. Med Sci Monit. 2014 Dec 11;20:2607-16. doi: 10.12659/MSM.891069.

Prolonged postocclusive hyperemia response in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma.

Wierzbowska J(1), Wojtkiewicz S(2), Zbieć A(2), Wierzbowski R(3), Liebert A(2),
Maniewski R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Military Institute of Medicine, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Nałęcz Institute of Biocybernetics and Biomedical Engineering, Polish Academy 
of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland. (3)Department of Cardiology, Military Institute of
Medicine, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND: It is believed that endothelial dysfunction may be a link between
systemic and ocular dysregulation in glaucoma. The aim of this study was to
evaluate peripheral vascular reactive hyperemia in response to occlusion test and
to correlate peripheral vascular findings with retrobulbar hemodynamics
parameters in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Forty-eight patients with normal-tension glaucoma (mean age
58.1 years, 38 women) and 40 control subjects (mean age 54.1 years, 36 women)
were subjected to a brachial arterial occlusion test and color Doppler imaging
(LOGIQ 9, GE Medical Systems) of the retrobulbar arteries. Finger hyperemia was
assessed by using a 2-channel laser Doppler flowmeter (MBF-3D, Moor Instruments, 
Ltd.). Time parameters (time to peak flow, half-time of hyperemia, time of
recovery) and amplitude parameters (maximum hyperemia response, biological zero) 
of the post-occlusive reactive hyperemia signal pattern as well as velocities and
resistance index of the ophthalmic, central retinal, and short posterior ciliary 
arteries were evaluated and compared between study groups.
RESULTS: In glaucoma patients, time to peak flow and half-time of hyperemia were 
significantly longer (21.4 vs. 12.0 s, p=0.02 and 74.1 vs. 44.2 s, p=0.03,
respectively) and biological zero was significantly lower (2.4 vs. 3.2, p=0.01)
comparing with healthy subjects. In glaucoma patients, peak-systolic and
end-diastolic velocities of central retinal artery were significantly lower (12.8
vs.14.1, p=0.03 and 3.9 vs. 4.7, p=0.01, respectively) and resistance index of
this artery was significantly higher (0.69 vs. 0.67, p=0.03) compared to
controls. In the glaucoma group, maximum hyperemic response was negatively
correlated with the resistance index of temporal short posterior ciliary arteries
(r=-0.4, p=0.01), whereas in the control group half-time of hyperemia was
negatively correlated with end-diastolic velocity of the central retinal artery
(r=-0.3, p=0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: Arterial occlusion test elicited a prolonged systemic hyperemia
response in patients with glaucoma as compared with healthy subjects. Retrobulbar
blood flow alterations in glaucoma patients may be related to systemic vascular
dysregulation.

DOI: 10.12659/MSM.891069 
PMCID: PMC4266367
PMID: 25502623  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Medicine (Baltimore). 2014 Dec;93(27):e238. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000238.

Twenty-four-hour intraocular pressure related changes following adjuvant
selective laser trabeculoplasty for normal tension glaucoma.

Lee JW(1), Fu L, Chan JC, Lai JS.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre, (JWYL); The
Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong (JWYL, LF); and The
Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong, SAR, People's
Republic of China (JCHC).

To investigate intraocular pressure (IOP) related patterns before and after
selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) for normal tension glaucoma (NTG).In this
prospective cohort study, 18 NTG patients underwent SLT. Success was defined as
IOP reduction ≥ 20% by Goldmann applanation tonometry. 24-hour IOP-related
pattern recording with a contact lens sensor (CLS) (SENSIMED Triggerfish,
Sensimed, Switzerland) was done before (baseline) and 1 month after SLT. A cosine
function was fitted to the mean CLS patterns for each individual in the SLT
success and non-success groups and the amplitude before and after SLT was
calculated. Diurnal, nocturnal, and 24-hour CLS pattern local variability was
determined for pre- and post-SLT sessions. Cosine amplitude and variability were 
compared before and after SLT by group using paired t-tests, with α = 0.05.
Patients (11 women, 7 men) had a mean age of 65.1 ± 13.7 years. Mean IOP was 15.3
± 2.2 mm Hg at baseline and was reduced by 17.0% to 12.7 ± 1.8 mm Hg 1 month
after SLT (P = 0.001). SLT was successful in 8 patients (44%). The amplitude of
the fitted cosine was reduced by 24.6% in the success group, but displayed an
amplitude increase of 19.2% post-SLT in the non-success group. Higher diurnal
local variability of the CLS pattern was observed after SLT in non-success
subjects (P = 0.002), while nocturnal variability showed no significant change.
The increase in diurnal variability in the non-success group led to an increase
in 24-hour variability in this group (P = 0.001). No change in local variability 
(diurnal, nocturnal, and 24-hour) was seen in the success group. The IOP-related 
pattern cosinor amplitude was reduced in NTG patients with a successful SLT
treatment whereas the non-success group exhibited an increase of cosine
amplitude. Higher diurnal and 24-hour CLS pattern variability was observed in
non-success patients 1 month post-SLT.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000238 
PMCID: PMC4602790
PMID: 25501089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Mar;159(3):512-8.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.11.034. Epub
2014 Dec 9.

Comparison of lamina cribrosa thickness in normal tension glaucoma patients with 
unilateral visual field defect.

Kwun Y(1), Han JC(1), Kee C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung
Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
Electronic address: ckee@skku.edu.

PURPOSE: To compare the lamina cribrosa thickness, measured by swept-source
optical coherence tomography (SS OCT), between each eye of normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients with unilateral visual field (VF) defect and to
investigate the correlation between lamina cribrosa thickness and VF loss.
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional study.
METHODS: Optic nerve heads were scanned using SS OCT, and laminar thickness was
measured on mid-superior, central, and mid-inferior regions of vertical midline
of the optic disc. The inter-eye differences of lamina cribrosa thickness in NTG 
patients with unilateral VF defect and the intra-eye difference of lamina
cribrosa thickness in VF-affected eyes were analyzed using the paired t test. We 
evaluated the correlation between lamina cribrosa thickness and mean deviation,
measured using standard automated perimetry, in NTG patients.
RESULTS: This study included 102 eyes in 51 NTG patients with unilateral VF
defect and 47 eyes in 47 normal subjects without glaucomatous change in either
eye. The mean lamina cribrosa thickness of normal fellow eyes was thicker than
VF-affected eyes in NTG patients (P < .001), but thinner than normal subject eyes
(P < .001). Within VF-affected eyes, lamina cribrosa thickness of regions
correlated with visual field defect was thinner than horizontally contralateral
locations (P < .001). The mean deviation was statistically correlated with
inter-eye difference of lamina cribrosa thickness in NTG patients (n = 51; r(2) =
0.12; P = .01).
CONCLUSIONS: The lamina cribrosa was thinner in VF-unaffected eyes of NTG
patients than in normal subject eyes, in VF-affected eyes than in normal fellow
eyes of NTG patients, and in regions correlated with visual field loss than in
horizontally contralateral ones in VF-affected eyes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.11.034 
PMID: 25498357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Mar;159(3):437-44.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.11.023. Epub 
2014 Nov 18.

Involvement of genetic variants associated with primary open-angle glaucoma in
pathogenic mechanisms and family history of glaucoma.

Mabuchi F(1), Sakurada Y(2), Kashiwagi K(2), Yamagata Z(3), Iijima H(2),
Tsukahara S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
Yamanashi, Japan. Electronic address: fmabuchi@yamanashi.ac.jp. (2)Department of 
Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi, Yamanashi, Japan.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
Yamanashi, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the associations between the non-intraocular pressure
(IOP)-related genetic variants (genetic variants associated with vulnerability of
the optic nerve independent of IOP) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG),
including normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG), and
between the non-IOP-related genetic variants and a family history of glaucoma.
DESIGN: Case-control study.
METHODS: Japanese patients with NTG (n = 213) and HTG (n = 212) and 191 control
subjects were genotyped for 5 non-IOP-related genetic variants predisposing to
POAG near the SRBD1, ELOVL5, CDKN2B/CDKN2B-AS1, SIX1/SIX6, and ATOH7 genes. The
load of these genetic variants was compared between the control subjects and
patients with NTG or HTG and between the POAG patients with and without a family 
history of glaucoma.
RESULTS: The total number of POAG risk alleles and the product of the odds ratios
(POAG risk) of these genetic variants were significantly larger (P < .0025) in
patients with both NTG and HTG than in the control subjects, and were
significantly larger (P = .0042 and P = .023, respectively) in POAG patients with
a family history of glaucoma than in those without. As the number of relatives
with glaucoma increased, the total number of risk alleles and the product of the 
odds ratios increased (P = .012 and P = .047, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Non-IOP-related genetic variants contribute to the pathogenesis of
HTG as well as NTG. A positive family history of glaucoma in cases of POAG is
thought to reflect the influence of genetic variants predisposing to POAG.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.11.023 
PMID: 25461262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;28(6):473-8. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2014.28.6.473. Epub
2014 Nov 19.

Comparison of the thickness of the lamina cribrosa and vascular factors in early 
normal-tension glaucoma with low and high intraocular pressures.

Kim JH(1), Lee TY(1), Lee JW(1), Lee KW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cheil Eye Hospital and Cheil Eye Research Institute, Daegu, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare the thickness of the lamina cribrosa (LC) and vascular
factors of early normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with high and low
intraocular pressure (IOP) that are expected to be associated with the
development of glaucoma.
METHODS: Seventy-one Korean NTG patients with low IOP (the highest IOP <15 mmHg, 
40 patients) and high IOP (the lowest IOP >15 mmHg, 31 patients) were included in
this study. The thickness of LC and vascular factors were compared. The thickness
of the LC was measured using the enhanced depth imaging method with spectral
domain optical coherence tomography (Heidelberg Spectralis).
RESULTS: The mean thickness of the central LC was 190.0 ± 19.2 µm in the low IOP 
group and 197.8 ± 23.6 µm in the high IOP group, but there was no statistical
significant difference between the two groups (p > 0.05). The prevalence of
self-reported Raynaud phenomenon was significantly higher in the low IOP group
(33.0%) than the high IOP group (10.3%, p = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: The laminar thickness did not significantly differ between the high 
and low IOP groups. However, the prevalence of Raynaud phenomenon was higher in
the low IOP groups. These results suggest that the development of glaucoma with
low IOP patients may be more influenced by peripheral vasospasm, such as Raynaud 
phenomenon, rather than laminar thickness in NTG.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2014.28.6.473 
PMCID: PMC4239466
PMID: 25435750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Can J Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;49(6):506-11. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2014.10.001.

Indications for a systemic work-up in glaucoma.

Emanuel ME(1), Gedde SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, Fla. (2)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, Miller School of
Medicine, Miami, Fla. Electronic address: sgedde@med.miami.edu.

Most glaucomas are primary in nature. However, many adult and childhood glaucomas
are secondary, and they require systemic evaluation to pick up associated
systemic disease. Conditions such as nocturnal hypotension and sleep apnea may
contribute to glaucomatous progression, whereas neurologic diseases may mimic
normal tension glaucoma based on disc appearance. This review highlights those
conditions in which a focused systemic work-up can improve glaucoma management
and potentially discover life-threatening disease.

Copyright © 2014 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2014.10.001 
PMID: 25433739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Nepal Med Coll J. 2014 Dec;16(2-4):177-81.

Visual rehabilitation and intraocular pressure control after combined manual
small incision cataract surgery and mitomycin-C augmented trabeculectomy.

Singh P, Kunhammad S.

Both cataract and glaucoma are significant public health problems. Combined
cataract operation and trabeculectomy is required for visual rehabilitation and
control of intraocular pressure (IOP) thereby preventing progressive optic nerve 
damage, in patients with coexisting cataract and glaucoma. The aim of this study 
was to find out the visual rehabilitation and IOP control following combined
manual small incision cataract surgery (SICS) and mitomycin-C (MMC) augmented
trabeculectomy. In this study 45 consecutive eyes of 45 patients who had
undergone combined procedures (manual SICS+ trabeculectomy with MMC) were
reviewed between September 2011 and August 2012. Postoperative visual acuity and 
IOP were recorded at postoperative day 1, 2nd week and 6th week to see the short 
term outcome of surgery and any postoperative complications were recorded. Best
corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at 6th week follow-up was noted. Out of 45
patients males were 31 (68.8%) and females were 14 (31.1%). Twenty nine (64.4%)
patients were Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), 11 (24.4%) Primary angle
closure glaucoma (PACG), 5 (11.1%) Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) with visually
significant cataract. The mean preoperative and postoperative IOP was 23.93 mmHg 
± 0.75 mmHg and 11.2 mmHg ± 1.5 mmHg respectively. The mean reduction in IOP was 
12.73 mmHg on the 6th week of follow up. There was statistically significant
reduction in IOP on the 6th week follow up (p < 0.000 1). Twenty three patients
(65.7%) achieved best corrected visual acuity between 6/6 to 6/18 and 6 patients 
(17.1%) had 6/24 to 6/60 on the 6th week follow up. Combined SICS with MMC
augmented trabeculectomy is effective in terms of IOP control and visual
rehabilitation in treating glaucoma patients with cataract.


PMID: 26930741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Nov 25;56(1):156-63. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-12327.

Torsion of the optic nerve head is a prominent feature of normal-tension
glaucoma.

Park HY(1), Lee KI(1), Lee K(1), Shin HY(2), Park CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, College of Medicine, The
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
Seoul, South Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, College of
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea Uijungbu St.
Mary's Hospital, Uijungbu, South Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare optic nerve head (ONH) morphology between eyes with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Seventy-eight NTG patients and 78 POAG patients matched according to age
and axial length were analyzed. Optic nerve head tilt and torsion were identified
from cross-sectional images of optical coherence tomography. The degree of
horizontal, vertical, and maximum ONH tilt and torsion was compared between NTG
and POAG eyes, and additional comparisons were based on the presence of myopia
and the location of the visual field defect. Logistic regression analysis was
used to determine the factors related to the degree of ONH torsion.
RESULTS: Vertical (P = 0.610) and horizontal tilt degree (P = 0.746) did not
differ between NTG and POAG eyes. However, torsion degree (P = 0.022) differed
significantly between NTG and POAG eyes. Direction of vertical tilt (P = 0.040)
and torsion (P < 0.001) showed more prevalent superior tilt and torsion in NTG
eyes (21.8% and 33.3%, respectively) compared to POAG eyes (10.3% and 10.3%,
respectively). Myopic NTG eyes showed greater torsion degree (P = 0.014) than
nonmyopic NTG eyes, which was not observed in the comparison between myopic and
nonmyopic POAG eyes. Only NTG eyes showed a significant difference in the degree 
of maximum tilt (P < 0.001) and torsion (P < 0.001) and the direction of vertical
tilt (P < 0.001) and torsion (P = 0.010) by the location of visual field defect. 
Longer axial length, maximum tilt degree, and diagnosis of NTG were the factors
related to the degree of ONH torsion.
CONCLUSIONS: Normal-tension glaucoma eyes had a greater ONH torsion compared to
POAG eyes with matched axial length. The direction of the ONH tilt and torsion
was related to the location of the visual field defect only in NTG eyes.

Copyright 2015 The Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-12327 
PMID: 25425302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2014 Oct;118(10):826-30.

[Initial scotomas in normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Mizoue S, Iwase A, Matsumoto S, Yoshikawa K.

PURPOSE: To investigate risk factors for initial visual field pattern in normal
tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied 107 subjects, who underwent 24-2 or 30-2 Swedish
interactive threshold algorithm standard visual fields as part of a multicenter
study of newly diagnosed NTG patients. Only the eyes with initial parafoveal
scotoma (IPFS) or initial nasal step (INS) Were included. IPFS was defined as a
glaucomatous visual field (VF) defect in 1 hemifield (≥ 3 adjacent points with p 
< 5% within the central 10 degrees of fixation, ≥ 1 point with p < l% lying at
the innermost paracentral points, and no VF abnormality outside the central 10
degrees). INS was defined in 1 hemifield (≥ 3 adjacent points with p < 5% in the 
nasal periphery outside 10 degrees of fixation, the nasal- most point with p <
1%, and no VF abnormality within the central 10 degrees). Clinical
characteristics were compared between the 2 groups.
RESULTS: Mean untreated intraocular pressure (IOP) (14.0 ± 1.3 vs. 16.0 ± l.4
mmHg; p = 0.0102) was significantly lower in patients with an IPFS than in
patients with an INS. There were no significant differences in age (p = 0.6487)
or spherical equivalent (p = 0.7561).
CONCLUSION: Initial visual field pattern of NTG is influenced by untreated IOP
level.


PMID: 25423867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Int Ophthalmol. 2015 Feb;35(1):67-72. doi: 10.1007/s10792-014-0020-z. Epub 2014
Nov 25.

Differences in corneal parameters between normal tension glaucoma and primary
open-angle glaucoma.

Lee JW(1,)(2), Wong RL(3), Chan JC(4), Wong IY(5), Lai JS(5).

Author information: 
(1)The Department of Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre, 111 Wing Hong Street,
Kowloon, Hong Kong, SAR, People's Republic of China. jackywylee@gmail.com. (2)The
Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, SAR,
People's Republic of China. jackywylee@gmail.com. (3)Department of Ophthalmology 
and Visual Sciences, The Hong Kong Eye Hospital, Hong Kong, SAR, People's
Republic of China. (4)The Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong 
Kong, SAR, People's Republic of China. (5)The Department of Ophthalmology, The
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, SAR, People's Republic of China.

Comment in
    Int Ophthalmol. 2015 Oct;35(5):621.

The purpose of this study was to identify the differences in corneal parameters
between medically treated normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) subjects. This cross-sectional study from September 2011 to
September 2012 included consecutive subjects with POAG and NTG who were receiving
topical anti-glaucoma medications at the time of the study. Subjects were
excluded if they had pre-existing corneal pathology or scars and previous
glaucoma lasers. The following parameters were compared between the NTG and POAG 
groups: endothelial cell count, central corneal thickness (CCT), spherical
equivalent, presenting and current intraocular pressure (IOP), number and type of
anti-glaucoma medication, retinal nerve fibre layer thickness, visual field
index, visual acuity, and phakic status. Only the right eye was used for
statistical analysis. The right eye of the 30 NTG and 28 POAG subjects had
comparable baseline characteristics, post-treatment IOP, and glaucoma severity.
The endothelial cell count was significantly lower in the NTG versus the POAG
group (2,380.0 ± 315.4 vs. 2,530.0 ± 320.4 cells/mm(2), p = 0.04). There were no 
significant differences in the spherical equivalent or CCT between the NTG and
POAG groups. A significantly lower corneal endothelial cell count was found in
NTG compared to POAG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-014-0020-z 
PMID: 25421917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


252. BMC Ophthalmol. 2014 Nov 14;14:130. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-130.

''The association of normal tension glaucoma with Buerger's disease: a case
report''.

Koban Y(1), Bilgin G, Cagatay H, Bitargil M, Ozlece H, Ekinci M, Kalayci D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kafkas University, Faculty of Medicine, Kars,
Turkey. yarankoban@yahoo.com.au.

BACKGROUND: To report a case of a 48-year-old man with Buerger's disease who
presented with bilateral normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
CASE PRESENTATION: A 48-year-old man who had been diagnosed with Buerger's
disease 12 years ago, and received bilateral below-the-knee amputations for
ischemic ulcers of the lower limbs, presented at our clinic due to a sudden loss 
of visual acuity in the left eye. A fundus exam revealed a cup-to-disc ratio of
0.5 for the right eye and 0.8 for the left eye, arteriolar constriction in both
eyes, retinal edema in the inferopapillary area, and splinter hemorrhages and
soft exudate in the left eye. We diagnosed the patient as having acute nasal
branch retinal artery occlusion in the left eye and bilateral NTG, as a result of
the ophthalmologic examination and the other findings.
CONCLUSION: Although the pathomechanism of NTG is still unknown, previous studies
have suggested that patients with NTG show a higher prevalence of vasospastic
disorders. We present the second report of NTG associated with Buerger's disease 
to be described in the literature.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-130 
PMCID: PMC4246490
PMID: 25394691  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Acta Ophthalmol. 2015 Jun;93(4):e313-4. doi: 10.1111/aos.12562. Epub 2014 Nov 11.

Relationship between preferred sleeping position and unilateral disc haemorrhage 
in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Kim KN(1), Park KH(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chungnam National University Hospital, Daejeon,
Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University
Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12562 
PMID: 25384379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 Oct 31;8:2189-93. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S73125. eCollection
2014.

The diurnal and nocturnal effects of travoprost in normal-tension glaucoma.

Seibold LK(1), Kahook MY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Colorado Eye Center, Aurora, CO,
USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the diurnal and nocturnal effects of travoprost with
sofZia(®) (Travatan Z(®) [TZ]) on intraocular pressure (IOP) and ocular perfusion
pressure (OPP) in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Twenty-seven subjects with NTG were admitted to an inpatient sleep
laboratory for three 24-hour sessions monitoring IOP, blood pressure (BP), and
heart rate every 2 hours in the habitual position (diurnal period: upright;
nocturnal period: supine). Baseline IOP and OPP levels were compared to those
during active treatment with TZ and 3 days after stopping the medication. OPP was
calculated as 2/3 [diastolic BP + 1/3 (systolic BP - diastolic BP)] - IOP.
RESULTS: TZ significantly reduced the mean diurnal and nocturnal IOP levels
compared to baseline at all time points. During treatment, mean IOP decreased
from 17.1±3.4 to 14.7±3.0 mmHg during the diurnal period (P<0.01) and from
19.9±3.6 to 18.8±3.5 mmHg during the nocturnal period (P<0.01). Once treatment
was discontinued, mean IOP remained at levels significantly less than baseline
during both the diurnal (15.6±3.2 mmHg) and nocturnal (18.7±3.7 mmHg) periods.
Mean OPP was not significantly changed with treatment during either period.
CONCLUSION: In this population of NTG patients, TZ significantly lowers IOP at
all time points throughout the diurnal and nocturnal periods. The treatment
effect on IOP endures for up to 3 days after the last dose. Treatment did not
significantly improve OPP.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S73125 
PMCID: PMC4222622
PMID: 25382969  [PubMed]


255. Eye (Lond). 2015 Mar;29(3):333-41. doi: 10.1038/eye.2014.256. Epub 2014 Nov 7.

Posterior staphyloma is related to optic disc morphology and the location of
visual field defect in normal tension glaucoma patients with myopia.

Park HY(1), Jung Y(1), Park CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To determine the morphologic features of the optic disc and the location
of visual field (VF) defect in relation to posterior staphyloma in normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) eyes with myopia.
METHODS: One hundred and thirty-four NTG patients with myopia were enrolled.
B-scan ultrasonography was performed in enrolled patients. Disc tilt ratio, disc 
torsion, and area of peripapillary atrophy were measured from disc photographs.
Patients were classified according to the presence of posterior staphyloma and
its location: staphyloma involving the optic disc, staphyloma involving either
the supero-temporal side of the optic disc or the infero-temporal side of the
optic disc. The relationship between the location of the posterior staphyloma and
that of the VF defect was analyzed.
RESULTS: Among 134 eyes, 74 eyes (55.2%) had posterior staphyloma on B-scan
ultrasonography. Mean torsion degree was significantly greater in eyes with
staphyloma involving the temporal side of the optic disc (19.78±18.00°) compared 
with eyes with staphyloma involving the optic disc (4.65±4.92°, P=0.001). The
frequency of the location of VF damage differed significantly between eyes with
staphyloma involving the supero-temporal side and those involving the
infero-temporal side of the optic disc (P=0.008), which was not significant in
eyes with staphyloma involving the optic disc (P=0.813).
CONCLUSIONS: Optic disc torsion was a prominent finding in myopic NTG eyes when
posterior staphyloma was located temporal to the optic disc. The location of
posterior staphyloma was related to the direction of disc torsion and the
location of VF defect.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2014.256 
PMCID: PMC4366452
PMID: 25376120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Br J Ophthalmol. 2015 Apr;99(4):500-7. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-305323.
Epub 2014 Oct 28.

Comparing focal and global responses on multifocal electroretinogram with retinal
nerve fibre layer thickness by spectral domain optical coherence tomography in
glaucoma.

Rao A(1), Singh AK(1), Mukherjee S(1), Chowdhury M(1).

Author information: 
(1)LV Prasad Eye Institute, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.

PURPOSE: To evaluate first and second order responses on multifocal
electroretinogram (mfERG) and with retinal nerve fibre layer thickness (RNFL) on 
Cirrus spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in glaucoma.
METHODS: Patients (old and new) diagnosed with primary open angle glaucoma,
primary angle closure glaucoma or normal tension glaucoma attending glaucoma
services from November 2012 to January 2013 were screened. Ninety-seven eyes
fulfilling inclusion criteria were evaluated by Humphrey visual field, Cirrus
SD-OCT imaging and mfERG (Veris Science 5.1.10X; EDI, Redwood City, California,
USA) for this observational cross-sectional study. The global and averaged
quadrant-wise peak-to-trough amplitudes and peak implicit times of the first
trough (N1), the first peak (P1) and the second trough (N2) of the mfERG were
compared with average RNFL-full circle (FC) or quadrant RNFL thickness in early
(mean deviation (MD) >-6 dB), moderate (MD -6 to -12 dB) and advanced glaucoma
(MD <-12 dB).
RESULTS: The RNFL-FC correlated with P1N2 amplitude on univariate analysis
(r=0.7, p=0.004) and N2 amplitude (r=-0.4, p<0.001). Comparing relationships in
different stages of glaucoma, P1N2 amplitude correlated significantly with
RNFL-FC and superotemporal quadrant, RNFL-superior temporal (ST), in early and
moderate glaucoma only. In contrast, the implicit time of P1N2 correlated
significantly with RNFL-FC and RNFL-ST only in severe glaucoma while in earlier
stages, this relationship did not hold true. On multivariate analysis, P1N2
amplitude correlated with age (β=-0.2, p<0.001), RNFL-FC (β=0.05, p=0.05),
RNFL-ST (β=0.06, p=0.01) and cup-disc ratio (β=-3.2, p=0.006).
CONCLUSIONS: Of all responses on mfERG, P1N2 amplitude correlates well with
RNFL-FC and RNFL-ST on SD-OCT and can be used for monitoring early and moderate
glaucoma. Diffuse structural changes may best be reflected by changes in P1N2
implicit time owing to ceiling effect of the amplitude in all regions in severe
glaucoma.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-305323 
PMID: 25351681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Glaucoma. 2016 Jan;25(1):e50-2. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000186.

Progression of Normal-Tension Glaucoma After Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt to
Decrease Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure.

Chen BH(1), Drucker MD, Louis KM, Richards DW.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Morsani College of Medicine, University of South
Florida Eye Institute †Department of Neurosurgery, Morsani College of Medicine,
University of South Florida, Tampa, FL.

PURPOSE: To report a case of worsening normal-tension glaucoma immediately
following ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt placement to lower cerebrospinal fluid 
pressure (CSFP).
METHODS: The clinical records of the patient were reviewed retrospectively.
Observations were made and collated as the case progressed.
RESULTS: A 93-year-old white woman previously diagnosed with normal-tension
glaucoma underwent placement of a VP shunt with a Codman-Hakim programmable valve
for normal pressure hydrocephalus. Shortly after the procedure, progressive
visual field loss was noted in both eyes and new optic disc hemorrhages were seen
in the patient's right eye. The hemorrhages resolved, but the patient had
recurrent complaints of poor gait, memory, and mentation. The CSFP was lowered by
reprogramming the Codman-Hakim valve. The patient's visual fields again worsened 
in both eyes and a new disc hemorrhage was seen in the right eye. A year later, a
new disc hemorrhage was seen in the patient's left eye. The CSFP was raised by
reprogramming the VP shunt. Before the placement of the VP shunt, no optic disc
hemorrhages had been observed.
CONCLUSION: This case suggests that relatively low CSFP is a contributor to
worsening normal-tension glaucoma, probably by increasing translaminar pressure
gradient of the optic nerve.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000186 
PMID: 25350819  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 Sep;253(9):1447-56. doi:
10.1007/s00417-014-2830-0. Epub 2014 Oct 24.

Macular retinoschisis associated with glaucomatous optic neuropathy in eyes with 
normal intraocular pressure.

Inoue M(1), Itoh Y, Rii T, Kita Y, Hirota K, Kunita D, Hirakata A.

Author information: 
(1)Kyorin Eye Center, Kyorin University School of Medicine, 6-20-2 Shinkawa,
Mitaka, Tokyo, 181-8611, Japan, inoue@eye-center.org.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical features, optical
coherence tomography (OCT) findings, and surgical outcomes of eyes with macular
retinoschisis associated with glaucomatous optic neuropathy and normal
intraocular pressure (IOP).
METHODS: In this retrospective interventional observational study, 11 eyes of 11 
patients who underwent pars plana vitrectomy for macular retinoschisis and
glaucomatous optic neuropathy were studied. All eyes had a vertical cup-to-disc
ratio of ≥ 0.7 and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defects. Intraocular pressure
(IOP) was <21 mmHg in all eyes, and there was no presence of congenital optic
disc pits or high myopia in any eyes. The best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and
the appearance of the fundus and OCT images were evaluated.
RESULTS: The retinoschisis extended from the optic disc to the macula in all 11
eyes, and foveal detachment was present in 10 eyes. OCT showed vitreous adhesions
near the RNFL defects and over the retinal vessels. The retinoschisis in the RNFL
resolved immediately after the vitrectomy, and the BCVA improved significantly
(p = 0.004). Macular retinoschisis resolved or decreased in all cases, although
it required an average of 11 ± 3 months. The optic disc cup and RNFL defects were
more clearly visible after resolution of the retinoschisis.
CONCLUSIONS: Macular retinoschisis can develop from vitreous traction near the
RNFL defect in eyes with glaucomatous optic neuropathy and normal IOP. We suggest
that the traction on the structurally fragile RNFL contributed to the
retinoschisis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-014-2830-0 
PMID: 25341955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Glaucoma. 2015 Mar;24(3):251-2. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000181.

Intraocular pressure: is it a risk factor in normal tension glaucoma?

Rao A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Services, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Patia, Bhubaneswar, India.

Comment on
    J Glaucoma. 2014 Oct-Nov;23(8):553-60.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000181 
PMID: 25333611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2014;55(3):857-62.

Correlation between corneal thickness and optic disc morphology in normal tension
glaucoma using modern technical analysis.

Coman L(1), Costescu M, Alecu M, Coman OA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, "Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Bucharest, Romania; laurentiucmn@yahoo.com.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between central
corneal thickness (CCT) and optic disc morphology in normal tension glaucoma
(NTG). Patients with NTG underwent eye examination, optic disc imaging with
Heildelberg Retina Tomograph II (HRT II) and ultrasound corneal pachymetry. The
morphological parameters of the optic discs were used to classify the eyes into
four groups: generalized enlargement (GE) type, myopic glaucomatous (MY) type,
focal ischemic (FI) type and senile sclerotic (SS) type. A correlation between
CCT and optic disc morphology obtained by HRT II was calculated. Multiple
comparison and post hoc tests were performed in order to determine the
significance of the differences between the four groups. The strongest
correlation was between CCT and the parameters of optic disc imaging obtained at 
HRT II in the GE type of optic disc.


PMID: 25329112  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Optom. 2014 Oct-Dec;7(4):217-24. doi: 10.1016/j.optom.2014.05.002. Epub 2014
Jun 21.

Retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in glaucomatous Nepalese eyes and its
relation with visual field sensitivity.

Khanal S(1), Thapa M(2), Racette L(3), Johnson R(4), Davey PG(5), Joshi MR(6),
Shrestha GS(2).

Author information: 
(1)B.P. Koirala Lions Center for Ophthalmic Studies, Institute of Medicine,
Nepal. Electronic address: safalkhanal@iom.edu.np. (2)B.P. Koirala Lions Center
for Ophthalmic Studies, Institute of Medicine, Nepal. (3)Eugene and Marilyn Glick
Eye Institute, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(4)University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (5)College of Optometry,
Western University of Health Sciences, Pomona, USA. (6)Glasgow Caledonian
University, Glasgow, UK.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness 
in glaucomatous Nepalese eyes using spectral domain optical coherence tomography 
(SD-OCT) and study its relationship with visual field sensitivity.
METHODS: A total of 120 eyes comprising primary open angle glaucoma (POAG),
glaucoma suspects (GS), normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and healthy subjects (n=30 
cases in each group) underwent a complete ophthalmic examination, including optic
nerve head (ONH) evaluation and standard automated perimetry (SAP). RNFL
thickness measurements around the optic disk were taken with circular spectral
domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) scans. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) 
was used for comparison of RNFL parameters among various study groups. The
relationship of RNFL parameters with visual field (VF) global indices was
evaluated with regression analysis.
RESULTS: The mean pRNFL thickness was significantly less in the POAG
(64.30±14.45μm, p<0.01), NTG (85.43±9.79μm, p<0.001) and GS (102.0±9.37μm,
p<0.001) groups than in the healthy group (109.8±8.32μm). The RNFL was
significantly thinner across all quadrants in all study group pairs (p<0.05)
except for normal vs. GS (only superior and inferior quadrant, significant).
Linear regression plots with RNFL thickness as a predictor of MD and LV
demonstrated a strong and statistically significant degree of determination in
the POAG group (R(2)=0.203 and 0.175, p=0.013 and 0.021).
CONCLUSION: The RNFL thickness measurements with SD-OCT are lower in glaucomatous
eyes as compared to age-matched GS and normal eyes in the Nepalese population. A 
high resolution SD-OCT could aid significantly in the early diagnosis of glaucoma
in Nepal.

Copyright © 2013 Spanish General Council of Optometry. Published by Elsevier
Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.optom.2014.05.002 
PMCID: PMC4213835
PMID: 25323643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan;159(1):144-54. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.10.007. Epub
2014 Oct 13.

The effect of corneal biomechanical properties on rebound tonometer in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma.

Shin J(1), Lee JW(2), Kim EA(3), Caprioli J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Pusan National University Hospital, Busan, South 
Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Pusan National University Hospital, Busan,
South Korea; Medical Research Institute, Pusan National University Hospital,
Busan, South Korea; The Jules Stein Eye Institute, University of California at
Los Angeles School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California. Electronic address:
glaucoma@pnu.ac.kr. (3)The Jules Stein Eye Institute, University of California at
Los Angeles School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effects of corneal biomechanical properties on
intraocular pressure (IOP) measured with the ICare, and to compare IOP readings
obtained with ICare, Ocular Response Analyzer (ORA), and Goldmann applanation
tonometry (GAT) in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and normal subjects.
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional, comparative study.
METHODS: IOP was measured with ICare, ORA, and GAT. All subjects had corneal
hysteresis (CH) and corneal resistance factor (CRF), which were measured with
ORA; and central corneal thickness (CCT), axial length, spherical equivalent, and
keratometry.
RESULTS: This study enrolled 97 eyes of 97 NTG patients and 89 eyes of 89 normal 
subjects. CCT, CH, and CRF in NTG patients were significantly lower than those in
normal subjects (P = .033, P = .006, and P = .003). The difference in IOP between
techniques was highly significant in NTG patients (P < .001), while there was no 
significant difference in IOP values between techniques in normal controls (P =
.931). ICare readings were significantly lower than corneal-compensated IOP in
NTG patients (P = .014). CH and CRF were significantly associated with IOP
measurements with ICare in NTG and normal subjects (P < .001). The greater
difference between IOPcc and ICare in NTG patients was significantly influenced
by the lower CH (P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Since ICare is a convenient way to measure IOP, ICare is a
reasonable option as an alternative tonometer in NTG patients. However, the
clinician must consider that the corneal biomechanical characteristics in NTG can
cause ICare to underestimate IOP.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.10.007 
PMID: 25308786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Vestn Oftalmol. 2014 Jul-Aug;130(4):4-7.

[Determination of the individual normal range of intraocular pressure in
differential diagnosis between pseudonormal tension glaucoma and ischemic optic
neuropathies].

[Article in Russian]

Mamikonian VP, Galoian NS, Sheremet NL, Kazarian ÉÉ, Shmeleva-Demir OA, Antonov
AA, Tatevosian AA.

The study investigated the relation between the actual intraocular pressure (IOP)
and its individual normal range in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and ischemic
optic neuropathy (ION) outcome. A total of 39 patients (61 eyes) were examined.
Group 1 included 19 patients (35 eyes) with newly diagnosed NTG, group 2--20
patients (26 eyes) with the ION outcome. Besides conventional tests, the
ophthalmic assessment in all patients included determination of the individual
normal range of IOP and evaluation of biomechanical properties of the cornea. It 
is showed that determination of the individual normal range of IOP may play a key
role in confusing cases of differential diagnosis between NTG and ION. The
average actual IOP in patients with NTG generally exceeds the individual normal
range by 40% (more than 5 mmHg), whereas in patients with the ION outcome--by
only 11.7% (less than 5 mmHg - buffer range). No statistically significant
difference in IOP measurements by different tonometry methods was found in either
NTG or ION patients with corneal compensated IOP less than 21 mmHg.


PMID: 25306715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


264. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Dec;30(10):803-9. doi: 10.1089/jop.2014.0034.

The circadian changes of intraocular pressure and ocular perfusion pressure after
tafluprost compared with travoprost in normal tension glaucoma.

Shin J(1), Lee JW, Choi BS, Yun EY, Jung JH, Kim EA, Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Pusan National University ,
Busan, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare the 24-h changes of intraocular pressure (IOP) and mean
ocular perfusion pressure (MOPP) obtained with tafluprost versus travoprost in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This study is a randomized crossover study of 50 patients newly
diagnosed with NTG who received either tafluprost or travoprost given once at 9
PM for 2 months, after which they were crossed over to the other medication for
another 2 months. IOP and blood pressure were measured for 24 h before starting
the treatment and after finishing the first and second treatment periods.
RESULTS: Forty-one patients completed the study. The mean (±standard deviation)
24-h IOP was 16.8±2.0 mmHg at baseline, 14.4±2.2 mmHg on tafluprost, and
13.6±1.8 mmHg on travoprost. Both prostaglandin monotherapies significantly
reduced mean 24-h IOP as compared with baseline (P<0.001, P<0.001, respectively),
and travoprost demonstrated a lower mean 24-h IOP than tafluprost (P=0.044). Both
treatments significantly reduced the IOP from baseline at every point over 24 h. 
At 3 individual time points, travoprost provided a lower IOP than tafluprost: at 
4 PM (13.8±2.7 vs. 14.8±2.6 mmHg, P=0.041), at 6 PM (13.5±2.5 vs. 14.4±2.5 mmHg, 
P=0.006), and at 8 PM (13.3±2.5 vs. 14.5±2.4 mmHg, P=0.029). Both tafluprost and 
travoprost significantly increased the 24-h MOPP (P=0.008, P=0.002,
respectively), and travoprost demonstrated a greater 24-h MOPP than tafluprost
(P=0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: Both tafluprost and travoprost were effective in lowering IOP and
increasing MOPP throughout 24 h in NTG. However, travoprost reduced IOP greater
than tafluprost in the late afternoon and evening.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2014.0034 
PMID: 25285367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan;159(1):124-30.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.09.044. Epub 
2014 Oct 2.

Copy number variations of TBK1 in Australian patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Awadalla MS(1), Fingert JH(2), Roos BE(2), Chen S(3), Holmes R(4), Graham SL(5), 
Chehade M(6), Galanopolous A(6), Ridge B(7), Souzeau E(7), Zhou T(7), Siggs
OM(7), Hewitt AW(8), Mackey DA(8), Burdon KP(9), Craig JE(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre,
Adelaide, Australia. Electronic address: mona.awadalla@flinders.edu.au.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa; Stephen A. Wynn Institute for Vision
Research, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa. (3)Vitreoretinal Unit, Vision Eye 
Institute, Sydney, Australia. (4)Palmerston North Hospital, Palmerston North, New
Zealand. (5)Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Macquarie University, Sydney,
Australia. (6)South Australian Institute of Ophthalmology, Royal Adelaide
Hospital, Adelaide, Australia. (7)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders
University, Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, Australia. (8)Lions Eye Institute,
Perth, Australia. (9)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Flinders
Medical Centre, Adelaide, Australia; Menzies Research Institute Tasmania,
University of Tasmania, Hobart, Australia.

PURPOSE: To investigate the presence of TBK1 copy number variations in a large,
well-characterized Australian cohort of patients with glaucoma comprising both
normal-tension glaucoma and high-tension glaucoma cases.
DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study.
METHODS: DNA samples from patients with normal-tension glaucoma and high-tension 
glaucoma and unaffected controls were screened for TBK1 copy number variations
using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Samples with additional
copies of the TBK1 gene were further tested using custom comparative genomic
hybridization arrays.
RESULTS: Four out of 334 normal-tension glaucoma cases (1.2%) were found to carry
TBK1 copy number variations using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. One
extra dose of the TBK1 gene (duplication) was detected in 3 normal-tension
glaucoma patients, while 2 extra doses of the gene (triplication) were detected
in a fourth normal-tension glaucoma patient. The results were further confirmed
by custom comparative genomic hybridization arrays. Further, the TBK1 copy number
variation segregated with normal-tension glaucoma in the family members of the
probands, showing an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. No TBK1 copy
number variations were detected in 1045 Australian patients with high-tension
glaucoma or in 254 unaffected controls.
CONCLUSION: We report the presence of TBK1 copy number variations in our
Australian normal-tension glaucoma cohort, including the first example of more
than 1 extra copy of this gene in glaucoma patients (gene triplication). These
results confirm TBK1 to be an important cause of normal-tension glaucoma, but do 
not suggest common involvement in high-tension glaucoma.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.09.044 
PMCID: PMC4355400
PMID: 25284765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


266. BMC Ophthalmol. 2014 Oct 5;14:119. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-119.

Neovascular glaucoma after central retinal vein occlusion in pre-existing
glaucoma.

Chen HF, Chen MC, Lai CC, Yeung L, Wang NK, Chen HS, Ku WC, Wu SC, Chang SH,
Chuang LH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 222 Mai-Chin Rd,
Keelung 204, Taiwan. c571019@cgmh.org.tw.

BACKGROUND: To determine the outcome of central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) in 
pre-existing glaucoma and the predisposing factors of developing neovascular
glaucoma (NVG).
METHODS: We retrospectively assessed a pre-existing glaucoma CRVO group and a
non-glaucoma CRVO group to elucidate the demographics, clinical course and ocular
parameters of these two cohorts. Among the pre-existing glaucoma cases, the
predisposing factors for the development of NVG were monitored, including the
retinal capillary non-perfusion status, intraocular pressure (IOP) and
best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at presentation.
RESULTS: Of 642 CRVO patients reviewed in this 10-year cohort study, 60 (9.3%)
had pre-existing glaucoma at a mean follow-up of 30.8 months, including 28 (4.4%)
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), 27 (4.2%) primary angle closure glaucoma
(PACG), and 5 (0.8%) normal tension glaucoma (NTG) cases. Although the presence
of glaucoma in the CRVO eyes was not significantly associated with the risk of
developing NVG, the incidence of developing NVG in pre-existing glaucoma eyes was
significantly higher in the group with IOP greater than 20 mmHg at CRVO
presentation (P = 0.02, Chi-square test) as well as in the ischemic CRVO group
compared to the non-ischemic patients (P = 0.005, Fisher's exact test). Overall, 
20% of pre-existing glaucoma patients needed glaucoma surgery after a CRVO event,
including 11.7% of patients who developed iris neovascularisation (INV) and 8.3% 
of patients who developed a high IOP without INV.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the retinal non-perfusion status and uncontrolled IOP
contribute to NVG in patients with pre-existing glaucoma after CRVO. Following
CRVO, glaucoma surgery is necessary for pre-existing glaucoma cases with
intractable elevated IOP with or without INV.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-119 
PMCID: PMC4193090
PMID: 25282154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


267. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 2;9(9):e108938. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108938. eCollection
2014.

Glaucoma, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease: an 8-year
population-based follow-up study.

Lin IC(1), Wang YH(2), Wang TJ(3), Wang IJ(4), Shen YD, Chi NF(5), Chien LN(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shuang Ho Hospital, Taipei Medical University,
Taipei, Taiwan. (2)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, Shuang Ho
Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of
Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei,
Taiwan. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Taipei Medical University Hospital,
Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. (4)Department of Ophthalmology,
National Taiwan University Hospital, School of Medicine, National Taiwan
University, Taipei, Taiwan. (5)Department of Neurology, Shuang Ho Hospital,
Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Neurology, School of
Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. (6)School of Health Care
Administration, College of Public Health and Nutrition, Taipei Medical
University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2016;11(3):e0150789. Shen, Yun-Den [corrected to Shen, Yun-Dun].

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is the most common type of glaucoma. An
association between POAG and the subsequent risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
Parkinson's disease (PD) was unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between POAG (including normal-tension 
glaucoma) and the subsequent risk of AD or PD 8 years following a diagnosis of
POAG.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective, propensity-score-matched analysis of a
population-based cohort consisting of patients with and without POAG aged 60
years and older. Control patients without POAG were propensity-score matched to
POAG patients based on their baseline characteristics.
RESULTS: The incidence rates and confidence intervals (CIs) of AD among the
patients with and without POAG were 2.85 (95% CI: 2.19-3.70) and 1.98 (95% CI:
1.68-2.31) per 1000 person-years, respectively. The incidence rates of PD among
the POAG and non-POAG cohorts were 4.36 (95% CI: 3.52-5.39) and 4.37 (95% CI:
3.92-4.86) per 1000 person-years, respectively. Kaplan-Meier failure curves
showed that the POAG patients had a higher risk of AD than the control patients
did (log-rank test, P= .0189). However, the cumulative PD hazard ratios for the
POAG and non-POAG patients did not differ significantly (log-rank test,
P= .9953).
CONCLUSION: In elderly patients, POAG is a significant predictor of AD, but POAG 
is not a predictor of PD.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108938 
PMCID: PMC4183534
PMID: 25275530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


268. J Glaucoma. 2015 Apr-May;24(4):328-33. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000159.

A hierarchical cluster analysis of normal-tension glaucoma using spectral-domain 
optical coherence tomography parameters.

Bae HW(1), Ji Y, Lee HS, Lee N, Hong S, Seong GJ, Sung KR, Kim CY.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Ophthalmology, Severance Hospital, Institute of Vision
Research †Research Affairs, Biostatistics Collaboration Unit, Yonsei University
College of Medicine ‡Departments of Ophthalmology, Asan Medical Center, College
of Medicine, University of Ulsan, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a heterogenous disease, and there is
still controversy about subclassifications of this disorder. On the basis of
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), we subdivided NTG with
hierarchical cluster analysis using optic nerve head (ONH) parameters and retinal
nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thicknesses.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 200 eyes of 200 NTG patients between March 2011 
and June 2012 underwent SD-OCT scans to measure ONH parameters and RNFL
thicknesses. We classified NTG into homogenous subgroups based on these variables
using a hierarchical cluster analysis, and compared clusters to evaluate diverse 
NTG characteristics.
RESULTS: Three clusters were found after hierarchical cluster analysis. Cluster 1
(62 eyes) had the thickest RNFL and widest rim area, and showed early glaucoma
features. Cluster 2 (60 eyes) was characterized by the largest cup/disc ratio and
cup volume, and showed advanced glaucomatous damage. Cluster 3 (78 eyes) had
small disc areas in SD-OCT and were comprised of patients with significantly
younger age, longer axial length, and greater myopia than the other 2 groups.
CONCLUSIONS: A hierarchical cluster analysis of SD-OCT scans divided NTG patients
into 3 groups based upon ONH parameters and RNFL thicknesses. It is anticipated
that the small disc area group comprised of younger and more myopic patients may 
show unique features unlike the other 2 groups.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000159 
PMID: 25265006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


269. J Glaucoma. 2016 Feb;25(2):217-22. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000145.

Safety And Efficacy Of Achieving Single-Digit Intraocular Pressure Targets With
Filtration Surgery In Eyes With Progressive Normal-Tension Glaucoma.

Schultz SK(1), Iverson SM, Shi W, Greenfield DS.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, FL.

PURPOSE: Whereas achieving intraocular pressure (IOP) targets ≤ 10 mm Hg
typically requires surgical intervention, we sought to examine the safety and
efficacy of trabeculectomy in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Patients with progressive NTG undergoing trabeculectomy with
preoperative IOP ≤ 15 mm Hg during the 12-month period before surgery were
identified at a single academic institution. Failure was defined as IOP reduction
<20% below baseline (criteria A), <30% (criteria B), or <40% (criteria C),
reoperation for glaucoma, or loss of light perception vision.
RESULTS: Thirty eyes of 28 patients (mean age, 73 ± 8.7 y) were enrolled with a
mean follow-up period of 50 ± 31 months. Mean postoperative IOP (8.6 ± 2.9 mm Hg)
and medications (0.6 ± 1.0) at final follow-up was significantly (P<0.001)
reduced compared with before surgery (13.2 ± 1.4 mm Hg and 2.5 ± 1.2,
respectively). The cumulative probability of failure during 5 years of follow-up 
was 32% (criteria A), 48%, (criteria B), and 67% (criteria C). The probability of
successfully achieving an IOP goal ≤ 10 mm Hg was 68% at 4 years of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Trabeculectomy is a safe and effective method for achieving
single-digit IOP targets in NTG eyes with progression at low IOP.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000145 
PMCID: PMC4375069 [Available on 2017-02-01]
PMID: 25264998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Glaucoma. 2016 Jan;25(1):101-5. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000138.

Detection of Glaucoma and Its Association With Diabetic Retinopathy in a Diabetic
Retinopathy Screening Program.

Gangwani RA(1), McGhee SM, Lai JS, Chan CK, Wong D.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology ‡School of Public Health, The University of Hong 
Kong †Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong SAR, China.

PURPOSE: To determine the type of glaucoma in subjects with diabetes mellitus
detected during a diabetic retinopathy screening program and to determine any
association between diabetic retinopathy (DR) and glaucoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a population-based prospective cross-sectional
study, in which subjects with diabetes mellitus underwent screening for DR in a
primary care outpatient clinic. Digital fundus photographs were taken and graded 
for presence/absence and severity of DR. During this grading, those fundus
photographs showing increased cup-to-disc ratio (CDR) (≥0.6) were identified and 
these patients were referred to the specialist ophthalmology clinic for detailed 
examination. The presence of glaucoma was established based on CDR and abnormal
visual field (VF) defects according to Hodapp-Parrish-Anderson's criteria. An
elevation of intraocular pressure was not required for the diagnosis of glaucoma.
The patients said to have definite glaucoma were those with vertical CDR>/=0.6,
glaucomatous defects on VF examination, or retinal nerve fiber thinning if VF was
unreliable.
RESULTS: Of the 2182 subjects who underwent screening, 81 subjects (3.7%) had
increased CDR and 40 subjects (1.8%) had confirmed glaucoma. Normal-tension
variant of primary open-angle glaucoma was the most prevalent type (1.2%) We did 
not find any evidence that DR is a risk factor for glaucoma [odds ratio for DR
vs. no DR=1.22 (95% confidence interval, 0.59-2.51)].
CONCLUSION: The overall prevalence of glaucoma in this diabetic population, based
on finding increased cupping of optic disc in a teleretinal screening program was
1.8% (95% confidence interval, 1.0-3.0).

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000138 
PMID: 25264989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Clin Interv Aging. 2014 Sep 16;9:1563-71. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S67263. eCollection
2014.

The current research status of normal tension glaucoma.

Mi XS(1), Yuan TF(2), So KF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan
University, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China ; Department of Anatomy, Li Ka 
Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, People's
Republic of China. (2)School of Psychology, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing,
People's Republic of China ; Department of Ophthalmology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of 
Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, People's Republic of China ; Department of Ophthalmology, Li Ka 
Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, People's
Republic of China ; GHM Institute of CNS Regeneration, Jinan University,
Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.

Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is a progressive optic neuropathy that mimics
primary open-angle glaucoma, but lacks the findings of elevated intraocular
pressure or other mitigating factors that can lead to optic neuropathy. The
present review summarized the causes, genetics, and mechanisms underlying NTG in 
both animal models and human patients. We also proposed that the neurovascular
unit is a therapeutic target for NTG management.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S67263 
PMCID: PMC4172068
PMID: 25258525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep 15;8:1855-8. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S65203. eCollection
2014.

Efficacy of preservative-free tafluprost in patients with normal-tension glaucoma
previously treated with latanoprost.

Sacchi M(1), Villani E(1), Nucci P(1).

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, San Giuseppe Hospital, University of Milan, Milan,
Italy.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S65203 
PMCID: PMC4172211
PMID: 25258507  [PubMed]


273. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 25;9(9):e108226. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108226.
eCollection 2014.

Systemic hypertension as a risk factor for open-angle glaucoma: a meta-analysis
of population-based studies.

Bae HW(1), Lee N(2), Lee HS(3), Hong S(1), Seong GJ(1), Kim CY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Severance Hospital, Institute of Vision Research,
Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Severance Hospital, Institute of Vision Research, Yonsei
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea; Department of Ophthalmology, Hallym
Hospital, Incheon, Korea. (3)Department of Research Affairs, Biostatistics
Collaboration Unit, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Systemic hypertension is thought to increase the risk for
developing open-angle glaucoma (OAG) through several mechanisms. However,
previous epidemiological studies have shown conflicting results regarding this
potential association. We systematically evaluated this issue by conducting a
meta-analysis of population-based studies.
METHODS: A comprehensive search for articles published before 31 March 2014 was
performed using PubMed, Embase, and reference lists. The pooled odds ratio (OR)
was calculated using the fixed- and random-effects models, and meta-regression
was performed according to age. Subgroup analyses were also conducted, and
publication bias was assessed using a funnel plot and Egger's regression test.
RESULTS: This meta-analysis included 16 studies involving 60,084 individuals,
with substantial homogeneity among the studies. The pooled OR for OAG was 1.22
(95% confidence interval, CI: 1.09-1.36) using the fixed-effects model and 1.22
(95% CI: 1.08-1.37) using the random-effects model in all included studies. For
subgroup analyses, the pooled OR for high-tension glaucoma (HTG) was higher than 
that for normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) (OR=1.92 and 0.94, respectively). No
significant difference was detected between Asian and Western populations, and no
publication bias was detected in either analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Systemic hypertension increases the risk for developing OAG,
especially in those with HTG.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108226 
PMCID: PMC4177901
PMID: 25254373  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Optom Vis Sci. 2014 Nov;91(11):1320-7. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000000392.

Macular inner plexiform and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in glaucoma.

Jung HH(1), Sung MS, Heo H, Park SW.

Author information: 
(1)*MD †MD, PhD Department of Ophthalmology, Chonnam National University Medical 
School and Hospital, Gwangju, Korea (all authors).

PURPOSE: To compare the parameters of the macular ganglion cell-inner plexiform
layer (mGCIPL) thickness measured by Cirrus high-definition optical coherence
tomography in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG).
METHODS: Eighty patients with NTG, 80 patients with POAG, and 100 normal control 
subjects were enrolled. The mGCIPL and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer
(pRNFL) thicknesses measured by Cirrus high-definition optical coherence
tomography were compared in patients with glaucoma. The areas under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve (AROCs) were calculated to compare the diagnostic 
power of the mGCIPL thickness with that of the pRNFL thickness. Pearson
correlation coefficients were determined to investigate the correlation between
the mGCIPL or pRNFL thickness parameters and the mean deviation (MD) values of
visual field tests.
RESULTS: All parameters of the mGCIPL thickness were significantly different
between normal control subjects and patients with glaucoma. The superior,
superotemporal, and superonasal thickness of mGCIPL and the superior thickness of
pRNFL showed significant reductions and significantly higher AROCs for
distinguishing between normal eyes and eyes with glaucoma in POAG compared with
those in NTG. In NTG or POAG groups, the mGCIPL and pRNFL parameters with the
highest AROC were the minimum and average thickness, respectively. The average,
minimum, inferior, inferotemporal, and inferonasal thickness of mGCIPL and the
average and inferior thickness of pRNFL were correlated with MD in NTG (p < 0.05 
for all parameters), whereas all parameters of the mGCIPL thickness except the
inferonasal thickness and all parameters of the pRNFL thickness except the
temporal thickness were correlated with MD in POAG (p < 0.05 for all parameters).
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnostic ability of the mGCIPL thickness was comparable to
that of the pRNFL thickness in patients with NTG or POAG. The mGCIPL loss in NTG 
was localized and mainly concentrated on the inferior portion compared with
diffuse mGCIPL loss in POAG.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000000392 
PMID: 25237762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep 9;8:1773-82. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S69359. eCollection
2014.

Effect of 3 years of treatment with a dorzolamide/timolol (1%/0.5%) combination
on intraocular pressure.

Takeda S(1), Mimura T(2), Matsubara M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Women's Medical University Medical Center
East, Tokyo, Japan ; Department of Ophthalmology, Nippori Clinic, Medical Center 
East, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Tokyo Women's Medical University Medical Center East, Tokyo,
Japan.

PURPOSE: We aimed to evaluate the effect on the intraocular pressure (IOP) of a
dorzolamide/timolol (1%/0.5%) fixed combination (DTFC) ophthalmic agent for 3
years.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 19 consecutive patients who had previously been treated 
with mono-therapy or any combination of a beta-blocker, carbonic anhydrase
inhibitor, or prostaglandin analog, for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) (n=5) 
or normal tension glaucoma (N=14) were enrolled.
METHODS: Patients were switched to DTFC from their prior glaucoma therapy. The
IOP was measured at intervals of 4-6 weeks for 3 years. Treatment failure was
defined as an increase of IOP by ≥10% from baseline after switching to DTFC.
RESULTS: The average IOP decreased significantly from 14.1±2.9 mmHg at baseline
to 12.2±2.2, 11.8±2.4, 12.1±2.5, 11.6±1.8, and 12.1±2.7 mmHg at 3, 6, 12, 24, and
36 months, respectively, after switching therapy (all P<0.05). The mean percent
decrease of IOP was 12.0%±13.0%, 14.5%±14.2%, 12.2%±18.7%, 16.0%±12.8%, and
12.8%±15.2% at 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months, respectively, after switching.
Univariate or multivariate analysis revealed the percent decrease of IOP was
associated with the type of glaucoma (POAG) at 3 and 12 months, and with the
baseline IOP at 3, 12, 24, and 36 months. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated that
the percentage of patients who remained on treatment with DTFC was 94.7%, 94.7%, 
84.2%, 78.9%, and 78.9% at 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months, respectively. Cox
proportional hazards analysis showed that the type of glaucoma (POAG) was
associated with an increased risk of failure to control the IOP.
CONCLUSION: The IOP-lowering effect of DTFC was demonstrated for 3 years in this 
study. The baseline IOP had an important influence on the reduction of IOP
achieved by DTFC.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S69359 
PMCID: PMC4164289
PMID: 25228795  [PubMed]


276. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep 1;8:1681-7. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S67366. eCollection 2014.

The efficacy and safety of add-on 0.1% brimonidine tartrate preserved with sodium
chlorite in on-treatment Japanese normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Tsumura T(1), Yoshikawa K(2), Kimura T(3), Suzumura H(4), Kawashima M(5), Nanno
M(6), Ishijima K(7), Takeda R(8).

Author information: 
(1)Fussa Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Yoshikawa Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Ueno
Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. (4)Suzumura Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. (5)Nakano General
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. (6)Kagurazaka Minamino Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Irumagawa Hospital, Saitama, Japan. (8)Department of Biological Chemistry,
Faculty of Agriculture, Kinki University, Nara, Japan.

Erratum in
    Clin Ophthalmol. 2015;9:453.
    Clin Ophthalmol. 2015;9:1365.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of newly formulated brimonidine
(0.1% brimonidine tartrate preserved with sodium chlorite: brimonidine) as add-on
therapy in on-treatment Japanese normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: Brimonidine was added to on-treatment NTG patients with intraocular
pressures (IOP) of between 13 mmHg and 16 mmHg after three consecutive IOP
measurements. The time courses of IOP, conjunctival hyperemia, superficial
punctate keratitis, and adverse events were examined at 4, 8, and 12 weeks after 
brimonidine instillation.
RESULTS: Though 75 of 83 patients (31 males and 52 females; mean age: 63.4±11.6
years) completed the study, six patients discontinued because of side effects and
two patients withdrew. The mean IOP after brimonidine addition at week 4
(12.6±1.8 mmHg, P<0.001), week 8 (12.4±1.7 mmHg, P<0.001), and week 12 (12.6±1.8 
mmHg, P<0.001) was significantly decreased compared with that before the addition
of brimonidine (13.9±1.2 mmHg). No significant changes in superficial punctate
keratitis or conjunctival hyperemia scores were observed throughout the study.
Dizziness, sleepiness, eye pain, and itching (mild to moderate) were noted in
five, four, three, and three patients, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of newly formulated brimonidine to on-treatment
Japanese NTG patients with IOP of 13-16 mmHg further reduced the levels of IOP
with minimal side effects and adverse events.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S67366 
PMCID: PMC4159391
PMID: 25214761  [PubMed]


277. Curr Eye Res. 2015 Jul;40(7):744-51. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2014.956371. Epub 2014
Sep 11.

Topographical correlation between macular layer thickness and clockwise
circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber layer sectors in patients with normal tension
glaucoma.

Omodaka K(1), Yokoyama Y, Shiga Y, Inoue M, Takahashi S, Tsuda S, Maruyama K,
Nakazawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology .

PURPOSE: To define topographical areas of the macula in optical coherence
tomography (OCT) scans by identifying regions in which macular retinal nerve
fiber layer (mRNFL) and ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (mGCL + IPL)
thickness was highly correlated with clockwise circumpapillary RNFL (cpRNFL)
thickness in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This study included 101 eyes of 101 patients with mild or moderate NTG. 
CpRNFL, mRNFL, and mGCL + IPL thickness were assessed with spectral-domain OCT
(3D OCT-2000). The region of interest (6 × 6 mm square) was centered on the fovea
and layer thickness was measured at each point on a 10 × 10 grid. Spearman's rank
correlation coefficient was determined between each temporal clockwise sector (7,
8, 9, 10, 11 o'clock) of the cpRNFL and each grid point in the mRNFL and
mGCL + IPL. Grid points were defined as correlated to specific clockwise sectors 
when the correlation coefficient was more than 0.4. To validate the areas
comprised by these points, they were superimposed on a swept-source OCT image
(12 × 9 mm, EnView software, Topcon) showing the anatomical trajectory of nerve
fiber defects.
RESULTS: Macular areas with a high correlation coefficient (r ≥ 0.4, p < 0.05) to
clockwise cpRNFL were identified. The number of grid points in the mRNFL and
mGCL + IPL correlated to specific clockwise cpRNFL sectors was, respectively, 40 
and 18 (7 o'clock), 41 and 22 (8), 33 and 44 (9), 39 and 39 (10), and 18 and 19
(11) (r = 0.40-0.79). Interestingly, the distribution of mRNFL sectors closely
matched the RNFL defects in the OCT image, although the mGCL + IPL sectors
differed and were closer to the fovea than the mRNFL sectors.
CONCLUSION: The identification of these topographical macular areas, and the
different layouts in the mRNFL and the mGCL + IPL, may increase the accuracy of
clinical research on NTG.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2014.956371 
PMID: 25211051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 Aug 25;8:1579-90. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S71162. eCollection
2014.

Effect of dorzolamide/timolol combination on the visual field in glaucoma.

Takeda S(1), Mimura T(2), Matsubara M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Women's Medical University Medical Center
East, Tokyo, Japan ; Department of Ophthalmology, Nippori Clinic, Medical Center 
East, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Tokyo Women's Medical University Medical Center East, Tokyo,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of treatment for 3 years with a
dorzolamide/timolol (1%/0.5%) fixed combination (DTFC) on visual field
progression in patients with open-angle glaucoma.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 14 consecutive patients were enrolled who had been
previously treated with monotherapy or any combination of a beta blocker,
carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, and/or prostaglandin analog for primary open-angle 
glaucoma (POAG; n=4) or normal-tension glaucoma (NTG; n=10).
METHODS: Patients were switched to DTFC from their prior glaucoma therapy. The
IOP was measured at intervals of 4-6 weeks, and the visual fields were examined
at least twice a year for 3 years. The annual change of mean deviation (MD slope)
was used to quantify visual field loss.
RESULTS: The mean MD value was -5.9±5.0 dB at baseline; it was -5.6±4.8 dB at 12 
months, -5.9±5.0 dB at 24 months, and -5.6±5.1 dB at 36 months after switching.
The mean MD slope was -0.2±0.8 dB/year before switching and 0.3±1.3 dB/year from 
baseline to 1 year, -0.3±1.1 dB/year from 1-2 years, and 0.3±0.9 dB/year from 2-3
years after switching. The mean MD slope from baseline to 36 months was
correlated with the IOP reduction rate at 36 months after switching. Visual field
progression was associated with the IOP reduction rate at 12 months after
switching.
CONCLUSION: Switching to DTFC from prior glaucoma therapy improved the MD slope
for at least 3 years. Reduction of the IOP after switching to DTFC was effective 
for delaying visual field progression. Although our study was not nonrandomized
and was small in scale, the findings suggest that DTFC might have a beneficial
effect on the visual fields in patients with open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S71162 
PMCID: PMC4154893
PMID: 25210425  [PubMed]


279. Br J Ophthalmol. 2015 Mar;99(3):329-35. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-305361.
Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Ganglion cell and inner plexiform layer thickness determined by spectral domain
optical coherence tomography in patients with brain lesions.

Moon H(1), Yoon JY(1), Lim HT(1), Sung KR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Asan
Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the thickness of the macular ganglion cell and inner
plexiform layer (GCIPL) using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD
OCT) in patients with brain lesions.
METHODS: This case-control study included 58 healthy subjects and 98 patients
with brain lesions confirmed by MRI. GCIPL and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber 
layer (pRNFL) thicknesses were determined using the Cirrus SD OCT. Area under the
receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) values of pRNFL and GCIPL thickness
were used to discriminate patients with brain lesions from normal controls.
RESULTS: Average GCIPL thickness showed a good correlation with visual field mean
deviation (r(2)=0.342, p<0.001). All GCIPL parameters, including average
thickness (71.9±8.6 vs 85.1±4.8 μm, p<0.001), differed between the patient and
control groups. The AUC of the average GCIPL thickness was significantly greater 
than that of average pRNFL thickness (0.941 vs 0.823, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that various kinds of brain lesions with
different locations show considerable reduction in GCIPL thickness. Thickness of 
the GCIPL performed better than conventional pRNFL thickness for the diagnosis of
retinal ganglion cell damage induced by brains lesions. The pattern of GCIPL loss
may be of particular usefulness in recognising a potential intracranial lesion in
cases suspected of having normal-tension glaucoma. GCIPL thickness determined by 
OCT can be an early and useful marker to estimate the status of the visual
pathway in various brain lesions.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-305361 
PMID: 25208547  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2015 Mar-Apr;25(2):137-9. doi: 10.5301/ejo.5000516. Epub 2014
Sep 1.

Comparison of primary open-angle glaucoma and exfoliation glaucoma at diagnosis.

Tarkkanen AH(1), Kivelä TT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki - 
Finland.

PURPOSE: To compare ocular findings in eyes with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG) and exfoliation glaucoma (EG) at the time of diagnosis when identical
diagnostic criteria for glaucoma were applied.
METHODS: We conducted a study on records of 519 consecutive, unselected patients 
with chronic glaucoma filing for cost-free medication from the Finnish National
Social Insurance Institute (FSII). Fourteen cases were excluded for having other 
types of glaucoma. The documents were provided by eye hospitals or by licensed
ophthalmologists. The criteria for glaucoma were set by the Parliament of Finland
and applied by FSII. A total of 329 patients had POAG and 176 had EG. The main
outcome measures were best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), intraocular pressure
(IOP), cup-to-disc ratio of the optic nerve head (C/D), and glaucomatous changes 
of the visual fields (VF).
RESULTS: As regards sex, the 2 groups were comparable: 66% female with POAG and
68% with EG. The EG patients were older (mean ± SD 74 ± 8.6 years) vs POAG (68 ± 
11.4 years). The EG eyes had slightly lower BCVA. The POAG eyes had mean
intraocular pressure (IOP) 24 ± 5.4 mm Hg. A total of 12% in this group had
highest IOP of less than 18 mm Hg (low-tension glaucoma [LTG]) but there were
none of EG. All EG eyes had a mean IOP 28.3 ± 9.3 mm Hg. Among EG patients, 26%
had unilateral disease, with a mean IOP of 33.7 ± 8.7 mm Hg, while the opposite
eyes had a mean of 19 ± 3 mm Hg. There was not much difference in the C/D ratios 
of POAG and EG eyes and the VF profiles were similar.
CONCLUSIONS: At diagnosis, patients with EG were older than those with POAG and
had higher mean IOP values. Among patients with POAG, there were 12% with LTG,
but none among EG. A total of 26% among EG had unilateral disease with marked IOP
asymmetry. The C/D and VF profiles were similar because the patients had been
seen early in the disease course. Early recognition and lifelong most effective
therapy of EG are strongly advocated.

DOI: 10.5301/ejo.5000516 
PMID: 25198170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 Apr;43(3):291-3. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12429. Epub 2014 Oct 
2.

Regional susceptibility of the optic disc to retinal nerve fiber layer thinning
in different optic disc types of eyes with normal tension glaucoma.

Takada N(1), Omodaka K, Nakazawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12429 
PMID: 25196307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Ophthalmic Genet. 2014 Dec;35(4):255-7. doi: 10.3109/13816810.2014.953179. Epub
2014 Sep 2.

Interleukin-6(-174) locus polymorphism and serum IL-6 levels in normal tension
glaucoma.

Lin KH(1), Feng SC, Shen YC, Wei LC, Liang CY, Chang CJ, Yang YY, Chiu CH, Wang
CY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, National
Yang-Ming University , Taichung , Taiwan , China .

DOI: 10.3109/13816810.2014.953179 
PMID: 25181018  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;252(12):1963-70. doi:
10.1007/s00417-014-2767-3. Epub 2014 Aug 17.

Results of long-term monitoring of normal-tension glaucoma patients receiving
medical therapy: results of an 18-year follow-up.

Komori S(1), Ishida K, Yamamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1 
Yanagido, Gifu-shi, Japan, 501-1194.

PURPOSE: To conduct a ≥15-year follow-up assessment of the visual field (VF) in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients receiving medical therapy and to identify 
risk factors for VF progression.
DESIGN: A retrospective clinical study.
METHODS: Medical records of 78 eyes of 78 NTG patients monitored for ≥15 years
were reviewed. VF progression was defined by a mean deviation (MD) deteriorated
twice by 3.00 dB from baseline (MD criterion) and an annual decrease in the MD
slope exceeding -0.5 dB/year (MD slope criterion). Logistic regression analysis
was employed to identify risk factors for VF progression.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up period was 18.3 years. The average intraocular
pressure (IOP) before treatment was 15.1 ±1.9 mmHg and the average treated IOP
was 13.5 ±1.5 mmHg with 2.0 medications. Forty-two eyes (53.8%) showed VF
progression using the MD criterion and 15 eyes (19.2%) showed a negative MD slope
less than -0.5 dB/year. Disc hemorrhage (DH) was observed in 30 eyes (38.5%). The
mean VF progression rate was -0.38 ±0.30 dB/year in the DH group and -0.24 ±0.28 
dB/year in the non-DH group (P = 0.012). Multiple logistic regression analysis
identified DH [relative risk (RR) 4.28; P = 0.028] as a risk factor for VF
progression using the MD criterion. DH (RR 8.77; P = 0.007) and IOP fluctuation
during follow-up (RR 5.03; P = 0.048) were detected as risk factors using the MD 
slope criterion.
CONCLUSIONS: DH and IOP fluctuation were associated with VF progression in NTG
during long-term therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-014-2767-3 
PMID: 25128961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Eye (Lond). 2014 Nov;28(11):1304-9. doi: 10.1038/eye.2014.195. Epub 2014 Aug 15.

Prevalence of glaucoma in patients with moderate to severe obstructive sleep
apnea: ocular morbidity and outcomes in a 3 year follow-up study.

Hashim SP(1), Al Mansouri FA(1), Farouk M(1), Al Hashemi AA(2), Singh R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Section, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar. (2)Pulmonary
Division, Department of Medicine, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(3)Biostatitics Division, Department of Cardiology, Hamad Medical Corporation,
Doha, Qatar.

Erratum in
    Eye (Lond). 2014 Nov;28(11):1393.

PURPOSE: This study was conducted to investigate the prevalence and progression
of glaucoma in patients receiving treatment for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). We
also investigated whether there is an association between severity of OSA and the
incidence of glaucoma.
METHODS: A total of 39 patients aged >30 years who had been diagnosed with
moderate and severe OSA in the sleep clinic at Hamad General Hospital were
assessed for the presence of glaucoma. The severity of OSA was graded as mild,
moderate, or severe based on American Association of Sleep Medicine (AASM)
criteria using the apnea hypopnea index. Before enrollment, all patients
underwent a complete ophthalmic examination including serial visual field tests, 
optical coherence tomography (OCT) with fundus photographs, and pachymetry.
Enrolled patients were followed up in the ophthalmology outpatient clinic and
sleep clinic for a period of 3 years.
RESULTS: Examinations found that 8 (20.5%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 9.9-37%) 
of the 39 patients with OSA had glaucoma. Six (75%; 95% CI 36-96%) of these
patients had normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and two (25%; 95% CI 4.5-64.4%)
patients had high-tension glaucoma. Among the 27 patients with severe OSA, 7
(25.9%; 95% CI 8-34%) had glaucoma, and among 12 patients with moderate OSA, 1
(8.3%; 95% CI 0.1-15%) had glaucoma. During the course of follow-up, two patients
who previously did not have glaucoma were reclassified as NTG and two patients
with glaucoma deteriorated. A higher prevalence of glaucoma in the severe OSA
group compared with the moderate OSA group was found, albeit a statistically
significant difference could not be attained (P=0.4).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed that severe OSA is an important risk factor for
developing glaucoma. Adequate treatment of OSA, along with optimal ophthalmic
care, resulted in better control of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2014.195 
PMCID: PMC4274290
PMID: 25125070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2014 Aug;28(4):330-6. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2014.28.4.330. Epub
2014 Jul 22.

Patterns of subsequent progression of localized retinal nerve fiber layer defects
on red-free fundus photographs in normal-tension glaucoma.

Kim TJ(1), Kim YK(1), Kim DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate patterns of subsequent progression of localized retinal
nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defects and to quantify the extent of progression in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: Thirty-three eyes of 33 consecutive NTG patients who had shown
continuous progression of localized RNFL defect on serial red-free fundus
photographs were selected for the study. Patterns of subsequent progression of
localized RNFL defects were categorized, and extents of progression were
quantified. Serial evaluations of disc stereophotographs and visual fields were
also performed to detect progression.
RESULTS: The most common pattern was continuous widening of the defect towards
the macula (n = 11, 33.3%) followed by sharpening of the defect border after
widening of the defect towards the macula (n = 5, 15.2%), continuous widening of 
the defect away from the macula (n = 2, 6.1%), and deepening of the defect after 
appearance of a new defect (n = 2, 6.1%). Four eyes (12.1%) simultaneously showed
two patterns of subsequent progression. In 13 eyes that showed continuous
widening of the defect, subsequent angular widening towards the macula and away
from the macula were 9.2 ± 6.0° (range, 1.1° to 24.4°; n = 11) and 5.2 ± 4.9°
(range, 0.3° to 11.3°; n = 2), respectively. Thirty-two eyes showed no
progression of optic disc cupping. Out of the 21 eyes in which Humphrey central
30-2 threshold visual field tests were performed after progression of RNFL
defects, 15 eyes showed no deterioration in the visual field.
CONCLUSIONS: There were nine patterns of subsequent progression of localized RNFL
defects. Among them, continuous RNFL loss proceeding temporally was the most
common one. Initial progression of the defect proceeded temporally, especially in
the defect located at the inferior fundus, might be at a risk of further RNFL
loss temporally.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2014.28.4.330 
PMCID: PMC4120354
PMID: 25120342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2014 Aug;28(4):323-9. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2014.28.4.323. Epub
2014 Jul 22.

Depth and area of retinal nerve fiber layer damage and visual field correlation
analysis.

Suh W(1), Lee JM(2), Kee C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Dongtan Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, 
Hallym University College of Medicine, Hwaseong, Korea. (2)Kong Eye Clinic,
Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center,
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the relationship between the structural damage as assessed
by time-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) and functional changes in
glaucoma.
METHODS: In total, 190 patients with normal tension glaucoma or primary open
angle glaucoma were included in this study. The thickness of retinal nerve fiber 
layer (RNFL) around the optic disc and the area of RNFL defect were determined
using OCT scans. The relationships between the RNFL thickness or area of the
defect and visual field (VF) indices were assessed using the Lowess function,
regression analysis and partial Spearman correlation. The differences between
these associations depending on the stage of VF damage were further analyzed.
Age, optic disc size, refraction, central corneal thickness and the presence of
systemic disease were corrected for in order to exclude confounding factors.
RESULTS: A logarithmic scale of RNFL thickness showed a negative linear
relationship with VF indices. The area of the RNFL defect showed a weak
correlation with the pattern of standard deviation, whereas the remnant RNFL
thickness was moderately correlated with the pattern of standard deviation
(partial Spearman correlation coefficient, 0.39, -0.47, respectively; p <
0.0001). Many outliers were detected in the Lowess-plotted graphs. Multiplication
of the area and the inverted RNFL thickness showed a moderately correlated
logarithmic relationship with the VF indices (partial Spearman correlation
coefficient, 0.46; 95% confidence interval, 0.34 to 0.57; p < 0.0001). In the
severe stage of VF damage, correlation between the area of the RNFL defect and
mean deviation was significantly greater than in other stages (partial Spearman
correlation coefficient, -0.66; p = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: The thickness of the RNFL had a negative logarithmic correlation
with the VF indices and was more relevant to the VF indices than the area of the 
RNFL defect, as measured by OCT.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2014.28.4.323 
PMCID: PMC4120353
PMID: 25120341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Nov;252(11):1795-801. doi:
10.1007/s00417-014-2756-6. Epub 2014 Aug 12.

Retinal vessel diameter in normal-tension glaucoma patients with asymmetric
progression.

Lee TE(1), Kim YY, Yoo C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul,
South Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the longitudinal changes in the central retinal vessel
diameter in asymmetric progressive normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: This study included 27 patients with bilateral NTG without any systemic 
vascular disease who showed glaucomatous progression in one eye at the mean
follow-up of 24.3 months (range, 18-29 months). Progression was determined by the
development of new retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defects or widening of
pre-existing defects on red-free RNFL photographs. The central retinal arteriolar
equivalent (CRAE) and the central retinal venular equivalent (CRVE) were measured
at baseline and at the mean follow-up of 24.3 months. We classified the eyes of
each patient as either progressed or stable eyes, and compared the differences
and changes in the CRAE and CRVE.
RESULTS: No significant inter-eye difference was observed at baseline in the mean
CRAE (167.5 ± 22.2 μm vs. 168.2 ± 15.5 μm, p = 0.809) and in the mean CRVE
(276.3 ± 18.2 μm vs. 281.6 ± 21.9 μm, p = 0.267) between the progressed and
stable eyes. There were significant changes in CRAE in the progressed eyes
between baseline and 2 years after baseline (from 167.5 ± 22.2 μm to 146.9 ± 18.0
μm, p < 0.0001), but there were no significant changes in the stable eyes (from
168.2 ± 15.5 μm to 167.5 ± 14.8 μm, p = 0.084).
CONCLUSIONS: In our series of NTG patients with asymmetric progression, central
retinal artery diameter decreased over time in the progressed eyes, whereas no
significant decrease in the central retinal artery diameter was seen in the
stable eyes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-014-2756-6 
PMID: 25109787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


288. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 4;9(8):e104000. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104000. eCollection
2014.

Mutation of the melastatin-related cation channel, TRPM3, underlies inherited
cataract and glaucoma.

Bennett TM(1), Mackay DS(1), Siegfried CJ(1), Shiels A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States of America.

Inherited forms of cataract are a clinically important and genetically
heterogeneous cause of visual impairment that usually present at an early age
with or without systemic and/or other ocular abnormalities. Here we have
identified a new locus for inherited cataract and high-tension glaucoma with
variable anterior segment defects, and characterized an underlying mutation in
the gene coding for transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily M,
member-3 (TRPM3, melastatin-2). Genome-wide linkage analysis mapped the ocular
disease locus to the pericentric region of human chromosome 9. Whole exome and
custom-target next-generation sequencing detected a heterozygous A-to-G
transition in exon-3 of TRPM3 that co-segregated with disease. As a consequence
of alternative splicing this missense mutation was predicted to result in the
substitution of isoleucine-to-methionine at codon 65 (c.195A>G; p.I65 M) of TRPM3
transcript variant 9, and at codon 8 (c.24A>G; p.I8 M) of a novel TRPM3
transcript variant expressed in human lens. In both transcript variants the
I-to-M substitution was predicted in silico to exert damaging effects on protein 
function. Furthermore, transient expression studies of a recombinant TRPM3-GFP
reporter product predicted that the I-to-M substitution introduced an alternative
translation start-site located 89 codons upstream from the native initiator
methionine found in eight other TRPM3 transcript variants (1-8). Collectively,
these studies have provided the first evidence that TRPM3 is associated with
inherited ocular disease in humans, and further provide support for the important
role of this cation channel in normal eye development.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104000 
PMCID: PMC4121231
PMID: 25090642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


289. EPMA J. 2014 Jul 8;5(1):11. doi: 10.1186/1878-5085-5-11. eCollection 2014.

Flammer syndrome.

Konieczka K(1), Ritch R(2), Traverso CE(3), Kim DM(4), Kook MS(5), Gallino A(6), 
Golubnitschaja O(7), Erb C(8), Reitsamer HA(9), Kida T(10), Kurysheva N(11), Yao 
K(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Basel, Mittlere Strasse 91, 4031
Basel, Switzerland. (2)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear
Infirmary of Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10003, USA. (3)Clinica Oculistica,
Di.N.O.G.M.I., University of Genova, 16132 Genova, Italy. (4)Department of
Ophthalmology, Seoul National University, Seoul 110-744, Korea. (5)Department of 
Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, Seoul 680-749, Korea. (6)Department of
Internal Medicine and Cardiology, Ospedale San Giovanni, 6500 Bellinzona,
Switzerland. (7)Department of Radiology, Friedrich-Wilhelms-University of Bonn,
53113 Bonn, Germany. (8)Eye Clinic Wittenbergplatz, 10789 Berlin, Germany.
(9)Department of Ophthalmology, SALK/Paracelsus Medical University, 5020
Salzburg, Austria. (10)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College,
Takatsuki 569-8686, Japan. (11)Department of Diagnostic and Glaucoma, University 
of Medical and Biological Agency of the Russian Federation, 105077 Moscow,
Russian Federation. (12)Eye Center of Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang
University College of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009, China.

The new term Flammer syndrome describes a phenotype characterized by the presence
of primary vascular dysregulation together with a cluster of symptoms and signs
that may occur in healthy people as well as people with disease. Typically, the
blood vessels of the subjects with Flammer syndrome react differently to a number
of stimuli, such as cold and physical or emotional stress. Nearly all organs,
particularly the eye, can be involved. Although the syndrome has some advantages,
such as protection against the development of atherosclerosis, Flammer syndrome
also contributes to certain diseases, such as normal tension glaucoma. The
syndrome occurs more often in women than in men, in slender people than in obese 
subjects, in people with indoor rather than outdoor jobs, and in academics than
in blue collar workers. Affected subjects tend to have cold extremities, low
blood pressure, prolonged sleep onset time, shifted circadian rhythm, reduced
feeling of thirst, altered drug sensitivity, and increased general sensitivity,
including pain sensitivity. The plasma level of endothelin-1 is slightly
increased, and the gene expression in lymphocytes is changed. In the eye, the
retinal vessels are stiffer and their spatial variability larger; the
autoregulation of ocular blood flow is decreased. Glaucoma patients with Flammer 
syndrome have an increased frequency of the following: optic disc hemorrhages,
activated retinal astrocytes, elevated retinal venous pressure, optic nerve
compartmentalization, fluctuating diffuse visual field defects, and elevated
oxidative stress. Further research should lead to a more concise definition, a
precise diagnosis, and tools for recognizing people at risk. This may ultimately 
lead to more efficient and more personalized treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/1878-5085-5-11 
PMCID: PMC4113774
PMID: 25075228  [PubMed]


290. J Glaucoma. 2015 Jan;24(1):77-80. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000089.

Prospective study on the efficacy of treating normal tension glaucoma with a
single session of selective laser trabeculoplasty.

Lee JW(1), Gangwani RA, Chan JC, Lai JS.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, University of Hong Kong †Department of
Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre ‡Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Mary
Hospital, Hong Kong, SAR, People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of selective
laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) in the treatment of normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This prospective cohort study recruited consecutive cases of NTG on
antiglaucoma medication. Cases were excluded for previous glaucoma surgery or
laser. All patients underwent a 1-month washout of medication followed by a mean 
baseline intraocular pressure (IOP) measured at 9 AM, 1 PM, and 5 PM. A 30%
reduction from baseline was set as the target IOP. A single session of SLT was
performed to 360 degrees of the trabecular meshwork. IOP phasing was repeated at 
1 month after SLT and medication was resumed to achieve the target IOP. Patients 
were followed up to 6 months after SLT.
RESULTS: In 83 eyes of 46 subjects, the mean prestudy IOP was 14.2 ± 3.1 mm Hg
when on 1.5 ± 0.9 antiglaucoma medication. The mean baseline IOP without
medication was 16.1 ± 2.2 mm Hg. The mean SLT shots applied was 187.8 ± 27.5
using a mean energy of 1.0 ± 0.07 mJ. At 1-month post-SLT, the IOP was 12.7 ± 2.0
mm Hg (21.6% IOP reduction) from baseline without medication (P<0.05). The
6-month IOP was 11.4 ± 1.6 mm Hg when on 1.1± 1.0 medications, representing a
19.7% reduction from prestudy IOP, a 29.6% reduction from baseline IOP, and a
26.7% reduction in antiglaucoma medication (all P< 0.05). A higher baseline IOP
was correlated with greater IOP reduction with SLT (r=0.3, P=0.009).
CONCLUSIONS: A single session of SLT for NTG achieved an additional 20% reduction
in IOP with 27% less medication at 6 months compared with prestudy levels while
maintaining a 30% reduction from baseline IOP.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000089 
PMID: 25068466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


291. J Glaucoma. 2015 Feb;24(2):149-53. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000091.

Prevalence of angle closure in siblings of patients with primary angle-closure
glaucoma.

Yazdani S(1), Akbarian S, Pakravan M, Afrouzifar M.

Author information: 
(1)*Ophthalmic Research Center †Department of Optometry, Rehabilitation Faculty, 
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

PURPOSE: To determine the frequency of angle closure in siblings of patients with
primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG).
METHODS: In this cross-sectional observational study, siblings of consecutive
patients with PACG underwent a comprehensive ophthalmologic examination,
including slit-lamp biomicroscopy, measurement of intraocular pressure,
stereoscopic optic nerve head examination, and dynamic gonioscopy. Ultrasonic
pachymetry was obtained in all subjects; peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer 
thickness measurement by optical coherence tomography and standard achromatic
perimetry were performed in subjects with angle closure, categorized as primary
angle-closure suspect (PACS), primary angle closure (PAC), and PACG, or any
suspicion of glaucoma in the presence of open angles.
RESULTS: Overall, 95 siblings from 47 families with at least 1 subject affected
with PACG participated in the evaluations; 55 (57.9%) individuals were
categorized within the spectrum of angle closure, including 34 (35.8%) subjects
with PACS, 7 (7.4%)individuals with PAC, and 14 (14.7%) cases of PACG. Nine
(9.5%) individuals with open angles demonstrated other abnormal features, these
included 3 (3.2%) subjects with suspicious discs, 5 (5.3%) cases of primary
open-angle glaucoma, and 1 patient (1.1%) with normal-tension glaucoma. The
remaining 31 individuals (32.6%) had no evidence of glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate familial segregation of angle closure.
Siblings of PACG patients are at high risk for the condition, such that two
thirds of them demonstrate clinical findings related to glaucoma. These
observations suggest a hereditary basis for angle closure; therefore, siblings of
patients affected with angle closure should undergo targeted screening for
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000091 
PMID: 25055212  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2014 Nov-Dec;24(6):869-72. doi: 10.5301/ejo.5000512. Epub 2014 
Jul 21.

Vascular comorbidity in patients with low-tension glaucoma.

Tarkkanen AH(1), Kivelä TT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki - 
Finland.

PURPOSE: To report vascular comorbidities, arterial hypertension (HT), ischemic
heart disease (IHD), and diabetes mellitus (DM) in patients with low-tension
glaucoma (LTG) with maximum intraocular pressure (IOP) of 18 mm Hg or less.
Uniform criteria for glaucoma and the comorbidities were applied.
METHODS: We reviewed records of 519 consecutive patients to whom the Finnish
National Social Insurance Institution (FSII) had granted cost-free medication for
the treatment of glaucoma. The FSII operates national health insurance, which is 
compulsory for all Finnish citizens. There were 344 patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and 155 with exfoliative glaucoma (EG). Twenty cases
were discarded for having other types of glaucoma. In the POAG group, there were 
38 patients, with a median IOP of 16 mm Hg (range 12-18). We were masked to the
systemic comorbidities when the registry provided us data on those to whom FSII
had also granted cost-free medication for HT, IHD, or DM according to the uniform
national criteria.
RESULTS: None of the patients with LTG had exfoliation syndrome. There was a
female predominance, 81%, compared to 68% in high-tension POAG. Hypertension had 
been diagnosed in 34%, which is the same as in high-tension POAG. A total of 24% 
had IHD, which is the same as in the Finnish population registry. Diabetes
mellitus was present in only 5%. In all groups, patients with LTG with systemic
comorbidity were markedly older than those without.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with LTG with median IOP 16 mm Hg (range 12-18),
glaucomatous optic disc cupping and glaucomatous visual field defects probably
developed independently of the systemic vascular comorbidity. However, the
diagnostic criteria for HT, IHD, and DM used in the current study were based on
the severity of stages set in the FSII system.

DOI: 10.5301/ejo.5000512 
PMID: 25044141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Cell Death Dis. 2014 Jul 17;5:e1341. doi: 10.1038/cddis.2014.306.

Brimonidine prevents neurodegeneration in a mouse model of normal tension
glaucoma.

Semba K(1), Namekata K(2), Kimura A(2), Harada C(2), Mitamura Y(3), Harada T(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Visual Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
Tokyo, Japan [2] Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Health Biosciences,
The University of Tokushima Graduate School, Tokushima, Japan. (2)Visual Research
Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Health Biosciences, The University
of Tokushima Graduate School, Tokushima, Japan.

Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness that is
characterized by progressive degeneration of optic nerves and retinal ganglion
cells (RGCs). In the mammalian retina, excitatory amino-acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) is
expressed in neural cells, including RGCs, and the loss of EAAC1 leads to RGC
degeneration without elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). Brimonidine (BMD) is an
α2-adrenergic receptor agonist and it is commonly used in a form of eye drops to 
lower IOP in glaucoma patients. Recent studies have suggested that BMD has direct
protective effects on RGCs involving IOP-independent mechanisms, but it is still 
controversial. In the present study, we examined the effects of BMD in
EAAC1-deficient (KO) mice, an animal model of normal tension glaucoma. BMD caused
a small decrease in IOP, but sequential in vivo retinal imaging and
electrophysiological analysis revealed that treatment with BMD was highly
effective for RGC protection in EAAC1 KO mice. BMD suppressed the phosphorylation
of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2B (NR2B) subunit in RGCs in EAAC1 KO mice. 
Furthermore, in cultured Müller glia, BMD stimulated the production of several
neurotrophic factors that enhance RGC survival. These results suggest that, in
addition to lowering IOP, BMD prevents glaucomatous retinal degeneration by
stimulating multiple pathways including glia-neuron interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2014.306 
PMCID: PMC4123097
PMID: 25032864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Cell Death Dis. 2014 Jul 17;5:e1333. doi: 10.1038/cddis.2014.296.

Renin-angiotensin system regulates neurodegeneration in a mouse model of normal
tension glaucoma.

Semba K(1), Namekata K(2), Guo X(2), Harada C(2), Harada T(1), Mitamura Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Visual Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
Tokyo, Japan [2] Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Health Biosciences,
The University of Tokushima Graduate School, Tokushima, Japan. (2)Visual Research
Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Health Biosciences, The University
of Tokushima Graduate School, Tokushima, Japan.

Glaucoma, one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness, is characterized
by progressive degeneration of optic nerves and retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). In
the mammalian retina, excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) is expressed in
neural cells, including RGCs, and the loss of EAAC1 leads to RGC degeneration
without elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). In the present study, we found that 
expressions of angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1-R) and Toll-like receptor 4
(TLR4) are increased in RGCs and retinal Müller glia in EAAC1-deficient (KO)
mice. The orally active AT1-R antagonist candesartan suppressed TLR4 and
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)
expressions in the EAAC1 KO mouse retina. Sequential in vivo retinal imaging and 
electrophysiological analysis revealed that treatment with candesartan was
effective for RGC protection in EAAC1 KO mice without affecting IOP. In cultured 
Müller glia, candesartan suppressed LPS-induced iNOS production by inhibiting the
TLR4-apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 pathway. These results suggest that the
renin-angiotensin system is involved in the innate immune responses in both
neural and glial cells, which accelerate neural cell death. Our findings raise
intriguing possibilities for the management of glaucoma by utilizing widely
prescribed drugs for the treatment of high blood pressure, in combination with
conventional treatments to lower IOP.

DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2014.296 
PMCID: PMC4123089
PMID: 25032856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Med Sci Monit. 2014 Jul 13;20:1201-9. doi: 10.12659/MSM.890548.

Selected autoantibodies and normal-tension glaucoma.

Skonieczna K(1), Grabska-Liberek I(1), Terelak-Borys B(1), Jamrozy-Witkowska
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical Centre of Postgraduate Education, Warsaw,
Poland.

BACKGROUND: Although intraocular pressure is an important risk factor in
glaucoma, there is growing body evidence indicating an immunological component in
the pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). The aim of this study was to
determine if NTG coexists with elevated levels of autoantibodies detected in
rheumatic diseases.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We enrolled 105 patients into the study: 35 with NTG, 34
with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and 36 controls. All patients underwent 
ophthalmic examination and blood tests. Blood was examined for the level of:
antibodies against antinuclear antibodies (ANA), antibodies to extractable
nuclear antigens (ENA), immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, IgM), rheumatoid factor,
anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPA), and antiphospholipid antibodies
(anticardiolipin antibodies, beta2-glycoprotein I antibodies, antiprothrombin
antibodies).
RESULTS: The level of ANA was increased among 6 patients in the NTG group
(17.1%), 8 in the POAG group (23.5%), and 6 in the control group (16.5%). The
difference was not statistically significant (p=0.97). None of the patients in
the NTG, POAG, or control group had positive antibodies to ENA. The level of
immunoglobulins IgG, IgM, and IgA in the 3 groups was similar and within normal
values. The median level of rheumatoid factor and ACPA was the highest in the NTG
group, but it was within normal laboratory values. There was a statistically
significant difference between antiprothrombin antibodies IgG between the NTG and
POAG group (p=0.01), but not between the NTG and control group (p=0.24).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study do not confirm the hypothesis that NTG
coexists with elevated blood levels of antibodies, which are a characteristic
feature of rheumatic diseases.

DOI: 10.12659/MSM.890548 
PMCID: PMC4106929
PMID: 25016491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep;58(5):429-34. doi: 10.1007/s10384-014-0332-6. Epub
2014 Jul 8.

Intraocular pressure alterations after visual field testing.

Sawada A(1), Yamada H, Yamamoto Y, Yamamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1 
Yanagido, Gifu, 501-1194, Japan, sawadaa-gif@umin.ac.jp.

PURPOSE: To determine whether intraocular pressure (IOP) is significantly altered
after visual field (VF) testing in eyes with open-angle glaucoma (OAG).
METHODS: A prospective clinical trial of 106 OAG patients who had not had any
previous surgical interventions. IOP was measured with a non-contact tonometer
and refractive error with an auto refractometer. The measurements were made
before and immediately after the VF test of the first eye (OD) and the second eye
(OS).
RESULTS: The baseline refractive error (spherical equivalent) was -4.13 ± 3.61
diopters (D) OD and -4.05 ± 3.63 D OS. The average VF testing time was
7.5 ± 1.4 min OU. The average baseline IOP was 12.8 ± 2.9 mmHg OD and
12.6 ± 2.8 mmHg OS. After the VF testing OD, the average IOP decreased
significantly to 12.3 ± 2.6 mmHg (P = 0.001), but the IOP (12.5 ± 2.6 mmHg) OS
was not significantly unchanged (P = 0.190). Following the VF testing OS, the IOP
OD was 12.2 ± 2.6 mmHg (P = 0.252) and OS was 12.4 ± 2.7 mmHg (P = 0.487). An
elevation of ≥2 mmHg in the IOP after the VF testing was found in 2.8 % of the
right eyes and 0.9 % of the left eyes. The refractive error was not significantly
changed after the VF testing. Multivariate analysis showed statistically
significant correlations between the IOP decrease after the VF testing and the
baseline IOP (P = 0.000) and the central corneal thickness (P = 0.034).
CONCLUSIONS: In the majority of eyes with OAG, VF testing did not lead to an
increase in the IOP. The amount of IOP reduction after VF testing is
significantly correlated with the baseline IOP and central corneal thickness.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-014-0332-6 
PMID: 25001008  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Case Rep Ophthalmol. 2014 May 21;5(2):144-9. doi: 10.1159/000363131. eCollection 
2014.

Choroidal excavation in eye with normal tension glaucoma.

Asao K(1), Morimoto T(2), Nakada A(3), Kawasaki Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Takarazuka Daiichi Hospital, Hyogo, Osaka, Japan 
; Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine,
Osaka, Japan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka University Graduate School of
Medicine, Osaka, Japan. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Takarazuka Daiichi
Hospital, Hyogo, Osaka, Japan.

PURPOSE: To report the case of an eye with normal tension glaucoma and a
choroidal excavation.
METHODS: This is an observational case report.
RESULTS: A 59-year-old woman with normal tension glaucoma had a choroidal
excavation in the left eye. Her best-corrected visual acuity and intraocular
pressure were within normal limits and had been stable for 5 years. Fundus
examination showed a small white lesion inferior to the macula and a nerve fiber 
layer defect at the inferior edge of the optic disc. Humphrey Field Analyzer
(HFA) showed visual field defects corresponding to the nerve fiber layer defect
with C30-2, and a central scotoma superior to the macula with C10-2. Optical
coherence tomography (OCT) showed a 150-µm deep choroidal excavation. Disruptions
of the IS/OS line were detected only in the area inferior to the choroidal
excavation. During the 5 months of follow-up, her best-corrected visual acuity
remained at 1.0 and the IOP ranged from 12 to 14 mm Hg in the left eye. The
fundus and OCT images did not deteriorate and the choroidal excavation did not
enlarge.
CONCLUSIONS: The disruption of the inner/outer segment (IS/OS) line was detected 
only at the area surrounding the choroidal excavation. OCT examinations are
useful in assessing the area of the residual IS/OS line, and HFA can be used to
estimate the residual central visual field.

DOI: 10.1159/000363131 
PMCID: PMC4067725
PMID: 24987363  [PubMed]


298. Acta Ophthalmol. 2015 Mar;93(2):e94-9. doi: 10.1111/aos.12492. Epub 2014 Jun 29.

Difference in the posterior pole profiles associated with the initial location of
visual field defect in early-stage normal tension glaucoma.

Choi JA(1), Park HY, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, St. Vincent's Hospital, College of Medicine,
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To identify the differences in posterior pole profiles between early
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with an initial central visual field (VF) 
loss and those with a peripheral VF loss.
METHODS: Normal tension glaucoma patients with parafoveal scotoma (PFS; within a 
central 10° of fixation; superior, n=47; inferior, n=24) and peripheral nasal
step (PNS; VF defect in the nasal meridian outside 10° of fixation; superior,
n=27; inferior, n=32) in either hemifield were enrolled, if their mean deviation 
was greater than -10 decibels (dB). Disc tilt (tilt ratio), disc torsion, area of
peripapillary atrophy and disc-foveal angle (angle between a horizontal line
through the disc centre and the line connecting the fovea and the disc centre)
were analysed from red-free fundus photographs.
RESULTS: The mean disc-foveal angles (shortest diameter) in PNS and PFS groups
were 6.2±4.5 and 7.7±4.0°, respectively. In multivariate analysis, eyes with PFS 
were associated with a greater disc-foveal angle, compared with PNS (p=0.042). In
subgroup analysis, superior PFS group showed greater disc-foveal angle compared
with inferior PFS group (p=0.018). In the PNS group, the direction of disc
torsion was associated with superior and inferior hemifield defects (p=0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: The posterior pole profiles were different in NTG patients according
to their location of damage. Disc-foveal angle was the major determinant of the
VF location in patients with VF loss at the central region and disc torsion in
patients with loss at the peripheral region.

© 2014 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12492 
PMID: 24975750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 Jun 19;8:1179-83. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S60538. eCollection
2014.

Effects of treatment with bimatoprost 0.03% for 3 years in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Inoue K(1), Shiokawa M(1), Fujimoto T(1), Tomita G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Inouye Eye Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. (2)2nd Department of Ophthalmology, Toho
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effects of bimatoprost 0.03% single treatment for 3
years on intraocular pressure (IOP) and visual field performance.
METHODS: We monitored the IOP of 62 patients with normal-tension glaucoma every
1-3 months. The Humphrey visual field test was performed every 6 months after
treatment and the results obtained were compared to those before treatment. In
addition, visual field performance was evaluated using trend and event analysis.
RESULTS: The mean ± standard deviation (SD) of IOP after treatment with
bimatoprost for 3 years (13.6±3.1 mmHg) was significantly lower than that before 
treatment (16.8±2.4 mmHg, P<0.0001). No change was observed in the mean deviation
and pattern SD values of the Humphrey visual field before and 3 years after
treatment. Worsening of visual field performance was observed in one patient
(3.0%) by using trend analysis and in four patients (12.1%) by using event
analysis. Treatment was discontinued in 17 patients (27.4%) because of adverse
reactions.
CONCLUSION: Bimatoprost 0.03% single treatment was effective in reducing the IOP 
at least during the 3 years of treatment, but visual field performance worsened
by 3.0%-12.1% in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S60538 
PMCID: PMC4069150
PMID: 24970996  [PubMed]


300. Mol Vis. 2014 Jun 12;20:804-11. eCollection 2014.

Endothelial nitric oxide synthase polymorphisms and susceptibility to
high-tension primary open-angle glaucoma in an Egyptian cohort.

Emam WA(1), Zidan HE(1), Abdulhalim BE(2), Dabour SA(2), Ghali MA(2), Kamal
AT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Zagazig University,
Zagazig, Egypt. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Zagazig
University, Zagazig, Egypt.

PURPOSE: To analyze the association of polymorphisms of the endothelial nitric
oxide synthase (NOS3) gene and nitric oxide (NO) levels with high-tension primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in an Egyptian population.
METHODS: This case-control study included 160 patients who had high-tension POAG 
(76 men and 84 women; age range 41-75 years) and 110 controls (56 men and 54
women; age range 55-78 years). Genotyping of T-786C (rs2070744), Glu298Asp
(rs1799983), and the 27-bp insertional variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) in
intron 4 of the NOS3 gene was performed with an amplification refractory mutation
system PCR assay. The NO level was determined by measuring the total
nitrate/nitrite (NOX) plasma level.
RESULTS: The CC genotype of the T-786C polymorphism was significantly associated 
with POAG (odds ratio [OR] = 2.54, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.26-5.13, p = 
0.007). The C allele was significantly associated with POAG (OR = 1.86, 95% CI = 
1.29-2.69, p<0.001). After stratification by sex, the CC genotype and the C
allele were significantly associated with POAG in women only (OR = 3.06, 95% CI =
1.07-8.74, p = 0.03 for the CC genotype, and OR = 2.09, 95% CI = 1.24-3.53, p =
0.005 for the C allele). The genotype and allele frequencies of Glu298Asp and
intron 4 were not significant between the patients with POAG and the controls,
and after stratification by sex. The mean NOX plasma level was significantly
lower in patients with POAG than in the controls (p = 0.01) and low in the
(TC+CC) genotype compared to the TT genotype of T-786C in the patients and
controls (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that the CC genotype of T-786C NOS3 may be
associated with an increased risk of developing high-tension POAG in Egyptians,
particularly women. In addition, decreased NO levels may play a role in the
development of POAG.


PMCID: PMC4057245
PMID: 24940036  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


301. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 12;9(6):e99138. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099138. eCollection
2014.

Stereoscopic analysis of optic nerve head parameters in primary open angle
glaucoma: the glaucoma stereo analysis study.

Yokoyama Y(1), Tanito M(2), Nitta K(3), Katai M(4), Kitaoka Y(5), Omodaka K(1),
Tsuda S(1), Nakagawa T(6), Nakazawa T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Japan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Shimane University Faculty of
Medicine, Shimane, Japan. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Fukui-ken Saiseikai
Hospital, Fukui, Japan. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Sapporo Teishin Hospital,
Sapporo, Japan. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, St. Marianna University School of
Medicine, Kawasaki, Japan. (6)Kowa Company, Ltd., Nagoya, Japan.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2015;10(4):e0124703.

PURPOSE: The Glaucoma Stereo Analysis Study (GSAS), a cross sectional multicenter
collaborative study, used a stereo fundus camera to assess various morphological 
parameters of the optic nerve head (ONH) in glaucoma patients and investigated
the relationships between these parameters and patient characteristics.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The study included 187 eyes of 187 subjects with primary
open angle glaucoma or normal tension glaucoma (male: female  = 100: 87, age
 = 61±9 years). Stereo pairs of ONH photographs were made with a stereo fundus
camera (nonmyd WX). ONH morphological parameters were calculated with prototype
analysis software. In addition to 35 standard parameters, we defined three novel 
parameters: disc tilt angle, rim decentering, and the absolute value of rim
decentering. The correlation between each parameter and patient characteristics
was analyzed with Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.
RESULTS: Patient characteristics included refractive error of -3.38±3.75
diopters, intraocular pressure (IOP) of 13.6±2.6 mmHg, and visual field mean
deviation (MD) of -4.71±3.26 dB. Representative ONH parameters included a
horizontal disc width of 1.66±0.28 mm, vertical disc width of 1.86±0.23 mm, disc 
area of 2.42±0.63 mm2, cup area of 1.45±0.57 mm2, and cup volume of 0.31±0.22
mm3. Correlation analysis revealed significant negative associations between
vertical cup-to-disc ratio (0.82±0.08) and MD (r = -0.40, P<0.01) and between
disc tilt angle (10.5±12.5 degrees) and refractive error (r = -0.36, P<0.01).
Seventy-five percent of the eyes had a positive value for rim decentering
(0.30±0.42), indicating that rim thinning manifested more often as an inferior
lesion than a superior lesion.
CONCLUSION: We used stereoscopic analysis to establish a database of ONH
parameters, which may facilitate future studies of glaucomatous changes in ONH
morphology.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099138 
PMCID: PMC4055679
PMID: 24922327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Glaucoma. 2014 Jun-Jul;23(5):321-5. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000049.

Predictors of success in selective laser trabeculoplasty for chinese open-angle
glaucoma.

Lee JW(1), Liu CC, Chan JC, Lai JS.

Author information: 
(1)*The Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong †Department of
Applied Mathematics, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University ‡The Department of
Ophthalmology, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong SAR, People's Republic of China.

AIM: To investigate the determinants of success of selective laser
trabeculoplasty (SLT) in Chinese open-angle glaucoma patients.
METHODS: This prospective cohort study sequentially recruited Chinese subjects
with unilateral or bilateral primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or normal tension
glaucoma (NTG). All subjects received a single session of 360-degree SLT
treatment. Success was defined as IOP reduction ≥20%. The following were analyzed
in univariate and multivariate regression analyses for association with SLT
success: type of glaucoma, age, sex, lens status, presenting IOP, pre-SLT IOP,
day 1 IOP, 1-week IOP, number and type of anti-glaucoma medications, number of
SLT shots and energy, retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness, Visual Field
Index, endothelial cell count, central corneal thickness, Snellen visual acuity, 
and spherical equivalent.
RESULTS: In 111 eyes of 65 subjects, there were 51 POAG eyes and 60 NTG eyes. The
overall success was 53.15% with a mean IOP reduction of 19.81±15.93%. In
univariate analysis, a thinner RNFL [coefficient=-0.027; odds ratio (OR)=0.95;
P=0.017] was associated with success. In multivariate analysis, a lower day 1 IOP
(coefficient=-0.29; OR=0.75; P=0.049) and using topical carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors (CAI) (coefficient=2.92; OR=18.63; P=0.0020) were associated with
success. In both univariate and multivariate analyses, a higher pre-SLT IOP
significantly predicted success (coefficient=0.20/0.46; OR=1.23/1.58;
P=0.0017/0.0011) and using 3 anti-glaucoma medications (coefficient=-1.08/-3.74; 
OR=0.3/0.024; P=0.037/P=0.0081) was associated with SLT failure.
CONCLUSION: The positive predictors of SLT success included: higher pre-SLT IOP, 
use of topical CAI, thinner RNFL, and lower day 1 IOP. Using 3 anti-glaucoma
medications was associated with failure.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000049 
PMID: 24886702  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Stem Cell Res Ther. 2014 Jan 25;3(5):161.

Duplication of TBK1 Stimulates Autophagy in iPSC-derived Retinal Cells from a
Patient with Normal Tension Glaucoma.

Tucker BA(1), Solivan-Timpe F(1), Roos BR(1), Anfinson KR(1), Robin AL(2), Wiley 
LA(1), Mullins RF(1), Fingert JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA ; Stephen A. Wynn Institute for
Vision Research, Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA
52242, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
MD 21287, USA ; Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Duplication of theTBK1 gene causes normal tension glaucoma (NTG); however the
mechanism by which this copy number variation leads to retinal ganglion cell
death is poorly understood. The ability to use skin-derived induced pluripotent
stem cells (iPSCs) to investigate the function or dysfunction of a mutant gene
product in inaccessible tissues such as the retina now provides us with the
ability to interrogate disease pathophysiology in vitro. iPSCs were generated
from dermal fibroblasts obtained from a patient with TBK1-associated NTG, via
viral transduction of the transcription factors OCT4, SOX2, KLF4, and c-MYC.
Retinal progenitor cells and subsequent retinal ganglion cell-like neurons were
derived using our previously developed stepwise differentiation protocol.
Differentiation to retinal ganglion-like cells was demonstrated via rt-PCR
targeted against TUJ1, MAP2, THY1, NF200, ATOH7 and BRN3B and
immunohistochemistry targeted against NF200 and ATOH7. Western blot analysis
demonstrated that both fibroblasts and retinal ganglion cell-like neurons derived
from NTG patients with TBK1 gene duplication have increased levels of LC3-II
protein (a key marker of autophagy). Duplication of TBK1 has been previously
shown to increase expression of TBK1 and here we demonstrate that the same
duplication leads to activation of LC3-II. This suggests that TBK1-associated
glaucoma may be caused by dysregulation (over-activation) of this catabolic
pathway.

DOI: 10.4172/2157-7633.1000161 
PMCID: PMC4038935
PMID: 24883232  [PubMed]


304. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2014 May;62(5):529-37. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.133481.

New directions in the treatment of normal tension glaucoma.

Song BJ, Caprioli J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, University of
California, Los Angeles, USA.

Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy that causes characteristic changes of 
the optic nerve and visual field in relation to intraocular pressure (IOP). It is
now known that glaucoma can occur at statistically normal IOPs and prevalence
studies have shown that normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is more common than
previously thought. While IOP is believed to be the predominant risk factor in
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), IOP-independent risk factors, such as
vascular dysregulation, are believed to play an important part in the
pathogenesis of NTG. Though certain distinguishing phenotypic features of NTG
have been reported, such as an increased frequency of disc hemorrhages, acquired 
pits of the optic nerve and characteristic patterns of disc cupping and visual
field loss, there is much overlap of the clinical findings in NTG with POAG,
suggesting that NTG is likely part of a continuum of open angle glaucomas.
However, IOP modification is still the mainstay of treatment in NTG. As in
traditional POAG, reduction of IOP can be achieved with the use of medications,
laser trabeculoplasty or surgery. Studies now show that the choice of medication 
may also be important in determining the outcomes of these patients. Though it is
likely that future treatment of NTG will involve modification of both IOP and
IOP-independent risk factors, current efforts to develop IOP-independent
neuroprotective treatments have not yet proven to be effective in humans.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.133481 
PMCID: PMC4065500
PMID: 24881596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2014 May;62(5):527-8. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.133478.

Changing face of glaucoma.

Natarajan S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Editor, Indian Journal of Ophthalmology, Chairman, Managing Director, Aditya
Jyot Eye Hospital Pvt Ltd, Wadala (W), Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.133478 
PMCID: PMC4065499
PMID: 24881595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Ophthalmol. 2014;2014:937360. doi: 10.1155/2014/937360. Epub 2014 Apr 30.

The difference in translaminar pressure gradient and neuroretinal rim area in
glaucoma and healthy subjects.

Siaudvytyte L(1), Januleviciene I(1), Ragauskas A(2), Bartusis L(3), Meiliuniene 
I(1), Siesky B(4), Harris A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences, Eiveniu Street 2, 51368 
Kaunas, Lithuania. (2)Telematics Science Laboratory of Kaunas University of
Technology, Student ų Street 50, 51368 Kaunas, Lithuania. (3)Eye Clinic,
Lithuanian University of Health Sciences, Eiveniu Street 2, 51368 Kaunas,
Lithuania ; Telematics Science Laboratory of Kaunas University of Technology,
Student ų Street 50, 51368 Kaunas, Lithuania. (4)Glaucoma Research and Diagnostic
Center, Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. (5)Eye Clinic, Lithuanian University of
Health Sciences, Eiveniu Street 2, 51368 Kaunas, Lithuania ; Glaucoma Research
and Diagnostic Center, Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute, Indiana University
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.

Purpose. To assess differences in translaminar pressure gradient (TPG) and
neuroretinal rim area (NRA) in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), high 
tension glaucoma (HTG), and healthy controls. Methods. 27 patients with NTG, HTG,
and healthy controls were included in the prospective pilot study (each group
consisted of 9 patients). Intraocular pressure (IOP), intracranial pressure
(ICP), and confocal laser scanning tomography were assessed. TPG was calculated
as the difference of IOP minus ICP. ICP was measured using noninvasive two-depth 
transcranial Doppler device. The level of significance P < 0.05 was considered
significant. Results. NTG patients had significantly lower IOP (13.7(1.6) mmHg), 
NRA (0.97(0.36) mm(2)), comparing with HTG and healthy subjects, P < 0.05. ICP
was lower in NTG (7.4(2.7) mmHg), compared with HTG (8.9(1.9) mmHg) and healthy
subjects (10.5(3.0) mmHg); however, the difference between groups was not
statistically significant (P > 0.05). The difference between TPG for healthy
(5.4(7.7) mmHg) and glaucomatous eyes (NTG 6.3(3.1) mmHg, HTG 15.7(7.7) mmHg) was
statistically significant (P < 0.001). Higher TPG was correlated with decreased
NRA (r = -0.83; P = 0.01) in the NTG group. Conclusion. Translaminar pressure
gradient was higher in glaucoma patients. Reduction of NRA was related to higher 
TPG in NTG patients. Further prospective studies are warranted to investigate the
involvement of TPG in glaucoma management.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/937360 
PMCID: PMC4021754
PMID: 24876948  [PubMed]


307. Ophthalmology. 2014 Oct;121(10):2004-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.04.016. Epub 
2014 May 25.

Nocturnal systemic hypotension increases the risk of glaucoma progression.

Charlson ME(1), de Moraes CG(2), Link A(3), Wells MT(4), Harmon G(5), Peterson
JC(3), Ritch R(6), Liebmann JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New 
York. Electronic address: mecharl@med.cornell.edu. (2)Einhorn Clinical Research
Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New
York, New York; Department of Ophthalmology, New York University Medical Center, 
New York, New York. (3)Center for Integrative Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical
College, New York, New York. (4)Department of Statistical Science, Cornell
University, Ithaca, New York. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Weill Cornell
Medical College, New York, New York. (6)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New
York Eye and Ear Infirmary at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2015 Apr;122(4):e25-6.
    Ophthalmology. 2015 Apr;122(4):e26-7.
    Ophthalmology. 2015 Feb;122(2):e15.
    Ophthalmology. 2015 Feb;122(2):e15-6.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this prospective, longitudinal study of patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) was to determine whether patients with nocturnal
hypotension are at greater risk for visual field (VF) loss over 12 months than
those without nocturnal hypotension.
DESIGN: Prospective, longitudinal study.
PARTICIPANTS: Consecutive patients with NTG with at least 5 prior VF tests were
screened for eligibility.
METHODS: The baseline evaluation assessed demographic and clinical
characteristics, covering systemic comorbid conditions, including systemic
hypertension. All oral and ophthalmologic medications were recorded. A complete
ophthalmological examination was performed at baseline and follow-up. Patients
had their blood pressure (BP) monitored every 30 minutes for 48 hours with an
ambulatory recording device at baseline and 6 and 12 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was based on the global rates of VF
progression by linear regression of the mean VF threshold sensitivity over time
(decibels/year).
RESULTS: Eighty-five patients with NTG (166 eyes; mean age, 65 years; 67% were
women) were included. Of the 85 patients, 29% had progressed in the 5 VFs
collected before study enrollment. The nocturnal mean arterial pressure (MAP) was
compared with the daytime MAP. Multivariate analysis showed that the total time
that sleep MAP was 10 mmHg below the daytime MAP was a significant predictor of
subsequent VF progression (P<0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Cumulative nocturnal hypotension predicted VF loss in this cohort.
Our data suggest that the duration and magnitude of decrease in nocturnal blood
pressure below the daytime MAP, especially pressures that are 10 mmHg lower than 
daytime MAP, predict progression of NTG. Low nocturnal blood pressure, whether
occurring spontaneously or as a result of medications, may lead to worsening of
VF defects.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.04.016 
PMCID: PMC4386594
PMID: 24869467  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan-Feb;43(1):89-90. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12363. Epub 2014 
Aug 7.

Regional structural vulnerability of the macula in patients with normal tension
glaucoma.

Omodaka K(1), Takada N, Takahashi H, Nakazawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12363 
PMID: 24866299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep;252(9):1345-57. doi:
10.1007/s00417-014-2669-4. Epub 2014 May 25.

Obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) and glaucomatous optic
neuropathy.

Pérez-Rico C(1), Gutiérrez-Díaz E, Mencía-Gutiérrez E, Díaz-de-Atauri MJ, Blanco 
R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Príncipe de Asturias,
University of Alcalá, Carretera Alcalá-Meco s/n, 28805, Alcalá de Henares,
Madrid, Spain, cinta.perezrico@gmail.com.

Obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is becoming widely accepted as 
a risk factor for glaucoma. We discuss the proposed mechanism involved in the
pathogenesis of glaucoma in OSAHS, and review the published data on the
association between these two conditions, as well as papers regarding functional 
and structural tests related with glaucomatous damage. There is increasing
evidence that the prevalence of glaucoma is higher in OSAHS patients, especially 
in those with severe disease with apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) >30, and also that
sleep disorders may be more frequent in patients with glaucoma, especially in
those with normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Several ophthalmic signs and symptoms
have been associated with this condition. Raised intraocular pressure (IOP),
possibly related to increased body mass index, thinning of retinal nerve fiber
layer (RNFL), and alteration of visual field (VF) indices has been demonstrated
in many studies, in patients with no history of glaucoma or evidence of
glaucomatous changes in the ophthalmic examination. A correlation of AHI with
RNFL and VF indices has been described in some studies. Finally, corneal
thinning, suspicious glaucomatous disc changes and anomalies in
electrophysiological tests such as multifocal visual evoked potential have been
described in patients with OSAHS, even in patients with normal findings in the
optic nerve and VF, suggesting subclinical optic nerve involvement not detectable
in conventional ophthalmic examinations. The pathogenesis of optic nerve
involvement has been related to vascular and mechanical factors. Vascular factors
include recurrent hypoxia with increased vascular resistance, autonomic
deregulation, oxidative stress and inflammation linked to hypoxia and subsequent 
reperfusion, decreased cerebral perfusion pressure and direct hypoxic damage to
the optic nerve. Proposed mechanical factors include increased IOP at night
related to supine position and obesity, raised intracranial pressure and elastic 
fiber depletion in the lamina cribosa and/or trabeculum. In conclusion,
ophthalmic evaluation should be recommended in patients with severe OSAHS, and
the presence of sleep disorders should be investigated in patients with glaucoma,
especially in NTG patients and in those with progressive damage despite
controlled IOP, as treatment with continuous positive airway pressure may
contribute to stabilizing the progression of glaucomatous damage.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-014-2669-4 
PMID: 24859387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


310. J Glaucoma. 2015 Aug;24(6):442-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000054.

Comparison of Laser Scanning Diagnostic Devices for Early Glaucoma Detection.

Schulze A(1), Lamparter J, Pfeiffer N, Berisha F, Schmidtmann I, Hoffmann EM.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Ophthalmology †Medical Biometry, Epidemiology and Informatics 
(IMBEI), University Medical Center Mainz, Mainz, Germany.

BACKGROUND: To compare the diagnostic accuracy and to evaluate the correlation of
optic nerve head and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness values between
Fourier-Domain optical coherence tomography (FD-OCT), confocal scanning laser
ophthalmoscopy (CSLO), and scanning laser polarimetry (SLP) for early glaucoma
detection.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ninety-three patients with early open-angle glaucoma, 58
patients with ocular hypertension, and 60 healthy control subjects were included 
in this observational, cross-sectional study. All study participants underwent
FD-OCT (RTVue-100), CSLO (HRT3), and SLP (GDx VCC) imaging of the optic nerve
head and the retinal nerve fiber layer. Area under the receiver operating
characteristic curves (AUROC) and Bland-Altman analysis were performed.
RESULTS: The parameters with the highest diagnostic accuracy were found for
FD-OCT cup-to-disc ratio (AUROC=0.841), for SLP NFI (AUROC=0.835), and for CSLO
cup-to-disc ratio (AUROC=0.789). Diagnostic accuracy of the best CSLO and SLP
parameter was similar (P=0.259). There was a small statistically significant
difference between the best CSLO and FD-OCT parameters for differentiating
between glaucoma and healthy eyes (P=0.047).
CONCLUSIONS: FD-OCT and SLP have a similarly good diagnostic ability to
distinguish between early glaucoma and healthy subjects. The diagnostic accuracy 
of CSLO was comparable with SLP and marginally lower compared with FD-OCT.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000054 
PMID: 24844535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Surv Ophthalmol. 2014 Jul-Aug;59(4):434-47. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2013.09.003. Epub 2014 May 13.

Population-based glaucoma prevalence studies in Asians.

Cho HK(1), Kee C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul,
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: ckee@skku.edu.

Glaucoma-related population-based studies from Japan, Mongolia, India, Singapore,
Thailand, China, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, and South Korea show a higher
glaucoma prevalence in Asian patients, including a higher incidence of primary
angle-closure glaucoma, than in white patients, although primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) is still the most commonly reported. Among POAG, normal tension
glaucoma predominates over high tension glaucoma, a distinctive finding. Risk
factors for glaucoma in population-based studies in both Asian and white patients
are similar, except that myopia is a greater risk factor in Asian patients.
Diagnostic criteria differ among studies, some using the International Society of
Geographic and Epidemiologic Ophthalmology (ISGEO) classification and others not.
The devices used to observe the optic disk and test the visual field are also not
uniform across studies. Moreover, the ages of patients, and whether rural or
urban, were different. To allow reliable comparison of the results of
epidemiologic studies, efforts to standardize the diagnostic criteria, devices,
and the age range of the study population are required.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2013.09.003 
PMID: 24837853  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;92(8):e637-43. doi: 10.1111/aos.12434. Epub 2014 May
19.

Metabolic syndrome as a risk factor in normal-tension glaucoma.

Kim M(1), Jeoung JW, Park KH, Oh WH, Choi HJ, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea; Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To determine whether normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is associated with
metabolic syndrome and to evaluate which components of metabolic syndrome are
related to NTG.
METHODS: This study included 18240 participants who underwent health check-ups
including fundus photography and intraocular pressure measurements. For NTG
diagnosis, all participants with findings suggestive of glaucoma completed a
further glaucoma evaluation, including applanation tonometry, gonioscopy and
standard automated perimetry. The National Cholesterol Education Program Adult
Treatment Panel III guideline was used to characterize metabolic syndrome.
RESULTS: Of the 18240 participants, 3635 (19.9%) had metabolic syndrome and 300
(1.6%) were diagnosed with NTG. The prevalence of NTG was 1.5% in subjects
without metabolic syndrome and 2.1% in subjects with metabolic syndrome. The
presence of metabolic syndrome was not significantly associated with NTG (p =
0.067). There were significant associations of NTG with hypertension and impaired
glucose tolerance (IGT) among the individual components of metabolic syndrome
(OR, 1.53; 95% CI, 1.20-1.94; p = 0.001 and OR, 1.47; 95% CI, 1.12-1.94; p =
0.006). NTG was positively associated with the number of metabolic syndrome
components (OR, 1.10; p = 0.040). Multivariable analysis showed the prevalence of
NTG to be significantly higher in participants aged between 50 and 70 years
relative to those aged 40 to 50 years, male gender, participants with higher
baseline intraocular pressure, hypertension and IGT.
CONCLUSIONS: Of the metabolic syndrome components, hypertension and IGT
contributed to an increased risk of NTG. These findings suggest that metabolic
syndrome components may play a role in the pathogenesis of NTG.

© 2014 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12434 
PMID: 24836295  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


313. J Med Food. 2014 Sep;17(9):949-54. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2013.0165. Epub 2014 May 14.

Effect of palmitoylethanolamide on visual field damage progression in normal
tension glaucoma patients: results of an open-label six-month follow-up.

Costagliola C(1), Romano MR, dell'Omo R, Russo A, Mastropasqua R, Semeraro F.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Molise ,
Campobasso, Italy .

The purpose of this study is to assess the effect of palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) 
oral administration on intraocular pressure (IOP) and visual field damage
progression in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients. Thirty-two consecutive
patients affected by NTG were enrolled and randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive
PEA treatment (group A) or no treatment (group B). Group A patients took
ultramicronized 300 mg PEA tablets two times per day for six months.
Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), IOP, and visual field test were evaluated at
baseline and at the end of the six-month follow-up. No significant differences in
clinical parameters between the two groups were observed at baseline. At six
months, group A patients showed significant IOP reduction (from 14.4±3.2 mm Hg to
11.1±4.3 mm Hg, p<0.01). No statistically significant changes were seen in BCVA
in either group. Visual field parameters significantly diminished in patients
receiving PEA compared to baseline values (-7.65±6.55 dB vs. -4.55±5.31 dB,
p<0.001; 5.21±4.08 dB vs. 3.81±3.02 dB, p<0.02; mean deviation [MD] and pattern
standard deviation [PSD] respectively), while no significant changes were seen in
group B. A generalized linear model demonstrated that the final IOP, MD, and PSD 
was affected only by the systemic PEA treatment (p<0.01 each) and not affected by
demographic or clinical characteristic between the groups. Hence, systemic
administration of PEA reduces IOP and improves visual field indices in
individuals affected by NTG. Neither ocular nor systemic side effects were
recorded during the study period.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2013.0165 
PMID: 24827384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;42(9):887-9. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12354. Epub 2014 May 
30.

Usefulness of novel laser speckle flowgraphy-derived variables of the large
vessel area in the optic nerve head in normal tension glaucoma.

Maekawa S(1), Shiga Y, Kawasaki R, Nakazawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Miyagi, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12354 
PMID: 24803413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 Aug;158(2):402-408.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.04.026. Epub
2014 May 2.

The Maccabi Glaucoma Study: prevalence and incidence of glaucoma in a large
israeli health maintenance organization.

Levkovitch-Verbin H(1), Goldshtein I(2), Chodick G(3), Zigman N(2), Shalev V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Division, Maccabi Healthcare Services, Tel Aviv, Israel; Sackler
Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; Goldschleger Eye
Institute, Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel. Electronic address:
halevko@hotmail.com. (2)Medical Division, Maccabi Healthcare Services, Tel Aviv, 
Israel. (3)Medical Division, Maccabi Healthcare Services, Tel Aviv, Israel;
Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

PURPOSE: To investigate the prevalence and incidence of glaucoma in a large
health maintenance organization (HMO) in Israel.
DESIGN: A population-based retrospective cohort study, conducted using electronic
medical database.
METHODS: Collected data included personal and medical characteristics.
SETTING: Maccabi Healthcare Services, the second-largest HMO in Israel, insuring 
2 million members and serving 25% of the population with a nationwide
distribution.
STUDY POPULATION: Maccabi members from January 2003 to December 2010.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence and incidence of glaucoma according to the
International Classification of Diseases, 9th revision, Clinical Modification
diagnostic codes.
RESULTS: A total of 15,708 prevalent glaucoma patients were identified among
active members of Maccabi in December 2010. A total of 15,332 (97.6%) were 40
years or older, with a point prevalence of 2.2%. Prevalence of glaucoma was
strongly associated with age, ranging from 0.28% at age 40-50 to 9.2% among
elderly aged 80 or above. The 5 most prevalent diagnoses were open-angle glaucoma
(1.61%), exfoliation glaucoma (0.20%), unspecified glaucoma (0.17%), angle
closure (0.11%), and normal tension glaucoma (0.06%). We identified 6674 incident
glaucoma patients diagnosed between 2003 and 2010. The observed incidence density
rate among 40+-year-old members was 1.84 (1.79-1.88) new cases per 1000
person-years. Median age at diagnosis was 64 years old. The risk of glaucoma was 
similar between sexes up to age 70 years, and was significantly (P<.01) higher in
men in older ages.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma affects nearly 10% of the elderly population in Maccabi,
with the highest risk of diagnosis at age 70-74. Since glaucoma leads to
irreversible vision loss, the present estimates of morbidity should be of
significant concern.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.04.026 
PMID: 24794285  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Vojnosanit Pregl. 2014 Apr;71(4):341-5.

Heidelberg Retina Tomography II parameters in evaluating high- and
normal-pressure glaucoma progression.

Risović D, Gvozdenović R, Marjanović I, Abazi Z, Stamenković M.

BACKGROUND/AIM: Heidelberg retina tomography II (HRT II) haves been employed to
quantitatively assess the topography of optic discs in eyes with high-pressure
glaucoma (HPG) and normal-pressure glaucoma (NPG), in order to determine which of
global and segmental optic disc parameters will prove to be most suitable for
monitoring the progression of these two conditions.
METHODS: The results of 73 eyes of 73 patients with HPG and NPG were analyzed in 
relation to age, refractive error, quality of HRT images and stereometric
parameters.
RESULTS: A statistically significant difference (p < 0.05) between the global
baseline and follow-up results was found in: rim volume, maximum cup depth and
cup shape measure (in the HPG group), and C/D ratio, cup volume, rim volume and
cup shape measure (in the NPG group). The baseline and follow-up results of the
retinal nerve fiber layer in the temporal and inferotemporal sectors show a
significant difference in both groups.
CONCLUSION: Several HRT stereometric parameters are useful for monitoring the
progression of changes of the optic disc and local retina in eyes with HPG and
NPG. Both segmental and global scanning is of importance in glaucoma progression 
analysis.


PMID: 24783413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2014 Apr;231(4):363-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1368220. Epub 
2014 Apr 25.

Ocular pulse amplitude measurement using pascal dynamic contour tonometer in
glaucoma patients.

Katsimpris JM(1), Theoulakis PE(2), Papadopoulos GE(3), Katsimpris A(1), Lepidas 
J(1), Petropoulos IK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, General Hospital of Patras "Agios Andreas",
Patras, Greece (Chairman: Dr. G. Vassilopoulos). (2)Department of Ophthalmology, 
Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom (Chairman: , S.
Althauser). (3)Ophthalmology, Surgical Unit, General Hospital of Aigio, Aigio,
Greece (Chairman: Dr. G. E. Papadopoulos). (4)Ophthalmological Center of Rive,
Geneva, Switzerland (Chairmen: Dr. P. M. Desmangles, Dr. M. A. Matter).

AIM: This study aims to measure and compare the ocular pulse amplitude using
Pascal dynamic contour tonometry in normal persons and in glaucoma patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 20 patients (40 eyes) with primary open angle glaucoma
(Group A), 8 patients (16 eyes) with normal tension glaucoma (Group B), and 12
patients (24 eyes) with ocular hypertension (Group C) were included in the study.
Control group (Group D) comprised 25 normal volunteers (50 eyes). Intraocular
pressure was measured using both Goldmann applanation tonometry in the slit-lamp 
and Pascal dynamic contour tonometry. Ocular pulse amplitude was evaluated with
Pascal dynamic contour tonometry. Statistical evaluation of the differences in
ocular pulse amplitude and intraocular pressure among the different groups was
performed using Student's t-test.
RESULTS: Mean ocular pulse amplitude values expressed in mmHg were 3.66 ± 1.00,
2.46 ± 0.60, 4.04 ± 1.47, and 2.52 ± 0.52, for Groups A, B, C, and D,
respectively. The ocular pulse amplitude was significantly higher in Group A
(primary open angle glaucoma) and Group C (ocular hypertension) when compared
with Group D (control group) and Group B (normal tension glaucoma). No
statistically significant difference was detected between Group D (control group)
and Group B (normal tension glaucoma).
CONCLUSIONS: Although we can measure the intraocular pressure with Goldmann
applanation tonometry, no information can be derived regarding the ocular pulse
amplitude. The use of Pascal dynamic contour tonometry in intraocular pressure
estimation provides useful clinical information also about the magnitude of the
ocular pulse amplitude in different types of glaucoma. Pascal dynamic contour
tonometry discloses an elevation of ocular pulse amplitude in primary open angle 
glaucoma and ocular hypertension patients. On the contrary, the ocular pulse
amplitude is within normal limits in normal tension glaucoma patients.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1368220 
PMID: 24771168  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2014 Apr;231(4):344-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1368239. Epub 
2014 Apr 25.

Frequency of symptoms and signs of primary vascular dysregulation in Swiss and
Korean populations.

Konieczka K(1), Choi HJ(2), Koch S(1), Schoetzau A(1), Küenzi D(1), Kim DM(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Basel, Department of Ophthalmology, Switzerland (Chairman ad
interim: Dr. Norbert Spirig). (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National
University Hospital Healthcare System Gangnam Center, Seoul, Korea (Chairman:
Prof. Sang-Heon Cho). (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University
Hospital, Seoul, Korea (Chairman: Prof. Sang In Khwarg).

BACKGROUND: Primary vascular dysregulation syndrome (also called Flammer
syndrome) is related to certain eye diseases, particularly normal tension
glaucoma. Primary vascular dysregulation is characterized by a number of symptoms
and signs (e.g., cold hands and/or feet, low blood pressure), that occur more
frequently in subjects with primary vascular dysregulation compared to the
general population. The aim of the present study was to test and compare the
relative frequency of symptoms and signs related to primary vascular
dysregulation in unselected populations in Switzerland and Korea.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Swiss (n=259) and Korean (n=1116) subjects filled out our
questionnaire containing 15 questions related to symptoms and signs of primary
vascular dysregulation.
RESULTS: In the populations studied, seven of 15 symptoms and signs of primary
vascular dysregulation (increased smell perception, increased pain sensation,
increased response to certain drugs, low body mass index, feeling cold, cold
hands and/or feet, and headaches) occurred significantly more often in the Swiss 
population than in the Korean population, whereas five symptoms and signs
(reversible skin blotches, tendency toward perfectionism, long sleep onset time, 
tinnitus, and dizziness) occurred significantly more often in the Korean
population.
CONCLUSION: The relative frequency of these symptoms and signs of primary
vascular dysregulation in an unselected average population differs between
Switzerland and Korea. Therefore, if a diagnosis of primary vascular
dysregulation is based on the self-reported symptoms and signs of the patient,
they must be compared with the frequency of symptoms and signs in the
corresponding local population.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1368239 
PMID: 24771164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2014 Apr;231(4):340-3. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1368260. Epub 
2014 Apr 25.

Do optic nerve head and visual field parameters in patients with obstructive
sleep apnea syndrome differ from those in control individuals?

Salzgeber R(1), Iliev ME(1), Mathis J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology, University of Bern, Inselspital, Bern, Switzerland (chairman:
Prof. Dr. Dr. S. Wolf). (2)Neurology, University of Bern, Inselspital, Bern,
Switzerland (chairman: Prof. Dr. C. L. Bassetti).

BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that sleep apnea syndrome may play a role in
normal-tension glaucoma contributing to optic nerve damage. The purpose of this
study was to evaluate if optic nerve and visual field parameters in individuals
with sleep apnea syndrome differ from those in controls.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From the records of the sleep laboratory at the University 
Hospital in Bern, Switzerland, we recruited consecutive patients with severe
sleep apnea syndrome proven by polysomnography, apnea-hypopnea index >20, as well
as no sleep apnea controls with apnea-hypopnea index <10. Participants had to be 
unknown to the ophtalmology department and had to have no recent eye examination 
in the medical history. All participants underwent a comprehensive eye
examination, scanning laser polarimetry (GDx VCC, Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin,
California), scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II, HRT
II), and automated perimetry (Octopus 101 Programm G2, Haag-Streit Diagnostics,
Koeniz, Switzerland). Mean values of the parameters of the two groups were
compared by t-test.
RESULTS: The sleep apnea group consisted of 69 eyes of 35 patients; age 52.7 ±
9.7 years, apnea-hypopnea index 46.1 ± 24.8. As controls served 38 eyes of 19
patients; age 45.8 ± 11.2 years, apnea-hypopnea index 4.8 ± 1.9. A difference was
found in mean intraocular pressure, although in a fully overlapping range, sleep 
apnea group: 15.2 ± 3.1, range 8-22 mmHg, controls: 13.6 ± 2.3, range 9-18 mmHg; 
p<0.01. None of the extended visual field, optic nerve head (HRT) and retinal
nerve fiber layer (GDx VCC) parameters showed a significant difference between
the groups.
CONCLUSION: Visual field, optic nerve head, and retinal nerve fiber layer
parameters in patients with sleep apnea did not differ from those in the control 
group. Our results do not support a pathogenic relationship between sleep apnea
syndrome and glaucoma.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1368260 
PMID: 24771163  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


320. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 21;9(4):e95758. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095758. eCollection
2014.

E50K-OPTN-induced retinal cell death involves the Rab GTPase-activating protein, 
TBC1D17 mediated block in autophagy.

Chalasani ML(1), Kumari A(1), Radha V(1), Swarup G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research, Hyderabad, India.

The protein optineurin coded by OPTN gene is involved in several functions
including regulation of endocytic trafficking, autophagy and signal transduction.
Certain missense mutations in the gene OPTN cause normal tension glaucoma. A
glaucoma-causing mutant of optineurin, E50K, induces death selectively in retinal
cells. This mutant induces defective endocytic recycling of transferrin receptor 
by causing inactivation of Rab8 mediated by the GTPase-activating protein,
TBC1D17. Here, we have explored the mechanism of E50K-induced cell death.
E50K-OPTN-induced cell death was inhibited by co-expression of a catalytically
inactive mutant of TBC1D17 and also by shRNA mediated knockdown of TBC1D17.
Endogenous TBC1D17 colocalized with E50K-OPTN in vesicular structures.
Co-expression of transferrin receptor partially protected against E50K-induced
cell death. Overexpression of the E50K-OPTN but not WT-OPTN inhibited autophagy
flux. Treatment of cells with rapamycin, an inducer of autophagy, reduced
E50K-OPTN-induced cell death. An LC3-binding-defective mutant of E50K-OPTN showed
reduced cell death, further suggesting the involvement of autophagy. TBC1D17
localized to autophagosomes and inhibited autophagy flux dependent on its
catalytic activity. Knockdown of TBC1D17 rescued cells from E50K-mediated
inhibition of autophagy flux. Overall, our results suggest that E50K mutant
induced death of retinal cells involves impaired autophagy as well as impaired
transferrin receptor function. TBC1D17, a GTPase-activating protein for Rab
GTPases, plays a crucial role in E50K-induced impaired autophagy and cell death.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095758 
PMCID: PMC3994150
PMID: 24752605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Apr 15;55(4):2418. doi: 10.1167/iovs.14-14271.

Author response: Ginkgo biloba extract improves visual field damage in some
patients affected by normal-tension glaucoma.

Guo X(1), He M, Patel M, Congdon NG.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China;

Comment on
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Apr;55(4):2417.
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Jan;55(1):110-6.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.14-14271 
PMID: 24736416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Apr 15;55(4):2417. doi: 10.1167/iovs.14-13942.

Ginkgo biloba extract improves visual field damage in some patients affected by
normal-tension glaucoma.

Quaranta L(1), Riva I, Floriani I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; and the.

Comment in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Apr;55(4):2418.

Comment on
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Jan;55(1):110-6.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.14-13942 
PMID: 24736415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Acta Ophthalmol. 2015 Feb;93(1):e14-21. doi: 10.1111/aos.12408. Epub 2014 Apr 10.

Circadian intraocular pressure patterns in healthy subjects, primary open angle
and normal tension glaucoma patients with a contact lens sensor.

Agnifili L(1), Mastropasqua R, Frezzotti P, Fasanella V, Motolese I, Pedrotti E, 
Di Iorio A, Mattei PA, Motolese E, Mastropasqua L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Aging Science, Ophthalmology Clinic, University G. 
d'Annunzio of Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, Italy.

PURPOSE: To examine the circadian intraocular pressure (IOP) patterns in healthy 
subjects, in primary open angle and normal tension glaucoma (POAG; NTG) using a
contact lens sensor (CLS; Sensimed Triggerfish, Lausanne, Switzerland).
METHODS: This was an observational, nonrandomized study. Ten healthy subjects
(Group 1, 10 eyes) and 20 glaucomatous patients [20 eyes, 10 with POAG (Group 2) 
and 10 with NTG (Group 3)] were enrolled. All patients were controlled with
prostaglandin analogues. The 24-hr IOP pattern was the main outcome. The morning 
(6AM-11AM), afternoon/evening (noon-11PM) and night (midnight-5AM) subperiod
patterns, peaks and prolonged peaks (>1 hr) were secondary outcomes.
RESULTS: Mean 24-hr IOP pattern showed a nocturnal acrophase in all groups.
Patterns were significantly different among groups (p = 0.02), with highest
nocturnal IOP values in POAG. Prolonged peaks were more common in patients with
glaucoma (70%) than in healthy subjects (33.3%) (p < 0.001). Significant
differences were found for Groups 2 and 3 in the morning versus afternoon/evening
(p = 0.019 and p = 0.035, Bonferroni correction), morning versus night (p = 0.005
and p < 0.0001) and afternoon/evening versus night periods comparisons (p <
0.0001 for both groups). In Group 1, patterns significantly differed in the
morning versus night and afternoon/evening versus night period comparisons (p <
0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Continuous 24-hr IOP monitoring with the CLS revealed a nocturnal
acrophase in healthy subjects and, more markedly, in glaucoma. Because the
diurnal IOP profile seems not to predict the nocturnal rhythm, the circadian IOP 
pattern should be evaluated in clinical practice. These findings may be
worthwhile for the management of glaucoma.

© 2014 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12408 
PMID: 24720477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 Jul;158(1):105-112.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.03.015. Epub
2014 Apr 5.

Effect of brimonidine on retinal vascular autoregulation and short-term visual
function in normal tension glaucoma.

Feke GT(1), Bex PJ(2), Taylor CP(2), Rhee DJ(1), Turalba AV(1), Chen TC(1), Wand 
M(3), Pasquale LR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary, Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. (2)Schepens Eye Research Institute,
Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Consulting Ophthalmologists, Farmington, Connecticut. (4)Massachusetts Eye &
Ear Infirmary, Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts. Electronic address: Louis_Pasquale@meei.harvard.edu.

PURPOSE: To assess whether brimonidine 0.15% alters retinal vascular
autoregulation and short-term visual function in normal tension glaucoma patients
who demonstrate retinal vascular dysregulation.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized clinical trial.
METHODS: In this prospective study, 46 normal tension glaucoma patients not
previously treated with brimonidine underwent retinal vascular autoregulation
testing and visual function assessment using frequency doubling technology
perimetry and equivalent noise motion sensitivity testing. We measured blood flow
in a major temporal retinal artery with subjects seated and then while reclined
for 30 minutes. Patients having a change in retinal blood flow with posture
change outside the range previously found in healthy subjects were classified as 
having retinal vascular dysregulation. They were treated with brimonidine 0.15%
for 8 weeks and designated for retesting.
RESULTS: Twenty-three patients demonstrated retinal vascular dysregulation at the
initial visit. Younger age (P = .050) and diabetes (P = .055) were marginally
significant risk factors for retinal vascular dysregulation. After the 8-week
course with brimonidine, 14 of the 17 patients who completed the study showed a
return of posture-induced retinal blood flow changes to levels consistent with
normal retinal vascular autoregulation (P < .0001). We found no significant
changes in frequency doubling technology perimetry or in motion detection
parameters following treatment with brimondine (P > .09 for all tests performed).
CONCLUSIONS: Brimonidine significantly improved impaired retinal vascular
autoregulation in normal tension glaucoma patients, but short-term alteration in 
visual function could not be demonstrated.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.03.015 
PMID: 24709811  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


325. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2014 May;132(5):544-8. doi: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2014.104.

TBK1 gene duplication and normal-tension glaucoma.

Ritch R(1), Darbro B(2), Menon G(3), Khanna CL(4), Solivan-Timpe F(5), Roos
BR(5), Sarfarzi M(6), Kawase K(7), Yamamoto T(7), Robin AL(8), Lotery AJ(9),
Fingert JH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa
City3Institute for Vision Research, University of Iowa, Iowa City. (3)Department 
of Ophthalmology, Frimley Part Hospital, Surrey, United Kingdom. (4)Department of
Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. (5)Institute for Vision
Research, University of Iowa, Iowa City6Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City.
(6)Department of Surgery, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine,
Gifu, Japan. (8)Department of Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland10Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland11Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland. (9)Southampton Eye Unit, Southampton General Hospital,
Southampton, United Kingdom.

IMPORTANCE: Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a common cause of vision loss.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of TANK binding kinase 1 (TBK1) gene
duplications in NTG to gain insights into the causes of glaucoma that occurs at
low intraocular pressure (IOP).
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: In this multicenter case-control study, we
investigated patients who met the criteria for NTG, including glaucomatous optic 
neuropathy, visual field defects, and maximum recorded untreated IOP of 21 mm Hg 
or less, and matched controls. Participants (N = 755) were recruited from
Southampton, United Kingdom (180 patients and 178 controls), Rochester, Minnesota
(65 patients and 12 controls), New York, New York (96 patients and 16 controls), 
and Iowa City, Iowa (208 controls).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Detection of TBK1 gene duplications and comparison of
the extent of the identified DNA that is duplicated with prior TBK1 copy number
variations associated with NTG.
RESULTS: A TBK1 gene duplication was detected in 1 of 96 patients (1.0%) from New
York and none of the controls. Analysis of duplication borders with comparative
genome hybridization demonstrated that this patient has a novel duplication that 
has not been previously reported. No gene duplications were detected in any of
the other cohorts of patients or controls.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Duplication of the TBK1 gene is a rare cause of NTG.
The identification of another case of NTG attributed to TBK1 gene duplication
strengthens the case that this mutation causes glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2014.104 
PMCID: PMC4372533
PMID: 24699864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;92(8):e644-9. doi: 10.1111/aos.12411. Epub 2014 Apr 3.

The risk of newly developed visual impairment in treated normal-tension glaucoma:
10-year follow-up.

Choi YJ(1), Kim M, Park KH, Kim DM, Kim SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea; Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Bundang
Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the risk and risk factors for newly developed visual
impairment in treated patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) followed up on 
for 10 years.
METHODS: Patients with NTG, who did not have visual impairment at the initial
diagnosis and had undergone intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering treatment for
more than 7 years, were included on the basis of a retrospective chart review.
Visual impairment was defined as either low vision (0.05 [20/400] ≤ visual acuity
(VA) <0.3 [20/60] and/or 10 degrees ≤ central visual field (VF) <20 degrees) or
blindness (VA <0.05 [20/400] and/or central VF <10 degrees) by World Health
Organization (WHO) criteria. To investigate the risk and risk factors for newly
developed visual impairment, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and generalized
linear mixed effects models were utilized.
RESULTS: During the 10.8 years mean follow-up period, 20 eyes of 16 patients were
diagnosed as visual impairment (12 eyes as low vision, 8 as blindness) among 623 
eyes of 411 patients. The cumulative risk of visual impairment in at least one
eye was 2.8% at 10 years and 8.7% at 15 years. The risk factors for visual
impairment from treated NTG were worse VF mean deviation (MD) at diagnosis and
longer follow-up period.
CONCLUSION: The risk of newly developed visual impairment in the treated patients
with NTG was relatively low. Worse VF MD at diagnosis and longer follow-up period
were associated with development of visual impairment.

© 2014 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12411 
PMID: 24698142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Apr 21;55(4):2557-63. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-13742.

Central visual field progression in normal-tension glaucoma patients with
autonomic dysfunction.

Park HY(1), Park SH, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the characteristics of visual field (VF) progression in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with autonomic dysfunction.
METHODS: Forty-eight NTG eyes with more than seven VF tests during at least 5
years of follow-up were analyzed retrospectively. All participants were referred 
to rheumatology, where they were subjected to heart-rate variability assessment. 
Patients were classified into the lowest and highest heart-rate variability
groups according to the SD value of the qualified normal-to-normal intervals of
the heart-rate-variability assessment. The VF was divided into central and
peripheral regions and further classified into superior and inferior regions.
Groups in the lowest and highest heart-rate variability groups were compared in
terms of rates of change in the mean thresholds of each designated region by
using a linear mixed model. Potential clinical factors associated with central VF
progression were also investigated.
RESULTS: The baseline VF showed similar stages of glaucoma damage between the
lowest and highest heart-rate variability groups. The mean global rate of VF
changes was similar between the two groups. Only the rate of VF changes in the
central and superior central regions were significantly different between the
lowest heart-rate variability group (-1.16 dB/year in the central region and
-1.48 dB/year in the superior central region) and highest heart-rate variability 
group (-0.52 dB/year in the central region and -0.64 dB/year in the superior
central region). Baseline VF pattern SD (β = -1.160, P = 0.008), migraine (β =
1.380, P = 0.040), orthostatic hypotension (β = 1.146, P = 0.023), and lower
heart-rate variability (β = -1.516, P = 0.010) were significantly associated with
central VF progression.
CONCLUSIONS: NTG patients with lower heart-rate variability, which reflects
autonomic dysfunction with sympathetic predominance, presented faster rate of
central VF progression than patients with higher heart-rate variability.
Intraocular pressure-independent risk factors, such as migraine, orthostatic
hypotension, and autonomic dysfunction, were related to central VF progression.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-13742 
PMID: 24692126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Springerplus. 2014 Feb 19;3:99. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-3-99. eCollection 2014.

Effects of mutations and deletions in the human optineurin gene.

Turturro S(1), Shen X(1), Shyam R(1), Yue BY(1), Ying H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Illinois at
Chicago, College of Medicine, 1855 W Taylor Street, Chicago, IL 60612 USA.

Optineurin is a gene associated with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Foci formation and functional consequences
including Golgi fragmentation, impairment of vesicle trafficking and apoptosis
were observed previously upon overexpression and/or mutation of optineurin. In
the current study, a total of 15 GFP tagged constructs that included NTG (E50K
and 2 bp-AG insertion), ALS (exon 5 deletion, R96L, Q398X, and E478G) and
non-disease (L157A and D474N) associated mutants and a series of deletion
fragments were cloned into mammalian expression vectors and transfected into RGC5
and/or Neuro2A cells to evaluate whether their expression confer the optineurin
phenotypes. The cells were monitored for foci formation and stained by
immunofluorescence with anti-GM130 to analyze the Golgi integrity. Transferrin
uptake experiments were performed to evaluate the protein trafficking process and
apoptosis was assessed with the active caspase 3/7 detection kit. We demonstrated
that cells expressing E50K and R96L optineurin exhibited all of the optineurin
phenotypes. Q398X mutant did not induce foci formation, but triggered Golgi
fragmentation, impairment of transferrin uptake and increase in apoptosis. The 2 
bp-AG insertion mutant had a nuclear localization, compromised the transferrin
uptake and strongly induced apoptosis. The foci formation, which might not
predict the rest of the phenotypes, appeared to require both the leucine zipper
and ubiquitin binding domains of the optineurin sequence. Interactions of
optineurin with proteins including Rab8, myosin VI, huntingtin and transferrin
receptor might directly determine whether the Golgi and protein trafficking
phenotypes would be manifested. Examination of mutants and deletion fragments
located at various sites of optineurin gene provide clues as to what regions of
the gene may play a critical role in the development of pathologic consequences.

DOI: 10.1186/2193-1801-3-99 
PMCID: PMC3967732
PMID: 24683533  [PubMed]


329. J Glaucoma. 2014 Apr-May;23(4):225-31. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000045.

Analysis of macular and peripapillary choroidal thickness in glaucoma patients by
enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography.

Park HY(1), Lee NY, Shin HY, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St Mary's Hospital
†Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Incheon St Mary's Hospital
‡Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Uijeongbu St Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: To compare the macular and peripapillary choroidal thickness between 
normal and glaucoma eyes and find out factors related to choroidal thickness
using enhanced depth imaging (EDI) of Heidelberg Spectralis SD-OCT.
STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional transverse study.
METHODS: A total of 108 glaucoma patients and 48 healthy controls were included
in the analysis. Choroidal thickness was measured from 6 mm length radial B-scans
at the macular and the optic nerve head by EDI OCT. Choroidal thickness was
compared between normal controls, normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients, and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients. Factors related to choroidal
thickness were analyzed by regression analysis.
RESULTS: There were no differences in average, temporal, nasal, superior, and
inferior macular choroidal thickness between normal, NTG, and POAG eyes. The
peripapillary thickness did not differ between normal and POAG eyes; however,
average, temporal, nasal, superior, and inferior peripapillary choroidal
thickness were significantly thinner in NTG eyes. Axial length (β=-11.36,
P<0.001) was the most significant factor associated with peripapillary choroidal 
thickness, followed by age (β=-5.10, P<0.001). Glaucoma type (β=-11.28, P<0.001) 
were also significantly associated with peripapillary choroidal thickness.
CONCLUSIONS: Peripapillary choroidal thickness was significantly reduced in NTG
eyes based on EDI OCT measurements in vivo.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000045 
PMID: 24682006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep;92(6):e481-7. doi: 10.1111/aos.12382. Epub 2014 Mar 21.

Relationship between supernormal sectors of retinal nerve fibre layer and axial
length in normal eyes.

Yamashita T(1), Kii Y, Tanaka M, Yoshinaga W, Yamashita T, Nakao K, Sakamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical
and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine the effect of the axial length on the supernormal and
false-positive sectors of the peripapillary retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) in
healthy eyes using the normative database embedded in a spectral domain optical
coherence tomographic (SD-OCT) instrument.
METHODS: This was a prospective, observational cross -sectional study. The right 
eyes of 126 healthy young volunteers were studied. The RNFL thickness was
measured by SD-OCT in twelve 30-degree sectors (clock hours) around the optic
disc. The sectors whose RNFL thickness was <5% probability level were labelled as
false-positive sectors. The sectors >95% probability level were labelled as
supernormal sectors. The relationships between the axial length and rates of
supernormal and false-positive sectors were investigated.
RESULTS: A longer axial length was significantly associated with an increase in
the rates of supernormal thickness in sector 8 (odds ratio, [OR], 1.494;
p = 0.010) and sector 10 (OR, 1.529; p = 0.008). The supernormal sectors were
mainly located in the temporal region. A longer axial length was significantly
associated with a higher rates of false positives in sector 5 (OR, 1.789;
p = 0.017), sector 6 (OR, 2.305; p < 0.001) and sector 12 (OR, 2.277; p = 0.035).
CONCLUSIONS: The axial length was significantly related to the rates of
supernormal and false-positive sectors even in healthy eyes. These findings
indicate that the specificity and sensitivity of SD-OCT will be affected
especially in eyes with longer axial lengths.

© 2014 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12382 
PMID: 24655430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Adv Ther. 2014 Apr;31(4):461-71. doi: 10.1007/s12325-014-0109-9. Epub 2014 Mar
11.

Prospective observational post-marketing study of tafluprost for glaucoma and
ocular hypertension: short-term efficacy and safety.

Kuwayama Y(1), Nomura A.

Author information: 
(1)Fukushima Eye Clinic, Fukushima-ku, Osaka, Japan, yk@k-eye.com.

INTRODUCTION: This study investigated the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering
effects and safety of tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015% in actual clinical
practice.
METHODS: We started a mandatory prospective 2-year observational study, which
collected IOP, conjunctival hyperemia score, corneal staining score, and adverse 
event data from glaucoma and ocular hypertension (OH) patients not previously
treated with tafluprost at 2, 12, and 24 months. This report analyzes the 2-month
findings.
RESULTS: Of the 4,180 patients from 553 medical institutions in Japan, most
patients had primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG, 38.1%) or normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG, 44.2%). After 2 months of tafluprost administration, IOP was significantly 
reduced by 4.3 ± 5.2 mmHg in POAG, 2.4 ± 2.5 mmHg in NTG, 3.6 ± 5.3 mmHg in
primary angle-closure glaucoma, 5.6 ± 7.1 mmHg in other types of glaucoma, and
5.3 ± 4.8 mmHg in OH. IOP was significantly reduced by 4.3 ± 4.0 mmHg in the
naïve monotherapy group, 1.9 ± 3.5 mmHg in switching from prior treatment, and
3.7 ± 4.1 mmHg in the add-on therapy group. Among patients switched, the
prostaglandin analog (PGA) latanoprost was the previous predominant drug (57.4%),
followed by travoprost (13.8%). Significant IOP reductions were observed by 1.5 ±
3.4 mmHg in switching from latanoprost and 1.3 ± 3.7 mmHg in switching from
travoprost. The conjunctival hyperemia score peaked at 1 month in the naïve
monotherapy and add-on therapy groups, whereas it was significantly decreased in 
patients switched from another PGA. The corneal staining score showed no
particular changes. Incidence of adverse drug reaction (ADR) was 7.70 %
(322/4,180 patients), and all major ADRs involved the eyes or skin around the
eyes.
CONCLUSION: Tafluprost showed significant IOP-lowering effects without any safety
concerns in patients with various types of glaucoma and OH in daily clinical
practice and tafluprost is highly effective in any therapeutic patterns.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-014-0109-9 
PMID: 24615289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


332. BMC Ophthalmol. 2014 Mar 10;14:27. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-27.

Normal-tension glaucoma and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome: a prospective
study.

Bilgin G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmologist, Hacettepe University Gün Hospital, Beytepe, 06800 Ankara,
Turkey. gorkemgencebilgin@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Today, identified risk factors for normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
include abnormal ocular blood flow, abnormal blood coagulation, systemic
hypotension, ischemic vascular disorders, and autoimmune diseases. However,
pathogenesis of the condition remains unclear. On the other hand, there are also 
a few studies suggesting that the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) may
compromise optic nerve head perfusion and cause glaucomatous optic neuropathy by 
creating transient hypoxemia and increasing vascular resistance. In this study,
we evaluated the possible association between OSAS and NTG.
METHODS: We recruited 24 patients with NTG and 24 age and sex matched controls
who were also similar for systemic risk factors such as diabetes mellitus (DM),
hypertension (HT) and hypercholesterolemia. All patients and controls underwent
over-night polysomnography (PSG) for the diagnosis of OSAS and calculation of
Apnea-Hypopnea Index (AHI).
RESULTS: Patients and controls were statistically similar in terms of age, sex,
gender, smoking, systemic risk factors, neck circumference and body mass index.
The subjects with AHI ≥ 20 were accepted as OSAS. Ten (41.7%) of 24 patients with
NTG and 3 (12.5%) of 24 controls had OSAS (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of OSAS was higher in patients with NTG and the
difference between patient and control groups was statistically significant (p < 
0.05).

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-27 
PMCID: PMC3975309
PMID: 24612638  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep-Oct;42(7):702-4. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12313. Epub 2014 
Apr 9.

Optic disc microcirculation in superior segmental optic hypoplasia assessed with 
laser speckle flowgraphy.

Aizawa N(1), Kunikata H, Omodaka K, Nakazawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School Medicine,
Sendai, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12313 
PMID: 24612127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


334. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 3;9(3):e90554. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090554. eCollection 
2014.

Anatomical attributes of the optic nerve head in eyes with parafoveal scotoma in 
normal tension glaucoma.

Rao A(1), Mukherjee S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Services, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Patia, Bhubaneswar, India.
(2)Diagnostic and Imaging Services, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Patia, Bhubaneswar, 
India.

PURPOSE: To evaluate optic nerve characteristics independent of systemic factors 
predisposing to parafoveal scotoma in normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: We included 40 patients with bilateral normal tension glaucoma with
parafoveal scotoma (visual field defect in one hemifield within 10° of fixation
with at least one point at p<1% lying at the two innermost paracentral points) in
only one eye (Parafoveal group, PF, n = 40) identified from the hospital database
in this observational cross sectional study. The other eye with no parafoveal
scotoma constituted the control group (n = 32). Red free fundus photographs were 
evaluated using Image J software analyzing parameters including vertical and
horizontal disc diameter, disc haemorrhage, location and angular width of the
retinal nerve fibre layer depth and displacement of the central vessel trunk, CVT
(vertical and horizontal). Clinical characteristics and disc parameters were
compared in the two groups.
RESULTS: The PF group had lower mean deviation(MD) and visual field index (VFI)
and higher pattern standard deviation (PSD) than control group (p≤0.001) for
similar untreated IOP, (p = 0.9). Disc haemorrhages were more frequent in the PF 
group, p = 0.01. The PF group had greater width of nerve fibre layer defects,
p = 0.05 and greater vertical displacement of the central vessel trunk,
p = 0.001. On multivariate logistic regression, parafoveal scotoma was
significantly associated with increased vertical distance of the CVT, p = 0.0001.
CONCLUSION: Increased vertical displacement of the CVT is associated with
parafoveal scotoma in normal tension glaucoma. Localising the vessel trunk may
help clinicians in identifying patients at risk for parafoveal involvement.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090554 
PMCID: PMC3940960
PMID: 24595065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Eye Sci. 2013 Sep;28(3):119-23.

Analysis of 24-hour monitoring of intraocular pressure in 1055 eyes.

Wang B(1), Dai T(2), Zhao Y(2), Gao C(2), Liu J(2), Chen P(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Second People's Hospital of Zhengzhou, Zhengzhou 450007, China.
31390805@qq.com (2)The Second People's Hospital of Zhengzhou, Zhengzhou 450007,
China.

PURPOSE: To investigate the clinical significance of 24-hour monitoring of
intraocular pressure (IOP).
METHODS: A total of 571 cases (1055 eyes) undergoing 24-hour monitoring of IOP in
the Second People's Hospital of Zhengzhou between June 2012 and March 2013 were
retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: Among all 1055 eyes, 298 had suspected glaucoma (28.2%); 390 (37.0%)
were diagnosed with glaucoma but received no treatment (312 with primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG) and 78 with primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG)); 215
(20.4%) were diagnosed with glaucoma and received medical treatment; 132 (12.5%) 
underwent glaucoma filtration surgery; and there were 20 others. Through 24-hour 
IOP monitoring, 104 among 298 cases with suspected glaucoma were diagnosed with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), 110 with POAG, and 28 with the secondary glaucoma.
Condition assessment and treatment plans were presented for 390 glaucoma cases
receiving no treatment. Adjustment was made in the medical treatment of 138 eyes.
Following glaucoma filtration surgery, 52 eyes received clinical advice on
subsequent treatment.
CONCLUSION: The simplified 24-hour IOP monitoring method is readily accepted by
patients, which is of great significance for providing guidance on the diagnosis 
of glaucoma and the assessment of the efficacy of glaucoma surgery. However,
one-time 24-hour IOP monitoring is not sufficiently efficacious to make a
definite diagnosis of NTG. Therefore, long-term follow-up and repeated 24-hour
IOP monitoring are required to diagnose NTG, along with a variety of related
examinations.


PMID: 24579551  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Acta Med Okayama. 2014;68(1):27-34.

Association of blood pressure and body mass index with intraocular pressure in
middle-aged and older Japanese residents: a cross-sectional and longitudinal
study.

Yoshida M(1), Ishikawa M, Karita K, Kokaze A, Harada M, Take S, Ohno H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, Kyorin University School of Medicine, Mitaka,
Tokyo 181-8611, Japan.yohhy@ks.kyorin-u.ac.jp.

To clarify whether high blood pressure (BP) and high body mass index (BMI) are
associated with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), a cross-sectional and
longitudinal study was conducted. This epidemiological study analyzed health
examination data obtained between 2001 and 2005 from 896 Japanese individuals
(aged 32-79 years) who had not undergone any ocular surgery or medical treatment 
for hypertension, ocular hypertension, or glaucoma. Multiple-regression analysis 
of our cross-sectional data showed that systolic and diastolic BP (SBP and DBP)
and BMI had significant and near-significant positive associations with IOP in
men (p＜0.05) and women (p＜0.1). Our longitudinal study from analyses of
covariance found that the adjusted mean level of changes in IOP tended to
increase with increased levels of SBP, DBP, and BMI in men (p＜0.1). In women
also, changes in SBP and BMI tended to be positively related with that of IOP
(p＜0.1). The results of this study suggested that BP and BMI were positively
associated with IOP in middle-aged and older Japanese. Therefore, management of
BP and improvement of obesity might be especially important to Japanese patients 
with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension as they have a higher incidence
of normal-tension glaucoma than Europeans and Americans.


PMID: 24553486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2014 Feb;231(2):127-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1351067. Epub 
2014 Feb 15.

[Sleep apnoea and glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Pache M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Augen Praxisklinik Lübeck, Schwerpunkt Glaukom und operative Augenheilkunde.

Several lines of evidence suggest an association between (normal-tension)
glaucoma and sleep apnoea syndrome (SAS). It is hypothesised that the
glaucomatous damage may result from impaired perfusion of the optic nerve head
secondary to repetitive prolonged apnoeas. Therefore, screening for SAS in
suspectible glaucoma patients is recommended.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1351067 
PMID: 24532399  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Glaucoma. 2014 Apr-May;23(4):240-5. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000044.

Glaucoma medication adherence in veterans and influence of coexisting chronic
disease.

Asefzadeh B(1), Rett D, Pogoda TK, Selvin G, Cavallerano A.

Author information: 
(1)VA Boston Health Care System, Eye Clinic, Jamaica Plain Campus, Jamaica Plain,
MA.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to characterize veterans' adherence to
glaucoma medications and follow-up eye care, and to examine the influence of
coexisting chronic conditions such as posttraumatic stress disorder
(PTSD)/anxiety.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of computerized medical records was 
performed for 161 veterans taking topical glaucoma medications. Medication
possession ratio (MPR) was calculated using pharmacy data. Mean follow-up ratio
(FUR) was calculated using the number of days between visits.
RESULTS: Among the health conditions examined, the most prevalent was hearing
loss (0.34), followed by arthritis (0.29), PTSD, or other anxiety disorder
(0.27), and dementia or other memory disorder (0.09). The average rates of MPR
and FUR were 0.69±0.20 and 0.84±0.19, respectively.Group comparisons found that
patients with hearing loss had higher MPR compared with patients without hearing 
loss, and patients who were white had higher FUR than African American patients. 
When demographic and health characteristics were examined simultaneously in
multiple linear regressions, hearing loss emerged as a significant predictor of
MPR, and being older was significantly related to FUR. Younger age was also
associated with MPR and being white (vs. African American) or having a PTSD/other
anxiety disorder was related to FUR, although these findings did not reach
statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS: FUR was better than MPR in a veteran population being treated for
glaucoma.Hearing loss was significantly related to higher MPR, whereas being
older was significantly associated with higher FUR. These characteristics should 
be taken into consideration in future programs to improve adherence to glaucoma
care.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000044 
PMID: 24522105  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 Feb 3;8:347-54. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S57640. eCollection 2014.

Travoprost with sofZia® preservative system lowered intraocular pressure of
Japanese normal tension glaucoma with minimal side effects.

Mizoue S(1), Nakano T(2), Fuse N(3), Iwase A(4), Matsumoto S(5), Yoshikawa K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ehime University Graduate School of Medicine,
Ehime, Japan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Jikei University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Department of Integrative Genomics, Tohoku Medical
Megabank Organization, Miyagi, Japan. (4)Tajimi Iwase Eye Clinic, Gifu, Japan.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Teishin Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Yoshikawa Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to evaluate the effect of travoprost with sofZia®
preservative system for lowering the intraocular pressure (IOP) of Japanese
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: In this prospective, multicenter, open-label study, Japanese NTG
patients with baseline IOPs <20 mmHg were enrolled after three consecutive time
measurements taken at screening and baseline visits. Travoprost with sofZia® was 
instilled once daily. Lowering effect on IOP, conjunctival hyperemia, superficial
punctate keratopathy, and adverse events were examined at week 4, 8, and 12 after
drug instillation.
RESULTS: One-hundred and three of the 107 enrolled patients (baseline IOP
=15.2±2.0 mmHg [mean ± standard deviation]) completed the study. The mean IOP
value as well as percent reduction was significantly reduced at each visit after 
travoprost with sofZia® initiation (P<0.0001). The conjunctival hyperemia score
was 1 or less throughout the study, though it increased significantly over time. 
No significant change was observed in superficial punctate keratopathy. The
cumulative incidence of side effects such as eyelash changes, eyelid
pigmentation, and deepening of the upper lid was 47.6%, 27.2%, and 16.5%,
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Travoprost preserved with sofZia® effectively lowered the IOP of
Japanese NTG patients. It was well tolerated with few discontinuations due to
adverse events.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S57640 
PMCID: PMC3917943
PMID: 24520191  [PubMed]


340. Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 May;157(5):945-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.02.009. Epub
2014 Feb 7.

Risk factors for optic disc hemorrhage in the low-pressure glaucoma treatment
study.

Furlanetto RL(1), De Moraes CG(2), Teng CC(3), Liebmann JM(3), Greenfield DS(4), 
Gardiner SK(5), Ritch R(6), Krupin T(7); Low-Pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study
Group.

Collaborators: Rosenberg LF, Ruderman JM, Yang JW, Tello C, Liebmann JM, Ritch R,
Myers JS, Katz LJ, Spaeth GL, Wilson RP, Moster MR, Cantor LB, Gross RL, Dirks
MS, Grimes SR, Greenfield DS, Bagga H, Sherwood MB, Feitl ME, Henry JC, Gieser
DK, Piltz-Seymour JR.

Author information: 
(1)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York,
New York. (2)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary,
New York, New York; Department of Ophthalmology, New York University School of
Medicine, New York, New York. Electronic address: demoraesmd@gmail.com.
(3)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York,
New York; Department of Ophthalmology, New York University School of Medicine,
New York, New York. (4)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller
School of Medicine, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. (5)Devers Eye Institute, Legacy 
Health, Portland, Oregon. (6)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and
Ear Infirmary, New York, New York; Department of Ophthalmology, New York Medical 
College, Valhalla, New York. (7)Department of Ophthalmology, Feinberg School of
Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois; The Chicago Center for
Vision Research, Chicago, Illinois.

PURPOSE: To investigate risk factors for disc hemorrhage detection in the
Low-Pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study.
DESIGN: Cohort of a randomized, double-masked, multicenter clinical trial.
METHODS: Low-Pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study patients with at least 16 months
of follow-up were included. Exclusion criteria included untreated intraocular
pressure (IOP) of more than 21 mm Hg, visual field mean deviation worse than -16 
dB, or contraindications to study medications. Patients were randomized to
topical treatment with timolol 0.5% or brimonidine 0.2%. Stereophotographs were
reviewed independently by 2 masked graders searching for disc hemorrhages. The
main outcomes investigated were the detection of disc hemorrhage at any time
during follow-up and their recurrence. Ocular and systemic risk factors for disc 
hemorrhage detection were analyzed using the Cox proportional hazards model and
were tested further for independence in a multivariate model.
RESULTS: Two hundred fifty-three eyes of 127 subjects (mean age, 64.7 ± 10.9
years; women, 58%; European ancestry, 71%) followed up for an average ± standard 
deviation of 40.6 ± 12 months were included. In the multivariate analysis,
history of migraine (hazard ratio [HR], 5.737; P = .012), narrower neuroretinal
rim width at baseline (HR, 2.91; P = .048), use of systemic β-blockers (HR,
5.585; P = .036), low mean systolic blood pressure (HR, 1.06; P = .02), and low
mean arterial ocular perfusion pressure during follow-up (HR, 1.172; P = .007)
were significant and independent risk factors for disc hemorrhage detection.
Treatment randomization was not associated with either the occurrence or
recurrence of disc hemorrhages.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort of Low-Pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study patients,
migraine, baseline narrower neuroretinal rim width, low systolic blood pressure
and mean arterial ocular perfusion pressure, and use of systemic β-blockers were 
risk factors for disc hemorrhage detection. Randomization assignment did not
influence the frequency of disc hemorrhage detection.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.02.009 
PMID: 24513094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2014 Mar;58(2):205-11. doi: 10.1007/s10384-014-0303-y. Epub
2014 Jan 28.

Clinical features and glaucoma according to optic disc size in a South Korean
population: the Namil study.

Kang NH(1), Jun RM, Choi KR; Namil Study group, Korean Glaucoma Society.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Ophthalmology and Optometry, School 
of Medicine, Ewha Womans University Mok-dong Hospital, 911-1 Mok-dong,
Yangcheon-ku, Seoul, 158-710, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To assess the proportion of glaucomatous eyes based on the association
between optic disc (OD) size and its clinical determinants in the resident
population of Namil-myon, Central South Korea.
METHODS: Of the 1,532 participants in the Namil study, we included 1,410 Koreans 
(2,734 eyes) with legible fundus photographs in this study. Following the
estimation of OD size on the photographs using Image J software, we corrected for
image magnification. Associations between the clinical features, such as age,
sex, axial length (AL), spherical equivalent (SE), and central corneal thickness,
and the estimated OD size were assessed for individual eyes. After adjusting for 
the influencing factors, the proportion of glaucoma was compared among three
categories of measured OD size (small, medium, and large OD groups).
RESULTS: After adjusting for the potential confounders using a linear mixed
model, age, sex, AL, and SE were correlated with the OD size estimates (P =
0.003, P = 0.029, P < 0.001, and P < 0.001, respectively). The percentage of
glaucomatous eyes was 3.77 % in the small disc group, which was higher than in
the other groups (P = 0.054). In particular, normal tension glaucoma (NTG) was
statistically significantly more frequent in this group (odds ratio = 1.86, P =
0.042).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that clinical features such as age, sex, AL,
and SE might need to be considered for an accurate evaluation of the OD. In
addition, in individuals with a small OD, the presence of NTG must be carefully
investigated in the South Korea population.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-014-0303-y 
PMID: 24468870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2014 Feb;21(1):39-44. doi: 10.3109/09286586.2013.867510.

Characteristics of undiagnosed primary open-angle glaucoma: the Tajimi Study.

Iwase A(1), Suzuki Y, Araie M; Tajimi Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Tajimi Iwase Eye Clinic , Tajimi, Gifu Prefecture , Japan .

PURPOSE: To evaluate the characteristics of patients with previously undiagnosed 
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in the Tajimi Study.
METHODS: Background and ophthalmic examination data from 111 patients previously 
undiagnosed with POAG from the Tajimi Study, a population-based survey of
glaucoma, were analyzed and compared with those of eight patients with previously
diagnosed glaucoma.
RESULTS: The mean deviation (MD) and vertical cup-to-disc ratio (vC/D) of the
worse eye of each patient averaged -5.5 decibels (dB) and 0.72 and -10.4 dB and
0.83, respectively, in undiagnosed and diagnosed POAG. In undiagnosed POAG,
arcuate and partial arcuate patterns accounted for 50% of the pattern of the
visual field (VF) damage, and 95% of patients presented with intraocular pressure
of 21 mmHg or less (normal tension glaucoma). The undiagnosed group had better MD
and smaller vC/D values in the worse eye and less involvement of bilateral VFs
than the diagnosed group (p = 0.004-0.050 with Bonferroni correction), while
other factors, including mean sensitivity of the binocular VF, showed no
intergroup difference.
CONCLUSION: The characteristics of Japanese patients with previously undiagnosed 
POAG indicated that bilateral evaluation of the optic disc and VF are important
for identifying individuals with glaucoma.

DOI: 10.3109/09286586.2013.867510 
PMID: 24467561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 Jun;92(4):e280-5. doi: 10.1111/aos.12340. Epub 2014 Jan 24.

Ocular pulse amplitude and Doppler waveform analysis in glaucoma patients.

Abegão Pinto L(1), Vandewalle E, Willekens K, Marques-Neves C, Stalmans I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centro Hospitalar Lisboa Central, Lisbon,
Portugal; Department of Pharmacology and Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine,
Lisbon University, Lisbon, Portugal.

PURPOSE: To determine the correlation between ocular blood flow velocities and
ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) in glaucoma patients using colour Doppler imaging
(CDI) waveform analysis.
METHOD: A prospective, observer-masked, case-control study was performed. OPA and
blood flow variables from central retinal artery and vein (CRA, CRV), nasal and
temporal short posterior ciliary arteries (NPCA, TPCA) and ophthalmic artery (OA)
were obtained through dynamic contour tonometry and CDI, respectively. Univariate
and multiple regression analyses were performed to explore the correlations
between OPA and retrobulbar CDI waveform and systemic cardiovascular parameters
(blood pressure, blood pressure amplitude, mean ocular perfusion pressure and
peripheral pulse).
RESULTS: One hundred and ninety-two patients were included [healthy controls: 55;
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG): 74; normal-tension glaucoma (NTG): 63]. OPA
was statistically different between groups (Healthy: 3.17 ± 1.2 mmHg; NTG:
2.58 ± 1.2 mmHg; POAG: 2.60 ± 1.1 mmHg; p < 0.01), but not between the glaucoma
groups (p = 0.60). Multiple regression models to explain OPA variance were made
for each cohort (healthy: p < 0.001, r = 0.605; NTG: p = 0.003, r = 0.372; POAG: 
p < 0.001, r = 0.412). OPA was independently associated with retrobulbar CDI
parameters in the healthy subjects and POAG patients (healthy CRV resistance
index: β = 3.37, CI: 0.16-6.59; healthy NPCA mean systolic/diastolic velocity
ratio: β = 1.34, CI: 0.52-2.15; POAG TPCA mean systolic velocity: β = 0.14, CI
0.05-0.23). OPA in the NTG group was associated with diastolic blood pressure and
pulse rate (β = -0.04, CI: -0.06 to -0.01; β = -0.04, CI: -0.06 to -0.001,
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Vascular-related models provide a better explanation to OPA variance
in healthy individuals than in glaucoma patients. The variables that influence
OPA seem to be different in healthy, POAG and NTG patients.

© 2014 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12340 
PMID: 24456194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 May;92(3):e185-93. doi: 10.1111/aos.12277. Epub 2014 Jan
23.

Preperimetric normal tension glaucoma study: long-term clinical course and effect
of therapeutic lowering of intraocular pressure.

Jeong JH(1), Park KH, Jeoung JW, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the long-term clinical
course of normotensive preperimetric glaucoma (PPG).
METHODS: The medical records of 71 eyes of 71 patients with normotensive PPG who 
underwent intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering therapy were reviewed
retrospectively. The patients had been regularly followed up at 3- to 6-month
intervals between 1996 and 2011. Progression was evaluated by comparing the
structural changes of serial stereoscopic colour disc and red-free retinal nerve 
fibre layer (RNFL) photographs and by comparing serial visual field (VF) test
results for functional changes.
RESULTS: Over an average follow-up period of 6.8 years, 41 eyes (57.7%) showed
progression in either structural or functional evaluation. Disc haemorrhage (DH) 
was observed significantly more frequently in the progressing group (p < 0.005); 
however, there were no differences in mean age, gender ratio, follow-up period
and ocular characteristics at baseline such as IOP, RNFL defects and global
indices of VF between the non-progressing and progressing groups. Thirty eyes
(42.3%) showed significant angular widening of the localized RNFL defect towards 
the macula at a mean rate of approximately 1°/year. Perimetric glaucoma developed
in 19 eyes (26.8%), and the rate of change in the mean deviation was -0.23
dB/year. Preperimetric glaucoma patients with DH or IOP reductions of <20% from
the baseline had a higher probability of RNFL deterioration than patients without
DH or IOP reductions of ≥20% from the baseline by multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: Although the rates of change were typically slow, more than half of
normotensive patients with PPG showed statistically significant progressive
structural or functional changes in medically treated cases. DH or IOP reductions
of <20% from the baseline were shown as a significant risk factor for the
progression of PPG.

© 2014 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12277 
PMID: 24456145  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Feb 24;55(2):986-92. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-12968.

Mitochondrial DNA variant discovery in normal-tension glaucoma patients by
next-generation sequencing.

Jeoung JW(1), Seong MW, Park SS, Kim DM, Kim SH, Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a disease of late onset, complex trait 
with multiple risk factors. In this study, we discovered a mitochondrial DNA
variant in NTG patients using next-generation sequencing (NGS).
METHODS: The DNA was extracted from the peripheral blood of NTG patients and
normal control subjects. Sequencing of the entire mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) using
NGS revealed new genetic risk variants for NTG patients (discovery sample, n =
20). For the candidate genetic variants, we performed a disease-gene association 
study in the independent case-control populations (validation sample; NTG, n =
196 and normal control, n = 202) using Sanger sequencing.
RESULTS: This study identified 148 different novel mtDNA-sequence changes. Of
these, 21 sequence variants identified at a frequency greater than 15% were
located in the ND2-ND6, RNR1, RNR2, COX1, COX3, ATP6, ATP8, and CYTB genes. Of
the 21 candidate genetic variants, the frequencies of m.4883C>T (ND2 gene),
m.9540T>C (COX3 gene), and m.14766C>T (CYTB gene) were significantly different
between NTG patients and controls (28.4% vs. 15.3%, P = 0.002; 56.5% vs. 44.4%, P
= 0.020; and 3.1% vs. 0.0%, P = 0.030, respectively). The association with
m.4883C>T in the ND2 gene resisted the Bonferroni correction for multiple tests. 
The NTG patients of T genotype in the m.4883C>T variant have more advanced visual
field loss than those who carry the C genotype (P = 0.009).
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals a spectrum of mtDNA variants in patients with
NTG. Our results identified a synonymous change, m.4883C>T variant, which was
more prevalent in the NTG cohorts than in the controls. This finding suggests
that the identified variant may be a genetic risk factor for the development of
NTG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-12968 
PMID: 24448266  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2014 Mar;58(2):188-96. doi: 10.1007/s10384-013-0298-9. Epub
2014 Jan 21.

Paracentral scotoma in glaucoma detected by 10-2 but not by 24-2 perimetry.

Hangai M(1), Ikeda HO, Akagi T, Yoshimura N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Kyoto University Graduate
School of Medicine, 54 Kawahara-cho, Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8507, Japan,
hangai@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

PURPOSE: To describe, in glaucomatous patients, spectral-domain optical coherence
tomography (SD-OCT) results predictive of paracentral visual field (VF) defects
present on standard automated perimetry (SAP) 10-2, but not on SAP 24-2.
METHODS: The SAP 10-2 test was repeated 3 times to determine whether paracentral 
VF defects were present. Spectralis™ HRA + OCT was used to obtain
speckle-noise-reduced macular B-scans. The macular scan protocol consisted of 19 
vertical cross-sectional scan lines centered on the fovea (30° × 15° volume
scan), each of which was the average of 50 scans. A 3D OCT-2000 was also used to 
determine macular layer thicknesses and to detect abnormally thin regions (below 
the 1 % confidence interval of the normative data).
RESULTS: We identified 3 cases in which paracentral VF defects were detected on
SAP 10-2, but not on SAP 24-2. Paracentral VF defects were detected on all of the
SAP 10-2 tests repeated 3 times, and included absolute scotoma in 2 of the 3 SAP 
10-2 results. Retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) and ganglion cell layer (GCL)
damage was diminished on SD-OCT macular images; 2 patients had RNFL and GCL
thinning within and central to the parafoveal region, where the GCL is generally 
thickest in healthy eyes, and 1 patient had evident RNFL and GCL thinning in the 
papillomacular bundle.
CONCLUSIONS: Macular SD-OCT scans may be useful in deciding whether SAP 10-2
should be performed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-013-0298-9 
PMID: 24442888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Harv Health Lett. 2013 Oct;38(12):3.

The glaucoma you may be missing. Sometimes normal eye pressures mask the
condition.

[No authors listed]


PMID: 24432442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Harefuah. 2013 Nov;152(11):643-6, 689, 688.

[Comparison of dynamic contour tonometry, Goldmann applanation Tonometry and
tonopen for measuring intraocular pressure in normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Hebrew]

Kurtz S(1), Soiberman U(1), Shemesh G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Tel Aviv Medical Center, Israel, and the Sackler
Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is a chronic progressive optic
neuropathy, characterized by relatively normal intraocular pressure (IOP)
measurements. This study utilized three modalities in the measurement of lOP:
dynamic contour tonometry (Pascal-DCT), Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT) and 
Tonopen XL.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the lOP measurements of the three devices in eyes with
NTG.
METHODS: This retrospective study of thirty-three NTG patients (66 eyes) who
underwent lOP measurements using the three devices was approved by a local ethics
committee. The lOP measurements were stratified according to central corneal
thickness (CCT) and corneal curvature (CC).
RESULTS: The mean DCT IOP was higher (16.22 +/- 3.04 mmHg) than the mean GAT IOP 
(13.14 +/- 2.83 mmHg, P < 0.0042). The mean Tonopen XL lOP was lower than the
mean GAT IOP (12.76 +/- 3.11 mmHg, P < 0.001). GAT and DCT measurements were
significantly infLuenced by corneal curvature (P = 0.004 and P < 0.0001,
respectiveLy).
CONCLUSIONS: lOPs measured by GAT or Tonopen XL were consistently lower than by
DCT. CC significantly influenced GAT and DCT results.


PMID: 24416820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 Apr;157(4):876-84. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.01.007. Epub
2014 Jan 9.

Measurement of scleral thickness using swept-source optical coherence tomography 
in patients with open-angle glaucoma and myopia.

Lopilly Park HY(1), Lee NY(2), Choi JA(3), Park CK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Incheon St. Mary's Hospital, Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine,
The Catholic University of Korea, Incheon, South Korea. (3)St. Vincent Hospital, 
Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of
Korea, Suwon, South Korea. (4)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science,
Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea,
Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: ckpark@catholic.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: To use swept-source optical coherence tomography (OCT) to image the
posterior sclera at the posterior pole and around the optic nerve head (ONH) and 
measure the subfoveal scleral thickness and laminar thickness to evaluate the
relationship between the measured thicknesses and ocular parameters.
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional design.
METHODS: The study included 103 patients with glaucoma and 43 controls with axial
lengths more than 26 mm. Swept-source OCT images were obtained to capture the
subfoveal and ONH regions. Subfoveal scleral thickness and laminar thickness were
measured from obtained B-scan images. To verify the reproducibility of the
measurement, intraclass correlation coefficients were calculated from selected
B-scans. Scleral and laminar thicknesses in patients with normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) was compared with that in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
A Pearson correlation was calculated to assess the relationships of scleral and
laminar thicknesses with ocular parameters.
RESULTS: Posterior scleral thickness could be measured in 68.4% of patients, and 
laminar thickness could be measured in 88.6% by using swept-source OCT.
Interobserver and intraobserver measurement reproducibility was moderate to
excellent. The subfoveal scleral thickness was 670.84 ± 160.60 μm in the POAG
group and 496.55 ± 115.20 μm in the NTG group; a significant difference between
the groups was observed. Subfoveal scleral thickness (r = -0.677, P < 0.001) was 
negatively correlated with axial length only in patients with NTG, not in
patients with POAG.
CONCLUSIONS: Swept-source OCT detected differences in the thicknesses of the
posterior sclera between eyes with NTG and eyes with POAG. Subfoveal scleral
thickness was negatively correlated with axial length only in eyes with NTG.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.01.007 
PMID: 24412142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Semin Ophthalmol. 2015 Jul;30(4):268-71. doi: 10.3109/08820538.2013.839816. Epub 
2014 Jan 10.

Comparison of central corneal thickness measured by hand-held and desk-mounted
ultrasound pachymeters in glaucoma patients.

Salim S(1), Du H, Wan J.

Author information: 
(1)University of Tennessee Health Science Center , Memphis, TN , USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to compare the accuracy and
reproducibility of central corneal thickness measured by hand-held and
desk-mounted ultrasound pachymeter in glaucoma patients under treatment.
METHODS: Prospective study of 65 glaucoma patients. Central corneal thickness was
measured by two ultrasound pachymeters: the hand-held, portable PachPen
(Accutome, Lynwood, WA), and the desk-mounted PacScan 300 (Sonomed, Lake Success,
NY).
RESULTS: The mean ± SD central corneal thickness was 526.5 ± 44.8 µm and
530.0 ± 44.7 µm for the hand-held and desk-mounted pachymeters, respectively
(p = 0.15). Linear regression analysis revealed a slope of 0.97 with Pearson
correlation coefficient of 0.96. Bland-Altman analysis showed a mean difference
of measurements by both pachymeters of 3.22 µm with two standard
deviations = 9.51. Both instruments showed high intraobserver correlation: 0.972 
for the hand-held pachymeter and 0.993 for the desk-mounted pachymeter.
CONCLUSION: Central corneal thickness measurements were comparable with the use
of hand-held and desk-mounted ultrasound units in glaucoma patients with good
intraobserver reproducibility.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2013.839816 
PMID: 24409944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014;8:149-56. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S55456. Epub 2013 Dec 28.

Phase III safety and efficacy study of long-term brinzolamide/timolol fixed
combination in Japanese patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Nakajima M(1), Iwasaki N(2), Adachi M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Nakajima Eye Clinic, Kyoto, Japan. (2)Iwasaki Eye Clinic, Japan. (3)Adachi Eye
Clinic, Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
a long-term, twice-daily brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination
ophthalmic suspension (BRINZ/TIM-FC) in Japanese patients with open-angle
glaucoma (primary open-angle, normal-tension, exfoliation, or pigmentary) or
ocular hypertension.
METHODS: This was a prospective, nonrandomized, multicenter, open-label, Phase
III study of Japanese patients aged ≥20 years with diagnoses of open-angle
glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Patients were treated with topical BRINZ/TIM-FC 
twice daily for 52 weeks. The primary endpoint was mean reduction from baseline
in intraocular pressure. Data were analyzed using repeated-measures analysis of
variance and t-tests. Adverse events and ophthalmic, physiologic, and laboratory 
parameters were measured throughout the study as safety endpoints. A total of 126
patients (mean ± SD age, 63±12 years) were enrolled, and 125 received
BRINZ/TIM-FC.
RESULTS: Mean intraocular pressure was significantly reduced from baseline at
weeks 4 through 52, with changes ranging from -4.1 mmHg to -5.7 mmHg (P<0.0001,
all time points). Adverse events related to BRINZ/TIM-FC treatment were observed 
in 22% of patients. No substantial changes from baseline were observed in
ophthalmic, physiologic, or laboratory variables.
CONCLUSION: Long-term, twice-daily BRINZ/TIM-FC therapy produced and maintained
significant intraocular pressure reductions and was generally well tolerated in
Japanese patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S55456 
PMCID: PMC3883581
PMID: 24403818  [PubMed]


352. Br J Ophthalmol. 2014 Mar;98(3):329-33. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2013-303162.
Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Retinal oxygen metabolism in healthy subjects and glaucoma patients.

Olafsdottir OB(1), Vandewalle E, Abegão Pinto L, Geirsdottir A, De Clerck E,
Stalmans P, Gottfredsdottir MS, Kristjansdottir JV, Van Calster J, Zeyen T,
Stefánsson E, Stalmans I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Iceland, , Reykjavik, Iceland.

BACKGROUND: To test whether retinal oxygen metabolism is different in glaucoma
patients compared with healthy subjects.
METHODS: This was a two-centre study where retinal vessel oxygen saturation was
measured in glaucoma patients and healthy individuals with a non-invasive
spectrophotometric retinal oximeter. Visual fields were obtained in the glaucoma 
patients.
RESULTS: No statistical difference was found in retinal oxygen saturation in
arterioles (p=0.16), venules (p=0.16) and arteriovenous difference (p=0.24) when 
all glaucoma patients (n=74) were compared with healthy individuals (n=89). When 
patients with advanced glaucoma (visual field mean defect (MD ≥ 10 dB, n=21))
were compared with healthy individuals, the oxygen saturation in venules was
higher in glaucoma patients (58.2% ± 5.4% vs 53.8% ± 6.4%; p=0.0054, mean ± SD)
and the arteriovenous difference was lower in glaucoma patients (36.4% ± 4.7% vs 
39.5% ± 5.7%; p=0.021). In glaucoma patients with mild glaucoma (visual field MD 
≤ 5 dB, n=33), no statistical differences were found in retinal oxygen saturation
compared with healthy individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma patients with advanced glaucoma have higher oxygen
saturation in venules and lower arteriovenous difference in oxygen saturation
compared with healthy individuals. The decreased arteriovenous difference in
severe glaucoma may be related to lower oxygen consumption secondary to
neuropathy.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2013-303162 
PMID: 24403567  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2014 Mar;58(2):212-7. doi: 10.1007/s10384-013-0299-8. Epub 2014
Jan 7.

Incidence of deepening of the upper eyelid sulcus on treatment with a tafluprost 
ophthalmic solution.

Sakata R(1), Shirato S, Miyata K, Aihara M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital, University
of Tokyo, 35-2, Sakaecho, Itabashi, Tokyo, 173-0015, Japan,
reisakata-tky@umin.ac.jp.

PURPOSE: Deepening of the upper eyelid sulcus (DUES), one symptom of
prostaglandin-associated periorbitopathy, was recently found to be an additional 
side effect of prostaglandin-related ophthalmic solutions. Here, we prospectively
investigated the incidence and factors associated with DUES in Japanese
open-angle glaucoma patients initially treated with benzalkonium chloride
(BAK)-preserved tafluprost (TAF).
METHODS: In this open-label prospective study instilling TAF in one eye, mean
deviation (MD) and intraocular pressure (IOP) were measured, and facial
photographs and subjective reports of DUES were obtained at intervals over 6
months. Three ophthalmologists independently assessed the photographs of DUES and
reached consensus. Relationships between demographic and ocular/systemic factors 
(age, sex, MD, refraction and IOP reduction) and DUES occurrence were evaluated.
RESULTS: Forty-three eyes of 43 glaucoma patients (24 men and 19 women) were
evaluated. Mean IOP before treatment was 16.6 ± 2.7 and after treatment, 14.1 ±
2.3 mmHg (P < 0.001). The objective rate of DUES was 9 % (4/43) at 2 months, 14 %
(6/43) at 4 months and 14 % (6/43) at 6 months. During this period, only one
patient self-reported an occurrence of DUES. No significant association was found
between DUES occurrence and any of the demographic, ocular, or systemic factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Physicians should inform patients about DUES as a minor side effect 
when prescribing TAF for IOP control.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-013-0299-8 
PMID: 24390604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 Nov;92(7):701-6. doi: 10.1111/aos.12305. Epub 2013 Dec 21.

Deep sclerectomy in normal-tension glaucoma with and without mitomycin-c.

Suominen S(1), Harju M, Kurvinen L, Vesti E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki,
Finland.

PURPOSE: To compare the outcome of deep sclerectomy (DS) with and without
mitomycin-C (MMC) in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: We prospectively analysed the results of 37 eyes of 37 consecutive
patients with NTG (age; mean ± SD; 64 ± 7 years) who underwent DS with a collagen
implant. Patients were randomized to the MMC and non-MMC groups. Subconjunctival 
MMC (0.4 mg/ml for 3 min) was used intraoperatively in 15 of 37 eyes. We defined 
total success as 25% reduction in intraocular pressure (IOP) without medication. 
Follow-up time was 12 months.
RESULTS: The mean preoperative IOP was significantly reduced from 15.2 ± 2.8 mmHg
to 9.3 ± 2.7 (p < 0.001) in the MMC group after 12-month follow-up and from 15.1 
± 2.9 mmHg to 11.8 ± 2.0 (p < 0.001) in the non-MMC group. At 12 months, the mean
IOP was significantly lower in the MMC group (p = 0.003) compared with the
non-MMC group. Total success was achieved in 10 of 15 eyes (67%) in MMC group and
in nine of 22 eyes (41%) in non-MMC group (p = 0.12). The number of glaucoma
medications was decreased from 2.2 ± 0.8 to 0.5 ± 1.2 in MMC group (p = 0.001)
and from 2.6 ± 1.0 to 0.5 ± 0.7 in non-MMC group (p < 0.001). Goniopuncture was
performed in seven eyes (47%) in the MMC group, compared with 16 eyes (73%) in
the non-MMC group (p = 0.13). IOP < 10 mmHg was achieved in seven of 15 eyes in
the MMC group and in two of 22 in the non-MMC group (p = 0.009). Complication
rate was low, and no difference between groups was evident.
CONCLUSION: Deep sclerectomy seems to be effective and safe in reducing IOP in
patients with NTG. Intraoperative use of MMC results in lower postoperative IOP
12-month postoperatively without increased rate of complications.

© 2013 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12305 
PMID: 24373326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Eye (Lond). 2014 Mar;28(3):303-11. doi: 10.1038/eye.2013.285. Epub 2013 Dec 20.

Initial central scotomas vs peripheral scotomas in normal-tension glaucoma:
clinical characteristics and progression rates.

Cho HK(1), Lee J(2), Lee M(3), Kee C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Kong Eye
Center, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Dankook University School
of Medicine, Cheonan, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate clinical characteristics and progression rates of the
initial central scotomas (ICS) compared with the initial peripheral scotomas
(IPS) in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: Among NTG patients showing a single hemifield defect and who performed
more than five reliable standard visual field (VF) tests, medical records of ICS 
(involvement of ≥3 adjacent points with P<5% within the central 12° of fixation
and one point with a P<0.01 within the central 6° of fixation) (n=32) or IPS (no 
VF abnormality within the central 6° of fixation) (n=34) were retrospectively
analyzed. The changes of mean thresholds from 10 zones of the glaucoma hemifield 
test, central 6° and 12° zones, peripheral zones other than central 6° and 12°,
and the entire hemifield were inspected. To calculate the progression rates,
linear mixed-effect model was employed.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between the two groups in age,
gender, ocular factors including baseline/mean treated intraocular pressure, and 
systemic factors including systolic or diastolic blood pressure/perfusion
pressure, mean ocular perfusion pressure (all P>0.05). There were no significant 
differences in baseline mean deviation and pattern standard deviation (P>0.05)
between the two groups, but VF index was significantly lower in ICS group than in
IPS group (P=0.001). The progression rates between the two groups were not
significantly different in all zones we investigated (all P>0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Newly diagnosed cases of NTG with ICS may not differ from those with
IPS in clinical characteristics and progression rates under treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2013.285 
PMCID: PMC3965817
PMID: 24357841  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Dec 19;54(13):8316. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-13602.

Author response: Postural changes of 24-hour intraocular pressure in normal
tension glaucoma.

Sakata R(1), Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo, Graduate School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan;

Comment on
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Dec;54(13):8315.
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Aug;54(8):5313-20.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-13602 
PMID: 24356237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Dec 19;54(13):8315. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-13104.

Postural changes of 24-hour intraocular pressure in normal-tension glaucoma.

Rao A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Services, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Patia, Bhubaneswar, Orissa, India.

Comment in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Dec;54(13):8316.

Comment on
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Aug;54(8):5313-20.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-13104 
PMID: 24356236  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 Mar;157(3):739-45. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2013.12.016. Epub
2013 Dec 15.

Relationship between preferred sleeping position and asymmetric visual field loss
in open-angle glaucoma patients.

Kim KN(1), Jeoung JW(2), Park KH(3), Kim DM(4), Ritch R(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chungnam National University Hospital, Daejeon,
South Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, 
Seoul, South Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University
Hospital, Seoul, South Korea; Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National
University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address:
kihopark@snu.ac.kr. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University
Hospital, Seoul, South Korea; Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National
University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. (5)Einhorn Clinical Research 
Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, New York; Department of
Ophthalmology, New York Medical College, Valhalla, New York.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 Jun;157(6):1327-8.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 Jun;157(6):1327.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between preferred sleeping position and 
asymmetric visual field (VF) loss in open-angle glaucoma (OAG) patients.
DESIGN: Retrospective, cross-sectional study.
METHODS: Six hundred and ninety-two (692) patients with bilateral normal-tension 
glaucoma (NTG) or high-tension glaucoma were consecutively enrolled. A
questionnaire to determine the preferred sleeping position was administered to
each patient. Asymmetric VF loss was defined as a difference in mean deviation
between the 2 eyes of at least 2 dB. According to these values, the better eye
and worse eye were defined. Among the patients with asymmetric VF loss, the
numbers preferring the worse eye-dependent lateral decubitus position and the
better eye-dependent lateral decubitus position were compared.
RESULTS: Among the enrolled patients, 309 (60.6%) with NTG and 121 (66.5%) with
high-tension glaucoma had asymmetric VF between the 2 eyes. Among the 309 NTG
patients, 100 (32.4%) preferred the lateral decubitus position. Of these, 66
(66.0%) preferred the worse eye-dependent lateral decubitus position (P = .001). 
Among the 121 high-tension glaucoma patients, 32 (26.4%) preferred the lateral
decubitus position, and of these, 23 (71.9%) preferred the worse eye-dependent
lateral decubitus position (P = .013).
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the sleep position habitually preferred by
glaucoma patients may be associated with greater VF loss.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2013.12.016 
PMID: 24345319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Ophthalmologe. 2013 Dec;110(12):1134-48. doi: 10.1007/s00347-012-2671-3.

[Medicinal glaucoma therapy. What can we learn from large randomized clinical
trials?].

[Article in German]

Jünemann AG(1), Huchzermeyer C, Rejdak R.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Augenheilkunde, Universitätsklinikum Erlangen,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Schwabachanlage 6, 90154,
Erlangen, Deutschland, anselm.juenemann@uk-erlangen.de.

The prospective multicenter randomized controlled clinical trials (RCTs) Ocular
Hypertension Glaucoma Treatment Study (OHTS), Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial
(EMGT), Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS), Collaborative Initial
Glaucoma Treatment Study (CITGS) and Collaborative Normal Tension Glaucoma Study 
(CNGTS) are often named as landmarks for glaucoma management as the results of
these studies provided the evidence for numerous therapeutic decisions in
clinical practice. The studies confirmed the consensus that reduction of
intraocular pressure reduces the risk of glaucoma progression covering the whole 
spectrum of glaucoma from ocular hypertension to advanced glaucoma. Furthermore, 
the identification of new risk factors allows a higher precision of assessment of
the risk of progression. The RCTs achieved the main goal of high level of
evidence, thus making progress in the understanding of glaucoma and its treatment
and bridging consensus-based and evidence-based decisions. However, the
implementation of the results into clinical practice needs adequate and accurate 
interpretation of the results.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-012-2671-3 
PMID: 24337205  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Ophthalmologica. 2014;231(3):160-5. doi: 10.1159/000355326. Epub 2013 Dec 7.

Comparison of normal- and high-tension glaucoma: nerve fiber layer and optic
nerve head damage.

Häntzschel J(1), Terai N, Furashova O, Pillunat K, Pillunat LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Carl Gustav Carus University Hospital, Dresden,
Germany.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate differences in the nerve fiber 
layer and glaucoma-induced structural optic nerve head (ONH) damage in patients
with normal- (NTG) and high-tension (HTG) glaucoma.
METHODS: In this retrospective pair-matched comparative study, 22 NTG and 22 HTG 
eyes were matched according to the same glaucomatous damage based on rim volume, 
rim area and disk size, as measured by Heidelberg retinal tomography (HRT III).
Visual fields (VF) were assessed by Humphrey perimetry, and nerve fiber layer
thickness was determined both by scanning laser polarimetry (GDxVCC) and
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). Comparisons of all
measured parameters were made between NTG and HTG groups.
RESULTS: Based on HRT results, both NTG and HTG eyes displayed comparable
structural damage to the ONH (NTG/HTG, mean: disk area, 2.30/2.31 mm(2), p =
0.942; rim area, 1.02/0.86 mm(2), p = 0.082; rim volume, 0.19/0.17 mm(3), p =
0.398). NTG eyes had significantly less VF damage than HTG eyes (NTG/HTG, mean
deviation: -4.23/-12.12 dB, p = 0.002; pattern standard deviation: 5.39/8.23 dB, 
p = 0.022). The inferior nerve fiber layer of NTG patients was significantly
thicker than that of HTG patients (NTG/HTG, mean: GDx inferior: 53.5/46.3 µm, p =
0.046). SD-OCT revealed a significantly thicker nerve fiber in NTG compared with 
HTG patients in all quadrants (NTG/HTG, total mean: 72.72/58.45 µm, p = 0.002).
CONCLUSION: At comparable glaucomatous stages, nerve fiber loss was more advanced
in HTG patients compared with NTG patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000355326 
PMID: 24334967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Jan 13;55(1):259-64. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-13020.

Results of a patient-directed survey on frequency of family history of glaucoma
in 2170 patients.

Gramer G(1), Weber BH, Gramer E.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Paediatric and Adolescent Medicine, Division for Metabolic
Disorders, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

PURPOSE: To evaluate in different types of glaucoma frequency of family history
of glaucoma (FHG), age at diagnosis, glaucoma risk in relatives, and acceptance
rate of genetic glaucoma tests. To assess stage of visual field loss (VFL) in
relation to FHG.
METHODS: Using standardized questions whether an ophthalmologist had found or
excluded glaucoma or ocular hypertension (OH), 2170 patients with glaucoma or OH 
interviewed all their first and second degree relatives. One thousand three
hundred thirty-eight patients had POAG, 233 primary angle closure glaucoma
(PACG), 148 OH, 153 normal tension glaucoma (NTG), 50 pigmentary glaucoma (PG),
and 66 pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEX).
RESULTS: Frequency of FHG was 40% in POAG, without significant differences
compared with NTG (P = 0.08), OH (P = 0.5), PACG (P = 0.4), and PG (P = 0.6).
There were significant differences in age at diagnosis between the glaucomas
(smallest between group P < 0.0001). Patients with FHG were significantly younger
at diagnosis than patients without FHG in all types of glaucoma (all P values ≤
0.03), except NTG and PEX. Patients' siblings and mothers had the highest
detection probability for glaucoma in POAG and OH. There was no significant
relation between stage of VFL and FHG in POAG (P = 0.6). Sixty-eight percent of
patients would participate in genetic glaucoma tests.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a similarly high genetic disposition in all types of
glaucoma. Disease risk was especially high in mothers and siblings. In patients
with FHG, knowledge of genetic disposition of the glaucomas may have led to
earlier diagnosis. This highlights the need for glaucoma awareness campaigns.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-13020 
PMID: 24327611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


362. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Mar-Apr;30(2-3):138-42. doi: 10.1089/jop.2013.0199.
Epub 2013 Dec 9.

Control of outflow resistance by soluble adenylyl cyclase.

Lee YS(1), Marmorstein AD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic , Rochester, Minnesota.

Abstract Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness in the United States affecting 
as many as 2.2 million Americans. All current glaucoma treatment strategies aim
to reduce intraocular pressure, even in patients with normal tension glaucoma.
Typically, this is accomplished by reducing the rate of aqueous flow by limiting 
aqueous production or enhancing drainage using drugs and surgery. Whereas these
strategies are effective in diminishing vision loss, some patients continue to
lose vision and many discontinue use of their medications because of undesirable 
side effects. Drugs known to be effective in altering conventional outflow have
for the most part been abandoned from modern clinical practice due to undesirable
side effects. Identification of new drugs that could enhance conventional
outflow, would offer additional options in the treatment of glaucoma and ocular
hypertension. To this end, our laboratory has recently uncovered a novel pathway 
for regulation of conventional outflow by the ciliary body. This pathway is
dependent on soluble adenylyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the generation of
cyclic adenosine 3',5' monophosphate (cAMP) in response to bicarbonate.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2013.0199 
PMCID: PMC3991979
PMID: 24320087  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Br J Ophthalmol. 2014 Jun;98(6):721-5. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2013-303884.
Epub 2013 Dec 4.

Cerebrospinal fluid pressure and glaucoma: regulation of trans-lamina cribrosa
pressure.

Marek B(1), Harris A(1), Kanakamedala P(1), Lee E(1), Amireskandari A(1),
Carichino L(2), Guidoboni G(3), Tobe LA(1), Siesky B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute,
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. (2)Department of Mathematical Sciences, Indiana
University-Purdue University at Indianapolis, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute,
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA Department of Mathematical Sciences, Indiana
University-Purdue University at Indianapolis, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

Increased trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference (TLCPD), the difference of
intraocular pressure (IOP) and orbital cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSF-P), has 
been investigated as a possible risk factor in glaucoma pathogenesis. In fact,
lower CSF-P in the setting of normal IOP has been implicated as a potential risk 
factor for normal tension glaucoma. Increased TLCPD has been associated with
decreased neuroretinal rim area and increased visual field defects. Furthermore, 
dysregulation of systemic blood pressure has been associated with changes in IOP.
Recent studies have also suggested that increased body mass index (BMI) is
associated with decreased prevalence of glaucoma, which may be due to an
increased CSF-P with increased BMI found in many studies. Given the interaction
of various pressures, their role in glaucoma pathophysiology has come under
investigation and warrants further study in order to better understand the
aetiology and progression of glaucoma.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2013-303884 
PMID: 24307714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


364. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Oct 24;2013:726912. doi: 10.1155/2013/726912.
eCollection 2013.

Arteriovenous passage times and visual field progression in normal tension
glaucoma.

Koch EC(1), Arend KO, Bienert M, Remky A, Plange N.

Author information: 
(1)Deptartment of Ophthalmology, RWTH Aachen University, Pauwelsstraße 30, 52057 
Aachen, Germany.

PURPOSE: Fluorescein angiographic studies revealed prolonged arteriovenous
passage (AVP) times and increased fluorescein filling defects in normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) compared to healthy controls. The purpose of this study was to
correlate baseline AVP and fluorescein filling defects with visual field
progression in patients with NTG.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with a follow-up period of at least 3 years and at
least 4 visual field examinations were included in this retrospective study.
Fluorescein angiography was performed at baseline using a confocal scanning laser
ophthalmoscope (SLO, Rodenstock Instr.); fluorescein filling defects and AVP were
measured by digital image analysis and dye dilution curves (25 Hz). Visual field 
progression was evaluated using regression analysis of the MD (Humphrey-Zeiss,
SITA-24-2, MD progression per year (dB/year)). 72 patients with NTG were
included, 44 patients in study 1 (fluorescein filling defects) and 28 patients in
study 2 (AVP).
RESULTS: In study 1 (mean follow-up 6.6 ± 1.9 years, 10 ± 5 visual field tests), 
MD progression per year (-0.51 ± 0.59 dB/year) was significantly correlated to
the age (P = 0.04, r = -0.29) but not to fluorescein filling defects, IOP, or MD 
at baseline. In study 2 (mean follow-up 6.6 ± 2.2 years, 10 ± 5 visual field
tests), MD progression per year (-0.45 ± 0.51 dB/year) was significantly
correlated to AVP (P = 0.03, r = 0.39) but not to age, IOP, or MD at baseline.
CONCLUSION: Longer AVP times at baseline are correlated to visual field
progression in NTG. Impaired retinal blood flow seems to be an important factor
for glaucoma progression.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/726912 
PMCID: PMC3824313
PMID: 24282387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Jan 7;55(1):110-6. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-13168.

Effect of Ginkgo biloba on visual field and contrast sensitivity in Chinese
patients with normal tension glaucoma: a randomized, crossover clinical trial.

Guo X(1), Kong X, Huang R, Jin L, Ding X, He M, Liu X, Patel MC, Congdon NG.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.

Erratum in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Apr;55(4):2315. Patel, Mehul Chimanlal [added].

Comment in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Apr;55(4):2418.
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Apr;55(4):2417.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the effect of ginkgo biloba extract on visual field defect 
and contrast sensitivity in a Chinese cohort with normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: In this prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled crossover study,
patients newly diagnosed with normal tension glaucoma, either in a tertiary
glaucoma clinic (n = 5) or in a cohort undergoing routine general physical
examinations in a primary care clinic (n = 30), underwent two 4-week phases of
treatment, separated by a washout period of 8 weeks. Randomization determined
whether ginkgo biloba extract (40 mg, 3 times per day) or placebo
(identical-appearing tablets) was received first. Primary outcomes were change in
contrast sensitivity and mean deviation on 24-2 SITA standard visual field
testing, while secondary outcomes included IOP and self-reported adverse events.
RESULTS: A total of 35 patients with mean age 63.7 (6.5) years were randomized to
the ginkgo biloba extract-placebo (n = 18) or the placebo-ginkgo biloba extract
(n = 17) sequence. A total of 28 patients (80.0%, 14 in each group) who completed
testing did not differ at baseline in age, sex, visual field mean deviation,
contrast sensitivity, IOP, or blood pressure. Changes in visual field and
contrast sensitivity did not differ by treatment received or sequence (P > 0.2
for all). Power to have detected a difference in mean defect as large as
previously reported was 80%.
CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to some previous reports, ginkgo biloba extract
treatment had no effect on mean defect or contrast sensitivity in this group of
normal tension glaucoma patients. (http://www.chictr.org number,
ChiCTR-TRC-08000724).

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-13168 
PMID: 24282229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Mar;252(3):477-83. doi:
10.1007/s00417-013-2533-y. Epub 2013 Nov 27.

Higher optic nerve sheath diameters are associated with lower ocular blood flow
velocities in glaucoma patients.

Willekens K(1), Abegão Pinto L, Vandewalle E, Marques-Neves C, Stalmans I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Campus St. Raphaël, 
Kapucijnenvoer 33, 3000, Leuven, Belgium.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between optic nerve sheath diameter
(ONSD) and retrobulbar blood flow velocities, as measured by color Doppler
imaging (CDI) in glaucoma patients.
METHODS: We performed a prospective, randomized, observer-masked study involving 
a total of 197 subjects. Once enrolled, they were divided by three groups:
healthy controls (n = 51), normal-tension glaucoma patients (NTG, n = 58), and
primary, open-angle glaucoma patients (POAG, n = 88). All subjects underwent a
general ophthalmological examination, an ultrasound-based assessment of the ONSD,
and a hemodynamic study of the retrobulbar vascularization using CDI.
Non-parametric tests, chi-square contingency tables, and the Deming correlations 
were used to explore differences and correlations between variables in the
diagnostic groups.
RESULTS: ONSD was not different between experimental groups (p = 0.28). ONSD
correlated positively with the pulsatility index of the ophthalmic artery in
healthy individuals (p = 0.007), but not in glaucoma patients (NTG: p = 0.41;
POAG: p = 0.22). In NTG patients, higher ONSD values were associated with lower
end-diastolic and mean flow velocities in the short ciliary arteries (p = 0.005
in both correlations). No such correlation was found in healthy nor POAG groups
(p range between 0.15 to 0.96). ONSD was not associated with any CDI-related
variable of the central retinal artery in any cohort. Venous outflow velocities
were not associated with ONSD in any of the three groups.
CONCLUSIONS: ONSD is negatively correlated with retrobulbar blood flow velocities
in glaucoma patients, but not in healthy controls.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-013-2533-y 
PMID: 24281785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Med Clin (Barc). 2014 Aug 19;143(4):157-60. doi: 10.1016/j.medcli.2013.07.026.
Epub 2013 Nov 21.

[Hemodynamic component in glaucoma and its association with risk factors and
cardiovascular disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Muñoz de Escalona-Rojas JE(1), Cantero-Hinojosa J(2), Garrido-Pareja F(3),
García-Serrano JL(4), Padilla-Torres JF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Gestión Clínica, Hospital Universitario San Cecilio, Granada,
España. Electronic address: jemder78@hotmail.com. (2)Servicio de Medicina
Interna, Hospital Universitario San Cecilio, Granada, España. (3)Servicio de
Radiología,Hospital Universitario San Cecilio, Granada, España. (4)Unidad de
Gestión Clínica, Hospital Universitario San Cecilio, Granada, España.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: We sought to study the association of glaucoma with
vascular disease, with 2 independent pathways: the association of glaucoma with
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and the study of ocular hemodynamic variables (OHV) 
in glaucoma.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Cross-sectional study consisting of 73 patients: 25 without 
glaucoma, 28 primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and 20 normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG). OHV, cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF) and CVD were determined.
RESULTS: We found a greater number of CVRF and CVD in patients affected by POAG
(P=.002 and P=.016) and NTG (P=.001 and P=.010) compared to the control group.
With regard to OHV, in patients suffering from POAG, we found lower systolic and 
diastolic velocities and higher resistance index in the central retinal artery
(P<.05). Moreover, in both types of glaucoma, we found higher resistance index in
the posterior ciliary artery (P<.05).
CONCLUSIONS: There is a statistically significant association between the
presence of CVD and/or CVRF and glaucomatous disease, a finding that is
supplemented with data from the OHV. These values indicate a worst ocular
perfusion in patients with glaucomatous disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2013.07.026 
PMID: 24268908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Feb;252(2):307-14. doi:
10.1007/s00417-013-2513-2. Epub 2013 Nov 22.

Relationship between disc margin to fovea distance and central visual field
defect in normal tension glaucoma.

Lee M(1), Jin H, Ahn J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ajou University School of Medicine, San 5,
Wonchon-dong, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon, 443-729, Korea.

BACKGROUND: To investigate the relationship between ocular geometric factors,
including temporal disc margin to fovea distance (DFD) measured by optic disc
stereophotography (ODP) and central visual field (VF) defect, in normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: This retrospective, single-center, cross-sectional study included 88
eyes of 88 NTG patients with mild VF defects (MD > -6.0 dB). NTG patients were
divided into two groups according to VF tests: central VF-invading and central
VF-sparing groups. Optic nerve head (ONH) parameters including disc dimensions,
peripapillary atrophy (PPA), and DFD were obtained by ODP, and retinal nerve
fiber layer (RNFL) thickness was measured by Stratus optical coherence tomography
(OCT).
RESULTS: In the invading group, DFD was shorter (3.642 ± 0.401 mm) than in the
sparing group (3.877 ± 0.278 mm; p = 0.002). The sparing group had more
vertically oval ONH (p = 0.023) and wider temporal PPA width (p = 0.031). The
RNFL thickness in the invading group was thinner in the temporal and inferior
quadrants, but thicker in the superior quadrant than that of the sparing group.
In a multiple linear regression analysis, DFD was the only geometric factor
associated with degree of central VF involvement (p = 0.002). DFD was positively 
correlated with temporal RNFL thickness in the sparing group (r = 0.484,
p < 0.001) but not in the invading group (r = -0.080, p = 0.631).
CONCLUSIONS: Eyes with a shorter DFD should be monitored carefully because
central VF involvement appears to be related to shorter DFD in NTG patients with 
mild VF defects.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-013-2513-2 
PMID: 24263528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Dec 30;54(13):8401-7. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-13014.

Factors associated with focal lamina cribrosa defects in glaucoma.

Park SC(1), Hsu AT, Su D, Simonson JL, Al-Jumayli M, Liu Y, Liebmann JM, Ritch R.

Author information: 
(1)Moise and Chella Safra Advanced Ocular Imaging Laboratory, Einhorn Clinical
Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of the Mount Sinai Health System,
New York, New York.

PURPOSE: To assess factors associated with focal lamina cribrosa (LC) defects in 
glaucoma.
METHODS: Serial enhanced depth imaging (EDI) optical coherence tomography (OCT)
B-scans of the optic nerve head were obtained from glaucoma patients. EDI OCT
scans were reviewed for focal LC defects (laminar holes or disinsertions).
Evaluated clinical factors included age, central corneal thickness, visual field 
(VF) mean deviation (MD), exfoliation syndrome, normal-tension glaucoma (NTG),
disc hemorrhage, and intraocular pressure (IOP) during past follow-up.
RESULTS: One hundred forty-eight glaucomatous eyes (148 patients; mean age, 68 ± 
12 years; mean VF MD, -11.63 ± 6.96 dB) were included. Sixty-seven (45%) eyes had
focal LC defects and 81 (55%) did not. Eyes with focal LC defects had a higher
prevalence of both disc hemorrhage (25% vs. 6%) and NTG (33% vs. 9%) and worse VF
MD (-14.12 vs. -9.58 dB) than those without focal LC defects (P = 0.002, P <
0.001, and P < 0.001, respectively). In the multivariate logistic regression
analysis, higher frequency of disc hemorrhage detection (odds ratio [OR], 3.63; P
= 0.032), a diagnosis of NTG (OR, 4.23; P = 0.005), and worse VF MD (OR, 1.11; P 
< 0.001) were significant factors associated with the presence of focal LC
defects. Disc hemorrhage developed in the same half of the disc as the largest or
the second largest focal LC defect in 15 of 17 eyes (88.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: Disc hemorrhage, a diagnosis of NTG, and more advanced glaucoma
status are associated with focal LC defects. Future studies are needed to
elucidate the cause-and-effect relationships between focal LC defects and these
factors.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-13014 
PMID: 24255039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2014 Jan;58(1):62-7. doi: 10.1007/s10384-013-0290-4. Epub 2013 
Nov 21.

Evaluation of peripapillary choroidal thickness in unilateral normal-tension
glaucoma.

Suh W(1), Cho HK, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Dongtan Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, 
Hallym University College of Medicine, Hwaseong, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association of normal-tension glaucoma and peripapillary
choroidal thickness.
PARTICIPANTS: Sixty-one patients with normal-tension glaucoma in one eye.
METHODS: Spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) scans were
obtained to estimate peripapillary choroidal thickness in a group of unilateral
normal-tension glaucoma patients. The average peripapillary choroidal thicknesses
of the glaucomatous eye and the nonglaucomatous eye of each patient were
compared, and the choroidal thickness underlying the retinal nerve fiber layer
defect in the glaucomatous eye was compared with the choroidal thickness of a
compatible position in the contralateral normal eye. The associations of
peripapillary choroidal thickness with independent parameters including the
presence of glaucoma, age, sex, refractive error, axial length, central corneal
thickness, intraocular pressure, visual field mean deviation, visual field
pattern standard deviation, and systemic disease were assessed with mixed model
univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: The average peripapillary choroidal thickness was not statistically
significantly different in the glaucomatous and nonglaucomatous eyes of the
patients (P = 0.52). There was no definite difference between the choroidal
thickness underlying the retinal nerve fiber layer defect in the glaucomatous eye
and the choroidal thickness of a compatible position in the contralateral normal 
eye, indicating that there was no correlation of the retinal nerve fiber layer
with choroidal thickness. Age (P = 0.004) and axial length (P ≤ 0.0001) were
negatively associated with peripapillary choroidal thickness.
CONCLUSIONS: In unilateral normal tension glaucoma, there was no significant
intereye difference in choroidal thickness measured with SD-OCT. The structural
features of the choroid may not be associated with normal-tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-013-0290-4 
PMID: 24254165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Glaucoma. 2014 Jun-Jul;23(5):282-7. doi: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000435848.90957.fe.

The effect of positional changes on intraocular pressure during sleep in patients
with and without glaucoma.

Lazzaro EC(1), Mallick A, Singh M, Reich I, Elmann S, Stefanov DG, Lazzaro DR.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology †Scientific Computing Center, State University of
New York Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY.

PURPOSE: To determine whether sleeping at a 20-degree head-up position decreases 
nocturnal intraocular pressure (IOP) compared with lying supine (flat) in
patients with and without glaucoma.
DESIGN: Prospective, nonrandomized comparative case series.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty patients were recruited based on self-reported
disease status with 15 glaucoma and 15 nonglaucoma patients; a total of 60 eyes
were tested. Patients were evaluated in a sleep laboratory on 2 separate nights, 
lying flat 1 night and lying on a wedge pillow at a 20-degree head-up position
another night. Baseline IOP was measured during the awake period (10 PM), then
measured at 2-hour intervals during the sleep period (12, 2, 4, and 6 AM).
RESULTS: IOP measurements during the 10 PM awake period did not significantly
differ between the 2 positions (P=0.55). During the sleep period (12 to 6 AM),
the mean IOP was 1.51 mm Hg lower in the 20-degree head-up position when compared
with the flat position (95% confidence interval, 0.99 to 2.04 mm Hg), with an
average drop of 1.56 and 1.47 mm Hg in glaucoma and nonglaucoma patients,
respectively. This corresponds to a 9.33% and 8.67% IOP reduction in glaucoma and
nonglaucoma patients, respectively. Twenty-five of 30 patients (83.3%) had lower 
mean IOPs in the 20-degree head-up position. Mean IOP reduction was >10% for 11
of 30 patients (36.7%) when sleeping in the head-up position.
CONCLUSIONS: The 20-degree head-up position correlates with lower nocturnal IOP
as compared with the supine position in glaucoma and nonglaucoma patients. No
significant difference in IOP reduction was observed in glaucoma patients when
compared with nonglaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000435848.90957.fe 
PMID: 24248001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Glaucoma. 2014 Oct-Nov;23(8):e138-43. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000026.

Comparison of fluctuations of intraocular pressure before and after selective
laser trabeculoplasty in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Tojo N(1), Oka M, Miyakoshi A, Ozaki H, Hayashi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Graduate School of Medicine and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to examine the effects of selective laser
trabeculoplasty (SLT) treatment on habitual intraocular pressure (IOP)
fluctuations in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) using a SENSIMED
Triggerfish contact lens sensor (CLS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ten patients diagnosed with NTG were enrolled in this
study. All patients underwent SLT treatment. Habitual 24-hour IOP fluctuations
were recorded before and after SLT. The IOP fluctuations were divided into
diurnal periods and nocturnal periods and compared before and after SLT. Changes 
in corneal thickness and curvature were measured before and after the CLS use
with anterior segment optical coherence tomography.
RESULTS: The mean IOP was 13.5±2.5 mm Hg before SLT. The mean IOP at 1, 2, and 3 
months after SLT was significantly decreased to 10.1±2.3 mm Hg (P=0.002),
11.2±2.7 mm Hg (P=0.0059), and 11.3±2.4 mm Hg (P=0.018), respectively. The range 
of IOP fluctuations over 24 hours was not significantly changed between before
and after SLT treatment (P=0.77). Although the range of IOP fluctuations during
the diurnal periods was not significantly changed between before and after SLT
treatment (P=0.92), the range of IOP fluctuations during the nocturnal periods
significantly decreased from 290±86 mVEq before SLT to 199±31 mVEq after SLT
treatment (P=0.014). With respect to corneal changes, the steeper meridian
decreased significantly after the CLS use (P=0.016), although other parameters
showed no significant difference between before and after the CLS use.
CONCLUSIONS: SLT treatment was shown to significantly lower IOP and decrease IOP 
fluctuations during the nocturnal periods in NTG patients. These effects might be
important to prevent the progression of NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000026 
PMID: 24248000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Glaucoma. 2015 Jun-Jul;24(5):356-63. doi: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000435776.99193.41.

Comparison of intraocular pressure measurements with the Reichert Pt100, the
Keeler Pulsair Intellipuff portable noncontact tonometers, and Goldmann
applanation tonometry.

Hubanova R(1), Aptel F, Zhou T, Arnol N, Romanet JP, Chiquet C.

Author information: 
(1)*Joseph Fourier University †Department of Ophthalmology, CHU Grenoble ‡INSERM 
U1042, Lab Hypoxia and Physiopathology, Joseph Fourier University, Grenoble,
France.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to compare intraocular pressure (IOP)
measurements using 2 portable tonometers, the Keeler Pulsair Intellipuff and the 
Reichert PT100, with Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Prospective cross-sectional study was conducted on
normotensive and hypertensive patients recruited from the outpatient clinic of
the University Hospital of Grenoble. IOP was measured using 2 portable noncontact
tonometers (NCTs) and GAT in one eye of each patient in a random order. Central
corneal thickness was measured with the Accutome PachPen Pachymeter. The Wilcoxon
and t tests were used to compare the differences between tonometers, the Pearson 
and the Spearman correlation tests to evaluate the correlation among the methods,
and the Bland-Altman plots to evaluate the agreement among the methods.
Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was used to evaluate the agreement among
the methods in normotensive and hypertensive patients separately.
RESULTS: A total of 137 eyes of 137 patients were included, 104 normotensive and 
33 hypertensive eyes. We found an excellent agreement between PT100 and GAT
(ICC=0.77) and between Intellipuff and GAT (ICC=0.75) in normotensive patients.
We found a fair to good agreement (ICC=0.67) between PT100 and GAT in
hypertensive patients. The agreement we found between Intellipuff and GAT was
also excellent in hypertensive patients (ICC=0.86). Both NCTs significantly
overestimated IOP measurements compared with GAT in normotensive and hypertensive
eyes (mean of the differences between PT100 and GAT: 1.3±2.1 and 8.1±4.6 mm Hg in
normotensive and in hypertensive patients, respectively (P<0.05), and between
Pulsair Intellipuff and GAT: 1.5±1.8 and 2.3±4.8 mm Hg in normotensive and in
hypertensive patients, respectively (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The 2 NCTs agree well with GAT in normotensive patients. The Pulsair
Intellipuff also agrees well with GAT in hypertensive patients.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000435776.99193.41 
PMID: 24240887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


374. BMC Ophthalmol. 2013 Nov 5;13:67. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-13-67.

Comparison of localized retinal nerve fiber layer defects in highly myopic,
myopic, and non-myopic patients with normal-tension glaucoma: a retrospective
cross-sectional study.

Kim JM, Park KH(1), Kim SJ, Jang HJ, Noh E, Kim MJ, Kim TW, Kim DM, Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul National University Hospital, 28 Yongon-dong, Chongno-gu, Seoul 110-744,
South Korea. kihopark@snu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between
patterns of localized retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defects and the degree of 
myopia in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed medical records of patients with high myopia
(42 eyes; spherical equivalent [SE] < -6.0 diopters [D]), low to moderate myopia 
(93 eyes; SE -6.0D ~ and -0.5D), and emmetropia (65 eyes; SE -0.5D ~ +0.5D), all 
of which were diagnosed as having NTG with localized RNFL defects. On RNFL
photographs, the proximity of the RNFL defect to the center of the fovea (angle
I) and the sum of the angular width of the defects (angle II) were determined.
The patterns of localized RNFL defects were then compared with respect to
differences in angles I and II.
RESULTS: Angle I was significantly smaller in the high myopia group than in the
low to moderate myopia group (p = 0.028) and the emmetropia group (p = 0.044),
while angle II was significantly larger in the high myopia group compared with
the low to moderate myopia group and the emmetropia group (p < 0.001, p = 0.007).
CONCLUSIONS: Among subjects with NTG, localized RNFL defects are wider and closer
to the fovea in eyes with high myopia than those with low to moderate myopia or
emmetropia.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-13-67 
PMCID: PMC3828014
PMID: 24188326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Surv Ophthalmol. 2014 Jan-Feb;59(1):19-29. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2013.03.005. Epub 2013 Oct 21.

Pathogenesis and clinical implications of optic disk hemorrhage in glaucoma.

Suh MH(1), Park KH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Busan, Korea; Department 
of Ophthalmology, Inje University College of Medicine, Busan, Korea.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital and Seoul
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. Electronic address:
kihopark@snu.ac.kr.

The association between optic disk hemorrhage and glaucoma has been studied for
many years. Recently, randomized clinical trials have confirmed that disk
hemorrhage is a risk factor for development and progression of glaucoma. Disk
hemorrhage is more commonly detected in open-angle glaucoma with normal tension
than in open-angle glaucoma with high tension. Development of disk hemorrhage
possibly is associated with the biomechanical properties of the lamina cribrosa
and surrounding tissues, including the intraocular pressure (IOP)-cerebrospinal
pressure gradient, arterial pressure, and venous pressure. Disk hemorrhage may be
a marker of rapid glaucoma progression, in that localized subclinical structural 
change predisposes to disk hemorrhage, after which subsequent disease progression
is accelerated, and recurrent optic disk hemorrhages are related to rapid
structural progression of glaucomatous damage. IOP-lowering therapy can be
helpful in halting post-hemorrhage glaucoma progression.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2013.03.005 
PMID: 24156914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Med J Malaysia. 2013 Aug;68(4):338-42.

Optic disc topography of normal tension glaucoma patients in Malaysia.

Adlina AR(1), Shatriah I, Liza Sharmini AT, Ahmad MS.

Author information: 
(1)Universiti Sains Malaysia, Health Campus, School of Medical Sciences,
Department of Ophthalmology, 16150 Kubang Kerian, Kelantan, Malaysia.
shatriah@kck.usm.my.

There are limited data in the literature on the optic disc topography in normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) patients in Asian countries, especially in Southeast Asia.
This study is aimed at comparing optic disc topography in NTG patients and a
control group in Malaysia, and we discuss the literature on NTG studies in other 
Asian populations. A comparative cross-sectional study was conducted in two
hospitals with glaucoma services in Malaysia from November 2010 to February 2012.
A total of 109 eyes of 109 Malay patients were included in this study: 32 NTG
patients and 77 subjects in the control group. All participants underwent a
thorough ocular examination, including visual acuity, subjective refraction,
anterior segment and fundus examinations, Humphrey visual field 24-2, intraocular
pressure measurement, gonioscopy examination and fundus photography. Optic disc
topography was assessed using the Heidelberg Retinal Tomograph III by an
identified masked investigator in each hospital. NTG patients had a notably
larger disc area (2.65 (0.41) vs 2.19 (0.43) mm(2), respectively), larger cupping
(1.54 (0.43) vs 0.63 (0.40) mm(2), respectively), smaller retinal rim areas (1.12
(0.41) vs 1.56 (0.33) mm(2), respectively), higher cup volume (0.47 (0.28) vs
0.11 (0.19) mm(3), respectively), reduced rim volume (0.23 (0.13) vs 0.41 (0.16) 
mm(3), respectively), higher cup to disc area ratio (0.58 (0.14) vs 0.27 (0.15), 
respectively), higher linear cup to disc ratio (0.76 (0.09) vs 0.49 (0.17) mm(2),
respectively), higher mean cup depth (0.37 (0.09) vs 0.22 (0.09) mm,
respectively), higher maximum cup depth (0.77 (0.16) vs 0.59 (0.20) mm,
respectively), higher mean of cup shape measure (-0.04 (0.06) vs -0.16 (0.07),
respectively), and thinner mean retinal nerve fibre layer thickness (0.15 (0.15) 
vs 0.24 (0.07) mm, respectively) compared to the control group (p<0.05). In
conclusion, most of the optic disc parameters were significantly different in NTG
patients compared to healthy individuals in Malaysia. Our findings are comparable
to those reported in NTG studies in other Asian countries.


PMID: 24145263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Doc Ophthalmol. 2014 Feb;128(1):53-8. doi: 10.1007/s10633-013-9414-x. Epub 2013
Oct 19.

Pattern electroretinogram (PERG) in the early diagnosis of normal-tension
preperimetric glaucoma: a case report.

Karaśkiewicz J(1), Drobek-Słowik M, Lubiński W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Pomeranian Medical University, Powstańców Wlkp.
72, 70-111, Szczecin, Poland, karaskiewicz.joanna@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this case is to present the use of pattern
electroretinogram (PERG) in the early diagnosis of normal-tension preperimetric
glaucoma in 56 years old woman.
METHODS AND RESULTS: At baseline the results were as follows: distance-corrected 
visual acuity in the right eye (RE) and left eye (LE) 1.0 and 0.7, respectively
(Snellen table), normal anterior segments in both eyes, normal fundus in the RE
and abnormal cup to disc ratio (0.6) in the LE. Intraocular pressure (IOP) was
within normal limits in both eyes: RE-14 mmHg, LE-18 mmHg (Goldmann tonometer).
Results of standard automated perimetry (SAP), short wavelength automated
perimetry (SWAP) and nerve fiber analyzer (GDx) were normal in both eyes. PERG
result was normal in the RE but in the LE reduced amplitudes of P50 and N95 waves
were observed. After topical treatment (Xalacom to the LE), a reduction of IOP to
13 mmHg was achieved and was accompanied by amplitudes increase of PERG waves.
After discontinuation of the therapy, IOP increased to 18 mmHg and P50 and N95
amplitudes decreased to the values before treatment, suggesting the influence of 
IOP lowering therapy on electrical function of retinal ganglion cells. After 4
years from the baseline, static perimetry results were still normal, but
abnormalities in retinal nerve fiber layer thickness were detected in GDx.
CONCLUSIONS: PERG was a useful test not only for the early diagnosis of
normal-tension preperimetric glaucoma, but also in evaluating the effectiveness
of antiglaucomatous treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10633-013-9414-x 
PMCID: PMC3890055
PMID: 24142102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Vestn Oftalmol. 2013 Jul-Aug;129(4):3-8.

[Peculiarities of ocular blood flow in ischemic optic neuropathy and normal
tension glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Mamikonian VR, Galoian NS, Sheremet NL, Kazarian EE, Kharlap SI, Shmeleva-Demir
OA, Andzhelova DV, Tatevosian AA.

Characteristics of ocular hemodynamics in ischemic optic neuropathy (ION) outcome
and normal tension glaucoma (NTG), the conditions that are difficult to be
differentially diagnosed, have been investigated. The study enrolled 32 patients 
(40 eyes) with ION outcome, 26 patients (46 eyes) with NTG, and 20 patients (32
eyes) with no ocular pathology. Besides the standard ophthalmological
examination, color Doppler imaging of ocular vessels, evaluation of ocular blood 
flow volume and individual normal range of intraocular pressure (flowmetry) were 
performed in all cases. The results showed that an excess of the actual
intraocular pressure (IOP) over the individual normal range was much higher in
patients with NTG than in patients with ION (39% and 14.5% correspondingly). It
was also found that NTG is associated with a more significant decrease of ocular 
blood flow volume (30.1% in average) in comparison to ION outcome (11%). In both 
conditions a decrease in velocity parameters of the blood flow in main ocular
vessels was registered, however, ocular hemodynamics changes appeared to be more 
severe in patients with glaucomatous optic neuropathy. A statistically reliable
correlation between volumetric and velocity parameters of ocular blood flow has
been discovered.


PMID: 24137974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Nov 21;54(12):7699-706. doi:
10.1167/iovs.13-12930.

Waveform analysis of ocular blood flow and the early detection of normal tension 
glaucoma.

Shiga Y(1), Omodaka K, Kunikata H, Ryu M, Yokoyama Y, Tsuda S, Asano T, Maekawa
S, Maruyama K, Nakazawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Miyagi, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate waveform changes in blood flow (BF) in the optic nerve
head (ONH) and to evaluate their usefulness in identifying normal tension
glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Sixty-one eyes of 61 patients with NTG and 21 eyes of age-matched
healthy control subjects were included in this study. The NTG eyes were divided
into the following three groups based on the progression of their visual field
defects: mild (mean deviation [MD] greater than -6.0 decibels [dB]), moderate (MD
between -6.0 and -12.0 dB), and severe (MD less than -12.0 dB). The ONH BF
analysis was performed with laser speckle flowgraphy (LSFG) and included waveform
variables such as skew, acceleration time index (ATI), and blowout time.
RESULTS: In the ONH, LSFG skew variables were significantly lower in the NTG eyes
than in the control eyes (P < 0.001), and ATI was significantly higher (P <
0.01), despite similar systemic characteristics in the four groups. The
differences were most marked in the mild NTG group. Multiple linear regression
analysis showed that MD, average thickness of the circumpapillary retinal nerve
fiber layer, and pulse rate were predictive factors for both skew and ATI. A
receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis also revealed that skew
(area under the ROC curve, 0.89) and ATI (area under the ROC curve, 0.80) had the
greatest power to differentiate normal eyes from eyes with mild NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that LSFG measurements of waveform changes in 
ONH BF can differentiate healthy eyes from eyes with NTG, particularly those with
mild NTG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-12930 
PMID: 24130177  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2013 Aug;117(8):609-15.

[Effects of optic disc size on progression of visual field defects in
normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayamizu F(1), Yamazaki Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, Department of Visual Sciences, Nihon University
School of Medicine, 30-1 Oyaguchikami-machi, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8610, Japan. 
fhayamizu@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To investigate the influence of optic disc area on the progression of
visual field (VF) defects in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). We evaluated the
correlation between the right-left differences of the progression of VF defects
and those of the intraocular pressure and the ocular anatomical factors.
METHODS: Thirty two eyes of 16 NTG patients with a significant difference between
the left and right optic disc area, were followed up for more than 5 years after 
diurnal variation analyzed with Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT), and without
myopic disc shape. The left and right eyes of the patients were allocated to two 
groups, a group with a relatively smaller eye disc and a group with relatively
larger eye disc. They were studied regarding the probability of VF stability
using the Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis. In addition, a comparison of clinical
factors was evaluated between the two groups (Mann-Whitney U test).
RESULTS: The probability of VF stability at the 107-month follow-up was 60 +/-
13% (mean +/- SE)in patients with small disc area, and 25 +/- 11% in patients
with large disc area. Optic disc area was found to have significant influence on 
the progression of VF defects (p = 0.022, log-rank test). In clinical factors, no
statistically significant difference except disc area was found between the two
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that optic disc area is associated with the
progression of VF defects in patients with NTG.


PMID: 24063157  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Radiat Res. 2013 Oct;180(4):422-30. doi: 10.1667/RR3273.2. Epub 2013 Sep 23.

Glaucoma in atomic bomb survivors.

Kiuchi Y(1), Yokoyama T, Takamatsu M, Tsuiki E, Uematsu M, Kinoshita H, Kumagami 
T, Kitaoka T, Minamoto A, Neriishi K, Nakashima E, Khattree R, Hida A, Fujiwara
S, Akahoshi M.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Graduate School of
Biomedical Sciences, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.

Radiation has been associated with increases in noncancerous diseases. An effect 
of low-dose radiation on the prevalence of clinically detected glaucoma has not
been previously reported. We therefore investigated the prevalence of glaucoma in
A-bomb survivors and its possible association with radiation dose. A total of
1,589 people who participated in the clinical examination program for A-bomb
survivors at the Radiation Effects Research Foundation (RERF) between October
2006 and September 2008 and who had reconstructed radiation doses, were recruited
into this cross-sectional screening study. The prevalence of glaucoma and its
dose-response relationship to A-bomb radiation were measured. Each subject
underwent an initial screening consisting of an interview and ophthalmological
examination. Questionable cases with any indication of ocular disease, including 
glaucoma, were referred to local hospitals for more comprehensive evaluation. A
diagnosis of glaucoma was made based on specific optic disc appearance,
perimetric results and other ocular findings. Of 1,589 eligible people, we
detected 284 (17.9%) cases of glaucoma overall, including 36 (2.3%) cases of
primary open-angle glaucoma with intraocular pressure levels greater than 21
mmHg, 226 (14.2%) cases of normal-tension glaucoma and 25 (1.6%) cases of primary
angle-closure glaucoma. Seven glaucoma risk factors were examined as potential
confounders but only two needed to be included in the final model. Binary
regression using a generalized estimating equation method, with adjustment for
gender, age, city, cataract surgery or diabetes mellitus, revealed an odds ratio 
at 1 Gy of 1.31 (95% confidence interval 1.11-1.53, P = 0.001) in the case of
normal-tension glaucoma, but no association for other types of glaucoma. The
prevalence of normal-tension glaucoma may increase with A-bomb radiation dose,
but uncertainties associated with nonparticipation (59% participation) suggest
caution in the interpretation of these results until they are confirmed by other 
studies.

DOI: 10.1667/RR3273.2 
PMID: 24059679  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


382. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 11;8(9):e74372. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074372. eCollection
2013.

Dogs and humans share a common susceptibility gene SRBD1 for glaucoma risk.

Kanemaki N(1), Tchedre KT, Imayasu M, Kawarai S, Sakaguchi M, Yoshino A, Itoh N, 
Meguro A, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Teaching Hospital, Azabu University, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, Japan.

Glaucoma is a degenerative optic neuropathy that is associated with elevated
intraocular pressure. Primary open angle glaucoma is the most common type of
glaucoma in canines, and its highest incidence among dog breeds has been reported
in Shiba-Inus, followed by Shih-Tzus. These breeds are known to have an abnormal 
iridocorneal angle and dysplastic prectinate ligament. However, the hereditary
and genetic backgrounds of these dogs have not yet been clarified. In this study,
we investigated the association between polymorphisms of the glaucoma candidate
genes, SRBD1, ELOVL5, and ADAMTS10, and glaucoma in Shiba-Inus and Shih-Tzus. We 
analyzed 11 polymorphisms in these three genes using direct DNA sequencing. Three
SRBD1 SNPs, rs8655283, rs22018514 and rs22018513 were significantly associated
with glaucoma in Shiba-Inus, while rs22018513, a synonymous SNP in exon 4, showed
the strongest association (P = 0.00039, OR = 3.03). Conditional analysis revealed
that rs22018513 could account for most of the association of these SNPs with
glaucoma in Shiba-Inus. In Shih-Tzus, only rs9172407 in the SRBD1 intron 1 was
significantly associated with glaucoma (P = 0.0014, OR = 5.25). There were no
significant associations between the ELOVL5 or ADAMTS10 polymorphisms and
glaucoma in Shiba-Inus and Shih-Tzus. The results showed that SRBD1 polymorphisms
play an important role in glaucoma pathology in both Shiba-Inus and Shih-Tzus.
SRBD1 polymorphisms have also been associated with normal- and high-tension
glaucomas in humans. Therefore, SRBD1 may be a common susceptibility gene for
glaucoma in humans and dogs. We anticipate that the nucleotide sequencing data
from this study can be used in genetic testing to determine for the first time,
the genetic status and susceptibility of glaucoma in dogs, with high precision.
Moreover, canine glaucoma resulting from SRBD1 polymorphisms could be a useful
animal model to study human glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074372 
PMCID: PMC3770690
PMID: 24040232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Oct 9;54(10):6570-7. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-12173.

Myopia and glaucoma in the South Korean population.

Chon B(1), Qiu M, Lin SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, California.

PURPOSE: To examine the association between myopia and glaucoma, visual field
defects, optic disc structural damage, and IOP in a population with a high
prevalence of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Data were included from 13,433 participants in the 2008 to 2011 Korean
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, a cross-sectional study.
Spherical equivalent was used to define refractive status as emmetropia (-0.99 to
0.99 diopters [D]), mild myopia (-1.00 to -2.99 D), moderate myopia (-3.00 to
-5.99 D), severe myopia (<-6 D), and hyperopia (≥+1.00D). Glaucoma was defined by
International Society for Geographical and Epidemiological Ophthalmology (ISGEO) 
criteria.
RESULTS: Compared with those with emmetropia, the odds of a glaucoma diagnosis
were higher with moderate myopia (odds ratio [OR] 2.2, 95% confidence interval
[CI] 1.2-4.1) and severe myopia (OR 4.6, CI 2.3-9.4). Visual field defects were
increased for mild myopia (OR 2.3, CI 1.2-4.5) and severe myopia (OR 20.9, CI
6.3-68.6). Optic disc structural damage was increased for moderate myopia (OR
1.8, CI 1.2-2.5) and severe myopia (OR 2.3, CI 1.5-3.7). Mean IOP was higher for 
mild myopia (14.4 mm Hg, CI 14.2-14.5 mm Hg), moderate myopia (14.7 mm Hg, CI
14.4-15.0 mm Hg), and severe myopia (14.7 mm Hg, CI 14.3-15.2 mmHg) compared with
those with emmetropia (14.0 mm Hg, CI 13.9-14.1 mm Hg).
CONCLUSIONS: In South Koreans, more severe myopia was associated with greater
odds of glaucoma as defined by ISGEO criteria.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-12173 
PMID: 24022009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep;92(6):507-12. doi: 10.1111/aos.12268. Epub 2013 Sep 11.

Change in retinal blood flow and retinal arterial diameter after intraocular
pressure reduction in glaucomatous eyes.

Kurvinen L(1), Kytö JP, Summanen P, Vesti E, Harju M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki,
Finland.

PURPOSE: To study retinal blood flow and vessel diameter after intra-ocular
pressure (IOP) reduction in high- and low-pressure glaucomas, that is,
exfoliation glaucoma (ExG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: The study included 17 eyes with ExG and 20 with NTG. A minimum of 25%
IOP reduction was achieved by deep sclerectomy. Blood flow in the temporal
peripapillary retina was measured with scanning laser Doppler flowmetry
(Heidelberg Retina Flowmeter, HRF), and retinal vessel diameters were evaluated
with the retinal vessel analyser (RVA). Examinations were carried out before and 
3 months after the operation.
RESULTS: Pre-operative IOP was significantly higher in ExG than in NTG (median
26 mmHg, range 20-33 mmHg versus 15 mmHg, 12-20; p < 0.001). Surgery reduced IOP 
significantly both in ExG eyes (postoperative IOP 13 mmHg, 5-17; p < 0.001) and
NTG eyes (9 mmHg, 3-13; p < 0.001). After the operation, systolic retinal flow
was significantly reduced in ExG eyes, whereas in NTG, HRF parameters remained
unchanged. Pre-operatively, the central retinal artery equivalent (CRAE) and
arteriovenous ratio (AVR) were higher in ExG than in NTG eyes. After IOP
reduction, both CRAE and AVR were reduced in ExG eyes, but remained unchanged in 
NTG.
CONCLUSION: The study showed that before IOP reduction, arterial diameter was
larger in ExG eyes than in NTG eyes. IOP reduction resulted in vasoconstriction
and reduction of flow in ExG, whereas in NTG, both vessel diameter and retinal
flow remained unchanged.

© 2013 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12268 
PMID: 24020979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Clin Diagn Res. 2013 Jul;7(7):1391-3. doi: 10.7860/JCDR/2013/5383.3147. Epub
2013 Jul 1.

The assessment of sleep apnoea as a risk factor in glaucoma.

Khandgave TP(1), Puthran N, Ingole AB, Nicholson AD.

Author information: 
(1)Assistant Professor, Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University, Medical College &
Hospital , Pune, India .

BACKGROUND: The risk of developing open angle glaucoma increases in the presence 
of associated disorders such as hypertension, Diabetes mellitus and migraine. In 
recent years, sleep apnoea is also being investigated as a risk factor in the
development of open angle glaucoma.
AIM: To ascertain the significance of sleep apnoea as a risk factor in patients
with glaucoma. Study Setting and Design: A non - randomised, cross sectional
study was undertaken at an urban teaching hospital.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A sleep disturbance questionnaire and the Epworth sleepiness
scale were used to screen the potential cases of sleep apnoea amongst 40
glaucomatous subjects, with both Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG) and
Normotensive Glaucoma (NTG), as well as 40 controls. Those which gave a positive 
response to the questionnaire were subjected to poly-somnography for the
diagnosis of sleep apnoea, with the calculation of the Apnoea Hypopnoea Index.
The data was analysed by using the Chi - square test and the odds ratio
calculations.
RESULTS: Positive responses to the sleep apnoea questionnaire were obtained from 
a total of twenty participants, 16 (40%) from the glaucoma Group and four (10%)
were obtained from the control Group. In the glaucoma Group, ten (37.03%) of the 
27 POAG individuals, and six (46.15%) of the 13 NTG cases showed significant
positive responses to the questionnaire. Four subjects (10%) (1POAG, 3 NTG) from 
the glaucoma Group and one (2.5%) from the control Group were diagnosed to have
sleep apnoea by polysomnography. The percentage of the sleep apnoea positive
cases was higher among the NTG subjects (23.07%) than among the POAG subjects
(3.7 %). This study had an odds ratio of 4.333 (>1) and a p value of 0.382.
CONCLUSION: Although the odds ratio was significant, this study did not find the 
association between sleep apnoea and glaucoma to be statistically significant.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2013/5383.3147 
PMCID: PMC3749642
PMID: 23998072  [PubMed]


386. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2013 Sep-Dec;7(3):121-7. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1149. Epub 2013 Sep 6.

Surgical Decisions in Primary Open Angle Glaucoma with Low or Normal Tension.

Shum JW(1), Leung D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Eye Institute, Queen Mary Hospital,
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Hong Kong
Sanatorium and Hospital; Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences Hong
Kong Eye Hospital, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.

Glaucoma, given its insidious nature, is often coined 'the sneak thief of sight'.
Following this trail of thought, primary open angle glaucoma with low or normal
tension (POAGLNT) could be coined 'the king of thieves'. The lack of a compelling
red fag of high intraocular pressure (IOP), together with the diurnal fuctuation 
of the deceptively low baseline IOP, POAGLNT poses a therapeutic challenge in
terms of judging when to intervene, and how. In this review article, we will
outline the considerations before undergoing surgery: risk stratification,
defining goal in terms of target pressure and IOP modulation. We will also review
the strengths, weaknesses and pearls of available options. How to cite this
article: Shum JW, Leung DY. Surgical Decisions in Primary Open Angle Glaucoma
with Low or Normal Tension. J Current Glau Prac 2013;7(3):121-127.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1149 
PMCID: PMC4741152
PMID: 26997795  [PubMed]


387. J Glaucoma. 2015 Mar;24(3):e7-13. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829521f2.

Functional pituitary tumors masquerading as primary glaucoma and effect of
hypophysectomy on intraocular tension.

Gupta S(1), Sihota R, Gupta V, Dada T, Gogia V, Sharma A.

Author information: 
(1)Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of
Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.

We report 2 bilateral cases that presented as primary ocular hypertension and
primary angle-closure glaucoma, respectively; however, they were subsequently
discovered to be harboring secretory pituitary tumors. After transsphenoidal
tumor resection, intraocular pressures (IOPs) in all 4 eyes returned to normal
levels. Sudden rise in IOP then again served as a primary manifestation of
relapse in the second patient with growth hormone secreting pituitary tumor. It
was not found feasible for resurgery; thus, patient needed trabeculectomy in both
eyes to achieve an optimum control of intraocular tension. We conclude that
pituitary adenomas may mimic primary glaucoma without producing vertical
hemianopia and cause a reversible rise in IOP. Furthermore, a careful ongoing
expert ophthalmologic assessment may serve as a useful clinical marker for early 
relapse in these tumors.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829521f2 
PMID: 23970340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Sep 11;54(9):6150-7. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-12093.

Relationship between 24-hour mean ocular perfusion pressure fluctuation and rate 
of paracentral visual field progression in normal-tension glaucoma.

Choi J(1), Lee JR, Lee Y, Lee KS, Na JH, Han S, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Seoul Central Eye Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between unstable mean ocular perfusion
pressure (MOPP) and the rate of paracentral visual field (PVF) progression in
patients with medically treated normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: The data of 157 eyes of 122 patients with NTG who were followed for more
than 6 years (mean follow-up, 8.7 years ± 12.6 months) and had more than 5
reliable standard visual field (VF) tests were analyzed retrospectively. Groups
in the highest, middle, and lowest tertiles of 24-hour MOPP fluctuation (HMF,
MMF, and LMF, respectively) were compared in terms of rates of change of mean
thresholds in the central 10° (PVF), 10° to 24°, and global areas by using a
linear mixed model. Clinical factors associated with rapid PVF progression were
also investigated.
RESULTS: The LMF and HMF groups did not differ significantly in the mean global
rate of VF changes (-0.52 vs. -0.71 dB/y; P = 0.07). The HMF group had a
significantly faster progression of VF defects in the central 10° area than the
LMF group (-1.02 vs. -0.54 dB/y; P < 0.001) but did not differ in terms of
progression of VF defects in the peripheral 10° to 24° area (-0.39 vs. -0.495
dB/y; P = 0.425). PVF progression was significantly associated with 24-hour MOPP 
fluctuation (β = -0.31, P < 0.001) and VF damage severity at initial presentation
(β = 0.134, P = 0.011).
CONCLUSIONS: Medically treated NTG eyes with greater 24-hour MOPP fluctuations
(HMF) had faster PVF defect progression than eyes with stable 24-hour MOPP (LMF).
Twenty-four hour MOPP fluctuation associated significantly with PVF progression
velocity.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-12093 
PMID: 23963166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Sep 17;54(9):6242-7. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-11942.

Hypotensive effect of latanoprost/timolol versus travoprost/timolol fixed
combinations in NTG patients: a randomized, multicenter, crossover clinical
trial.

Shoji T(1), Sato H, Mizukawa A, Hirota N, Enoki T, Kojima T, Kanda T, Takeuchi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Saitama Medical University, Iruma, Saitama,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare the ocular hypotensive effect of travoprost plus timolol
(TTFC) and latanoprost plus timolol fixed combinations (LTFC) in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: A two-sequence 12-week, multicenter, prospective, randomized,
single-blinded, crossover clinical trial examined 59 NTG patients. If both eyes
were eligible, only one eye (chosen at random) was used for analytical purposes. 
After a 12-week run-in period with dorzolamide plus timolol fixed combination
(DTFC), patients were randomized into one of the two crossover sequences of
treatment for 12 weeks with TTFC or LTFC and were subsequently crossed over to
the alternative treatment for a further 12 weeks. The primary endpoint was
reduction in IOP after 12 weeks of each treatment sequence. The effect of
treatment on IOP was assessed using a linear mixed model.
RESULTS: The mean baseline IOP was 14.8 ± 3.3 mm Hg (95% confidence interval
[CI], 14.1-15.3 mm Hg) for treatment with DTFC. The TTFC treatment period showed 
consistently lower mean IOP compared with LTFC treatment period at all
measurement time points. Mean reduction in IOP at 12 weeks was significantly
greater in the TTFC group than in the LTFC group (-2.4 ± 2.3 mm Hg vs. -1.1 ± 2.3
mm Hg; P = 0.021). No interaction between the drug and treatment sequence was
detected. The effects of intraocular lens implantation and measurement time were 
also not significant. The tolerability profiles of both treatments were similar.
CONCLUSIONS: The additional reduction in IOP was greater with TTFC than with
LTFC, and their tolerability profiles were similar. (http://www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/
number, UMIN 000005974.).

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-11942 
PMID: 23950156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Med Hypotheses. 2013 Oct;81(4):686-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2013.07.027. Epub 2013 
Aug 6.

Does the treatment of normal pressure hydrocephalus put the retinal ganglion
cells at risk? A brief literature review and novel hypothesis.

Bokhari RF(1), Baeesa SS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, King Abdulaziz University,
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.

Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is a poorly understood entity as well as a
source of continuous controversy in the neuroscientific community. The surgical
management of this disease requires that intracranial pressure (ICP), also
referred to as the cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP), be lowered using a
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversion procedure. Numerous complications are linked 
with this procedure; we believe that new evidence suggests that the induction or 
acceleration of glaucomatous optic neuropathy are possible sequelae that warrant 
further investigation. We also suggest potential solutions derived from the
increased understanding of the disease's pathophysiology and new advances in
imaging of the optic nerve head complex. The recent inclusion of the translaminar
gradient (TLG) (the difference between the intraocular pressure (IOP) and the
ICP/CSFP across the thickness of the lamina cribrosa in the optic nerve head
complex) in the pathogenesis of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) suggests that the
disease may be a complication encountered during the treatment of NPH with CSF
diversion procedures. The significant decrease in CSFP required to treat NPH
increases this gradient. In addition, there have been recent observations of an
increased prevalence of NTG, as well as other forms of glaucoma, among patients
with NPH, thought to be due to inherently fragile neurons in these patients. This
new data suggest that patients who undergo ICP lowering therapy for their NPH may
be at a higher risk of developing or accelerating already present NTG. We present
the clinical and theoretical basis for our hypothesis after reviewing the
relevant literature linking the two entities. We also propose a possible
solution, as we believe that treatment guidelines for NPH should take the TLG
into account. Indeed, recent advances in the imaging of the optic nerve head
complex may provide an opportunity to detect the mechanical sequelae of an
increased TLG in the preclinical stage, i.e., prior to optic nerve damage. If we 
are able to determine safe parameters for the TLG in this population, we may be
able to recommend the initiation of prophylactic glaucoma therapy for selected
patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2013.07.027 
PMID: 23920271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


391. J Clin Diagn Res. 2013 Jun;7(6):1063-7. doi: 10.7860/JCDR/2013/4292.3022. Epub
2013 Jun 1.

The central corneal thickness in normal tension glaucoma, primary open angle
glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Shetgar AC(1), Mulimani MB.

Author information: 
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, Sri Nijilingappa Medical
College , Navanagar, Bagalkot, Karnataka, India .

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To compare the Central Corneal Thickness (CCT) of Normal
Tension Glaucoma (NTG) with those of Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG) and
Ocular Hypertension (OHT) and to study the effect of CCT on the diagnosis and
management of glaucoma patients.
METHOD: A total of 99 patients [35(35.35%) females and 64(64.65%) males] were
included in the study with four study groups-37 controls (males-24 and
females-13), 22 NTG (males-11 and females-11), 28 POAG (males-21 and females-7), 
and12 OHT (males-8 and females-4). The CCTs of all the participants were measured
by using ultrasonic pachymetry. The IOPs were measured by using applanation
tonometry. The measured IOPs were corrected by using a linear correction formula.
The measurement significant changes (>=1.5) and outcomes significant changes
(>=3.0) for the study groups were calculated.
RESULTS: The mean CCT of the normals was 527.65± 21.90 μ, the mean NTG was 503.91
± 11.31 μ, the mean POAG was 525.25± 23.59 μ and the mean OHT was 572.25± 22.71
μ. The difference which was observed in the mean CCT among the groups was
statistically significant (p<0.05). The measurement significant change (>=1.5)
after correcting the IOP for CCT was observed in 32.258% of the total glaucoma
patients, with 27.3% patients ( 6 out of 22) in the NTG, 66.7% patients (8 out of
12) in the OHT and 21.4% patients ( 6 out of 28) in the POAG groups showing it.
The difference which was observed was statistically significant (p<0.05). The
outcomes significant change (>=3.0) after correcting the IOP for CCT was seen in 
6.45% of the total glaucoma patients, with none of the NTG group patients showing
outcomes significant changes, whereas 3.57% patients (1out of 28) in the POAG and
25% patients ( 3out of 12) in the OHT groups showed these changes. The difference
which was observed was statistically significant (p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: This study confirmed that the central corneal thickness was
significantly lower in the normal tension glaucoma patients as compared to those 
in the controls and in the primary open angle glaucoma patients, whereas the
ocular hypertension patients had significantly higher central corneal thicknesses
than the controls and the primary open angle glaucoma patients. No significant
difference was found between the primary open angle patients and the controls.
Due to the effect of CCT on the measurement of the IOP by using an applanation
tonometer, which is the main parameter in the diagnosis and the follow up of the 
glaucoma patients, many POAG patients are misdiagnosed as NTG patients and the
normals are misdiagnosed as OHT patients and they are improperly managed.
Measurement of the central corneal thickness aid the ophthalmologist in making a 
correct diagnosis and in a better management of glaucoma and the glaucoma
suspects, especially when their corneal thickness differs markedly from the
normal thickness.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2013/4292.3022 
PMCID: PMC3708199
PMID: 23905104  [PubMed]


392. Clin Ophthalmol. 2013;7:1411-6. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S46340. Epub 2013 Jul 9.

Effects of tafluprost treatment for 3 years in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma.

Inoue K(1), Tanaka A, Tomita G.

Author information: 
(1)Inouye Eye Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effects of tafluprost treatment for 3 years on
intraocular pressure (IOP) and visual field performance.
METHODS: The IOP of 55 patients with normal-tension glaucoma was monitored every 
1-3 months for 3 years. The Humphrey visual field test was performed every 6
months after treatment and results compared with before-treatment results. Visual
field performance was also evaluated by trend and event analysis.
RESULTS: After 3 years' tafluprost single-use vials treatment, the IOP (12.8 ±
2.8 mmHg [mean ± standard deviation]) was significantly lower than before
treatment (15.7 ± 2.2 mmHg; P < 0.0001). When comparing before-treatment Humphrey
visual field test findings with those after 3 years of treatment, no change was
found in the mean deviation and pattern standard deviation. Visual field
performance had worsened in four patients and three patients according to trend
analysis and event analysis, respectively. Adverse reactions appeared in ten
cases and one patient (1.8%) discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction.
CONCLUSION: Tafluprost single-use vials treatment was effective in reducing IOP
over the 3 years of this study, but visual field performance worsened by
10.3%-13.8% in patients with normal-tension glaucoma. Safety was satisfactory.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S46340 
PMCID: PMC3711876
PMID: 23874082  [PubMed]


393. Cell Death Differ. 2013 Sep;20(9):1250-6. doi: 10.1038/cdd.2013.91. Epub 2013 Jul
12.

Dock3 attenuates neural cell death due to NMDA neurotoxicity and oxidative stress
in a mouse model of normal tension glaucoma.

Namekata K(1), Kimura A, Kawamura K, Guo X, Harada C, Tanaka K, Harada T.

Author information: 
(1)Visual Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
Tokyo, Japan.

Dedicator of cytokinesis 3 (Dock3), a new member of the guanine nucleotide
exchange factors for the small GTPase Rac1, promotes axon regeneration following 
optic nerve injury. In the present study, we found that Dock3 directly binds to
the intracellular C-terminus domain of NR2B, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
receptor subunit. In transgenic mice overexpressing Dock3 (Dock3 Tg), NR2B
expression in the retina was significantly decreased and NMDA-induced retinal
degeneration was ameliorated. In addition, overexpression of Dock3 protected
retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) from oxidative stress. We previously reported that 
glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST) is a major glutamate transporter in the
retina, and RGC degeneration due to glutamate neurotoxicity and oxidative stress 
is observed in GLAST-deficient (KO) mice. In GLAST KO mice, the NR2B
phosphorylation rate in the retina was significantly higher compared with Dock3
Tg:GLAST KO mice. Consistently, glaucomatous retinal degeneration was
significantly improved in GLAST KO:Dock3 Tg mice compared with GLAST KO mice.
These results suggest that Dock3 overexpression prevents glaucomatous retinal
degeneration by suppressing both NR2B-mediated glutamate neurotoxicity and
oxidative stress, and identifies Dock3 signaling as a potential therapeutic
target for both neuroprotection and axonal regeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/cdd.2013.91 
PMCID: PMC3741514
PMID: 23852370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Aug 19;54(8):5584-93. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-11543.

Theoretical analysis of vascular regulatory mechanisms contributing to retinal
blood flow autoregulation.

Arciero J(1), Harris A, Siesky B, Amireskandari A, Gershuny V, Pickrell A,
Guidoboni G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematical Sciences, Indiana University-Purdue University
Indianapolis, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA. jarciero@math.iupui.edu

PURPOSE: To study whether impaired retinal autoregulation is a risk factor for
glaucoma, the relationship between vascular regulatory mechanisms and glaucoma
progression needs to be investigated. In this study, a vascular wall mechanics
model is used to predict the relative importance of regulatory mechanisms in
achieving retinal autoregulation.
METHODS: Resistance vessels are assumed to respond to changes in pressure, shear 
stress, carbon dioxide (CO2), and the downstream metabolic state communicated via
conducted responses. Model parameters governing wall tension are fit to pressure 
and diameter data from porcine retinal arterioles. The autoregulation pressure
range for control and elevated levels of IOP is predicted.
RESULTS: The factor by which flow changes as the blood pressure exiting the
central retinal artery is varied between 28 and 40 mm Hg is used to indicate the 
degree of autoregulation (1 indicates perfect autoregulation). In the presence of
only the myogenic response mechanism, the factor is 2.06. In the presence of the 
myogenic and CO2 responses, the factor is 1.22. The combination of myogenic,
shear, CO2, and metabolic responses yields the best autoregulation (factor of
1.10).
CONCLUSIONS: Model results are compared with flow and pressure data from multiple
patient studies, and the combined effects of the metabolic and CO2 responses are 
predicted to be critical for achieving retinal autoregulation. When IOP is
elevated, the model predicts a decrease in the autoregulation range toward low
perfusion pressure, which is consistent with observations that glaucoma is
associated with decreased perfusion pressure.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-11543 
PMCID: PMC3747715
PMID: 23847315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2013 Sep;57(5):471-4. doi: 10.1007/s10384-013-0259-3. Epub 2013
Jul 9.

Reading performance in patients with glaucoma evaluated using the MNREAD charts.

Ishii M(1), Seki M, Harigai R, Abe H, Fukuchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Graduated School of Medical and 
Dental Sciences, Niigata University, 1-757 Asahimachi, Niigata, 951-8510, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Reading performance in glaucoma patients has yet to be studied. We
hypothesized that glaucomatous visual field loss affects reading performance even
in patients with good acuity and evaluated their reading performance
quantitatively.
METHODS: A cross-sectional, comparative, non-interventional study. Forty-nine
patients with early-moderate glaucomatous visual field loss OU with visual acuity
better than 1.0 in the better and 0.7 in the worse eye. Reading performance in
glaucoma patients was examined by the Japanese version of the Minnesota Reading
Acuity Chart (MNREAD) were compared to that of age-matched normal subjects (n =
30).
RESULTS: The study subjects consisted of the 21 men and 28 women. The mean age
was 53.3 ± 12.6 years. Diagnosis included primary open-angle glaucoma (n = 22),
normal-tension glaucoma (n = 22), developmental glaucoma (n = 4) and exfoliation 
glaucoma (n = 1). Reading parameters of glaucoma patients examined by MNREAD
were: maximum reading speed (MRS), 329.9 ± 55.4 characters per min.; critical
print size (CPS), 0.24 ± 0.14 logMAR; reading acuity (RA), 0.02 ± 0.12 log MAR,
significantly lower than those of normal subjects (MRS 363.0 ± 42.9, CPS 0.09 ±
0.13 logMAR, RA -0.13 ± 0.10 logMAR, P < 0.01 for three parameters by unpaired t 
test). CPS in glaucoma subjects was negatively correlated with mean deviation of 
Humphrey Field Analyzer 10-2 and 30-2 programs in the better eye (r = -0.402, P <
0.005; r = -0.304, P < 0.05; respectively, by linear regression analysis).
CONCLUSIONS: The reading performance deteriorated even in glaucoma patients with 
good acuity.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-013-0259-3 
PMID: 23835566  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Cell Death Dis. 2013 Jul 4;4:e711. doi: 10.1038/cddis.2013.240.

Aldosterone: a mediator of retinal ganglion cell death and the potential role in 
the pathogenesis in normal-tension glaucoma.

Nitta E(1), Hirooka K, Tenkumo K, Fujita T, Nishiyama A, Nakamura T, Itano T,
Shiraga F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, Miki,
Kagawa, Japan. anchovy_e@yahoo.co.jp

Glaucoma is conventionally defined as a chronic optic neuropathy characterized by
progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and optic nerve fibers.
Although glaucoma is often associated with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP),
significant IOP reduction does not prevent progression of the disease in some
glaucoma patients. Thus, exploring IOP-independent mechanisms of RGC loss is
important. We describe chronic systemic administration of aldosterone and
evaluate its effect on RGCs in rat. Aldosterone was administered via an osmotic
minipump that was implanted subcutaneously into the mid-scapular region. Although
systemic administration of aldosterone caused RGC loss associated with thinning
of the retinal nerve fiber layer without elevated IOP, the other cell layers
appeared to be unaffected. After chronic administration of aldosterone, RGC loss 
was observed at 2 weeks in the peripheral retina and at 4 weeks in the central
retina. However, administration of mineralocorticoid receptor blocker prevented
RGC loss. These results demonstrate aldosterone is a critical mediator of RGC
loss that is independent of IOP. We believe this rat normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) animal model not only offers a powerful system for investigating the
mechanism of neurodegeneration in NTG, but can also be used to develop therapies 
directed at IOP-independent mechanisms of RGC loss.

DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2013.240 
PMCID: PMC3730414
PMID: 23828574  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Aug 7;54(8):5313-20. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-11792.

Intraocular pressure change over a habitual 24-hour period after changing posture
or drinking water and related factors in normal tension glaucoma.

Sakata R(1), Aihara M, Murata H, Saito H, Iwase A, Yasuda N, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo, Graduate School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan. reisakata-tky@umin.ac.jp

Comment in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Dec;54(13):8315.
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Dec;54(13):8316.

PURPOSE: We investigated the correlation between 24-hour IOP in the habitual
(sitting during day and supine during night) position (H24h-IOP) and IOP after a 
postural-change test (PCT-IOP) and a water-drinking test (WDT-IOP). We also
investigated ocular and systemic factors related with them in patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Japanese NTG patients underwent H24h-IOP, PCT-IOP, and WDT-IOP
measurements during a 24-hour period. Correlations among H24h-IOP, PCT-IOP, and
WDT-IOP, and contributing ocular/systemic factors were investigated using
regression analysis.
RESULTS: There were 33 patients included. Peak H24h-IOP correlated positively
with peak PCT-IOP and peak WDT-IOP (estimate = 0.422 and 0.419, P ≤ 0.010), and
peak PCT-IOP with WDT-IOP (0.44, P = 0.002). Peak H24h-IOP correlated with
refraction (0.36, P = 0.048) and negatively with the mean deviation (MD, -0.066, 
P = 0.031). MD and baseline IOP (the mean of H24h-IOP) correlated negatively with
the H24h-IOP fluctuation (-0.058 and -0.58, P ≤ 0.050). Refraction, baseline IOP,
mean blood pressure (mBP), and body mass index (BMI) correlated with peak PCT-IOP
(0.23, 0.52, 0.097, and 0.32, respectively, P ≤ 0.038). PCT-IOP difference
correlated with refraction and mBP (0.31 and 0.093, P ≤ 0.016) and negatively
with age (-0.069, P = 0.003). Central corneal thickness, baseline IOP, age, and
BMI correlated with peak WDT-IOP (0.030, 0.40, 0.088, and 0.26, P ≤ 0.050). Age
and BMI correlated with WDT-IOP difference (0.086 and 0.20, P < 0.032).
CONCLUSIONS: Positive correlation was found among the peaks of H24h-, PCT-, and
WDT-IOP. A worse visual field was associated with higher peak and greater
fluctuation of H24h-IOP in NTG. Several ocular/systemic factors were important in
interpreting H24h-, PCT-, and WDT-IOP.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-11792 
PMID: 23821194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


398. J Glaucoma. 2015 Mar;24(3):207-13. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829e1d84.

Coexistence and development of an open-angle glaucoma in eyes with superior
segmental optic hypoplasia.

Lee HJ(1), Ozaki M, Okano M, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Eulji Medical Center, Eulji University School of
Medicine ∥Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea †Ozaki Eye Hospital ‡Department of
Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Miyazaki §Department of
Orthoptics and Visual Sciences, School of Health Sciences, Kyushu University of
Health and Welfare, Miyazaki, Japan.

PURPOSE: Superior segmental optic hypoplasia (SSOH) is a congenital disorder that
is expected not to progress. This study aimed to determine the prevalence and
clinical characteristics of coexistent open-angle glaucoma (OAG) in patients with
SSOH.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the records of 61 patients
diagnosed with SSOH. The estimated prevalence and clinical characteristics of
concomitant OAG among patients with SSOH were investigated.
RESULTS: Of the 61 patients with SSOH, 12 patients presented with concomitant OAG
(mean age, 44.8±19.2 y). Mean follow-up period was 84.9±50.9 months. Five
patients (8.2%) were diagnosed with both high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and SSOH; 4 
had HTG and SSOH in both the eyes; and the other had HTG only in the eye with
SSOH. Seven patients (11.5%) were diagnosed with both normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) and SSOH. Two patients had NTG and SSOH in both eyes and 5 patients had
unilateral NTG. The estimated prevalence of OAG in patients with SSOH was 19.7%
(95% confidence interval, 9.7%-29.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: Primary OAG, including HTG and NTG, could develop in eyes with SSOH,
regarded as having a nonprogressive visual field defect. The estimated prevalence
of OAG, including both NTG and HTG, might be relatively higher in the SSOH
patients. Thus, continuous follow-up examinations of patients with SSOH are
required.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829e1d84 
PMID: 23807355  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Glaucoma. 2014 Jan;23(1):e81-5. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829da19f.

Floppy eyelid syndrome as an indicator of the presence of glaucoma in patients
with obstructive sleep apnea.

Muniesa M(1), Sánchez-de-la-Torre M, Huerva V, Lumbierres M, Barbé F.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Ophthalmology ‡Pneumology, Hospital Universitari Arnau de
Vilanova †Institut de Recerca Biomèdica de Lleida (IRB Lleida) §Hosptital Santa
María, Lleida ∥Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Enfermedades
Respiratorias (CIBERES), Madrid, Spain.

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to investigate whether floppy eyelid syndrome
(FES) could be an indicator of glaucoma in patients with obstructive sleep apnea 
(OSA).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 152 patients were included: 75 patients with
OSA and without FES; 52 patients with OSA and FES; and 25 non-OSA patients. The
presence of FES was defined by easy upper eyelid eversion and tarsal papillary
conjunctivitis. All the patients underwent a complete ophthalmologic examination 
to diagnose glaucoma; this included computerized perimetry and retinal fiber
layer measurements with optical coherence tomography.
RESULTS: The prevalence of glaucoma in OSA patients without FES was 5.33% (4/75).
One patient had primary open-angle glaucoma and 3 had previously diagnosed
glaucoma. The prevalence of glaucoma in OSA patients with FES was 23.07% (12/52).
Six patients had normal-tension glaucoma, 5 had primary open-angle glaucoma and
one patient had previously diagnosed glaucoma. None of the 25 patients without
OSA had glaucoma. The difference in the prevalence of glaucoma between OSA
patients without FES (5.3%) and OSA patients with FES (23.07%) was statistical
significant (P=0.004). When adjustments were made for age and body mass index,
this significance remained (P=0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that FES may offer a useful way to identify
individuals with a greater probability of having glaucoma in the OSA population.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829da19f 
PMID: 23807350  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Exp Eye Res. 2013 Oct;115:65-72. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2013.06.010. Epub 2013 Jun
21.

Ocular pulse amplitude as a dynamic parameter and its relationship with
24-h intraocular pressure and blood pressure in glaucoma.

Kim YJ(1), Lee KS, Lee JR, Na JH, Choi J, Han S, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Asan
Medical Center, 388-1 Pungnap-2-dong, Songpa-gu, Seoul 138-736, Republic of
Korea.

Abnormal ocular blood flow (OBF) has been suspected as one of the underlying
mechanisms of glaucoma. The ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) is considered a possible
surrogate parameter for ocular blood flow (OBF) measurement and has been studied 
in its association with glaucoma. Although there have been several studies that
reported various ocular and systemic factors in association with OPA, all of
these studies were based on a single measurement of these factors as well as OPA.
The purpose of this study was to determine the 24-h (h) dynamic variability and
any associations between OPA and intraocular pressure (IOP) and blood pressure
(BP) variables using 24-h data collected from untreated patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). One hundred and forty-four patients with NTG were 
consecutively enrolled. All patients underwent 24-h monitoring of IOP, OPA, and
BP variables. A cosinor model was used to describe the patterns and statistical
significance of the 24-h OPA rhythm, as well as the IOP and BP variables.
Associations between 24-h OPA data, IOP and BP variables, and ocular and
demographic factors were also assessed using the generalized estimating equation.
Over the course of 24-h, OPA (p = 0.007) demonstrated significant dynamic diurnal
rhythms that were similar to the other dynamic variables (all p < 0.05). Based on
the 24-h data, IOP (p < 0.001), arterial pulse pressure (p = 0.034), and the
spherical equivalent (p < 0.001) positively correlated with the OPA, whilst male 
sex (p < 0.001) negatively correlated with the OPA. These results indicate that
OPA is primarily influenced by IOP as well as arterial pulse pressure, spherical 
equivalent, and gender. In conclusion, OPA is a dynamic ocular parameter that
demonstrates a 24-h short-time fluctuation in NTG patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2013.06.010 
PMID: 23797045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Curr Eye Res. 2013 Sep;38(9):983-8. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2013.800889. Epub 2013 
Jun 14.

Increased urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG)/creatinine level is
associated with the progression of normal-tension glaucoma.

Yuki K(1), Tsubota K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
yuuki@a3.keio.jp

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to investigate the association between
systemic oxidative stress and visual field defect progression in normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The subjects were 40 consecutive patients with NTG who were
admitted to Keio University Hospital for 24-h intraocular pressure (IOP)
evaluation; all subjects underwent six or more visual field tests in either eye
and were followed up for >5 years. Spot samples of morning urine were collected
during admission from all participants to determine the levels of urinary
8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) by ELISA kit. A linear regression line was
calculated with the least squares method. Those subjects whose regression lines
were negative and the p value <0.05 were classified as progressive, while all
others were defined as non-progressive. Urinary 8-OHdG/creatinine level was
compared between the two groups. Adjusted odds ratio and 95% confidence intervals
for the progression were estimated with logistic regression models.
RESULTS: Seventeen subjects showed visual field defect progression (age:
59.9 ± 9.5 years, untreated IOP in the right eye: 15.8 ± 2.1 mmHg), and 23
subjects showed no progression (age: 57.4 ± 10.4 years, untreated IOP in the
right eye: 16.0 ± 2.6 mmHg). Urinary 8-OHdG/creatinine level was significantly
higher in the progressive group than in the non-progressive group (progressive
group: 9.0 ± 2.4 ng/mg creatinine, non-progressive group: 7.3 ± 1.8 ng/mg
creatinine, p = 0.02). Multivariable analysis revealed that higher urinary
8-OHdG/creatinine level was a significant risk factor for the progression (odds
ratio 1.54, 95% confidence interval 1.03-2.29).
CONCLUSIONS: Increased urinary 8-OHdG/creatinine was associated with glaucomatous
visual field progression in subjects with NTG.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2013.800889 
PMID: 23767426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2013 Apr;117(4):335-43.

[Results of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) as initial treatment for normal
tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Nitta K(1), Sugiyama K, Mawatari Y, Tanahashi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Fukui-ken Saiseikai Hospital, 7-1 Funabashi,
Wadanaka-machi, Fukui-shi 918-8503, Japan.

PURPOSE: A 3-year prospective study was performed to evaluate treatment outcomes 
following selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) used as initial treatment for
normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: SLT was performed as initial treatment in 42 NTG patients
(42 eyes). Thirty-seven of the patients were untreated and 5 patients had
discontinued antiglaucoma medications. Two patients were excluded because they
did not visit our clinic during the study period. The study was conducted on the 
remaining subjects (40 eyes of 40 patients).
RESULTS: The intraocular pressure (IOP) was 15.8 +/- 1.8 mmHg before SLT, 13.2
1.9 mmHg after one year, 13.5 +/- 1.9 mmHg after two years, and 13.5 +/- 1.9 mmHg
after three years. The IOP after SLT was significantly lower than that before
SLT. One month after SLT, the outflow pressure was improved at least 20%
(deltaOP) in 92.5% of the patients. The success rate for the effect of IOP
reduction at three years after SLT was 40.0% by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis.
27.5% of the patients who had two consecutive deltaOP less than 20%, 25.0% of the
patients who had begun antiglaucoma ophthalmic solution, and 15.0% of the
patients who had undergone repeated SLT were judged to have reached the endpoint.
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed that the success rate for the visual
field at three years after SLT was 82.4% (the visual field loss progression was
judged to have reached its endpoint when a significant sensitivity loss was first
detected in two consecutive points of the same adjacent test points of at least 3
points in the Glaucoma Progressive Analysis for the Humphrey Visual Field
Analyzer). Complications included conjunctival hyperemia (52.5%), eye discomfort 
(12.5%), visual disturbance (blurry vision and photophobia) (10.0%), and eye pain
(5.0%). These complications resolved within a few days, and there were no severe 
complications such as increased IOP or iritis.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that SLT is an effective initial treatment for
NTG.


PMID: 23767189  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


403. J Glaucoma. 2013 Jun-Jul;22 Suppl 5:S46-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182934b6b.

Cerebral blood flow in glaucoma patients.

Harris A(1), Siesky B, Wirostko B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Glick Eye Institute, Indiana University Medical
Center, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

Erratum in
    J Glaucoma. 2013 Sep;22(7):598. Siesky, Brent [added].

Glaucomatous damage has been described as a slowly progressive neuronal
degenerative process along the visual pathway. Decreased cerebral and ocular
blood flow as well as impaired vascular autoregulation has been identified in
glaucoma and have been shown to correlate with visual field loss. In low-tension 
glaucoma patients, diffuse cerebral ischemic changes have been detected through
magnetic resonance imaging. Given these findings, it seems that for some
patients, glaucomatous damage may be the ocular manifestation of a more
widespread vascular abnormality involving the brain rather than a separate
process isolated only to the eye and its immediate vasculature.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182934b6b 
PMCID: PMC4030418
PMID: 23733128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


404. J Glaucoma. 2013 Jun-Jul;22 Suppl 5:S19-20. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182934a0f.

Compartment syndromes of the optic nerve and open-angle glaucoma.

Killer HE(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Basel, Head of Neuro-ophthalmology, Kantonsspital Aarau, Aarau, 
Switzerland.

A compartment is a space or volume that is separated from its environment. The
cause for separation can be manifold. It can be expressed as a difference
[INCREMENT] in parameters, such as size, area, volume, color or pressure. The
border of a compartment can be rigid or flexible (compliance). The optic nerve is
located within the subarachnoid space and is covered by the dura mater, the
arachnoid and the pia mater that cover the brain as well. As is the brain, the
optic nerve is bathed in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Optic nerve
compartmentalization has been demonstrated in papilledema, anterior ischemic
optic neuropathy, posterior ischemic optic neuropathy, and normal tension
glaucoma. Anatomically the optic nerve can be described as located in a cul de
sac with a steady inflow of CSF from the pituitary cistern via the optic canal.
This specific anatomy raises questions concerning the mechanism of CSF recycling 
from the confined perioptic space.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182934a0f 
PMID: 23733118  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


405. J Glaucoma. 2013 Jun-Jul;22 Suppl 5:S13-4. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829349bf.

Intracranial pressure and glaucoma.

Jonas JB(1), Yang D, Wang N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical Faculty Mannheim-Heidelberg, Mannheim,
Germany.

Erratum in
    J Glaucoma. 2013 Sep;22(7):597. Yang, Diya [added].

Eyes with normal-tension and high-tension glaucoma can have a similar optic nerve
head appearance, which differs markedly from the optic disc appearance in
vascular optic neuropathies. Factors in addition to intraocular pressure (IOP)
may play a role in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. Clinical
and experimental studies have shown (1) physiologic associations between
cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP), systemic arterial blood pressure, IOP, and
body mass index; (2) that a low CSFP was associated with the development of
glaucomatous optic nerve damage in cats; and (3) that patients with
normal-tension glaucoma had significantly lower CSFP and a higher trans-lamina
cribrosa pressure difference when compared to normal subjects. Due to anatomic
reasons, the orbital CSFP and the optic nerve tissue pressure (and not the
atmospheric pressure) form the retro-laminar counter-pressure against the IOP and
are thus part of the trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference and gradient.
Assuming that an elevated trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference and a steeper
trans-lamina cribrosa pressure gradient are important for glaucomatous optic
nerve damage, a low orbital CSFP would therefore play a role in the pathogenesis 
of normal-tension glaucoma. Due to the association between CSFP and blood
pressure, a low blood pressure would also be indirectly involved.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829349bf 
PMID: 23733115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Glaucoma. 2013 Jun-Jul;22 Suppl 5:S11-2. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829349a2.

Low cerebrospinal fluid pressure in the pathogenesis of primary open-angle
glaucoma: epiphenomenon or causal relationship? The Beijing Intracranial and
Intraocular Pressure (iCOP) study.

Wang N(1), Yang D, Jonas JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing Institute of 
Ophthalmology, Beijing, China.

Erratum in
    J Glaucoma. 2013 Sep;22(7):597. Yang, Diya [added].

Previous experimental and clinical investigations have suggested that some
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma may have an abnormally low orbital
cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP). A meta-analysis of available clinical data
showed a marked overlap in lumbar CSFP measurements between patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and healthy subjects, so that the question arises as to
which additional factors play a role in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic
neuropathy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829349a2 
PMID: 23733114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2013 Jul;230(7):692-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1328472. Epub 
2013 Jun 6.

[Symptoms and therapy for steroid glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Rüfer F(1), Uthoff D.

Author information: 
(1)Augenheilkunde, Augenklinik Bellevue, Lindenalle 21/23, Kiel.
f.ruefer@augenklinik-bellevue.de

In steroid responders, topical or systemic application of steroids leads to
extracellular deposits in the trabecular meshwork which increase trabecular
meshwork outflow resistance. 30-40 % of the normal population are steroid
responders. About 5 % develop an intraocular pressure (IOP) rise of > 15 mmHg.
These patients are termed "high responders". In patients with primary open angle 
glaucoma (POAG), the proportion of steroid responders sums up to 90 %. The extent
of steroid response depends on the kind of steroid used and on the duration of
its administration. Dexamethasone has the highest IOP increasing potency.
Differential diagnoses are POAG, ocular hypertension, normal tension glaucoma,
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma and secondary glaucoma due to different reasons. To
make the diagnosis, a detailed anamnesis is crucial. A recompensated IOP after
the end of steroid use proves the diagnosis. The treatment of steroid glaucoma
includes topical antiglaucoma medications, glaucoma filtration surgery,
trabeculotomy, and laser surgery. So far, only few comparative studies on
different treatment options have been published on steroid glaucoma. In some
cases of therapy-resistant IOP increases following intravitreal or
subconjunctival steroid administration, operative removal of the steroids can be 
considered. A gene therapy treatment of steroid glaucoma is still a topic of
research.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1328472 
PMID: 23757171  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Magn Reson Imaging. 2013 Sep;31(7):1081-91. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2013.01.001. Epub 
2013 Jun 14.

Glaucoma classification based on visual pathway analysis using diffusion tensor
imaging.

El-Rafei A(1), Engelhorn T, Wärntges S, Dörfler A, Hornegger J, Michelson G.

Author information: 
(1)Pattern Recognition Lab, Department of Computer Science,
Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.
ahmed.el-rafei@informatik.uni-erlangen.de

Most of the existing methods for diagnosing glaucoma analyze the eye with a main 
focus on the retina, despite the transsynaptic nature of the fiber degeneration
caused by glaucoma. Thus, they ignore a significant part of the visual system
represented by the visual pathway in the brain. The advances in neuroimaging,
especially diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), enable the identification and
characterization of white matter fibers. In this work, we propose a system based 
on DTI analysis of the visual pathway fibers in the optic radiation for detecting
and discriminating different glaucoma entities. The optic radiation is identified
semi-automatically. DTI provides information about the fiber orientation as well 
as a set of derived parameters describing the degree of diffusion anisotropy and 
diffusivity. Features for each DTI derived measure are extracted from a specified
region of interest on the optic radiation. The features are grouped into three
sets: Histogram, co-occurrence matrices, and Laws features. For feature
selection, the features are ranked using a support vector machine classifier. The
highest ranked features are used for classification. A support vector machine
classifier is used for classification in a 10-fold cross validation setup. The
system is applied to three age-matched subjects' categories containing 27
healthy, 39 primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), and 18 normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) subjects. The discrimination accuracy between healthy and glaucoma (POAG
and NTG) subjects is 94.1% with an area under the ROC of 0.97. Classification
accuracy of 92.4% is obtained for the normal and the POAG groups while it
increased to 100% in case of healthy and NTG groups. In addition, the system
could differentiate between glaucoma types (POAG and NTG) with an accuracy of
98.3%. A complementary analysis was performed to estimate the selection bias in
the obtained accuracy. The bias ranged from 10% to 20% depending on the group
pair under consideration. The classification results indicate the high
performance of the system compared to retina-based glaucoma detection systems.
The proposed approach utilizes visual pathway analysis rather than the
conventional eye analysis which presents a new trend in glaucoma detection.
Analyzing the entire visual system could provide significant information that can
improve the glaucoma examination flow and treatment.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2013.01.001 
PMID: 23751976  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


409. J Glaucoma. 2014 Oct-Nov;23(8):553-60. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829484c6.

Comparison of visual field progression between relatively low and high
intraocular pressure groups in normal tension glaucoma patients.

Lee J(1), Kong M, Kim J, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Comment in
    J Glaucoma. 2015 Mar;24(3):251-2.

PURPOSE: To determine the risk factors of visual field (VF) progression in
relatively low and high intraocular pressure (IOP) groups in normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients and to compare progression rate of VF defects between the
2 groups.
METHODS: Forty-nine eyes of 49 NTG patients with untreated IOP of ≤15 mm Hg
(group A) and 49 eyes of 49 NTG patients matched by age and baseline VF mean
deviation (MD) who had untreated IOP of >15 mm Hg (group B) were included in this
retrospective chart review study. All patients were followed >5 years. Risk
factors for VF progression were evaluated using Cox proportional hazards models
in each group, separately. Changes in VF indexes were compared between the 2
groups.
RESULTS: Mean IOP and IOP fluctuation were significantly greater in group B than 
in group A (P<0.001 and P=0.016), whereas other factors did not differ between
the groups. In multivariable analysis, VF progression was significantly
associated with disc hemorrhage in group A (HR, 6.19; P=0.017) and mean IOP in
group B (HR, 1.77; P=0.029). There was no significant difference between the
groups in incidence of progression and in changes of MD, pattern SD, and VF index
(P=0.942, 0.874, and 0.887, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Although progression rate was similar, the risk factors for VF
progression were different in the 2 groups. These findings may suggest that
IOP-dependent and IOP-independent factors affect VF progression differently in
the 2 groups.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829484c6 
PMID: 23751927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Eye (Lond). 2013 Aug;27(8):979-83. doi: 10.1038/eye.2013.123. Epub 2013 Jun 7.

Association study of genetic variants on chromosome 7q31 with susceptibility to
normal tension glaucoma in a Japanese population.

Kato T(1), Meguro A, Nomura E, Uemoto R, Nomura N, Ota M, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F,
Iijima H, Kawase K, Yamamoto T, Nakamura M, Negi A, Sagara T, Nishida T, Inatani 
M, Tanihara H, Aihara M, Araie M, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Higashide T, Sugiyama K,
Kanamoto T, Kiuchi Y, Iwase A, Chin S, Ohno S, Inoko H, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama City University School of Medicine,
Kanagawa, Japan.

The caveolin 1 to caveolin 2 (CAV1-CAV2) gene region on chromosome 7q31 has been 
reported to be associated with susceptibility to primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in previous studies. We investigated
whether genetic variants in the CAV1-CAV2 region are associated with NTG in
Japanese patients. Two hundred and ninety-two Japanese patients with NTG and 352 
Japanese healthy controls were recruited. We genotyped three single-nucleotide
polymorphisms; that is, rs1052990, rs4236601, and rs7795356, in the CAV1-CAV2
gene region and assessed the allelic diversity among cases and controls. The
frequency of the minor allele (G) of rs1052990 was significantly decreased in NTG
cases compared with controls (P=0.014, OR=0.71), whereas NTG or POAG cases had a 
significantly higher frequency of the allele than controls in previous studies.
Conversely, rs7795356 did not show any significant association with NTG cases,
and rs4236601 was monomorphic in the Japanese study population. Our findings did 
not correspond with previous positive results, suggesting that CAV1-CAV2 variants
studied in the present study are not important risk factors for NTG
susceptibility in all populations. Further studies are needed to elucidate the
possible contribution of the CAV1-CAV2 region to the development of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2013.123 
PMCID: PMC3740316
PMID: 23743525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


411. EPMA J. 2013 Jun 7;4(1):14. doi: 10.1186/1878-5085-4-14.

The primary vascular dysregulation syndrome: implications for eye diseases.

Flammer J(1), Konieczka K, Flammer AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Basel, Mittlere Strasse 91, Basel
CH-4031, Switzerland. josef.flammer@usb.ch.

Vascular dysregulation refers to the regulation of blood flow that is not adapted
to the needs of the respective tissue. We distinguish primary vascular
dysregulation (PVD, formerly called vasospastic syndrome) and secondary vascular 
dysregulation (SVD). Subjects with PVD tend to have cold extremities, low blood
pressure, reduced feeling of thirst, altered drug sensitivity, increased pain
sensitivity, prolonged sleep onset time, altered gene expression in the
lymphocytes, signs of oxidative stress, slightly increased endothelin-1 plasma
level, low body mass index and often diffuse and fluctuating visual field
defects. Coldness, emotional or mechanical stress and starving can provoke
symptoms. Virtually all organs, particularly the eye, can be involved. In
subjects with PVD, retinal vessels are stiffer and more irregular, and both
neurovascular coupling and autoregulation capacity are reduced while retinal
venous pressure is often increased. Subjects with PVD have increased risk for
normal-tension glaucoma, optic nerve compartment syndrome, central serous
choroidopathy, Susac syndrome, retinal artery and vein occlusions and anterior
ischaemic neuropathy without atherosclerosis. Further characteristics are their
weaker blood-brain and blood-retinal barriers and the higher prevalence of optic 
disc haemorrhages and activated astrocytes. Subjects with PVD tend to suffer more
often from tinnitus, muscle cramps, migraine with aura and silent myocardial
ischaemic and are at greater risk for altitude sickness. While the main cause of 
vascular dysregulation is vascular endotheliopathy, dysfunction of the autonomic 
nervous system is also involved. In contrast, SVD occurs in the context of other 
diseases such as multiple sclerosis, retrobulbar neuritis, rheumatoid arthritis, 
fibromyalgia and giant cell arteritis. Taking into consideration the high
prevalence of PVD in the population and potentially linked pathologies, in the
current article, the authors provide recommendations on how to effectively
promote the field in order to create innovative diagnostic tools to predict the
pathology and develop more efficient treatment approaches tailored to the person.

DOI: 10.1186/1878-5085-4-14 
PMCID: PMC3693953
PMID: 23742177  [PubMed]


412. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2014;158(1):144-53. doi:
10.5507/bp.2013.038. Epub 2013 Jun 4.

Glaucoma and CNS. Comparison of fMRI results in high tension and normal tension
glaucoma.

Lestak J(1), Tintera J, Svata Z, Ettler L, Rozsival P.

Author information: 
(1)Eye department of the Clinic JL, V Hurkach 1296/10, Prague, Czech Republic.

AIM: The objective of our work was to determine whether there is a difference in 
fMRI activation between patients with high tension glaucoma (HTG) and those with 
normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHOD: The sample consisted of eight patients with different stages of high
tension glaucoma (3 females aged 41-65 and 5 males aged 40-73 years) and eight
patients, also with different stages of normal tension glaucoma (6 females aged
53-70 and 2 males aged 40-52 years). The control group consisted of eight healthy
subjects (3 females aged 23-46 and 5 males aged 23-65 years). All underwent
complete ophthalmological examination, including visual field, colour vision, and
electrophysiological functions. The results were compared with fMRI images after 
stimulation with black/white (BW) and blue/yellow (BY) checkerboard and then
statistically processed.
RESULTS: The authors analyzed the results of published studies on high tension
versus normal tension glaucoma in the images obtained by fMRI. They concluded on 
the basis of electrophysiological examinations that in high tension glaucoma,
damage of the whole visual pathway occurs, starting from retinal ganglion cells
up to the visual cortex. In normal tension glaucoma the response of ganglion
cells is relatively normal. The pathology is found mainly in the visual pathway. 
For this reason, the authors carried out fMRI examinations in high tension
glaucoma patients and patients with normal tension glaucoma. They found that
advancing stages of high tension glaucoma cause progression of fMRI activity
decrease. These relations were not observed in normal tension glaucoma cases.
Similarly, in high tension glaucoma on fMRI examination to yellow/blue stimuli,
the fMRI activity decrease was found to be greater than that to black/white
stimulation. No similar effect was observed in normal tension glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: Normal tension glaucoma is, from the etiopathogenetical view, a
different disease than high tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2013.038 
PMID: 23733146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Glaucoma. 2013 Dec;22(9):689-97. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318264b779.

The relationship between the mean deviation slope and follow-up intraocular
pressure in open-angle glaucoma patients.

Fukuchi T(1), Yoshino T, Sawada H, Seki M, Togano T, Tanaka T, Ueda J, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Graduated School of Medical and 
Dental Sciences, Niigata University, Niigata, Japan.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to analyze the relationship between the
mean deviation (MD) slope as the progressive rate of visual field defects and the
follow-up intraocular pressure (IOP) in open-angle glaucoma (OAG) patients.
METHODS: This study was a retrospective, nonrandomized comparative study. A total
of 287 eyes from 287 Japanese OAG patients were examined. The MD slope of the
Humphrey Field Analyzer was calculated and compared with the follow-up IOP. OAG
was classified into the high-tension group (>21 mm Hg) and the normal-tension
group (≤ 21 mm Hg) on the basis of the highest recorded IOP without treatment,
and then the 2 groups were compared. After setting a threshold for the
progression rate at -0.3 dB/y, related factors were compared between the
fast-progression and slow-progression eyes in each group.
RESULTS: The correlation line between the follow-up IOP and the MD slope was
statistically significant in the high-tension group but not in the normal-tension
group. Compared with eyes with slow progression, eyes with fast progression in
the high-tension group were older and had a higher mean IOP, greater highest and 
lowest IOPs, and a smaller mean IOP reduction ratio, whereas eyes with fast
progression in the normal-tension group had a greater SD of the mean IOP, a
larger IOP range, and a greater highest IOP.
CONCLUSIONS: Eyes with a faster visual field progression tended to have a higher 
follow-up IOP in the high-tension group and larger IOP fluctuations in the
normal-tension group of OAG patients. We should monitor both the follow-up IOP
and fluctuations in IOP to provide a safer and more reliable visual field
prognosis for OAG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318264b779 
PMID: 23722866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2013 Nov-Dec;23(6):841-9. doi: 10.5301/ejo.5000306. Epub 2013
May 31.

Differences in gene expression in lymphocytes of patients with high-tension, PEX,
and normal-tension glaucoma and in healthy subjects.

Fraenkl SA(1), Golubnitschaja O, Yeghiazaryan K, Orgül S, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Basel, Basel - Switzerland.

PURPOSE: Purpose Differences in the gene expression of leukocytes between
patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and controls have been described.
This study was performed in order to detect the differences in gene expression in
peripheral lymphocytes in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG),
patients with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEX), and patients with NTG, and in
healthy subjects.
METHODS: Ten patients with POAG, 11 patients with PEX, 10 patients with NTG, and 
42 sex- and age-matched healthy persons were recruited. All study subjects were
Caucasian. Twenty-two preselected genes were chosen and their expression in blood
lymphocytes was quantified by real-time PCR. First, a univariate comparison among
all groups was performed using the nonparametric Friedman test. Second, an L1
penalized logistic regression was performed.
RESULTS: Using the Friedman test to compare the 4 groups, 9 genes showed a
different expression (p&lt;0.05). Comparing the controls vs patients with POAG, 8
genes were differently expressed (p&lt;0.05). Comparing patients with PEX vs
controls, 9 genes were significantly different (p≤0.05). The statistical analysis
of patients with NTG vs controls showed a difference in gene expression of 7
genes (p≤0.05). All these genes were upregulated in the glaucoma groups compared 
with the controls. The genes RhoGDI and RAR showed the most significant
statistical difference in the L1-penalized logistic regression. The genes
overexpressed in POAG/PEX differed from the ones in NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: In this masked study among the preselected 22 genes, several genes
are overexpressed in the blood lymphocytes of Caucasian patients with glaucoma
compared with the controls. The genes upregulated in POAG/PEX differed from the
ones in NTG.

DOI: 10.5301/ejo.5000306 
PMID: 23722265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Clin Ophthalmol. 2013;7:901-10. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S41640. Epub 2013 May 16.

Preservative-free tafluprost in the treatment of naive patients with glaucoma and
ocular hypertension.

Lanzl I(1), Hamacher T, Rosbach K, Ramez MO, Rothe R, Růžičková E, Karhanová M,
Kimmich F.

Author information: 
(1)Private practice, Prien, Germany.

PURPOSE: The study reported here investigated the efficacy, tolerability, and
safety of the preservative-free prostaglandin analog tafluprost 0.0015% in
treatment-naive patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data were collected in two non-interventional, prospective,
multicenter, observational, open-label studies of identical design that were
conducted in Germany and the Czech Republic. All subjects received
preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015% once daily. Intraocular pressure (IOP)
levels were recorded for each eye at untreated baseline and 3 months after
initiation of medical treatment. The primary outcome was change in mean IOP from 
baseline to month 3. In the primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and ocular
hypertension (OH) patient subgroups, analyses were stratified by the level of
baseline IOP: ≥20 to 23 mmHg versus ≥24 mmHg. In addition, responder rates and
the achievement of pre-specified IOP levels at month 3 were evaluated. Local
tolerance of preservative-free tafluprost was evaluated by the patients at final 
visit. Overall satisfaction with the medical treatment was evaluated by both
patients and physicians. All adverse events were recorded.
RESULTS: A total of 579 treatment-naive patients with POAG (n = 349), OH (n =
105), normal tension glaucoma (n = 71), exfoliative glaucoma (n = 27), or other
glaucomas (n = 27) were included in this observational study. Mean IOP level at
baseline for all patients was 23.6 ± 4.0 mmHg. Mean IOP at month 3 was 16.8 ± 2.9
mmHg (-28.8% vs baseline). At month 3, significant reductions in mean IOP (P <
0.001) were seen in all patients and all subgroups. Preservative-free tafluprost 
lowered mean IOP significantly in patients with POAG and OH with IOP levels ≥ 20 
to 23 mmHg from 21.9 ± 1.1 mmHg at baseline to 16.5 ± 2.2 mmHg, and in the
subgroup with IOP levels ≥ 24 mmHg from 26.2 ± 2.4 mmHg to 17.9 ± 2.4 mmHg. In
the subgroups of patients with POAG and OH, an IOP response ≥20%, ≥30%, and ≥40% 
was achieved by 83.4%, 44.1%, and 12.8%, respectively. Overall, patients with
higher baseline IOP values showed a better response than patients with lower
baseline IOP levels. Preservative-free tafluprost was well tolerated and safe.
After 3 months, 97.9% of all patients remained on therapy.
CONCLUSION: In this real-world observational study, treatment with once-daily
preservative-free tafluprost proved efficacious, well tolerated, and safe in
treatment-naive patients.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S41640 
PMCID: PMC3663435
PMID: 23717036  [PubMed]


416. Semin Ophthalmol. 2013 May;28(3):173-9. doi: 10.3109/08820538.2013.771202.

Clinical update on normal tension glaucoma.

Mudumbai RC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington,
USA. raghum@uw.edu

Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is a common form of open-angle glaucoma that can
lead to significant visual morbidity. There has been considerable debate as to
whether NTG fits within the spectrum of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The
relative roles of intraocular pressure and pressure-independent factors in this
disease have also been debated. This review provides an extensive analysis of key
clinical features, differential diagnoses, and potential pathophysiologic
mechanisms, both intraocular and systemic, of NTG. Findings of major clinical
trials and evidence-based guidelines for management are also reviewed.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2013.771202 
PMID: 23697620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Hum Mol Genet. 2013 Sep 1;22(17):3559-67. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddt210. Epub 2013 May 
12.

Enhanced optineurin E50K-TBK1 interaction evokes protein insolubility and
initiates familial primary open-angle glaucoma.

Minegishi Y(1), Iejima D, Kobayashi H, Chi ZL, Kawase K, Yamamoto T, Seki T,
Yuasa S, Fukuda K, Iwata T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Cellular Biology, National Institute of Sensory
Organs, National Hospital Organization Tokyo Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan.

Glaucoma is the leading cause for blindness affecting 60 million people
worldwide. The optineurin (OPTN) E50K mutation was first identified in familial
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), the onset of which is not associated with
intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation, and is classified as normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG). Optineurin (OPTN) is a multifunctional protein and its mutations 
are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as POAG and amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis (ALS). We have previously described an E50K mutation-carrying
transgenic (E50K-tg) mouse that exhibited glaucomatous phenotypes of decreased
retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and surrounding cell death at normal IOP. Further
phenotypic analysis of these mice revealed persistent reactive gliosis and E50K
mutant protein deposits in the outer plexiform layer (OPL). Over-expression of
E50K in HEK293 cells indicated accumulation of insoluble OPTN in the endoplasmic 
reticulum (ER). This phenomenon was consistent with the results seen in neurons
derived from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from E50K mutation-carrying
NTG patients. The E50K mutant strongly interacted with TANK-binding kinase 1
(TBK1), which prohibited the proper oligomerization and solubility of OPTN, both 
of which are important for OPTN intracellular transition. Treatment with a TBK1
inhibitor, BX795, abrogated the aberrant insolubility of the E50K mutant. Here,
we delineated the intracellular dynamics of the endogenous E50K mutant protein
for the first time and demonstrated how this mutation causes OPTN insolubility,
in association with TBK1, to evoke POAG.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddt210 
PMID: 23669351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Ophthalmology. 2013 Oct;120(10):1977-84. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.02.029. Epub 
2013 May 9.

A population-based survey of the prevalence and types of glaucoma in central
Iran: the Yazd eye study.

Pakravan M(1), Yazdani S, Javadi MA, Amini H, Behroozi Z, Ziaei H, Katibeh M,
Solaimanizad R, Ghahari E, Yaseri M.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: mohpakravan@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: To describe the prevalence and types of glaucoma in Yazd, central Iran.
DESIGN: Population-based, cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Iranian adults aged 40 to 80 years, residing in Yazd, Iran, in 2010
and 2011.
METHODS: Eligible samples were selected using cluster random sampling. Each
participant underwent an interview and ophthalmologic examinations, including
refraction, determination of uncorrected and best-corrected visual acuity,
slit-lamp biomicroscopy, Goldmann applanation tonometry, gonioscopy, dilated
fundus examination, central corneal thickness measurement, visual field testing, 
and stereoscopic fundus photography.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence of different types of glaucoma.
RESULTS: Of 2320 eligible individuals, 2098 (response rate, 90.4%) participated
in the study and 1990 completed all evaluations for glaucoma diagnosis. Overall, 
47 persons (2.4%) were categorized with ocular hypertension, 32 persons (1.6%)
were categorized with primary angle-closure suspect (PACS), and 16 persons (0.8%)
were categorized with primary angle closure (PAC). The total number of subjects
with glaucoma was 87 (4.4%; 95% confidence interval, 3.3-5.4), consisting of
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG, 3.2%, including high-tension glaucoma [1.7%]
and normal-tension glaucoma [NTG], 1.5%]), primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG, 
0.4%), pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (0.4%), and other secondary glaucomas (0.4%).
The mean age of subjects with glaucoma was 63.3 ± 11 years, and 57.5% of them
were female. Seventy-eight individuals (89.7%) were unaware of their disease.
Positive family history of glaucoma was present in 6.9% of glaucoma subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of glaucoma in Yazd (4.4%) is comparable to that in
other population-based studies in Asia, with POAG accounting for the majority of 
cases. Most affected subjects were unaware of their disease.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest
in any materials discussed in this article.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.02.029 
PMID: 23664464  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Clin Ophthalmol. 2013;7:807-13. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S42468. Epub 2013 May 3.

Optic disc size and progression of visual field damage in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Hayamizu F(1), Yamazaki Y, Nakagami T, Mizuki K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Division of Visual Science, Nihon University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: Our goal was to evaluate the influence of optic disc size on the
progression of visual field damage in patients with normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Eighty-two eyes of 82 NTG patients who had been receiving
topical antiglaucoma medications and followed-up for more than 4 years were
enrolled in this study. The patients were allocated to two groups, according to
the mean size of their optic discs. The data were analyzed using regression
analysis, based on the Cox proportional hazard model.
RESULTS: The probability of visual field stability was significantly lower in
eyes with large discs than in those with small discs (log rank test, P = 0.007). 
Progression of visual field damage was significantly associated with the optic
disc area (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.812, P = 0.018), occurrence of disc hemorrhage
(HR: 2.116, P = 0.028), and intraocular pressure reduction ratio (HR: 0.957, P = 
0.014).
CONCLUSION: The optic disc area correlates with progression of visual field
damage in patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S42468 
PMCID: PMC3647604
PMID: 23662040  [PubMed]


420. Mol Brain. 2013 May 4;6:22. doi: 10.1186/1756-6606-6-22.

Dock3 interaction with a glutamate-receptor NR2D subunit protects neurons from
excitotoxicity.

Bai N(1), Hayashi H, Aida T, Namekata K, Harada T, Mishina M, Tanaka K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Medical Research Institute, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8510, Japan.

BACKGROUND: N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are critical for neuronal
development and synaptic plasticity. Dysregulation of NMDARs is implicated in
neuropsychiatric disorders. Native NMDARs are heteromultimeric protein complexes 
consisting of NR1 and NR2 subunits. NR2 subunits (NR2A-D) are the major
determinants of the functional properties of NMDARs. Most research has focused on
NR2A- and/or NR2B-containing receptors. A recent study demonstrated that NR2C-
and/or NR2D-containing NMDARs are the primary targets of memantine, a drug that
is widely prescribed to treat Alzheimer's disease. Our laboratory demonstrated
that memantine prevents the loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in GLAST
glutamate transporter knockout mice, a model of normal tension glaucoma (NTG),
suggesting that NR2D-containing receptors may be involved in RGC loss in NTG.
RESULTS: Here we demonstrate that NR2D deficiency attenuates RGC loss in
GLAST-deficient mice. Furthermore, Dock3, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor,
binds to the NR2D C-terminal domain and reduces the surface expression of NR2D,
thereby protecting RGCs from excitotoxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that NR2D is involved in the degeneration of
RGCs induced by excitotoxicity, and that the interaction between NR2D and Dock3
may have a neuroprotective effect. These findings raise the possibility that NR2D
and Dock3 might be potential therapeutic targets for treating neurodegenerative
diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and NTG.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-6606-6-22 
PMCID: PMC3652797
PMID: 23641686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


421. J Glaucoma. 2015 Jan;24(1):64-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318295200b.

Clinical impact of 8 prospective, randomized, multicenter glaucoma trials.

Panarelli JF(1), Banitt MR, Sidoti PA, Budenz DL, Singh K.

Author information: 
(1)*Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, FL †Department of Ophthalmology, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York 
‡New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY §Department of Ophthalmology, University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC ∥Department of Ophthalmology,
Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA.

PURPOSE: To determine the impact of 8 multicenter randomized clinical trials
(RCTs) on glaucoma practice.
METHODS: An electronic survey was distributed to the members of the American
Glaucoma Society (AGS). Each participant was asked 2 study-specific questions and
1 standard question common to all 8 RCTs assessing the study's impact on clinical
practice. RCTs included in the survey were the Advanced Glaucoma Intervention
Study (AGIS), Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study (CIGTS),
Collaborative Normal Tension Glaucoma (CNTG) Study, European Glaucoma Prevention 
Study (EGPS), Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial (EMGT), Glaucoma Laser Trial (GLT),
Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study (OHTS), and Tube Versus Trabeculectomy (TVT) 
Study. A 5-point Likert scale was used for rating all responses. The practice
setting and duration of glaucoma practice was determined for all AGS members who 
responded.
RESULTS: A total of 206 (23.0%) of 894 AGS members participated in the survey.
Among those who responded, 46.4% were self classified as academic practitioners
and 53.6% worked in a private practice setting. Mean Likert scores for the
standard question evaluating the overall impact of the RCT were OHTS 4.47, CNTG
Study 4.13, AGIS 3.78, TVT Study 3.53, EMGT 3.48, CIGTS 3.44, GLT 3.39, and 2.69 
EGPS.
CONCLUSIONS: Substantial differences were observed in the clinical impact of
several RCTs in glaucoma. The reported impact of each study likely reflects
several factors including study timing, design, conduct, and interpretation of
results.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318295200b 
PMID: 23632410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


422. J Glaucoma. 2014 Sep;23(7):455-60. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182946553.

Interocular asymmetry of the visual field defects in newly diagnosed
normal-tension glaucoma, primary open-angle glaucoma, and chronic angle-closure
glaucoma.

Huang P(1), Shi Y, Wang X, Liu M, Zhang C.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing, China
†Department of Ophthalmology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY.

PURPOSE: To compare the interocular asymmetry of visual field loss in newly
diagnosed normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and 
chronic angle-closure glaucoma (CACG) patients.
METHODS: Visual field results of 117 newly diagnosed, treatment-naive glaucoma
patients (42 NTG, 38 POAG, and 37 CACG) were studied retrospectively. The
following 3 visual field defect parameters were used to evaluate the interocular 
asymmetry: (1) global indices; (2) local mean deviations (MDs) of 6 predefined
visual field areas; and (3) stage designated by glaucoma staging system 2. The
differences of the above parameters between the trial eye (the eye with greater
MDs) and the fellow eye in each subject were defined as interocular asymmetry
scores.
RESULTS: Interocular asymmetry of visual field loss was presented in all the 3
groups (all P<0.05). CACG group had greater total MD interocular asymmetry score 
compared with the NTG and POAG groups (among groups, P=0.008; NTG vs. CACG,
P=0.005; POAG vs. CACG, P=0.009). CACG also presented with significantly higher
local MD interocular asymmetry scores at central, inferior, and temporal areas
compared with those of the POAG group and at inferior area compared with that of 
NTG group. No significant difference in either total or local MDs was detected
between NTG and POAG (all P>0.05). Interocular asymmetry scores of glaucoma
staging system 2 had no significant difference among the 3 groups (P=0.068).
CONCLUSIONS: All CACG, POAG, and NTG groups presented with interocular asymmetric
visual field loss at the time of diagnosis. CACG had greater interocular
asymmetry compared with NTG and POAG. No significant interocular asymmetry
difference was observed between NTG and POAG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182946553 
PMID: 23632403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


423. J Glaucoma. 2013 Sep;22(7):577-83. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318255bb30.

Intraindividual comparison of Canaloplasty versus trabeculectomy with mitomycin C
in a single-surgeon series.

Brüggemann A(1), Despouy JT, Wegent A, Müller M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Medical Center Schleswig-Holstein,
Campus Lübeck, University of Lübeck, Germany. anne.brueggemann@uk-sh.de

PURPOSE: To compare the safety, efficacy, and postoperative management of
canaloplasty in one eye versus trabeculectomy with mitomycin C in the
contralateral eye in patients with open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: This study was a consecutive case series of 30 eyes of 15 patients who
had prior trabeculectomy with mitomycin C (group II) and later were treated with 
canaloplasty (group I) in the fellow eye. Primary outcome measures included
intraocular pressure (IOP) and glaucoma medication after 6- and 12-month
follow-up. Secondary outcome measures were number of postoperative interventions,
hospitalization, and follow-up visits.
RESULTS: Mean preoperative IOP±SD was 26.73±6.4 mm Hg in group I and 26.3±10.9 mm
Hg in group II (P=0.9), which decreased to 13.21±2.83 mm Hg for canaloplasty
(P<0.0001) and 11.64±5.2 mm Hg for trabeculectomy (P<0.0005) including 3 patients
with hypotony at 12 months. Glaucoma medication decreased from 2.5 in group I and
2.7 in group II to no medication in group I and 0.36±0.74 supplemental medication
in group II 12 months postoperatively (P<0.0001). Best corrected visual acuity
(±SD) was logMAR 0.06±0.09 (group I) and 0.28±0.56 (group II) before and logMAR
0.07±0.09 (group I) and 0.31±0.58 (group II) after surgery. In group I, 2
interventions were necessary. In group II, 8 eyes needed 112 interventions for
filtering bleb management. Although canaloplasty took significantly longer to
perform, trabeculectomy group required a longer initial postoperative
hospitalization (mean 10.4 vs. 5.4 d, P<0.0001) and more postoperative follow-up 
visits (mean 3.9 vs. 8.5, P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Canaloplasty and trabeculectomy were both effective in lowering IOP.
However, less follow-up visits and significantly fewer complications and
interventions were favorable for canaloplasty.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318255bb30 
PMID: 23632395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


424. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2013 May;36(5):449-54. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2012.11.009. Epub 2013 
Apr 22.

[Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), retinal vein occlusions (RVO) and central
corneal thickness (CCT): what is the relationship?].

[Article in French]

Azar G(1), Voigt M, Al-Arabi Z, Lachkar Y.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Saint-Joseph, institut du Glaucome, 185, rue Raymond-Losserand, 75014 
Paris, France. georgesazar@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between various types of glaucoma,
retinal vein occlusion (RVO), and central corneal thickness (CCT) METHODS: We
followed 48 known glaucoma patients who developed any type of retinal vein
occlusion. Mean follow-up was 4.2 years. At all visits, patients had a detailed
ocular history, as well as thorough bilateral evaluation, including dynamic
gonioscopy, CCT measurement, retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) measurement by OCT,
and automated visual field. Student's t-test and Chi(2) test were used to
evaluate continuous and categorical data, respectively, with comparison of the
means of paired series.
RESULTS: Mean age at time of diagnosis was 68.1 ± 11.8 years (range 40-85 years).
Six patients were black (12.5%), while the others were white (87.5%, P=0,0001).
Various types of glaucoma were found in the 48 patients (22 men, 26 women,
P=0.564) who developed RVO. No significant difference was found between mean CCT 
of eyes with RVO and fellow eyes (537.7 ± 39.8 μM and 538.4 ± 36.4 μM,
respectively) (P=0.527). By stratifying our results according to the various
types of glaucoma, mean CCT of involved and fellow eyes was 542.7 ± 37.6 μM and
540.6 ± 33.2 μM, respectively in the primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) group,
530.4 ± 45.2 μM and 535 ± 43.6 μM in the chronic angle-closure glaucoma (CACG)
group, 549.3 ± 24.8 μM and 558 ± 37.3 μM in the pseudo-exfoliation glaucoma (PXG)
group, and 490 ± 56.6 μM and 495 ± 35.4 μM in the normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Contrary to some recently-published studies, our results showed no
statistically significant difference between CCT of eyes involved with RVO and
fellow eyes. The NTG group seems to have the thinnest CCT.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2012.11.009 
PMID: 23618732  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Am J Ophthalmol. 2013 Jul;156(1):5-14.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2013.03.003. Epub
2013 Apr 19.

Senescent changes in cerebrospinal fluid circulatory physiology and their role in
the pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma.

Wostyn P(1), De Groot V, Van Dam D, Audenaert K, De Deyn PP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, PC Sint-Amandus, Beernem, Belgium.
wostyn.peter@skynet.be

PURPOSE: To evaluate the evidence supporting a role for senescent changes in
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) circulatory physiology in the pathogenesis of
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Literature review and personal perspective of the authors.
METHODS: Analysis of selected articles in the peer-reviewed literature with
interpretation and perspective.
RESULTS: Recent studies have reported that intracranial pressure is lower in
patients with NTG when compared with patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
and nonglaucomatous control subjects. It has been suggested that a low
intracranial pressure in patients with normal intraocular pressure could lead to 
glaucomatous damage. This low intracranial pressure, leading to an abnormally
high trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference, could result in barotraumatically
induced optic nerve damage at the lamina cribrosa. However, several experimental 
studies do not support the speculation that low intracranial pressure and the
resulting pressure-dependent effects cause bowing back of the lamina cribrosa and
optic disc cupping. On the other hand, CSF production and turnover have been
shown to be decreased in aging and in pathologic conditions, such as Alzheimer
disease and normal pressure hydrocephalus. Interestingly, recent studies have
revealed that both Alzheimer disease patients and patients with normal pressure
hydrocephalus may have a higher risk of developing glaucoma. Therefore, we
believe that CSF circulatory failure, ultimately resulting in reduced neurotoxin 
clearance along the optic nerves, could be an alternative explanation as to why
glaucoma develops in patients with low intracranial pressure.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of the evidence available from the peer-reviewed
literature, our tentative conclusion is that age-related changes in CSF
circulatory physiology and the subsequent decrease in CSF turnover, with
diminished clearance of toxic substances, can account for, at least in part, the 
pathogenesis of NTG. It should be stressed that for the moment at least, the
present hypothesis remains unproven. Further research will be necessary to
determine the possible role of CSF circulatory dysfunction in NTG. If confirmed, 
this hypothesis could provide new, important insights into the pathogenesis of
NTG.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2013.03.003 
PMID: 23608683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Vojnosanit Pregl. 2013 Mar;70(3):304-8.

The role of confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in stereometric
differentiation of eye papilla in ocular hypertension, normal tension glaucoma
and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Gvozdenović R(1), Risović D, Marjanović I, Stamenković M, Joković Z, Abazi Z.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Faculty, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia. Ranko2010@gmail.com

BACKGROUND/AIM: Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) demonstrate the same structural changes in the optic disc along with visual
field defects but only POAG includes an abnormal elevation of intraocular
pressure. Heidelberg retina tomograph based on confocal scanning laser
ophthalmoscopy (HRT) and Moorfields regression analysis (MRA) have been employed 
to quantitatively assess the topography of eye papilla. We measured stereographic
parameters of eye papilla in patients with POAG, NTG, and ocular hypertension
(OH) using an HRT in order to determine whether HRT topographic parameters can be
used to differentiate those conditions.
METHODS: The results of 145 eyes of 145 patients with OH, NTG and POAG were
analyzed by age, refractive error, quality of HRT images, stereometric and MRA
parameters.
RESULTS: Significant differences were found between NTG and other two groups for 
a majority of the HRT parameters, and also no differences between OH and POAG
patients for a majority of the investigated parameters, except thickness of
retinal nerve fiber layer. By reading the MRA no differences were found in the
distribution of mostly damaged and mostly preserved neuroretinal rim sectors
between NTG and POAG patients, and also all sectors of the neuroretinal rim in OH
patients were preserved.
CONCLUSION: HRT stereometric parameters are useful to differentiate patients with
OH and NTG, and also for differentiation between NTG and POAG patients, but most 
of parameters showed no difference between OH and POAG patients. MRA may serve to
confirm the diagnosis of OH, but not for precise distinction between NTG and
POAG.


PMID: 23607243  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 May 13;54(5):3394-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-11549.

Cost-effectiveness of treating normal tension glaucoma.

Li EY(1), Tham CC, Chi SC, Lam DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. emmyli@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To assess the long-term cost-effectiveness of treating normal tension
glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: A Markov decision-analytic health model was developed to determine the
cost-effectiveness of treating NTG with IOP lowering therapy to prevent
progressive visual field loss. Transitional probabilities were derived from the
Collaborative Normal Tension Glaucoma Study and cost data obtained from the
literature and the Medicare fee schedule. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios
(ICER) of treating all patients with NTG and treating selected individuals with
risk factors for disease progression were determined using Monte Carlo
simulation. Sensitivity analyses were performed by varying the cost of
consultations, medications, laser/surgery, and adjusting utility loss from
progressed states.
RESULTS: The ICER of treating all patients with NTG over a 10-year period was
United States (US) $34,225 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The ICER would 
be reduced when treatment was offered selectively to those with risk factors for 
disease progression. The ICER for treating NTG patients with disc hemorrhage,
migraine, and those who were female were US $24,350, US $25,533, and US $27,000
per QALY, respectively. The cost-effectiveness of treating all NTG patients in
this model was sensitive to cost fluctuation of medications, choice of utility
score associated with disease progression, and insensitive to cost of
consultations and laser/surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: It is cost-effective, in the long-term, to offer IOP lowering
therapy, aiming for a 30% reduction from the baseline, to all NTG patients. The
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of treating all patients with normal tension
glaucoma over a 10-year period was $34,225 per quality-adjusted life year and
should be offered to individuals in need.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-11549 
PMID: 23599342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 May 9;54(5):3333-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-11256.

Reduction in blood glutathione levels occurs similarly in patients with
primary-open angle or normal tension glaucoma.

Gherghel D(1), Mroczkowska S, Qin L.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Research Laboratory, Ophthalmic Research Group, School of Life and
Health Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham, United Kingdom.
d.gherghel@aston.ac.uk

PURPOSE: To investigate in parallel the systemic glutathione levels of patients
suffering from primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) or normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) with comparable functional loss.
METHODS: Thirty-four POAG patients, 30 NTG patients, and 53 controls were
subjected to blood analysis to detect the level of circulating glutathione in its
reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) forms. Systemic blood pressure (BP) and ocular 
perfusion pressure (OPP) parameters were also determined.
RESULTS: Independent of age, POAG and NTG patients demonstrated significantly
lower GSH and t-GSH levels than age-matched controls (P < 0.001). Additionally, a
lower redox index was found, but in POAG patients only, in comparison to both NTG
and control groups (P = 0.020). GSSG levels were, however, similar between all
study groups (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates, for the first time, that both POAG and NTG 
patients exhibit lower GSH and t-GSH levels than age-matched controls, indicating
a similar general compromise of the antioxidant defense systems may exist in both
conditions.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-11256 
PMID: 23599328  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Mol Vis. 2013;19:526-35. Epub 2013 Feb 27.

Roles of tumor necrosis factor alpha gene polymorphisms, tumor necrosis factor
alpha level in aqueous humor, and the risks of open angle glaucoma: a
meta-analysis.

Xin X(1), Gao L, Wu T, Sun F.

Author information: 
(1)First Center Clinical College, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, P R China.

PURPOSE: This meta-analysis was performed to clarify the association between
tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) gene polymorphisms and open angle glaucoma
(OAG) risks, and the association between the TNF-α level in aqueous humor (AH)
and the risks of glaucoma.
METHODS: A computerized literature search was performed for the relevant
available studies from three databases including PubMed, ISI Web of Science, and 
Embase. The fixed or random effect model was selected based on the heterogeneity 
test using the Q test and the I(2) statistic. The associations between TNF-α gene
polymorphisms and OAG risks were estimated by calculating pooled odds ratios
(ORs) and the 95% confidence interval (CI), while a pooled standardized mean
difference with 95% CI was used for the comparison of TNF-α levels in AH between 
patients with OAG and controls. Publication bias was estimated using Begg's
funnel plots and Egger's regression test.
RESULTS: A total of 14 (1,182 cases and 3,003 controls), five (808 cases and
1,039 controls), three (645 cases and 666 controls), and three studies (404 cases
and 625 controls) were finally included in the analyses for the associations
between TNF-α -308G/A, -857C/T, -863C/A, and -238G/A polymorphisms and the risks 
of OAG, respectively. The combined results showed that the TNF-α -308G/A gene
polymorphism was significantly associated with risks of high-tension glaucoma (A 
versus G: OR=1.660, 95% CI=1.033-2.667; AA/AG versus GG: OR=1.713, 95%
CI=1.10-2.651), but not with normal tension glaucoma or exfoliation glaucoma.
Ethnicity-stratified analysis revealed that a significant association also
existed in Asians (A versus G: OR=1.947, 95% CI=1.097-3.456; AA/AG versus GG:
OR=1.949, 95% CI=1.140-3.332). None of the other polymorphisms was significantly 
associated with OAG risks. Furthermore, the pooled results of six studies showed 
that the TNF-α levels in the AH of patients with OAG was higher than that of the 
control subjects (standardized mean difference=0.517, 95% CI=0.207-0.826,
p=0.001). Probability of publication bias was low across all comparisons
illustrated by the funnel plots and Egger's test.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis suggests that patients with OAG may have higher
TNF-α levels compared with the control subjects, and the TNF-α -308G/A
polymorphism is significantly associated with the risks of high-tension glaucoma.
Since potential confounders could not be ruled out completely, further studies
are needed to confirm these results.


PMCID: PMC3611941
PMID: 23559847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Glaucoma. 2013 Jun-Jul;22(5):398-403. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318237c8b3.

Effect of topical tafluprost on optic nerve head blood flow in patients with
myopic disc type.

Tsuda S(1), Yokoyama Y, Chiba N, Aizawa N, Shiga Y, Yasuda M, Yokokura S, Otomo
T, Fuse N, Nakazawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the effect of topical tafluprost on optic disc blood flow
in patients with myopic disc.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-eight eyes in 24 patients with a myopic disc type
(oval shaped) optic disc tilted to the temporal, with a crescent peripapillary
atrophy were included in this study. Twenty-eight eyes were diagnosed as normal
tension glaucoma and 20 eyes were in normal subjects. None had any treatment for 
glaucoma. Average age was 45.3±11.9 years. One eye was treated with topical
tafluprost and the fellow eye served as the control. Ocular blood flow was
measured by laser speckle flowgraphy (LSFG-NAVI) at 30, 60, 90, and 120 minutes
after tafluprost administration, and the mean blur rate (MBR) on the optic disc
was analyzed. Blood pressure and intraocular pressure (IOP) were recorded.
RESULTS: In all subjects, topical tafluprost (a) significantly reduced IOP versus
baseline from 60 minutes after treatment (baseline: 15.2±3.4 mm Hg, 60 min:
13.3±3.2 mm Hg, P=0.001, 90 min: 13.3±3.6 mm Hg, P=0.002, 120 min: 13.7±3.4 mm
Hg, P=0.007); and (b) significantly increased the MBR versus baseline (60 min:
+4.3±6.6%, P=0.008, 90 min: +5.0±4.9%, P<0.001, 120 min: +6.7±7.0%, P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Topical tafluprost increased MBR in the optic nerve head and
significantly reduced IOP, effects that may represent beneficial treatment for
glaucoma patients with a myopic disc type.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318237c8b3 
PMID: 23552835  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


431. J Glaucoma. 2013 Apr-May;22(4):325-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318237caa2.

Comparison of intraocular pressure measurements and assessment of intraobserver
and interobserver reproducibility with the portable ICare rebound tonometer and
Goldmann applanation tonometer in glaucoma patients.

Salim S(1), Du H, Wan J.

Author information: 
(1)University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN 38163, USA.
ssalim@uthsc.edu

PURPOSE: The goals of our study were to analyze the correlation of rebound
tonometer (RBT) and Goldmann applanation tonometer (GAT), assess the
intraobserver and interobserver reproducibility of these tonometers, and
investigate the influence of central corneal thickness (CCT) on intraocular
pressure (IOP) measurements recorded with both tonometers in glaucoma patients
under treatment.
METHODS: In a prospective study of 65 eyes with glaucoma, IOP was measured using 
RBT and GAT, followed by measurements of CCT.
RESULTS: A clear correlation between RBT and GAT was found (r=0.89, P<0.001).
Bland-Altman analysis showed a mean difference of measurements by GAT and RBT of 
2.45 mm Hg with 2 SD=4.24 mm Hg. Both tonometers were affected by CCT. High
intraobserver correlation coefficients were found with both tonometers (0.981 and
0.979 for RBT for examiner 1 and examiner 2, respectively, and 0.989 for GAT for 
both examiners). Interobserver agreement appeared to be better with GAT when
compared with RBT (variation coefficients were 4.6% for GAT and 7.1% for RBT).
CONCLUSIONS: RBT may have a potential role and use in routine evaluation and
management of glaucoma patients given its high correlation with GAT and high
reproducibility in IOP measurements. As with GAT, measurements obtained with RBT 
are affected by CCT, reinforcing the role of pachymetry in glaucoma management.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318237caa2 
PMID: 23542696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 Jun;251(6):1593-9. doi:
10.1007/s00417-013-2295-6. Epub 2013 Mar 14.

Relationship of change in central corneal thickness to visual field progression
in eyes with glaucoma.

Viswanathan D(1), Goldberg I, Graham SL.

Author information: 
(1)Hub 1, 2 Technology place, Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Macquarie
University, Sydney, NSW, 2109, Australia. viswamdeepa@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: To assess the relationship between baseline central corneal thickness
(CCT) and/or ongoing CCT change over time with subsequent visual field
progression.
METHODS: One hundred sixty three eyes of 163 patients with medically treated
glaucoma were followed up for 6.8 ± 1.8 years. Exclusion criteria was laser or
intraocular surgery. Baseline and follow up CCT, confocal scanning laser
tomography and visual fields were performed. CCT and CCT change related to visual
field progression using Glaucoma Progress Analysis were assessed. Multivariate
logistic regression analysis for predictive factors of glaucoma progression was
used to analyze data.
RESULTS: Thinner baseline CCT was associated with more advanced damage at
presentation, mean deviation (MD) (r=0.17, p=0.02) and neuroretinal rim area
(NRR) (r=0.20, p=0.02). Progressing eyes had significantly thinner (p=0.01)
baseline CCT compared to non-progressing eyes. The slope of visual field change
was significantly greater (p=0.05) for thinner (<540 μm) as compared to thicker
eyes. A small but significant CCT reduction (12.78 ± 13.35 μm, p<0.0001) was
noted in all eyes; however, there was no significant difference (p=0.95) in the
amount of change between progressing and non-progressing eyes. CCT change did not
correlate with MD or NRR change. A thinner CCT (Odds ratio=1.80, p=0.02), but not
CCT change (Odds ratio=1.07, p=0.69), was a significant risk factor for glaucoma 
progression.
CONCLUSIONS: CCT correlates significantly with the amount of glaucomatous damage 
at presentation. Thinner corneas may be associated with increased risk of visual 
field progression. CCT reduced slightly over time in eyes with glaucoma; but the 
magnitude of this change was not related to visual field progression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-013-2295-6 
PMID: 23494444  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Curr Eye Res. 2013 May;38(5):605-13. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2013.769059. Epub 2013
Feb 28.

Comparison of disc analysis algorithms provided by cirrus OCT and stereo
optic-disc photography in normal and open angle glaucoma patients.

Lee M(1), Yoo H, Ahn J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare optic nerve head (ONH) parameters obtained by semi-automated 
disc analysis of stereo optic-disc photography (ODP) with those by spectral
domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) regarding their reproducibility,
agreement and relationship with the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional retrospective study, 91 eyes (50
normal and 41 with open angle glaucoma) from 47 patients were examined. ONH
parameters were obtained by ODP and SD-OCT. Agreement and reproducibility were
assessed by intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs). Inter-device agreement
and precision were also evaluated. The structural factors related to the ONH
measurements by both instruments and the disparity between the measurements were 
evaluated by the generalized estimating equation model.
RESULTS: ODP showed good intra-reader and inter-reader reproducibility,
comparable to that of SD-OCT (ICC: >0.970). Disc area (DA) (ICC: 0.950) showed
better inter-device agreement than rim area (RA) (ICC: 0.859). RNFL thickness was
correlated with RA, but not with DA, for both devices. SD-OCT RA showed
significant correlation with RNFL thickness in both the normal and glaucoma
groups, whereas ODP RA correlated with RNFL only in the glaucoma group. The
measurement disparity between the devices was influenced by the DA in both
groups. The inter-device difference in RA was not correlated with RA, but instead
with the RNFL thickness in the glaucoma group.
CONCLUSION: ONH parameters obtained by semi-automated algorithms of ODP showed
excellent reproducibility and good agreement with those measured by SD-OCT.
SD-OCT RA was a better indicator of RNFL thickness, compared with ODP RA for both
normal patients and glaucoma patients; however, the inter-device disparity of the
RA was less in glaucoma patients who had a thinner RNFL.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2013.769059 
PMID: 23448436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Clin Ophthalmol. 2013;7:279-82. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S41540. Epub 2013 Feb 11.

Acute bilateral angle closure glaucoma induced by methazolamide.

Aref AA(1), Sayyad FE, Ayres B, Lee RK.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, FL ; Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary, University of Illinois at Chicago
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.

PURPOSE: To report a case of bilateral acute myopia and angle closure glaucoma
after ingestion of methazolamide.
METHODS: An interventional case report of a 70-year-old male who developed
bilateral, acute myopia and angle closure glaucoma after ingesting methazolamide 
tablets for the treatment of normal tension glaucoma.
RESULTS: Bilateral anterior chamber shallowing associated with ciliary body
edema, supraciliary effusions, and shallow posterior choroidal effusions were
documented with slit-lamp photography and high-frequency ultrasonography. Near
complete resolution of these signs after discontinuation of methazolamide were
also documented.
CONCLUSION: Methazolamide may be associated with secondary myopia and angle
closure glaucoma. Discontinuation of methazolamide leads to resolution of this
process, as documented by slit-lamp photography and high-frequency
ultrasonography.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S41540 
PMCID: PMC3573826
PMID: 23430961  [PubMed]


435. Prilozi. 2012;33(2):163-73.

Neuroprotection in glaucoma--delusion, reality or hope?

Dimovska-Jordanova A(1).

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Diseases Clinic, Skopje, R. Macedonia.

The global definition of glaucoma considers it as an optic neuropathy with
multifactor etiology, which affects the optic nerve head (ONH), provoking visual 
field loss and permanent impairment of visual function. Bearing in mind the fact 
that the exact pathogenic mechanism is still not completely established, glaucoma
treatment strategies so far are based upon the identification of glaucoma risk
factors. Among them, only elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) could undergo
therapeutic treatment. However, in spite of the adequate therapy and IOP
lowering, very often the disease is still progressing, leading to definite visual
loss and permanent blindness. This especially refers to "normal tension
glaucoma". Over the last decade, there has been significant scientific research
on new strategies for the delay or prevention of retinal ganglion cell loss
(RGC), which is the basic pathophysiological event that initiates the cascade of 
processes leading to optic atrophy. Therefore, a great deal of expectation has
been put on the concept of what is known as "neuroprotection". This includes the 
development of treatment strategies (pharmacological, immunological, genetic)
that would be capable of preventing apoptotic death of retinal ganglion cells.
The concept of neuroprotection is based upon increasing evidence that glaucoma
degeneration is analogous with other neurodegenerative diseases of the central
nervous system suggesting a strong relation between the basic cellular processes 
in glaucoma and Alzheimer's disease, for example. It is considered that retinal
ganglion cell death goes through two phases--primary injury responsible for
initiation of damage that is followed by slower secondary degeneration related to
a harmful environment surrounding the degenerated cells. Neuroprotection in
glaucoma refers to any intervention that is aimed at prevention of the optic
nerve head injury and ganglion cells death. Pharmacological intervention is aimed
at neutralizing some of the effects of the nerve-derived toxic factors by
increasing the ability of the remaining neurons to cope with stressful
conditions. On the other hand, immunological reaction stimulates the body's
repair mechanisms so as to hinder the toxic effects of various chemical agents
generated during pathological events.


PMID: 23425879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Ophthalmic Genet. 2014 Mar;35(1):35-40. doi: 10.3109/13816810.2013.768674. Epub
2013 Feb 20.

TBK1 and flanking genes in human retina.

Fingert JH(1), Darbro BW, Qian Q, Van Rheeden R, Miller K, Riker M, Solivan-Timpe
F, Roos BR, Robin AL, Mullins RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences .

PURPOSE: The gene that causes normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in a large pedigree
was recently mapped to a region of chromosome 12q14 (GLC1P) that contains the
genes TBK1, XPOT, RASSF3, and GNS. We sought to investigate the structure of the 
chromosome 12q14 duplication and explore the ocular expression of GLC1P locus
genes.
METHODS: The location of the chromosome 12q14 duplication in this pedigree was
examined with fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) using probes for TBK1 and 
GNS. The expression pattern of XPOT, TBK1, RASSF3, and GNS was investigated with 
immunohistochemistry of human eyes.
RESULTS: The karyotype of an NTG patient from pedigree GGO-414 was normal and
FISH studies demonstrated that the duplicated DNA is organized as a tandem repeat
on chromosome 12q14. Of the genes in or near the chromosome 12q14 duplication,
TBK1 showed expression in the retina that is specific to the retinal ganglion
cells and the retinal nerve fiber layer. Expression of RASSF3 and XPOT was
relatively uniform throughout the retina, while GNS expression was expressed in a
pattern consistent with Müller cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Previous studies demonstrated that chromosome 12q14 duplications are
associated with NTG inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. FISH studies now
demonstrate that the duplicated segments are tandemly organized on chromosome
12q14 in close proximity. The specific expression of TBK1 in human retinal
ganglion cells compared to the widespread pattern of expression of neighboring
genes provides additional evidence that TBK1 is the glaucoma gene in the
chromosome 12q14 duplication within the GLC1P locus.

DOI: 10.3109/13816810.2013.768674 
PMCID: PMC3779656
PMID: 23421332  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Mar 11;54(3):1797-804. doi:
10.1167/iovs.12-11191.

A nested case control study of plasma ICAM-1, E-selectin and TNF receptor 2
levels, and incident primary open-angle glaucoma.

Kang JH(1), Wiggs JL, Pasquale LR.

Author information: 
(1)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. nhjhk@channing.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate prediagnostic markers of endothelial dysfunction and
inflammatory processes in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Blood samples were collected from 1989 to 1990 in the nurses' health
study (women) and from 1993 to 1995 in the health professionals follow-up study
(men), and medical-record confirmed incident poag cases were identified (women:
229 cases and 455 controls; men: 116 cases and 228 controls). Controls were
matched on cohort, age, race, ethnicity, cancer status, and date of blood
collection. Plasma concentrations of ICAM-1, E-selectin, and soluble TNF receptor
2 (sTNF-R2), a marker related to TNF-α, were measured with ELISA assays.
Cohort-specific multivariable conditional logistic regression model results were 
meta-analyzed.
RESULTS: We observed no associations with ICAM-1 or E-selectin. for sTNF-R2, the 
mean (SD) plasma levels (pg/ml) in cases and controls were 2888 (997) and 2993
(913), respectively, in women; and 2622 (664) and 2569 (688), respectively, in
men. pooled multivariable results showed no relation between sTNF-R2 levels and
POAG. however, compared with the lowest tertile of sTNF-R2, the highest tertile
showed a significant decreased risk of POAG in women (multivariable odds ratio
[OR] = 0.58, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.360.93; P(trend) = 0.03) but not in
men (P(trend) = 0.21; P for heterogeneity by sex = 0.03). also, among women, the 
inverse association with sTNF-R2 was stronger with normal-tension glaucoma (ntg; 
maximum intraocular pressure 21 mm Hg at diagnosis): highest versus lowest
tertile comparison OR = 0.29 (95% CI = 0.12-0.71; Ptrend = 0.007).
CONCLUSIONS: In women, but not in men, higher sTNF-R2 levels at 6 to 8 years
before diagnosis were inversely associated with POAG, but more strongly for NTG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-11191 
PMCID: PMC3626518
PMID: 23412091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Acta Ophthalmol. 2013 Jun;91(4):e270-5. doi: 10.1111/aos.12082. Epub 2013 Feb 14.

Intraocular pressure reduction with topical medications and progression of
normal-tension glaucoma: a 12-year mean follow-up study.

Kim M(1), Kim DM, Park KH, Kim TW, Jeoung JW, Kim SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether the amount of intraocular pressure (IOP)
reduction with topical medications is associated with the progression of
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and to identify risk factors for NTG progression.
METHODS: The medical records of 121 eyes of 121 NTG patients, who were treated
with topical medications for more than 7 years, were reviewed. NTG progression
was defined by either structural (optic disc or retinal nerve fibre layer) or
functional (visual field) deterioration. Patients were divided into tertile
groups according to the percentage IOP reduction from baseline, and the
cumulative probability of NTG progression between upper and lower tertile group
was compared using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Multivariate analysis with
Cox's proportional hazard model was performed to identify the hazard ratio (HR)
of clinical factors for NTG progression.
RESULTS: The average follow-up period was 12.2 years, and 56 of 121 eyes (46.3%) 
showed the NTG progression. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that upper tertile
group (percentage IOP reduction >22.1%) showed a greater cumulative probability
of non-progression than lower tertile group (percentage IOP reduction < 13.3%; p 
= 0.012). Multivariate Cox's proportional hazard model indicated that percentage 
reduction of IOP (HR = 0.964; p = 0.007) and the occurrence of disc haemorrhage
(HR = 2.410; p = 0.008) were significantly associated with NTG progression.
CONCLUSIONS: The amount of IOP reduction using topical medications was related to
NTG progression, and lower percentage reduction in IOP was a consistent risk
factor for progression.

© 2013 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2013 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation. Published by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12082 
PMID: 23406253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2013 Mar 15;432(3):509-12. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.02.003. Epub 2013 Feb 10.

Molecular genetic analysis of primary open-angle glaucoma, normal tension
glaucoma, and developmental glaucoma for the VAV2 and VAV3 gene variants in
Japanese subjects.

Shi D(1), Takano Y, Nakazawa T, Mengkegale M, Yokokura S, Nishida K, Fuse N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital, China Medical
University, 11 Xinhua Road, Heping District, Shenyang, Liaoning 110005, China.
locust.stone@hotmail.com

The VAV2 and VAV3 genes have been implicated as being causative for primary open 
angle glaucoma (POAG) in the Japanese. We studied 168 unrelated Japanese patients
with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 163 unrelated Japanese patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), 45 unrelated Japanese patients with developmental 
glaucoma (DG), and 180 ethnically matched normal controls, to determine whether
variants in the vav 2 guanine nucleotide exchange factor (VAV2) and vav 3 guanine
nucleotide exchange factor (VAV3) genes are associated with POAG, NTG, or DG in
the Japanese. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes, and
variants in the VAV2 and VAV3 genes were amplified by polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) and directly sequenced. Two variants were identified: rs2156323 in VAV2 and
rs2801219 in VAV3. The variants and the prevalence of POAG, NTG, and DG in
unrelated Japanese patients indicated that the variants were not involved in the 
pathogenesis of POAG, NTG, or DG.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.02.003 
PMID: 23402756  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Ophthalmol. 2013;2013:463710. doi: 10.1155/2013/463710. Epub 2013 Jan 14.

Detection of glaucoma in a cohort of chinese subjects with systemic hypertension.

Gangwani RA(1), Chan J, Lee J, Kwong A, Lai JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.

Purpose. To determine the presence and type of glaucoma in a cohort of adult
Chinese subjects with systemic hypertension. Methods. This prospective cohort
study included 200 hypertensive Chinese adults aged >40 years old who underwent
screening via frequency doubling technology (FDT) perimetry and intraocular
pressure (IOP) measurement by noncontact tonometry (NCT) in a general outpatient 
clinic. Those with IOP > 21 mmHg and/or visual field (VF) defects on FDT were
referred for complete ophthalmological examination. The diagnosis of glaucoma was
based on an abnormal VF on Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA) by
Hodapp-Parrish-Anderson's criteria and an increased vertical cup-disc ratio
(VCDR). Results. The mean age of the subjects was 64.66 ± 9.47 years, and the
male:female ratio was 92 : 108. All patients were hypertensive with a mean blood 
pressure (BP) of 131.1 ± 15.1/76.6 ± 11.1 mmHg whilst on systemic
antihypertensive medication. Of the 111 patients that had an abnormal initial
screening, 14 (7.9%) were confirmed to have glaucoma with the highest prevalence 
of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) (6.2%), followed by primary angle closure
glaucoma (PACG) (1.1%) and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) (0.5%). The
positive predictive value of FDT perimetry was 71%. Conclusion. Nearly 8% of the 
adults with systemic hypertension had glaucoma, and NTG was the most prevalent
type.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/463710 
PMCID: PMC3557632
PMID: 23401742  [PubMed]


441. Acta Ophthalmol. 2013 Aug;91(5):e386-91. doi: 10.1111/aos.12061. Epub 2013 Feb 7.

Morphological and functional differences between normal-tension and high-tension 
glaucoma.

Häntzschel J(1), Terai N, Sorgenfrei F, Haustein M, Pillunat K, Pillunat LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Carl Gustav Carus University Hospital, Dresden,
Germany. janek.haentzschel@uniklinikumdresden.de

PURPOSE: To compare visual field (VF) and nerve fibre loss in patients with
normal-tension (NTG) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG) at an equal level of
glaucomatous structural damage of the optic nerve head (ONH).
METHODS: In a retrospective, pair-matched, comparative study, 126 eyes with NTG
and 126 eyes with HTG were matched according to the same glaucomatous ONH damage 
based on rim volume, rim area and disc size measured by the Heidelberg Retina
Tomograph (HRT III). Visual field by Humphrey perimetry and nerve fibre layer
thickness measured by scanning laser polarimetry (GdxVCC) were compared between
both groups.
RESULTS: Based on the HRT, NTG and HTG displayed comparable structural damage of 
the ONH without a statistically significant difference between both groups (mean,
NTG/HTG: disc area 2.32/2.32 mm², p =0.342; rim area 1.03/1.00 mm², p = 0.279;
rim volume 0.2/0.19 mm³; p = 0.274). Eyes with NTG had significantly less VF
damage than eyes with HTG (mean, NTG/HTG: mean deviation (MD) -3.69/-9.77 dB, p =
0.0001; pattern standard deviation (PSD) 4.80/7.17 dB, p = 0.0001). The nerve
fibre layer of NTG patients was thicker than that of HTG patients (mean, NTG/HTG:
GDx total: 46.9/44.0 μm, p = 0.073; GDx superior: 57.2/49.9 μm, p = 0.0001; GDx
inferior: 54.9/49.7 μm, p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: At an equal level of glaucomatous structural damage of the ONH
indicated by cupping, rim area and rim volume, NTG patients seem to have a less
affected visual field and a better preserved nerve fibre layer than HTG patients.

© 2013 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2013 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation. Published by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12061 
PMID: 23387808  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


442. J Glaucoma. 2014 Jun-Jul;23(5):329-32. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182741f4d.

Intraocular pressure-lowering efficacy of dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination
in normal-tension glaucoma.

Kim TW(1), Kim M, Lee EJ, Jeoung JW, Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul †Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy and
safety of dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination (DTFC) in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: An open-label, 12-week, 2-center study was conducted. Thirty-seven
patients with treatment-naïve NTG received DTFC for 12 weeks to reduce IOP.
Primary outcome measures were changes in IOP from baseline to 12 weeks of
treatment at a peak drug effect. Secondary outcome measures were changes in IOP
from baseline to 12 weeks of treatment a trough drug effect and 8 hours after
drug administration. At each visit, IOP was measured at 9 AM and then DTFC was
administered by a hospital personnel. IOP was also measured at 11 AM and 5 PM At 
week 12, the IOP was measured at 1 and 3 PM as well.
RESULTS: The IOP at peak drug effect (11 AM) at 12 weeks was significantly
reduced to 11.9±2.6 mm Hg from the baseline of 15.6±2.5 mm Hg (23.7%, P<0.0001). 
Significant reduction in the IOP was also achieved at trough drug effect (9 AM)
and at 8 hours after drug administration (5 PM) at 12 weeks (20.5% and 24.4%,
respectively, all P<0.0001). Eye irritation (59.5%) was the most frequently
reported adverse event followed by ocular hyperemia (16.2%). The majority of eye 
irritations were mild in intensity. No patients discontinued the DTFC due to an
adverse event and no systemic adverse event was considered related to study
medication.
CONCLUSIONS: DTFC is a safe and effective IOP-lowering agent in patients with
NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182741f4d 
PMID: 23377586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Autophagy. 2013 Apr;9(4):510-27. doi: 10.4161/auto.23458. Epub 2013 Jan 28.

M98K-OPTN induces transferrin receptor degradation and RAB12-mediated autophagic 
death in retinal ganglion cells.

Sirohi K(1), Chalasani ML, Sudhakar C, Kumari A, Radha V, Swarup G.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research, Hyderabad, India.

Mutations in the autophagy receptor OPTN/optineurin are associated with the
pathogenesis of glaucoma and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but the underlying
molecular basis is poorly understood. The OPTN variant, M98K has been described
as a risk factor for normal tension glaucoma in some ethnic groups. Here, we
examined the consequence of the M98K mutation in affecting cellular functions of 
OPTN. Overexpression of M98K-OPTN induced death of retinal ganglion cells (RGC-5 
cell line), but not of other neuronal and non-neuronal cells. Enhanced levels of 
the autophagy marker, LC3-II, a post-translationally modified form of LC3, in
M98K-OPTN-expressing cells and the inability of an LC3-binding-defective M98K
variant of OPTN to induce cell death, suggested that autophagy contributes to
cell death. Knockdown of Atg5 reduced M98K-induced death of RGC-5 cells, further 
supporting the involvement of autophagy. Overexpression of M98K-OPTN enhanced
autophagosome formation and potentiated the delivery of transferrin receptor to
autophagosomes for degradation resulting in reduced cellular transferrin receptor
levels. Coexpression of transferrin receptor or supplementation of media with an 
iron donor reduced M98K-induced cell death. OPTN complexes with RAB12, a GTPase
involved in vesicle trafficking, and M98K variant shows enhanced colocalization
with RAB12. Knockdown of Rab12 increased transferrin receptor level and reduced
M98K-induced cell death. RAB12 is present in autophagosomes and knockdown of
Rab12 resulted in reduced formation of autolysosomes during starvation-induced
autophagy, implicating a role for RAB12 in autophagy. These results also show
that transferrin receptor degradation and autophagy play a crucial role in RGC-5 
cell death induced by M98K variant of OPTN.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.23458 
PMCID: PMC3627667
PMID: 23357852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Prev Med. 2013;57 Suppl:S47-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2013.01.007. Epub 2013 Jan
23.

Low nocturnal ocular perfusion pressure as a risk factor for normal tension
glaucoma.

Ramli N(1), Nurull BS, Hairi NN, Mimiwati Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 50603,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. drnramli@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES: In the absence of raised intraocular pressure (IOP), haemodynamic
parameters have been implicated in the development of normal tension glaucoma
(NTG). The purpose of this study is to compare 24-hour IOP and haemodynamic
parameters in NTG patients and non-glaucoma patients.
METHODS: This is a cross sectional study involving 72 NTG patients from
University of Malaya Medical Centre eye clinic glaucoma registry. The
non-glaucoma patients were volunteers selected from eye clinic patients. All
enrolled patients underwent 24-hour IOP and blood pressure monitoring via
2-hourly IOP and blood pressure (BP) measurements. All readings were taken in the
sitting position during the diurnal period and in the supine position during the 
nocturnal period
RESULTS: Comparison of the haemodynamic parameters, the nocturnal mean systolic
BP, nocturnal mean diastolic BP and nocturnal mean arterial pressure (MAP) were
significantly lower in the NTG group. The systemic ocular perfusion pressures
(OPP), diastolic OPP and mean OPP taken at night were also significantly lower in
the NTG group. The differences between the groups were still manifest after
controlling for age and presence of hypertension.
CONCLUSION: Our findings show that the nocturnal supine blood pressure parameters
(systolic, diastolic and mean) and OPP were significantly lower in the NTG group 
compared to normals. This may reflect defective autoregulatory mechanisms in NTG 
patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2013.01.007 
PMID: 23352960  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Am J Ophthalmol. 2013 May;155(5):852-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.11.020. Epub 2013
Jan 23.

Comparison of clinical characteristics between Korean and Western normal-tension 
glaucoma patients.

Kim JM(1), Jeoung JW, Bitrian E, Supawavej C, Mock D, Park KH, Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To detect potential differences in the phenotypes between Western
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and Korean NTG.
DESIGN: A retrospective, cross-sectional study.
METHODS: One hundred eighty-four NTG eyes of 71 patients of the Jules Stein Eye
Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, and 113 patients of the Seoul
National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea, were studied after reviewing medical 
charts retrospectively. All eligible patients from both institutions who were
evaluated between July 2007 and June 2008 were included. The groups were matched 
for stage of glaucoma severity based on the visual field mean deviation value.
All patients underwent a complete ophthalmic examination, Humphrey perimetry,
Heidelberg Retina Tomography, Stratus optical coherence tomography, and
pachymetry. Structural and functional parameters between the 2 groups were
compared.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences in the baseline
intraocular pressure, disc area, frequency of disc hemorrhage, or peripapillary
atrophy (P > .05). Cup-shape measure (by Heidelberg Retina Tomography), average
RNFL thickness (by Stratus optical coherence tomography), and central corneal
thickness were significantly different (P < .002). The eyes of Korean NTG
patients showed higher values for cup-shape measure, higher average RNFL
thicknesses, and thinner central corneal thicknesses than Western NTG patients.
The difference was significant (P < .001) while controlling for age, sex, disc
area, mean deviation, pattern standard deviation, and spherical equivalent with
multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Korean NTG patients showed steeper cup shapes, thicker RNFL
thickness, and thinner central corneal thickness compared with Western NTG
patients with similar amounts of visual field loss. This result may help
clinicians understand the clinical characteristics of NTG patients and points to 
the heterogeneous character of the glaucomas.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.11.020 
PMID: 23352340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2012 Nov-Dec;140(11-12):699-703.

[Comparison of normal tension and high tension glaucoma patients (corrected)
according to age and sex].

[Article in Serbian]

Stojčić M(1), Hentova-Senćanić P, Stojčić B, Senćanić I.

Author information: 
(1)Railway Health Institute, Belgrade, Serbia

Erratum in
    Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2013 Jan-Feb;141(1-2):137.

INTRODUCTION: According to the level of intraocular pressure (IOP), open angle
glaucoma is divided into high tension glaucoma (HTG) and normal tension glaucoma 
(NTG).
OBJECTIVE: To determine if there are differences in the distribution of patients 
by age and sex between NTG and HTG.
METHODS: Our prospective study included 30 patients with NTG and 30 with HTG. A
complete eye examination was performed. The examination included measuring of
intraocular pressure by Goldmann applanation tonometry, examination of optic disc
head by indirect ophthalmoscopy with Volk 90 D lens and visual field examination 
using the Octopus program.
RESULTS: The average damage of visual field in the group of patients with NTG was
8.14 +/- 4.43 dB, while in the group with HTG it was 7.40 +/- 2.84 dB (p > 0.05).
The average age of the group of patients with NTG was 66 +/- 11.58 years, while
among those with HTG the average age was 59.7 +/- 11.63 years (p < 0.01). Among
the patients with NTG there were three times more women than men (chi2 = 9.124; p
< 0.01), while in the group of patients with HTG there were more men than women, 
but without statistically significant difference between the tested groups (chi2 
= 1.851; p > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Open angle glaucoma is a disease of elderly population. According to 
our results, risk factors for this disease can be age and sex. NTG is more
frequently present than HTG among elderly population and females.


PMID: 23350241  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


447. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e54115. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054115. Epub 2013 Jan 22.

Association of HK2 and NCK2 with normal tension glaucoma in the Japanese
population.

Shi D(1), Funayama T, Mashima Y, Takano Y, Shimizu A, Yamamoto K, Mengkegale M,
Miyazawa A, Yasuda N, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Ideta H, Nishida K, Nakazawa T, Richards 
JE, Fuse N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Miyagi, Japan.

Although family studies and genome-wide association studies have shown that
genetic factors play a role in glaucoma, it has been difficult to identify the
specific genetic variants involved. We tested 669 single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs) from the region of chromosome 2 that includes the GLC1B glaucoma locus for
association with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) in the Japanese population. We performed a two-stage case-control study.
The first cohort consisted of 123 POAG cases, 121 NTG cases and 120 controls: the
second cohort consisted of 187 POAG cases, 286 NTG cases, and 271 controls. Out
of six SNPs showing significant association with POAG in the first round
screening, seven SNPs were tested in the second round. Rs678350 in the HK2 gene
coding sequence showed significant allelic (p=0.0027 in Stage Two, 2.7XE-4 in
meta-analysis) association with POAG, and significant allelic (p=4.7XE-4 in Stage
Two, 1.0XE-5 in meta-analysis) association with NTG. Although alleles in the
TMEM182 gene did not show significant association with glaucoma in the second
round, subjects with the A/A allele in TMEM182 rs869833 showed worse visual field
mean deviation (p=0.01). Even though rs2033008 in the NCK2 gene coding sequence
did not show significant association in the first round, it had previously shown 
association with NTG so it was tested for association with NTG in round 2
(p=0.0053 in Stage Two). Immunohistochemistry showed that both HK2 and NCK2 are
expressed in the retinal ganglion cell layer. Once multi-testing was taken into
account, only HK2 showed significant association with POAG and NTG in Stage Two. 
Our data also support previous reports of NCK2 association with NTG, and raise
questions about what role TMEM182 might play in phenotypic variability. Our data 
suggest that HK2 may play an important role in NTG in the Japanese population.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054115 
PMCID: PMC3551945
PMID: 23349798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


448. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e52664. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052664. Epub 2012 Dec 26.

Cerebrospinal fluid pressure decreases with older age.

Fleischman D(1), Berdahl JP, Zaydlarova J, Stinnett S, Fautsch MP, Allingham RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, United States of America.

PURPOSE: Clinical studies implicate low cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP) or a 
high translaminar pressure difference in the pathogenesis of primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG). This study was performed to
examine the effect of age, sex, race and body mass index (BMI) on CSFP.
METHODS: Electronic medical records from all patients who had a lumbar puncture
(LP) performed at the Mayo Clinic from 1996-2009 were reviewed. Information
including age, sex, race, height and weight, ocular and medical diagnoses,
intraocular pressure (IOP) and LP opening pressure was obtained. Patients using
medications or with medical diagnoses known to affect CSFP, and those who
underwent neurosurgical procedures or where more than one LP was performed were
excluded from analysis.
RESULTS: Electronic medical records of 33,922 patients with a history of having
an LP during a 13-year period (1996-2009) were extracted. Of these, 12,118
patients met all entry criteria. Relative to mean CSFP at age group 20-49 (mean
11.5±2.8 mmHg), mean CSFP declined steadily after age 50, with percent reduction 
of 2.5% for the 50-54 age group (mean 11.2±2.7 mmHg, p<0.002) to 26.9% for the
90-95 group (mean 8.4±2.4 mmHg, p<0.001). Females had lower CSFP than males
throughout all age groups. BMI was positively and independently associated with
CSFP within all age groups.
CONCLUSION: There is a sustained and significant reduction of CSFP with age that 
begins in the 6(th) decade. CSFP is consistently lower in females. BMI is
positively and independently associated with CSFP in all age groups. The age
where CSFP begins to decline coincides with the age where the prevalence of POAG 
increases. These data support the hypothesis that reduced CSFP may be a risk
factor for POAG and may provide an explanation for the mechanism that underlies
the age-related increase in the prevalence of POAG and NTG.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052664 
PMCID: PMC3530461
PMID: 23300737  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Curr Eye Res. 2013 Feb;38(2):310-5. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2012.754047. Epub 2013 
Jan 3.

Identification of proteins that interact with TANK binding kinase 1 and testing
for mutations associated with glaucoma.

Seo S(1), Solivan-Timpe F, Roos BR, Robin AL, Stone EM, Kwon YH, Alward WL,
Fingert JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.

PURPOSE: Copy number variations (duplications) of TANK binding kinase 1 (TBK1)
have been associated with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), a common cause of
blindness worldwide. Mutations in other genes involved in autophagy (TLR4 and
OPTN) have been associated with NTG. Here we report searching for additional
proteins involved in autophagy that may also have roles in NTG.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: HEK-293T cells were transfected to produce synthetic TBK1 
protein with FLAG and S tags. Proteins that associate with TBK1 were isolated
from HEK-293T lysates using tandem affinity purification (TAP) and polyacrylamide
gel electrophoresis (PAGE). Isolated proteins were identified with mass
spectrometry. A cohort of 148 NTG patients and 77 controls from Iowa were tested 
for glaucoma-causing mutations in genes that encode identified proteins that
interact with TBK1 using high resolution melt (HRM) analysis and DNA sequencing.
RESULTS: TAP studies show that three proteins expressed in HEK-293T cells (NAP1, 
TANK and TBKBP1) interact with TBK1. Testing cohorts of NTG and normal controls
for disease-causing mutations in TANK, identified a total of nine unique variants
including three non-synonymous changes, one synonymous changes and five intronic 
changes. When analyzed alone or as a group, the non-synonymous TBK1 coding
sequence changes were not associated with either NTG or primary open angle
glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: TAP showed that NAP1, TANK and TBKBP1 interact with TBK1 and are good
candidates for contributing to NTG. A mutation screen of TANK detected three
non-synonymous variants. Although, it remains possible that one or more of these 
TANK mutations may have a role in NTG, the data in this report do not provide
statistical support for an association between TANK variants and NTG.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2012.754047 
PMCID: PMC3700396
PMID: 23286385  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Int J Ophthalmol. 2012;5(6):742-9. doi: 10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2012.06.17. Epub
2012 Dec 18.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty.

Shi JM(1), Jia SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South
University, Changsha 410011, Hunan Province, China.

The introduction of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) provided a new choice
for the reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) in eyes with open angle glaucoma 
(OAG) and ocular hypertension (OHT). SLT was demonstrated equally as effective as
topical medical therapy and argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) to lower IOP. It is
a potentially repeatable procedure because of the lack of coagulation damage to
the trabecular meshwork (TM) and also effect in patients with previously failed
ALT. SLT can be used to treat patients with OAG, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma,
pigmentary glaucoma, normal-tension glaucoma, OHT, juvenile glaucoma,
pseudophakic and aphakic glaucoma. Furthermore, SLT can be considered as a
primary treatment option in patients who cannot tolerate or are noncompliant with
medications, while not interfering with the success of future surgery. Its safety
profiles include mild and transient inflammation, ocular pain and a small risk of
moderate IOP elevations after the procedure. SLT is a safe and effective means of
IOP reduction in eyes with OAG and OHT.

DOI: 10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2012.06.17 
PMCID: PMC3530819
PMID: 23275911  [PubMed]


451. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e51688. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0051688. Epub 2012 Dec 14.

Regulation of trabecular meshwork cell contraction and intraocular pressure by
miR-200c.

Luna C(1), Li G, Huang J, Qiu J, Wu J, Yuan F, Epstein DL, Gonzalez P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United
States of America.

Lowering intraocular pressure (IOP) delays or prevents the loss of vision in
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients with high IOP and in those with
normal tension glaucoma showing progression. Abundant evidence demonstrates that 
inhibition of contractile machinery of the trabecular meshwork cells is an
effective method to lower IOP. However, the mechanisms involved in the regulation
of trabecular contraction are not well understood. Although microRNAs have been
shown to play important roles in the regulation of multiple cellular functions,
little is known about their potential involvement in the regulation of IOP. Here,
we showed that miR-200c is a direct postranscriptional inhibitor of genes
relevant to the physiologic regulation of TM cell contraction including the
validated targets Zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1 and 2 (ZEB1 and ZEB2), and
formin homology 2 domain containing 1 (FHOD1), as well as three novel targets:
lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPAR1/EDG2), endothelin A receptor (ETAR), and 
RhoA kinase (RHOA). Consistently, transfection of TM cells with miR-200c resulted
in strong inhibition of contraction in collagen populated gels as well as
decreased cell traction forces exerted by individual TM cells. Finally, delivery 
of miR-200c to the anterior chamber of living rat eyes resulted in a significant 
decrease in IOP, while inhibition of miR-200c using an adenoviral vector
expressing a molecular sponge led to a significant increase in IOP. These results
demonstrate for the first time the ability of a miRNA to regulate trabecular
contraction and modulate IOP in vivo, making miR-200c a worthy candidate for
exploring ways to alter trabecular contractility with therapeutic purposes in
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0051688 
PMCID: PMC3522713
PMID: 23272142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Ophthalmology. 2013 Apr;120(4):745-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.051. Epub
2012 Dec 20.

Diagnostic capability of lamina cribrosa thickness by enhanced depth imaging and 
factors affecting thickness in patients with glaucoma.

Park HY(1), Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, College of Medicine, Seoul St.
Mary's Hospital, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the diagnostic ability of laminar thickness obtained
using enhanced depth imaging (EDI) of the Heidelberg Spectralis optical coherence
tomography (OCT) system (Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany) and the
factors related to laminar thickness in patients with glaucoma.
DESIGN: Evaluation of a diagnostic test.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 144 patients with glaucoma (68 with primary open-angle
glaucoma [POAG], 76 with normal-tension glaucoma [NTG]), and 65 healthy controls.
METHODS: All patients underwent retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness and
optic nerve head (ONH) scanning with the Spectralis OCT system. Mean laminar
thickness was defined at the center of the mid-superior, central, and
mid-inferior horizontal B-scans of the ONH, and the mean of 3 laminar thickness
measurements was used for the diagnostic test. Receiver operating characteristic 
(ROC) curves were obtained for average and quadrant RNFL thickness and mean
laminar thickness. Areas under the ROC curve (AUCs), 95% confidence intervals
(CIs), and sensitivities at a fixed specificity (90%) were calculated. Factors
related to mean laminar thickness were analyzed by univariate and multivariate
regression analyses in patients with glaucoma.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Comparison of diagnostic ability using AUCs.
RESULTS: Mean laminar thickness had the largest AUCs among all patients with
glaucoma (AUC, 0.980; 95% CI, 0.966-0.993) and patients with NTG (AUC, 0.989; 95%
CI, 0.980-0.994). The AUC of the mean laminar thickness of patients with NTG was 
significantly different from the AUC of the inferior RNFL thickness (AUC, 0.947; 
95% CI, 0.929-0.965; P = 0.047), which had the largest AUC among the RNFL
thickness parameters. The AUCs for discrimination between early glaucomatous eyes
and normal eyes showed significant differences between the NTG group (AUC, 0.981;
95% CI, 0.968-0.992) and all patients with glaucoma (AUC, 0.941; 95% CI,
0.931-0.952; P = 0.007). The factor significantly associated with laminar
thickness in both univariate and multivariate regression was NTG diagnosis (P =
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnostic ability of laminar thickness was comparable to that
of peripapillary RNFL thickness in patients with glaucoma overall and better than
peripapillary RNFL thickness in patients with early NTG.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.051 
PMID: 23260259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Cont Lens Anterior Eye. 2013 Apr;36(2):57-61. doi: 10.1016/j.clae.2012.11.001.
Epub 2012 Dec 15.

The relationship between measurement method and corneal structure on apparent
intraocular pressure in glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Nessim M(1), Mollan SP, Wolffsohn JS, Laiquzzaman M, Sivakumar S, Hartley S, Shah
S.

Author information: 
(1)Birmingham and Midland Eye Centre, City Hospital, Birmingham B18 7QH, UK.

PURPOSE: To analyse the relationship between measured intraocular pressure (IOP) 
and central corneal thickness (CCT), corneal hysteresis (CH) and corneal
resistance factor (CRF) in ocular hypertension (OHT), primary open-angle (POAG)
and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes using multiple tonometry devices.
METHODS: Right eyes of patients diagnosed with OHT (n=47), normal tension
glaucoma (n=17) and POAG (n=50) were assessed. IOP was measured in random order
with four devices: Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT); Pascal dynamic contour
tonometer (DCT); Reichert ocular response analyser (ORA); and Tono-Pen XL. CCT
was then measured using a hand-held ultrasonic pachymeter. CH and CRF were
derived from the air pressure to corneal reflectance relationship of the ORA
data.
RESULTS: Compared to the GAT, the Tonopen and ORA Goldmann equivalent (IOPg) and 
corneal compensated (IOPcc) measured higher IOP readings (F=19.351, p<0.001),
particularly in NTG (F=12.604, p<0.001). DCT was closest to Goldmann IOP and had 
the lowest variance. CCT was significantly different (F=8.305, p<0.001) between
the 3 conditions as was CH (F=6.854, p=0.002) and CRF (F=19.653, p<0.001). IOPcc 
measures were not affected by CCT. The DCT was generally not affected by corneal 
biomechanical factors.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that as the true pressure of the eye cannot be
determined non-invasively, measurements from any tonometer should be interpreted 
with care, particularly when alterations in the corneal tissue are suspected.

Copyright © 2012 British Contact Lens Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clae.2012.11.001 
PMID: 23253796  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 May;251(5):1457. doi:
10.1007/s00417-012-2189-z. Epub 2012 Dec 8.

Evaluation of the visual function in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome patients
and normal-tension glaucoma by means of the multifocal visual evoked potentials.

Quintyn JC.

Comment in
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 May;251(5):1459-60.

Comment on
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov;250(11):1681-8.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-012-2189-z 
PMID: 23224229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 May;251(5):1335-41. doi:
10.1007/s00417-012-2214-2. Epub 2012 Dec 7.

Five-year forecasts of the Visual Field Index (VFI) with binocular and monocular 
visual fields.

Asaoka R(1), Russell RA, Malik R, Garway-Heath DF, Crabb DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Visual Science, City University London,
Northampton Square, London, EC1V 0HB, UK. rasaoka-tky@umin.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: In clinical care, visual field (VF) damage is assessed using
monocular VF testing, yet patients perceive the world binocularly. This study was
conducted to compare 5-year forecasts for the Visual Field Index (VFI) generated 
from series of binocular and monocular VFs.
METHODS: Series of ten consecutive VFs (Humphrey 24-2 Full-threshold) spanning on
average 3.7 (SD: ±0.8) years from 60 eyes of 30 glaucomatous patients were
retrospectively examined. The VFs of both eyes were merged to produce the
integrated VF and its VFI score (Binocular VFI) was estimated. Forecasts of
binocular and monocular VFIs were calculated for each patient by projecting the
fitted linear regression 5 years ahead from the last VF following the method on
the Humphrey Guided Progression Analysis (GPA) print-out. The precisions of the
forecasts were calculated as the width of the 95% prediction limit (PL).
RESULTS: The mean 5 year forecast for binocular VFIs was 92% (SD: 11%), which was
significantly higher than forecasts from right and left eyes (79% [SD: 19%] and
82% [SD: 16%] respectively; P < 0.05). The width of the 95% PL for 5-year
predictions with monocular VFIs (mean right eye: 29% [SD: 19%] and mean left eye:
27% [SD: 16%]) were significantly larger than that of the binocular VFI (mean:
12% [SD: 7%]; P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Five year forecasted VFI values using binocular measures return
significantly better values, and can be made with greater confidence than those
based on monocular measures. In turn, forecasts of a patient's binocular VFI
might be more relevant to estimating the patient's future functional VF.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-012-2214-2 
PMID: 23224148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


456. J Glaucoma. 2014 Apr-May;23(4):246-53. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318279b3e2.

Open-angle glaucoma in Filipino and white Americans: a comparative study.

Sáles CS(1), Lee RY, Agadzi AK, Hee MR, Singh K, Lin SC.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco †Department of Ophthalmology, Byers Eye Institute, Stanford University,
Palo Alto ‡Redwood Eye Center, Vallejo §Pacific Eye Specialists, Daly City, CA.

BACKGROUND: To compare the frequency of open-angle glaucoma (OAG) subtypes
between Filipino and white Americans in a general ophthalmology clinic
population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this retrospective cross-sectional epidemiologic study
with prospective sampling, medical charts of 1113 patients aged 40 years or older
(513 Filipinos, 600 whites) seen in 2008 were randomly sampled from 2 private
comprehensive ophthalmology clinics. Glaucoma was diagnosed based on optic nerve 
appearance, visual field defects, and other ocular findings using the
International Society of Geographical and Epidemiological Ophthalmology (ISGEO)
scheme. The normal-tension subtype of OAG [normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)] was
defined by intraocular pressure ≤21 mm Hg as determined by review of medical
records.
RESULTS: NTG comprised a greater proportion of all glaucomatous disease in
Filipino subjects [Filipino (F) vs. white (W): 46.7% vs. 26.8%; P=0.02].
Filipinos were more commonly diagnosed with OAG and NTG than whites (F vs. W:
OAG, 11.9% vs. 8.2%; NTG, 6.8% vs. 2.5%; P=0.04, 0.001, respectively). There was 
no significant difference in central corneal thickness between Filipino and white
subjects with NTG (P=0.66).
CONCLUSIONS: Both OAG and NTG may be more common in Filipino Americans than in
white Americans with the propensity for NTG being particularly high in the former
relative to the latter group.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318279b3e2 
PMID: 23221903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Cesk Slov Oftalmol. 2012 Oct;68(4):150-5.

[Efficacy and tolerability of preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015 % in the
treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension].

[Article in Czech]

Karhanová M(1), Mlčák P, Fryšák Z, Marešová K.

Author information: 
(1)Ocní Klinika LF UP a FN, Olomouc Prednosta Doc. MUDr. Jirí Rehák.
marta.karhanova@fnol.cz

AIM: The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy, safety and local
tolerability of preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015% (Taflotan®) in patients with
glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Multicentric, prospective observation study was performed 
in the Czech Republic from October 2010 to April 2011. A total of 78 centers
participated and 754 patients were included. After the doctors decision to start 
the treatment with Taflotan®, the patients demographic data, previous treatment, 
intraocular pressure and the reason for switching the medication were recorded.
At the follow-up visit after 6-12 weeks, the intraocular pressure, local
tolerability (a 5-level scale), the patients and doctors satisfaction (a 4-level 
scale), and the patients preference were recorded.
RESULTS: Altogether, data of 496 patients were evaluated. The majority of them
were women (64.9 %). The patients mean age was 58.5 years. The most common
diagnosis was primary open angle glaucoma (79.2 %), followed by ocular
hypertension (7.3 %), normal tension glaucoma (4.2 %), and pseudoexfoliation
glaucoma (3.6 %). In 140 patients, tafluprost 0.0015% was the first
antiglaucomatous medication started, 261 patients switched from another
monotherapy, and 95 patients were treated with fixed- or nonfixed combinations
before starting tafluprost 0.0015%. The most common reason for switching to
Taflotan® was local intolerability to the current antiglaucomatous therapy (most 
often irritation of the eye and hyperemia). The intraocular pressure decreased
significantly from 19.9 ± 4.5 mm Hg to 16.3 ± 3.0 mm Hg (p < 0.001). The
subjective tolerability of the antiglaucomatous therapy improved rapidly, with
57.4 % of patients rating the tolerability of Taflotan® as "very good" and 34.5 %
as "good". In addition, 94.4 % of patients and 96.0 % of ophthalmologists were
"very satisfied" or "satisfied" with the treatment. At the final visit, 79.8 % of
patients preferred Taflotan® to the previous treatment.
CONCLUSION: Taflotan® significantly decreased the intraocular pressure. It was
well tolerated even in patients with previous intolerability to another
antiglaucomatous therapy, including prostaglandins. The patients and
ophthalmologists satisfaction with Taflotan® was high.


PMID: 23214487  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Ophthalmology. 2013 Mar;120(3):512-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.005. Epub
2012 Dec 1.

An evidence-based review of prognostic factors for glaucomatous visual field
progression.

Ernest PJ(1), Schouten JS, Beckers HJ, Hendrikse F, Prins MH, Webers CA.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic Maastricht, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
p.j.g.ernest@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To examine which prognostic factors are associated with glaucomatous
visual field progression.
DESIGN: Knowledge of prognostic factors helps clinicians to select patients at
risk of glaucomatous visual field progression and intensify their treatment.
METHODS: By consulting relevant databases, we identified 2733 articles published 
up to September 2010, of which 85 articles investigating prognostic factors for
visual field progression in patients with open-angle glaucoma (OAG) were
eligible. We summarized results for each factor in tables, noting the direction
of the association between the prognostic factor and progression, and the
accompanying P value. Four authors, working blind to the factors, independently
judged the extent to which a prognostic factor was associated with glaucomatous
visual field progression. If there were different associations for normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) studies, they were judged separately. Consensus was reached during
group meetings.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: A ranking of all studied prognostic factors for
glaucomatous visual field progression according to their likelihood of being
prognostic.
RESULTS: A total of 103 different prognostic factors were investigated in 85
articles. The following factors were clearly associated with glaucomatous visual 
field progression: age, disc hemorrhages (for NTG), baseline visual field loss,
baseline intraocular pressure (IOP), and exfoliation syndrome. An association was
unlikely for family history of glaucoma, atherosclerosis, systemic hypertension, 
visual acuity, sex (for NTG), systolic blood pressure, myopic refractive error
(for NTG), and Raynaud's phenomenon.
CONCLUSIONS: The factors we found clearly associated with progression could be
used in clinical practice and for developing clinical prediction models. For many
other factors, further research is necessary.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.005 
PMID: 23211636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov-Dec;60(6):581-2. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.99858.

Full-field perimetry for evaluation of glaucomatous (presumed) cup.

Kummararaj G, Balaji V, Kummararaj S, Venugopal NP.

Comment on
    Indian J Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov-Dec;59(6):491-7.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.99858 
PMCID: PMC3545150
PMID: 23202411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2013 Mar;57(2):156-65. doi: 10.1007/s10384-012-0190-z. Epub
2012 Nov 28.

Optic disc rim area to retinal nerve fiber layer thickness correlation:
comparison of diabetic and normal tension glaucoma eyes.

Suh MH(1), Kim SH, Park KH, Yu HG, Huh JW, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Busan, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare the correlation between optic disc rim area and retinal nerve
fiber layer thickness (rim-RNFL correlation) in diabetic eyes with
non-progressive RNFL defects and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes.
METHODS: Seventy-three eyes of 73 patients with preperimetric or early NTG and 25
eyes of 25 type II diabetes patients with a non-progressive RNFL defect for
≥5 years were enrolled in this retrospective cohort study. Rim areas and RNFL
thicknesses were measured by Heidelberg retina tomography (HRT II) and by optical
coherence tomography (Cirrus OCT), in global and 12 clock-hour parameters.
Diabetic eyes were evaluated whether they were above the 95 % prediction interval
(PI) for the rim-RNFL correlation of NTG.
RESULTS: A significant linear rim-RNFL correlation was observed in NTG eyes
globally and at all clock-hours, except in the 4 and 9 o'clock areas, (0.08 < r
(2) < 0.56, P < 0.05). Eighty-four percent of the diabetic eyes were above the
95 % PI of the rim-RNFL correlation of NTG in ≥2 clock-hours, as compared with
36 % of the eyes in the global parameter.
CONCLUSIONS: The eyes of diabetic patients with non-progressive RNFL were
well-differentiated from NTG eyes by the rim-RNFL correlation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-012-0190-z 
PMID: 23188511  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


461. BMC Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov 27;12:58. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-12-58.

The impact of central corneal thickness on intraocular pressure among Ethiopian
glaucoma patients: a cross-sectional study.

Gelaw Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Public Health and Medical Sciences,
Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia. dryeshi@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Raised intraocular pressure (IOP) is the only causal risk factor for 
glaucoma that can be therapeutically manipulated to change the course of the
disease process. Though Goldman applanation tonometry (GAT) is the "gold
standard" for IOP measurement, readings of IOP with GAT are affected by central
corneal thickness (CCT). The aim of this study is to determine the impact of CCT 
on IOP among Ethiopian glaucoma patients.
METHODS: It was a multicenter cross-sectional study and all glaucoma patients
visiting their respective eye clinic during the study period were included. A
total of 199 randomly selected glaucomatous eyes from 199 patients aged 18 years 
and above were employed. The CCT was measured by OcuScan™ RxP Ophthalmic
Ultrasound and IOP was measured with Goldmann applanation tonometer. Linear
regression and bivariate correlation analysis were carried out and level of
significance was taken at 5%.
RESULTS: The mean IOP was 19.46(± 7.05) mmHg and mean CCT was 508.07(± 33.26) μm.
The mean IOP for primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), ocular hypertension (OHT),
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (PXG) and primary
chronic angle closure glaucoma (PCAG) patients was 19.22 mmHg, 21.39 mmHg, 14.33 
mmHg, 33.25 mmHg and 14.75 mmHg respectively. The mean CCT values were 502.24 μm 
(POAG), 524.32 μm (OHT), 500.75 μm (NTG), 579.00 μm (PXG) and 530.25 μm (PCAG).
Age of the patient and glaucoma surgery had an influence on corneal thickness. A 
positive relationship was found between CCT and IOP (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The mean CCT of Ethiopian glaucoma patients is thin in comparison to
other ethnic groups and patients with OHT have thicker corneas than POAG
patients. Hence determination of CCT for each patient is necessary in the
up-to-date glaucoma management.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-12-58 
PMCID: PMC3534335
PMID: 23181800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Doc Ophthalmol. 2013 Feb;126(1):57-67. doi: 10.1007/s10633-012-9360-z. Epub 2012 
Nov 20.

The 2-global flash mfERG in glaucoma: attempting to increase sensitivity by
reducing the focal flash luminance and changing filter settings.

Kramer SA(1), Ledolter AA, Todorova MG, Schötzau A, Orgül S, Palmowski-Wolfe AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Basel, 4031, Basel, Switzerland.
Sophie.Kramer@gmx.ch

PURPOSE: To test a new 2-flash multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) paradigm in
glaucoma using a reduced light intensity of the m-frame flash as opposed to the
global flash, as it has been suggested that this may increase the responses
induced by the global flash, which has been the part of the mfERG response where 
most changes have been noted in glaucoma.
METHODS: A mfERG was recorded from one eye of 22 primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) patients [16 normal tension glaucoma (NTG), 6 high tension glaucoma (HTG)]
and 20 control subjects. A binary m-sequence (2^13-1, Lmax 100 cd/m2, Lmin<1
cd/m2), followed by two global flashes (Lmax 200 cd/m2) at an interval of 26 ms
(VERIS 6.0™, FMSIII), was used. The stimulus array consisted of 103 hexagons.
Retinal signals were amplified (gain=50 K) and bandpass filtered at 1-300 Hz. For
each focal response, the root mean square was calculated. We analyzed 5 larger
response averages (central 15° and 4 adjoining quadrants) as well as 8 smaller
response averages (central 10° and 7 surrounding response averages of
approximately 7° radius each). Three epochs were analyzed: the direct component
at 15-45 ms (DC) and the following two components induced by the effects of the
preceding focal flash on the response to the global flashes at 45-75 ms (IC-1)
and at 75-105 ms (IC-2). Statistical analysis was performed using linear mixed
effects models adjusted for age.
RESULTS: Responses differed significantly between POAG patients and controls in
all central response averages. This difference was larger for the central 10°
than for the response average of the central 15°. While these observations held
true for all response epochs analyzed, the DC differed least and the IC-1 most
when POAG was compared to control. For POAG, the most sensitive differential
measure was IC-1 of the central 10° with an area under the ROC curve of 0.78.
With a cutoff value of 12.52 nV/deg2, 80% of the POAG patients (100% HTG, 69%
NTG) were correctly classified as abnormal, while 77% of the control subjects
were correctly classified as normal. When the results of the mfERG were compared 
to the visual fields, there was a tendency for the mfERG to decrease as the mean 
defect increased. However, this correlation was only significant in the superior 
nasal quadrant when the IC-1 of the mfERG was compared to the corresponding area 
of the visual field.
CONCLUSION: When compared to findings from previous studies, reducing the
luminance of the m-frame flash in the 2-global flash paradigm did not increase
the sensitivity and specificity of the mfERG to detect glaucoma further.

DOI: 10.1007/s10633-012-9360-z 
PMID: 23179289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Curr Eye Res. 2013 Apr;38(4):516-9. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2012.745881. Epub 2012 
Nov 19.

Association between heart rate variability and systemic endothelin-1
concentration in normal-tension glaucoma.

Lee NY(1), Park HY, Na KS, Park SH, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the association between heart rate variability (HRV) and 
the plasma level of endothelin-1 (ET-1) in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four patients with NTG were enrolled. Subjects with
systemic diseases were excluded. All patients underwent a complete ophthalmic
examination and were referred to the rheumatology department, where HRV
assessment was performed. Patients were divided into two groups according to the 
standard deviation of normal-normal intervals (SDNN). The low heart rate
variability (LHV) group consisted of patients with SDNN values in the bottom half
of range of values, and the high heart rate variability (HHV) group consisted of 
those with SDNN values in the upper half of the range. Blood samples were assayed
for ET-1 concentrations, which were compared between the LHV and HHV groups. The 
relationships between the ET-1 level and HRV parameters were analyzed.
RESULTS: The LHV group showed significantly lower ET-1 levels compared with the
HHV group (0.57 ± 1.09 versus 2.21 ± 3.56 pg/ml, respectively; p = 0.04). Among
the HRV parameters, the SDNN and total power were significantly associated with
the systemic level of ET-1 (ρ = 0.729, p < 0.001; ρ = 0.713, p < 0.001,
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: After excluding patients with systemic diseases, the plasma ET-1
level was associated with HRV parameters in patients with NTG. These observations
suggest that the relationship between autonomic dysfunction and autoregulation
may play a role in the pathogenesis of NTG.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2012.745881 
PMID: 23163519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 May;251(5):1459-60. doi:
10.1007/s00417-012-2190-6. Epub 2012 Nov 6.

Evaluation of the visual function in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome patients
and normal-tension glaucoma by means of the multifocal visual evoked potentials.

Gutiérrez-Díaz E, Pérez-Rico C, Díaz de Atauri MJ, Mencía-Gutiérrez E, Blanco R.

Comment on
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 May;251(5):1457.
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov;250(11):1681-8.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-012-2190-6 
PMID: 23129006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Clin Ophthalmol. 2012;6:1713-6. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S36792. Epub 2012 Oct 25.

Superior segmental optic nerve hypoplasia accompanied by progressive
normal-tension glaucoma.

Yamazaki Y(1), Hayamizu F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Division of Visual Science, Nihon University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

This is the first case report of a superior segmental optic hypoplasia (SSOH)
combined with normal-tension glaucoma accompanied by a progressive glaucomatous
visual field defect. A 40-year-old man, incidentally diagnosed as having
bilateral SSOH, had disc hemorrhage associated with expansion of the width of a
retinal nerve fiber layer defect and deterioration of a visual field defect in
the right eye during the follow-up period. His left eye showed a stable visual
field. The diurnal variation in intraocular pressure (IOP) showed a higher mean
IOP in his right eye compared with his left eye, although both IOPs remained
under 21 mmHg.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S36792 
PMCID: PMC3484723
PMID: 23118522  [PubMed]


466. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2013 Jan;57(1):25-33. doi: 10.1007/s10384-012-0200-1. Epub 2012
Oct 24.

Differentiation by imaging of superior segmental optic hypoplasia and
normal-tension glaucoma with inferior visual field defects only.

Yamada M(1), Ohkubo S, Higashide T, Nitta K, Takeda H, Sugiyama K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kanazawa University Graduate School of Medical
Science, 13-1 Takara-machi, Kanazawa 920-8641, Japan.

PURPOSE: To differentiate superior segmental optic hypoplasia (SSOH) from
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) with inferior visual field defects only.
METHODS: Eighteen eyes with SSOH (SSOH group) and 19 eyes with NTG (NTG group)
were examined by optical coherence tomography (OCT), Heidelberg retina tomography
(Heidelberg Retinal Tomograph II, HRT II) and standard automated perimetry.
RESULTS: Retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (RNFLT) based on OCT measurements
was significantly reduced (thinner) in the superior to superonasal sectors and
significantly greater (thicker) in the inferotemporal sector in the SSOH group
than in the NTG group. The cup was significantly smaller and the rim
significantly larger in the superotemporal and temporal sectors in the SSOH group
than in the NTG group based on HRT II measurements. The greatest area under the
receiver operating characteristic curve for discrimination of SSOH from NTG by
OCT and HRT II was for the RNFLT ratio of 1 + 2 o'clock/10 + 11 o'clock (0.985)
and for the ratio of the superonasal to superotemporal sector of rim to disc area
ratio and cup to disc area ratio (0.955), respectively. The frequent location of 
the inferior visual field defects corresponded to the difference in structural
changes in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Comparison of the superonasal to superotemporal sectors by OCT and
HRT II were useful in differentiating SSOH from NTG with only inferior visual
field defects.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-012-0200-1 
PMID: 23093312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Curr Opin Pharmacol. 2013 Feb;13(1):43-9. doi: 10.1016/j.coph.2012.10.001. Epub
2012 Oct 22.

New insights in the pathogenesis and treatment of normal tension glaucoma.

Mozaffarieh M(1), Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University of Basel, Department of Ophthalmology, Basel, Switzerland.

Increased intraocular pressure (IOP) is a major risk factor for glaucomatous
damage and reducing IOP improves prognosis. Nevertheless, there is little doubt
that other risk factors besides IOP such as unstable ocular perfusion are
involved. Blood flow is unstable if either the IOP fluctuates at a high level (or
blood pressure fluctuates at a low level) or if the autoregulation of blood flow 
disturbed. A common cause for a disturbed OBF autoregulation is a primary
vascular dysregulation (PVD) frequently observed in normal tension glaucoma
patients. An unstable blood flow leads to recurrent mild reperfusion injury
(chronic oxidative stress) affecting particularly the mitochondria of the optic
nerve head. OBF regulation can be improved by magnesium, calcium channel blockers
as well as with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coph.2012.10.001 
PMID: 23092679  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


468. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Apr;29(3):335-8. doi: 10.1089/jop.2012.0080. Epub
2012 Oct 17.

Effect of latanoprost on central corneal thickness in unilateral normal-tension
glaucoma.

You JY(1), Cho BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Konkuk University Medical Center, Konkuk
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of latanoprost on central corneal thickness (CCT)
in patients with unilateral normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: A total of 38 patients, with unilateral NTG, who were being treated in
our glaucoma clinic and were receiving 0.005% latanoprost monotherapy over 24
months, were included in this study. The data were collected, retrospectively,
with reviewing of the charts. The mean CCT and the CCT reduction from the
baseline were assessed before the treatment, and at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24 months
after the initiation of the treatment. An unaffected eye was also evaluated for
the control group. All the measurements were performed with a commercially
available ultrasound pachymeter.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between the eyes for the baseline 
intraocular pressure and CCT. The mean CCT trend decreased, except at 9 months
after the treatment in the latanoprost group (affected eye), but only
statistically significant after 24 months of treatment by using paired-sample
t-test [544.6±38.4 vs. 540.3±37.8 μm (P=0.013)]. There was no statistically
significant changes of CCT between the groups with repeated measures analysis of 
variance (P=0.635).
CONCLUSION: Topical therapy with latanoprost may decrease the CCT, over a period 
of 24 months, in patients with NTG. These data should be taken into consideration
in a long-standing latanoprost treatment of NTG.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2012.0080 
PMID: 23075402  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


469. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e46910. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046910. Epub 2012 Oct 11.

Serum and antibodies of glaucoma patients lead to changes in the proteome,
especially cell regulatory proteins, in retinal cells.

Bell K(1), Funke S, Pfeiffer N, Grus FH.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Ophthalmology, Department of Ophthalmology, Medical Center of the
Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany.

PURPOSE: Previous studies show significantly specifically changed autoantibody
reactions against retinal antigens in the serum of glaucoma and ocular
hypertension (OHT) patients in comparison to healthy people. As pathogenesis of
glaucoma still is unknown the aim of this study was to analyze if the serum and
antibodies of glaucoma patients interact with neuroretinal cells.
METHODS: R28 cells were incubated with serum of patients suffering from primary
open angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG) or OHT, POAG serum
after antibody removal and serum from healthy people for 48 h under a normal or
an elevated pressure of 15000 Pa (112 mmHg). RGC5 cells were additionally
incubated with POAG antibodies under a normal pressure. Protein profiles of the
R28 cells were measured with Seldi-Tof-MS, protein identification was performed
with Maldi-TofTof-MS. Protein analysis of the RGC5 cells was performed with
ESI-Orbitrap MS. Statistical analysis including multivariate statistics, variance
component analysis as well as calculating Mahalanobis distances was performed.
RESULTS: Highly significant changes of the complex protein profiles after
incubation with glaucoma and OHT serum in comparison to healthy serum were
detected, showing specific changes in the cells (e.g. Protein at 9192 Da
(p<0.001)). The variance component analysis showed an effect of the serum of 59% 
on the cells. The pressure had an effect of 11% on the cells. Antibody removal
led to significantly changed cell reactions (p<0.03). Furthermore, the incubation
with POAG serum and its antibodies led to pro-apoptotic changes of proteins in
the cells.
CONCLUSIONS: These studies show that the serum and the antibodies of glaucoma
patients significantly change protein expressions involved in cell regulatory
processes in neuroretinal cells. These could lead to a higher vulnerability of
retinal cells towards stress factors such as an elevated IOP and eventually could
lead to an increased apoptosis of the cells as in glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046910 
PMCID: PMC3469602
PMID: 23071659  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Neurobiol Aging. 2013 May;34(5):1516.e9-15. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2012.09.007. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

A novel optineurin truncating mutation and three glaucoma-associated missense
variants in patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in Germany.

Weishaupt JH(1), Waibel S, Birve A, Volk AE, Mayer B, Meyer T, Ludolph AC,
Andersen PM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Ulm University, Ulm, Germany.
jochen.weishaupt@uni-ulm.de

Mutations in the optineurin (OPTN) gene have been associated with normal tension 
glaucoma and with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Here, we screened German
familial ALS cases for OPTN mutations to gain additional insight into the
spectrum and pathogenic relevance of this gene for ALS. One hundred familial
German ALS cases and 148 control subjects were screened for OPTN mutations by
sequence analysis of the complete OPTN coding sequence, and phenotypes of OPTN
mutant patients were described. We identified a novel heterozygous truncating
OPTN mutation p.Lys440Asnfs*8 in 1 ALS family with an aggressive ALS disease
phenotype. This mutation abolishes protein domains crucial for nuclear factor κB 
signaling. Moreover, we detected 3 different nonsynonymous sequence variants,
which have been described previously as risk factors for primary retinal ganglion
cell degeneration in normal tension glaucoma. Two of them were detected on the
same allele in a family that also carries a p.Asn352Ser disease mutation in the
ALS gene TARDBP. All OPTN mutant patients presented with typical spinal onset
ALS. Taken together, we detected a novel truncating OPTN mutation associated with
an aggressive form of ALS and confirmed that OPTN mutations are a rare cause of
ALS. In addition our data suggest that in some cases plausibly more than 1
mutation in OPTN or another ALS gene might be needed to cause ALS. Finally, our
findings show that motoneurons and retinal ganglion cells, which are both
projecting central nervous system neurons, might share common susceptibility
factors.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2012.09.007 
PMID: 23062601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Glaucoma. 2013 Oct-Nov;22(8):608-13. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318255bc62.

Aqueous oxygen tension in glaucomatous and nonglaucomatous eyes.

Sharifipour F(1), Yazdani S, Pakravan M, Idani E.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Ophthalmology ‡Pulmonology, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of
Medical Sciences, Ahvaz †Ophthalmic Research Center, Labbafinejad Medical Center,
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical, Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Comment in
    J Glaucoma. 2013 Oct-Nov;22(8):e23-4.
    J Glaucoma. 2013 Oct-Nov;22(8):e24-6.

PURPOSE: To compare aqueous oxygen tension in eyes with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG), pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PXG), and neovascular glaucoma
(NVG), with normal eyes with senile cataracts.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study included 82 eyes of 82 patients with POAG (22
eyes), PXG (20 eyes), NVG (18 eyes), and cataracts (22 eyes). Before initiating
surgery and while breathing room air, 0.2 mL of aqueous humor and 1 mL of
arterial blood were aspirated in heparinized syringes under sterile conditions.
Partial pressures of oxygen (PO2), carbon dioxide (PCO2), and pH of the samples
were measured using a blood-gas analyzer.
RESULTS: Overall, aqueous PO2 was comparable among the study groups (P=0.202).
After repeating the analysis in eyes with controlled and high intraocular
pressure (IOP), a significant difference was observed in POAG eyes with high IOP 
(post-hoc test, P=0.046). Overall, a significant negative correlation (r=-0.184, 
P=0.045) was observed between IOP and aqueous PO2. The strongest correlation was 
observed in the POAG group (r=-0.507, P=0.016). Aqueous PO2 was higher than
arterial PO2 in all study groups except POAG eyes, significantly so in the
cataract and PXG groups (P=0.013 and P<0.001, respectively), implying a
contribution of atmospheric oxygen to aqueous PO2. This contribution was lower in
POAG eyes but the difference failed to reach statistical significance (P=0.262).
CONCLUSIONS: Aqueous oxygen tension was lower in POAG eyes with high IOP. A
significant negative correlation was observed between IOP and aqueous PO2.
Aqueous PO2 was higher than arterial PO2 suggesting a contribution by atmospheric
oxygen.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318255bc62 
PMID: 23059477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


472. J Glaucoma. 2013 Mar;22(3):250-4. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31823298fb.

Contributing factors for progression of visual field loss in normal-tension
glaucoma patients with medical treatment.

Sakata R(1), Aihara M, Murata H, Mayama C, Tomidokoro A, Iwase A, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Graduate School of Medicine, University of Tokyo,
Tokyo, Japan. reisakata-tky@umin.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate the prognostic factors responsible for the progression of
visual field defects (VFDs) in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
treated with topical antiglaucoma medications.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 92 eyes in 92 NTG patients treated with only
topical antiglaucoma medications for ≥ 5 years were retrospectively analyzed. To 
identify subfield-based prognostic factors, the central 30-degree visual field
(Humphrey Field Analyzer) was divided into 6 subfields: upper and lower arcuate, 
paracentral, and cecocentral subfields. Factors related to subfield-based
progression (age, refraction, mean intraocular pressure (IOP), IOP variability,
central corneal thickness, and disc hemorrhage) were evaluated using a linear
mixed model.
RESULTS: Ninety-two eyes in 92 NTG patients were included in this study. The mean
observation period was 7.7 ± 2.7 (5.0 to 15.5) years, and the estimated rate of
change in the mean deviation value was -0.16 ± 0.31 dB/y (P<0.001). A
subfield-based linear mixed model analysis of the time course of changes in the
mean of total deviation identified a greater extent of myopia as a significant
positive prognostic factor for VFD progression in the upper paracentral area
(P=0.016). The mean IOP, central corneal thickness, disc hemorrhage, age, and IOP
variation showed no significant contribution in any of the subfields.
CONCLUSIONS: The extent of myopia was found to be a significant positive
prognostic factor for VFD progression in the upper paracentral subfield for
non-high-myopic NTG eyes with an average IOP of 14.2 mm Hg under topical
antiglaucoma medication.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31823298fb 
PMID: 23059475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Clin Ophthalmol. 2012;6:1579-84. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S33414. Epub 2012 Sep 25.

A randomized crossover study comparing tafluprost 0.0015% with travoprost 0.004% 
in patients with normal-tension glaucoma [corrected].

Mizoguchi T(1), Ozaki M, Unoki K, Dake Y, Eto T, Arai M.

Author information: 
(1)Mizoguchi Eye Clinic.

Erratum in
    Clin Ophthalmol. 2012;6:1717.

PURPOSE: We compared the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering effect of tafluprost
0.0015% once daily with travoprost 0.004% once daily in Japanese patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: One hundred sixteen patients with NTG were randomized to use tafluprost 
0.0015% or travoprost 0.004% once daily for 12 weeks, followed by a washout
period of 4 weeks between switching medications. IOP was measured at baseline and
4, 8, and 12 weeks of each treatment period.
RESULTS: Ninety patients completed both treatment periods and had IOP data
available for evaluation. In both groups, a significant decrease in IOP was
observed for all measurement points compared with baseline values (P < 0.0001).
There was no significant difference in IOP at each time point between the two
groups. Both drugs were effective (defined as more than 10% IOP reduction) in 39 
(43%) of 90 patients; only tafluprost was effective in 26 (29%) patients, and
only travoprost was effective in 17 (19%) patients. Eight (9%) patients were
nonresponders to both drugs.
CONCLUSIONS: Tafluprost and travoprost were equally effective in lowering IOP in 
patients with normal-tension glaucoma. However, patients with normal-tension
glaucoma may vary in response to each medication.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S33414 
PMCID: PMC3460714
PMID: 23055682  [PubMed]


474. Clin Ophthalmol. 2012;6:1547-52. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S36628. Epub 2012 Sep 21.

Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution 0.03% lowered intraocular pressure of
normal-tension glaucoma with minimal adverse events.

Tsumura T(1), Yoshikawa K, Suzumura H, Kimura T, Sasaki S, Kimura I, Takeda R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Fussa Hospital, Fussa, Tokyo, Japan.

Erratum in
    Clin Ophthalmol. 2013;7:129.
    Clin Ophthalmol. 2013;7:1363.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
bimatoprost ophthalmic solution 0.03% (bimatoprost) in Japanese normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients with an intraocular pressure (IOP) of 18 mmHg or less.
METHODS: Bimatoprost was instilled into the unilateral conjunctival sac of
Japanese NTG patients with a baseline IOP of 18 mmHg or less. The time courses of
IOP, conjunctival hyperemia, superficial punctate keratitis, and adverse events
were examined at 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks post bimatoprost instillation.
RESULTS: Thirty-two of the 38 enrolled NTG patients (mean age, 64.1 ± 12.6 years;
19 males and 19 females) completed the study, with six patients unable to
complete the study (two patients discontinued because of side effects and four
patients withdrew). The levels of IOP in the treated eyes were significantly
reduced (P < 0.0001) from the baseline IOP levels. No significant change in IOP
was observed in the fellow eyes. There were significant increases in conjunctival
hyperemia. No significant superficial punctate keratitis scores were noted
between the baseline and each point examined. Eyelash disorder, eyelid
pigmentation, and deepening of the upper eyelid sulcus were observed in 28, six, 
and three eyes, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Bimatoprost effectively lowered the IOP. It was well tolerated in
Japanese NTG patients, with few patients having to discontinue because of adverse
events.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S36628 
PMCID: PMC3460718
PMID: 23055677  [PubMed]


475. Eye (Lond). 2012 Nov;26(11):1473-8. doi: 10.1038/eye.2012.204. Epub 2012 Oct 5.

Characteristics of patients with a localized retinal nerve fiber layer defect and
normal optic disc appearance.

Lee J(1), Kim J, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the characteristics of patients with a localized retinal 
nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defect and normal optic disc appearance compared with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: A total of 40 patients with an unchanged RNFL defect for more than 5
years and normal optic disc appearance, who were presumed as non-glaucomatous
patients, were enrolled (group A). We recruited 40 age-matched patients with NTG 
(group B). On the RNFL photographs, we evaluated angles of RNFL defects. Angle α 
and β were the angles made by the line 'L' from the center of the fovea to the
disc center and the lines 'A' and 'B' from the disc center to the disc margin
where the proximal and the distal border of the defect met, respectively. Angle θ
was the angular width of the defect. Angle γ was the angle made by lines 'L' and 
'R', which divides angle θ into a 2 :1 ratio from line 'A' to line 'B'. We
compared systemic diseases, baseline IOP, and location and angles of the RNFL
defects between the two groups.
RESULTS: Systemic diseases and superotemporal RNFL defects in group A were
significantly greater than those in group B (P<0.001). Angle α was greater in
group A, but angle β, θ, and γ were smaller in group A (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: If the patients with a superotemporal RNFL defect and normal optic
disc appearance had systemic diseases and distal borders of the defects are
closer to the macula, glaucoma is less likely.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2012.204 
PMCID: PMC3496109
PMID: 23037909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


476. BMC Ophthalmol. 2012 Sep 25;12:52. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-12-52.

Goldmann applanation tonometry compared with corneal-compensated intraocular
pressure in the evaluation of primary open-angle Glaucoma.

Ehrlich JR(1), Radcliffe NM, Shimmyo M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Weill Cornell Medical College, 1305 York Avenue, 
New York, NY 10021, USA.

BACKGROUND: To better understand the role of corneal properties and intraocular
pressure (IOP) in the evaluation of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG); and to
determine the feasibility of identifying glaucomatous optic neuropathy (GON)
using IOP corrected and uncorrected for corneal biomechanics.
METHODS: Records from 1,875 eyes of consecutively evaluated new patients were
reviewed. Eyes were excluded if central corneal thickness (CCT) or Ocular
Response Analyzer (ORA) measurements were unavailable. Presence or absence of GON
was determined based on morphology of the optic disc, rim and retinal nerve fiber
layer at the time of clinical examination, fundus photography and Heidelberg
Retinal Tomography. Goldmann-applanation tonometry (GAT) in the untreated state
was recorded and Goldmann-correlated (IOPg) and corneal-compensated IOP (IOPcc)
were obtained using the ORA. Glaucomatous eyes were classified as normal or
high-tension (NTG, HTG) using the conventional cutoff of 21 mm Hg. One eligible
eye was randomly selected from each patient for inclusion.
RESULTS: A total of 357 normal, 155 HTG and 102 NTG eyes were included. Among NTG
eyes, IOPcc was greater than GAT (19.8 and 14.4 mm Hg; p < 0.001) and the
difference between IOPcc and GAT was greatest for this subgroup of patients with 
NTG (p ≤ 0.01). The maximum combined sensitivity and specificity for detection of
GON occurred at 20.9 mm Hg for GAT (59%, 90%) and 18.4 mm Hg for IOPcc (85%, 85%)
and the area under the curve was greater for IOPcc (0.93 vs. 0.78; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: IOPcc may account for measurement error induced by corneal
biomechanics. Compared to GAT, IOPcc may be a superior test in the evaluation of 
glaucoma but is unlikely to represent an effective diagnostic test.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-12-52 
PMCID: PMC3514140
PMID: 23009074  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov;90(7):e553-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02494.x.
Epub 2012 Sep 23.

Coexistence of macro- and micro-vascular abnormalities in newly diagnosed normal 
tension glaucoma patients.

Mroczkowska S(1), Ekart A, Sung V, Negi A, Qin L, Patel SR, Jacob S, Atkins C,
Benavente-Perez A, Gherghel D.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Research Laboratory, Ophthalmic Research Group, School of Life and
Health Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham, UK.

PURPOSE: To investigate the coexistence of ocular microvascular and systemic
macrovascular abnormalities in early stage, newly diagnosed and previously
untreated normal tension glaucoma patients (NTG).
METHODS: Retinal vascular reactivity to flickering light was assessed in 19 NTG
and 28 age-matched controls by means of dynamic retinal vessel analysis (IMEDOS
GmbH, Jena, Germany). Using a newly developed computational model, the entire
dynamic vascular response profile to flicker light was imaged and used for
analysis. In addition, assessments of carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) and
pulse wave analysis (PWA) were conducted on all participants, along with blood
pressure (BP) measurements and blood analyses for lipid metabolism markers.
RESULTS:  Patients with NTG demonstrated an increased right and left carotid IMT 
(p = 0.015, p = 0.045) and an elevated PWA augmentation index (p = 0.017) in
comparison with healthy controls, along with an enhanced retinal arterial
constriction response (p = 0.028), a steeper retinal arterial constriction slope 
(p = 0.031) and a reduced retinal venous dilation response (p = 0.026) following 
flicker light stimulation.
CONCLUSIONS: Early stage, newly diagnosed, NTG patients showed signs of
subclinical vascular abnormalities at both macro- and micro-vascular levels,
highlighting the need to consider multi-level circulation-related pathologies in 
the development and progression of this type of glaucoma.

© 2012 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2012 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02494.x 
PMID: 22998650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


478. High Alt Med Biol. 2012 Sep;13(3):169-75.

Hypoxia in the eye: a two-sided coin.

Grimm C(1), Willmann G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Zurich Centre for Integrative Human Physiology
(ZIHP), and Neuroscience Centre (ZNZ), University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
cgrimm@opht.uzh.ch

Tissue oxygenation in general and hypoxia in particular are important regulators 
of retinal physiology and pathophysiology. Reduced oxygen tension and
hypoxia-inducible transcription factors along with some of their target genes are
critically involved in retinal development, and especially in the generation of a
normal retinal vasculature. Well-timed hypoxia is thus vital for the young eye to
establish proper retinal function and vision. However, when hypoxia is ill-timed,
reduced oxygen tension may be associated with the development of retinal
pathologies, including retinopathy of prematurity, diabetic retinopathy,
glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration, or high altitude retinopathy. Here,
reduced oxygen tension activates a hypoxic response that culminates in an
increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor. This causes
pathological neovascularization of the delicate neuronal retina, a process that
may ultimately lead to loss of vision. In contrast, preconditioning by
well-defined and controlled short-term hypoxia is not devastating for the retina 
but instead induces a molecular response that provides protection to neuronal
cells. Detailed investigation of hypoxic mechanisms during development and
adulthood may thus reveal factors, which may be targeted by therapeutic
approaches to save and preserve vision in patients.

DOI: 10.1089/ham.2012.1031 
PMID: 22994516  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 2012;(320):51-66.

The effect of phacoemulsification and combined phaco/glaucoma procedures on the
intraocular pressure in open-angle glaucoma. A review of the literature.

Augustinus CJ(1), Zeyen T.

Author information: 
(1)Ciliaaugustinus@gmail.com

PURPOSE: This review article addresses the different aspects that influence the
choice and sequence of surgical treatment in patients with coexisting open-angle 
glaucoma and cataract. The effect of phacoemulsification on the intraocular
pressure (lOP) and on a preexisting bleb is discussed and phacotrabeculectomy and
trabeculectomy are compared. Moreover, the most recent surgical pressure lowering
techniques in combination with phacoemulsification are reviewed: iStent,
Trabectome, Hydrus, Cypass and Canaloplasty.
METHODS: Medline database was used to search for relevant, recent articles.
CONCLUSION: A sustained IOP decrease of 1.5 mmHg can be expected after a
phacoemulsification in patients with open-angle glaucoma. The higher the
preoperative pressure, the greater the IOP lowering will be. A
phacoemulsification on a trabeculectomized eye will often lead to reduced bleb
function and an IOP rise of on average 2 mmHg after 12 months. Compared to a
trabeculectomy, phaco-trabeculectomy will have a less IOP lowering effect and a
higher complication rate. iStent and Trabectome combined with phacoemulsification
can decrease the IOP with 3 to 5mmHg, with a low complication rate. The
combination of Cypass and Hydrus with phaco-surgery may have a more significant
IOP lowering effect but long term results are not yet published. Combining
Canaloplasty with phacoemulsification is a more challenging surgery but if a
tension suture can be placed, an IOP decrease around 10 mmHg might be expected.


PMID: 22978183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Oct 5;53(11):6904-13. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-10210.

A novel method to detect local ganglion cell loss in early glaucoma using
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.

Takayama K(1), Hangai M, Durbin M, Nakano N, Morooka S, Akagi T, Ikeda HO,
Yoshimura N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Kyoto University Graduate
School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.

PURPOSE: To test the glaucoma-discriminating ability of a new method for
detecting local ganglion cell loss using spectral-domain optical coherence
tomography (OCT).
METHODS: This study included 58 glaucomatous and 48 healthy eyes from Japanese
subjects. Combined thickness of the ganglion cell layer and inner plexus layer
(GCIPL) was measured on a macular cube scan in Cirrus HD-OCT. Average GCIPL
thickness within a macular elliptical annulus and minimum GCIPL thickness on 360 
spokes extending from the inner to the outer radius of the elliptical annulus
were calculated. Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AROC) to
discriminate between healthy eyes and early (mean deviation [MD], ≥-6
dB)/advanced (MD, <-6 dB) glaucomatous were compared between parameters.
RESULTS: Forty-three were normal-tension glaucoma, and 15 were high-tension
glaucoma. The mean minimum GCIPL thickness was 77.0 μm in healthy eyes and 60.6
μm in glaucomatous eyes (P < 0.001). For the intersession repeatability, the
coefficients of variation for average GCIPL and minimum GCIPL were 0.98 and 1.85 
in glaucomatous eyes, and 0.89 and 1.85 in healthy eyes, respectively. Minimum
GCIPL thickness AROC (0.896) was significantly higher (P = 0.0062) than average
GCIPL thickness (0.821) for early glaucoma, whereas minimum GCIPL AROC (0.991)
was comparable (P = 0.103) to average GCIPL (0.964) for advanced glaucoma. The
minimum GCIPL thickness AROC was comparable (P = 0.861) to average
circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (cpRNFL) thickness (0.890) for early
glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: In Japanese patients with 74.1% of normal-tension glaucoma, the
minimum GCIPL on spokes may be useful for detecting early glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-10210 
PMID: 22977136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Clin Ophthalmol. 2012;6:1315-9. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S33816. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

Effects of BAK-free travoprost treatment for 3 years in patients with normal
tension glaucoma.

Inoue K(1), Iwasa M, Wakakura M, Tomita G.

Author information: 
(1)Inouye Eye Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of benzalkonium
(BAK)-free travoprost monotherapy administered for 3 years on intraocular
pressure and visual field performance.
METHODS: The intraocular pressure of 76 patients with normal tension glaucoma was
monitored every 1-3 months. A Humphrey visual field test was performed every 6
months after treatment and compared with the results before treatment. Visual
field performance was also evaluated by trend and event analysis.
RESULTS: Thirty cases discontinued within 3 years. Mean intraocular pressure
after 3 years of travoprost treatment (14.1 ± 2.4 mmHg) was significantly lower
than that before treatment (16.8 ± 2.6 mmHg, P < 0.0001). There was no change in 
the mean deviation and pattern standard deviation as measured by Humphrey visual 
field test after 3 years of treatment compared with before treatment. Visual
field performance was worse in one patient (2.8%) by trend analysis and five
patients (13.9%) by event analysis. Treatment was discontinued in six cases
(7.9%) due to the appearance of adverse reactions.
CONCLUSION: BAK-free travoprost monotherapy was effective in reducing intraocular
pressure for at least 3 years; however, visual field performance worsened in
2.8%-13.9% of patients with normal tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S33816 
PMCID: PMC3429289
PMID: 22969276  [PubMed]


482. Curr Eye Res. 2012 Dec;37(12):1121-6. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2012.725798. Epub
2012 Sep 11.

Analysis of systemic endothelin-1, matrix metalloproteinase-9, macrophage
chemoattractant protein-1, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Lee NY(1), Park HY, Park CK, Ahn MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of
Korea, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the roles of vascular dysregulation and inflammation in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), we determined the plasma levels of endothelin-1
(ET-1), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 
(MCP-1), and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-five patients with NTG and age-matched 35 healthy
controls were enrolled in this study. Blood samples from all subjects were
assayed for ET-1, MMP-9, MCP-1, and hs-CRP concentrations and other systemic
factors.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC
count, WBC count, platelet count, fasting glucose, HbA1c, total cholesterol,
triglyceride, LDL, and HDL between the NTG and control groups. The systemic
levels of ET-1 and MCP-1 were significantly higher in the NTG group than in the
control group (p = 0.05 and 0.02, respectively). The MMP-9 and hs-CRP levels were
not significantly different between the NTG and control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: After excluding patients with cardiovascular and other systemic
diseases, plasma ET-1 and MCP-1 levels were elevated in patients with NTG. The
MMP-9 and hs-CRP levels were not significantly different in NTG. Increased ET-1
and MCP-1 levels suggest that ischemia/inflammation may play a role in the
pathogenesis of NTG.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2012.725798 
PMID: 22966842  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


483. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2013 Jan;131(1):36-43. doi: 10.1001/2013.jamaophthalmol.1.

Primary open-angle glaucoma vs normal-tension glaucoma: the vascular perspective.

Mroczkowska S(1), Benavente-Perez A, Negi A, Sung V, Patel SR, Gherghel D.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Research Laboratory, Ophthalmic Research Group, School of Life and
Health Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham, England.

OBJECTIVE: To compare and contrast the presence of ocular and systemic vascular
function in patients with newly diagnosed and previously untreated primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) vs those with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and
comparable early-stage, functional loss.
METHODS: The systemic vascular function of 19 patients with POAG, 19 patients
with NTG, and 20 healthy individuals serving as controls was assessed using
24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, peripheral pulse-wave analysis, and
carotid intima-media thickness. Retinal vascular reactivity to flicker light was 
assessed using dynamic retinal vessel analysis (Imedos, GmbH).
RESULTS: Compared with controls, patients with POAG and those with NTG exhibited 
similarly increased nocturnal systemic blood pressure variability (P = .01),
peripheral arterial stiffness (P = .02), carotid intima-media thickness (P =
.04), and reduced ocular perfusion pressure (P < .001). Furthermore, on dynamic
retinal vessel analysis, both glaucoma groups exhibited steeper retinal arterial 
constriction slopes after cessation of flicker (P = .007) and a similarly
increased fluctuation in arterial and venous baseline diameter (P = .008 and P = 
.009, respectively) compared with controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with POAG or NTG exhibit similar alterations in ocular and 
systemic circulation in the early stages of their disease process. This finding
highlights the importance of considering vascular risk factors in both conditions
and raises questions about the current separation of the two conditions into
distinct clinical entities.

DOI: 10.1001/2013.jamaophthalmol.1 
PMID: 22964974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Am J Ophthalmol. 2012 Dec;154(6):958-968.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.05.025. Epub
2012 Sep 7.

Comparison of the progression rates of the superior, inferior, and both hemifield
defects in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Cho HK(1), Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the progression rates of superior and inferior hemifield 
defects and each hemifield in bihemifield defects in normal-tension glaucoma
patients and to compare the progression rates of each hemifield between groups in
eyes with similar baseline hemifield defects.
DESIGN: Retrospective, observational cohort study.
METHODS: Medical records of 142 normal-tension glaucoma patients who performed
more than 5 reliable standard visual field tests with superior (group 2; n = 51),
inferior (group 1; n = 44), or both hemifield (group 3; n = 47) defects were
analyzed retrospectively. The changes in the mean thresholds of the 10 zones of
the glaucoma hemifield test and the entire hemifield were inspected. A linear
mixed effect model was used with age, gender, initial intraocular pressure, mean 
deviation, and pattern standard deviation controlled.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in age and systemic and ocular
factors between groups except for female gender, which showed a significant
difference among the 3 groups (P = .032). The progression rate in group 2 was
significantly faster than in group 1 (-0.713 dB/year vs -0.516 dB/year; P =
.019), especially in central and nasal zones or than in the superior hemifield of
group 3 (-0.717 dB/year vs -0.470 dB/year; P = .001). There was no significant
difference in the progression rates between group 1 and the inferior hemifield in
group 3 (-0.508 dB/year vs -0.441 dB/year; P = .312) or between the superior and 
inferior hemifields in group 3 (-0.468 dB/year vs -0.442 dB/year; P = .662).
CONCLUSIONS: More careful examination and caution is required in the treatment of
normal-tension glaucoma patients with superior hemifield defect.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.05.025 
PMID: 22959361  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 May-Jun;41(4):348-54. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02870.x.

Longitudinal effect of topical antiglaucoma medications on central corneal
thickness.

Viswanathan D(1), Goldberg I, Graham SL.

Author information: 
(1)Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Macquarie University, Sydney, New
South Wales, Australia.

BACKGROUND: To determine the change in central corneal thickness over time and
whether the use of long-term topical antiglaucoma medications influences central 
corneal thickness.
DESIGN: Case control study with retrospective and prospective data collection.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred eighty-seven eyes of 187 glaucoma patients (mean follow
up 6.92 ± 1.67 years) being treated with topical antiglaucoma medications (at
least 3 years) with no history of surgery or laser were included and compared
with 100 eyes of 100 age-matched, untreated control subjects (mean follow up 6.58
± 1.93 years) who were glaucoma suspects with normal intraocular pressure not on 
any treatment.
METHODS: Demographic data, central corneal thickness and intraocular pressure
were collected at initial glaucoma diagnosis and at most recent visit, and
findings were compared between two groups.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mean change in central corneal thickness in microns (μm).
RESULTS: Central corneal thickness fell significantly (P < 0.0001) in treated
eyes but not in control eyes (P = 0.18); mean central corneal thickness reduction
was 12.29 ± 13.65 μm in treated eyes and 1.17 ± 8.75 μm in controls. Among
treated eyes, central corneal thickness reduction was significant (P < 0.0001) in
those treated with either prostaglandins or a combination of prostaglandin and
beta-blockers, while no significant reduction occurred in eyes treated with only 
beta-blockers (P = 0.15) when compared with control eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostaglandins appear to be associated with a small but significant 
central corneal thickness reduction over time. Serial central corneal thickness
measurements might be helpful in glaucoma patients, particularly those on
prostaglandins.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2012 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02870.x 
PMID: 22958109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 May-Jun;41(4):416-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02880.x. Epub 2012 Oct 29.

Primary glaucoma in three siblings with Werner syndrome.

Abraham LM, Braganza AD, Simha AR.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02880.x 
PMID: 22957764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


487. J Glaucoma. 2013 Dec;22(9):698-706. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318264be18.

Evaluation of optic nerve head using a newly developed stereo retinal imaging
technique by glaucoma specialist and non-expert-certified orthoptist.

Asakawa K(1), Kato S, Shoji N, Morita T, Shimizu K.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Orthoptics and Visual Science, School of Allied Health Sciences
†Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Kitasato University, Kanagawa, 
Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the reproducibility and interexaminer consistency in
analyzing the optic disc parameters using a newly fundus stereoscopic camera, and
their correlation with parameters of the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II (HRT II) 
was also examined.
METHODS: This study examined 53 eyes of 53 healthy volunteers (mean age, 21.8 y).
Fifty-five eyes of 55 glaucoma patients (mean age, 59.3 y) were also involved. A 
Nonmyd WX retinal camera was used for stereoscopic fundus imaging. The diagnostic
parameters for the optic nerve head analyses were examined under the following
conditions: (1) the intraexaminer reproducibility was determined by a certified
orthoptist (CO) with 1 year's experience, with the appropriate coefficient of
variation in 8 healthy eyes; and (2) the interexaminer consistency of the
diagnostic parameters by both glaucoma specialist and CO was examined in 45
healthy eyes and 55 glaucomatous eyes. By subgroup analysis, the healthy eyes
were classified into 2 groups based on the degree of myopia, the optic disc of
glaucomatous eye was classified into 4 types: focal ischemic, generalized
enlargement, myopic, and senile sclerotic, and also classified into 3 stages
(early, moderate, and severe) by Hodapp-Anderson-Parrish scale. (3) The
correlation of parameters common to Nonmyd WX and HRT II was examined in 18 eyes 
of randomly selected patients.
RESULTS: The results were as follows: (1) Mean coefficient of variation of 2.6%
to 17.6%, with volume parameters considerably lower than the other parameters.
(2) In both groups, a high or moderate degree of consistency was obtained (r=0.40
to 0.99; P=0.032 to <0.0001), except only the upper rim width in healthy subjects
(r=0.28; P=0.137). In particular, good consistency was obtained in healthy eye
with >-3 D of myopia, in glaucoma patients with the generalized type of optic
disc and severe glaucomatous stage. (3) A strong correlation with HRT II was
obtained only in the cup area and the disc area by both specialist and CO (r=0.75
to 0.90; P=0.0003 to <0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our studies indicated that most of the parameters were highly
reproducible and consistent, and less difference was found between the results
obtained by an experienced glaucoma specialist and a non-expert CO in patients
with deep cupping and severe eye, but the examiner needs a clear understanding of
the criteria for the rim and the cup.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318264be18 
PMID: 22936277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2012 Sep-Dec;6(3):113-9. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1117. Epub 2012 Oct 16.

Imaging of the Lamina Cribrosa using Swept-Source Optical Coherence Tomography.

Nuyen B(1), Mansouri K(2), N Weinreb R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hamilton Glaucoma Center and Shiley Eye Center,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA. (2)Research
Fellow, Department of Ophthalmology, Hamilton Glaucoma Center and Shiley Eye
Center, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(3)Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology, Director, Hamilton Glaucoma Center and 
Shiley Eye Center, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California,
USA.

The lamina cribrosa (LC) is the presumed site of axonal injury in glaucoma. Its
deformation has been suggested to contribute to optic neuropathy by impeding
axoplasmic flow within the optic nerve fibers, leading to apoptosis of retinal
ganglion cells. To visualize the LC in vivo, optical coherence tomography (OCT)
has been applied. Spectral domain (SD)-OCT, used in conjunction with recently
introduced enhanced depth imaging (EDI)-OCT, has improved visualization of deeper
ocular layers, but in many individuals it is still limited by inadequate
resolution, poor image contrast and insufficient depth penetrance. The posterior 
laminar surface especially is not viewed clearly using these methods. New
generation high-penetration (HP)-OCTs, also known as swept-source (SS)-OCT, are
capable to evaluate the choroid in vivo to a remarkable level of detail. SS-OCTs 
use a longer wavelength (1,050 nm instead of 840 nm) compared to the conventional
techniques. We review current knowledge of the LC, findings from trials that use 
SD-OCT and EDI-OCT, and our experience with a prototype SS-OCT to visualize the
LC in its entirety. Key Points What is known? •     The LC is the presumed site
of axonal injury in glaucoma •     Compared to spectral domain-OCT, enhanced
depth imaging-OCT improves imaging of the LC •     Even so, currently used SD-OCT
techniques are restricted by poor wavelength penetrance of the deeper ocular
layers What our findings add? •    SS-OCT may be a superior imaging modality for 
deep ocular structures •    Prior studies used SS-OCT to evaluate choroidal
thickness in both healthy and 'normal tension glaucoma' eyes •    SS-OCT enables 
good evaluation of three-dimension (3D) lamina cribrosa morphology. How to cite
this article: Nuyen B, Mansouri K, Weinreb RN. Imaging of the Lamina Cribrosa
using Swept-Source Optical Coherence Tomography. J Current Glau Prac 2012;6(3):
113-119.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1117 
PMCID: PMC4741116
PMID: 26997766  [PubMed]


489. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2012 Sep-Oct;1(5):303-11. doi:
10.1097/APO.0b013e31826f57a3.

The Immunology of Glaucoma.

Vu TH(1), Jager MJ, Chen DF.

Author information: 
(1)From the *Schepens Eye Research Institute, Massachusetts Eye and Ear, and
Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; †Department of
Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands; and
‡Veteran Affairs Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA.

The presence of specific antibodies and T cells that are specific in patients
with glaucoma supports the idea that the immune system may play an important role
in the initiation and/or sustainment of glaucomatous optic neuropathy, at least
in some patients. At present, our understanding regarding immunological
mechanisms associated with glaucomatous optic neuropathy is far from
satisfactory. In this review, we examined evidence suggesting involvement of
autoimmune responses in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. These include detection of 
autoantibodies and T cells and expression of cytokines and stress proteins in
patients with glaucoma. Although immune responses are thought to be detrimental, 
some responses may exert a protective effect against neurodegenerative damage.
Likely, the balance between positive and negative regulators determines the
survival or demise of cells. It is vital that research continues to elucidate the
roles of the immune system in glaucomatous neurodegeneration and the possibility 
of alternative modalities of treatment. These studies may also provide valuable
molecular biomarkers for the diagnosis and identification of a specific cohort of
patients with glaucoma, that is, those with normal-tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0b013e31826f57a3 
PMID: 26107602  [PubMed]


490. Mol Vis. 2012;18:2174-81. Epub 2012 Aug 7.

No difference in genotype frequencies of polymorphisms of the nitric oxide
pathway between Caucasian normal and high tension glaucoma patients.

Weiss J(1), Fränkl SA, Flammer J, Grieshaber MC, Hollo G, Teuchner B, Haefeli WE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacoepidemiology University of
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany. johanna.weiss@med.uni-heidelberg.de

PURPOSE: Substantial evidence suggests that ocular perfusion is regulated by
nitric oxide (NO), and polymorphisms in genes encoding for enzymes involved in NO
formation and degradation (endothelial nitric oxide synthase [NOS3] and
cytochrome b-235 alpha polypeptide gene [CYBA]) might contribute to vascular
dysregulation observed in glaucoma. We therefore assessed the association of
glaucoma with polymorphisms of NOS3 and CYBA previously associated with
cardiovascular disease. We also compared the distribution of these polymorphisms 
in patients with high tension glaucoma (HTG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
and evaluated its association with vascular dysregulation in a subset of glaucoma
patients.
METHODS: Three hundred Caucasian patients with HTG and 127 with NTG were enrolled
in the study and genotyped for G894T (rs1799983) and T-786C (rs2070744) in NOS3
and C242T (rs4673) in CYBA.
RESULTS: None of these polymorphisms had a different allele or genotype
distribution between HTG and NTG patients nor had the presence of vasospasms any 
impact.
CONCLUSIONS: We studied the frequencies of a set of relevant polymorphisms of the
NO system in a large cohort of glaucoma patients and found no association. These 
results therefore suggest the absence of a relevant relationship with different
glaucoma forms in Caucasians.


PMCID: PMC3425578
PMID: 22919264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 Mar;251(3):831-8. doi:
10.1007/s00417-012-2114-5. Epub 2012 Aug 18.

Comparison of ganglion cell and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in primary
open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma with spectral-domain OCT.

Firat PG(1), Doganay S, Demirel EE, Colak C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Inonu University, School of Medicine, Malatya,
Turkey. pfiratmd@gmail.com.tr

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the macular thickness (MT),
ganglion cell complex (GCC), and circum-papillary retinal nerve fiber layer
(RNFL) thickness in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) with spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT).
METHODS: A total of 169 subjects were enrolled: 52 normal subjects, 61 with POAG,
and 56 with NTG. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) was used
to analyze MT, GCC, and RNFL thickness. To compare the discrimination
capabilities between the MT, GCC, and RNFL thickness measurements, we analyzed
the areas under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves (AUCs). The
relationships between GCC and RNFL measurement and also the relationships of the 
groups, with age, gender, GCC, and RNFL thickness were assessed.
RESULTS: Normal subjects showed the thickest superior and inferior GCC, followed 
by in order NTG and POAG (p < 0.05). While there was a statistically difference
in MT value of the normal subjects and the glaucoma patients (p < 0.05), MT value
did not differ between POAG and NTG (p < 0.05). RNFL thickness parameters were
significantly greater in normal subjects, followed in order by the NTG, and POAG 
(p < 0.05). Between the normal and entire glaucoma groups, all GCC and RNFL
parameters showed the similar discrimination power. RNFL thickness parameters
correlated significantly with all GCC thickness (p < 0.05). Superior RNFL
thickness was the only independent variable between the POAG and NTG patients
(odds ratio (OR) 0.942, p = 0.004, 95 %CI 0.905-0.981).
CONCLUSIONS: SD-OCT evaluation results suggest higher GCC and RNFL parameters for
NTG than POAG.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-012-2114-5 
PMID: 22903819  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Cornea. 2012 Oct;31(10):1093-6. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e31823c51f7.

A study of central corneal thickness in glaucoma and nonglaucoma patients in a
West African population.

Ntim-Amponsah CT(1), Seidu AY, Essuman VA, Fordjour G, Tagoe NN, Coker A,
Adam-Zakariah LI.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Unit, Department of Surgery, University of Ghana Medical School,
Accra, Ghana.

PURPOSE: To compare central corneal thickness (CCT) in high-tension glaucomatous 
eyes and nonglaucomatous eyes with normal intraocular pressure (IOP) and to
determine if there is any correlation between CCT and severity of glaucoma, as
indicated by vertical cup-to-disc ratio.
METHODS: A case-control study that involved 506 subjects at the Korle-Bu Teaching
Hospital, Accra, Ghana, from August 2006 to July 2007. The cases were patients
with (high tension and IOP more than 21 mm Hg) primary open-angle glaucoma, and
the controls were patients with normal IOP (less than 21 mm Hg) and no evidence
of glaucoma. The main outcome measures were CCT, as measured by ultrasonic
pachymetry (model DGH 55 pachmate), and vertical cup-to-disc ratio.
RESULTS: Five hundred six subjects were recruited: 253 cases (506 eyes) and 253
controls (505 eyes). The mean CCT of the right eye for the glaucoma cases was
524.28 μm [95% confidence interval (CI), 4.44; SD, 36.85] and for the controls
was 530.00 μm (95% CI, 4.56; SD, 35.75). The mean CCT of the left eye for the
glaucoma cases was 524.70 μm (95% CI, 4.48; SD, 36.20) and for the controls was
531.06 μm (95% CI, 4.40; SD, 35.52). The relation between CCT and cupping
determined by Pearson correlation coefficient yielded values of -0.09 and 0.01
for the right and left eyes, respectively.
CONCLUSION: There was no significant difference between mean CCT of cases and
controls in the right eye (P = 0.08), but there was a weakly significant
difference in the CCT of the left eye (P = 0.05). Also, there was no correlation 
between cup-to-disc ratio and CCT.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e31823c51f7 
PMID: 22902491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Optom Vis Sci. 2012 Sep;89(9):1282-7. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3182686165.

Glaucoma and reading: exploring the effects of contrast lowering of text.

Burton R(1), Crabb DP, Smith ND, Glen FC, Garway-Heath DF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Visual Science, City University London, UK.

PURPOSE: Past research has not fully ascertained the extent to which people with 
glaucoma have difficulties with reading. This study measures change in reading
speed when letter contrast is reduced, to test the hypothesis that patients with 
glaucoma are more sensitive to letter contrast than age-similar visually healthy 
people.
METHODS: Fifty-three patients with glaucoma [mean age: 66 years (standard
deviation: 9)] with bilateral visual field (VF) defects and 40 age-similar
visually healthy control subjects [mean age: 69 (standard deviation: 8) years]
had reading speeds measured using sets of fixed size, non-scrolling texts on a
computer setup that incorporated an eye tracking device. All participants had
visual acuity ≥6/9, and they underwent standard tests of visual function
including Humphrey 24-2 and 10-2 VFs. Potential non-visual confounders were also 
tested, including cognitive ability (Middlesex Elderly Assessment of Mental
Status Test) and general reading ability. Individual average raw reading speeds
were calculated from 8 trials (different passages of text) at both 100% and 20%
letter contrast.
RESULTS: Patients had an average 24-2 VF MD of -6.5 (range: 0.7 to -17.3) dB in
the better eye. The overall median reduction in reading speed due to decreasing
the contrast of the text in the patients was 20%, but with considerable
between-individual variation (interquartile range, 8%-44%). This reduction was
significantly greater (p = 0.01) than the controls [median: 11% (interquartile
range, 6%-17%)]. Patients and controls had similar average performance on
Middlesex Elderly Assessment of Mental Status Test (p = 0.71), a modified Burt
Reading ability test (p = 0.33), and a computer-based lexical decision task (p = 
0.53) and had similar self-reported day-to-day reading frequency (p = 0.12).
CONCLUSIONS: Average reduction in reading speed caused by a difference in letter 
contrast between 100% and 20% is significantly more apparent in patients with
glaucoma when compared with visually healthy people with a similar age and
similar cognitive/reading ability.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3182686165 
PMID: 22885786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


494. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e42387. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0042387. Epub 2012 Aug 3.

Association of OPA1 polymorphisms with NTG and HTG: a meta-analysis.

Guo Y(1), Chen X, Zhang H, Li N, Yang X, Cheng W, Zhao K.

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.

BACKGROUND: Genetic polymorphisms of the Optic atrophy 1 gene have been
implicated in altering the risk of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), especially
the susceptibility to normal tension glaucoma (NTG), but the results remain
controversial.
METHODS: Multiple electronic databases (up to January 20, 2012) were searched
independently by two investigators. A meta-analysis was performed on the
association between Optic atrophy 1 polymorphisms (rs 166850 and rs 10451941) and
normal tension glaucoma (NTG)/high tension glaucoma (HTG). Summary odds ratios
(ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were estimated.
RESULTS: Seven studies of 713 cases and 964 controls for NTG and five studies of 
1200 cases and 971 controls for HTG on IVS8+4C>T (rs 166850) and IVS8+32T>C
(rs10451941) were identified. There were significant associations between the
OPA1 rs10451941polymorphism and NTG susceptibility for all genetic models(C vs. T
OR = 1.26, 95% CI 1.09-1.47, p = 0.002; CC vs. TT: OR = 1.52, 95% CI 1.04-2.20, p
= 0.029; CC vs. CT+TT: OR = 1.64, 95% CI 1.16-2.33, p = 0.005; CC+CT vs. TT: OR =
1.21, 95% CI 1.02-1.44, p = 0.032). However, no evidence of associations was
detected between the OPA1 IVS8+32C>T polymorphism and POAG susceptibility to HTG.
Similarly, clear associations between the rs 166850 variant and NTG were observed
in allelic and dominant models (T vs. C OR = 1.52, 95% CI 1.16-1.99, p = 0.002;
TT+TC vs. CC OR = 1.50, 95% CI 1.13-2.01, p = 0.006) but not to HTG. In subgroup 
analyses by ethnicity, we detected an association between both OPA1 polymorphisms
and risk for NTG in Caucasians but not in Asians. By contrast, no significant
findings were noted between OPA1 variants for HTG, either in Caucasians or in
Asians.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the IVS8+4C>T and IVS8+32T>C variants may affect individual
susceptibility to NTG. Moreover, stratified analyses for NTG detecting the
effects of both OPA1 polymorphisms seemed to vary with ethnicity. Further
investigations are needed to validate the association.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0042387 
PMCID: PMC3411762
PMID: 22879959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Mol Vis. 2012;18:2067-75. Epub 2012 Aug 8.

Novel and known MYOC exon 3 mutations in an admixed Peruvian primary open-angle
glaucoma population.

Mendoza-Reinoso V(1), Patil TS, Guevara-Fujita ML, Fernández S, Vargas E,
Castillo-Herrera W, Perez-Grossmann R, Lizaraso-Caparó F, Richards JE, Fujita R.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Genética y Biología Molecular, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de 
San Martín de Porres, Lima, Perú.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to characterize a representative sample of the
Peruvian population suffering open-angle glaucoma (OAG) with respect to the
myocilin gene (MYOC) mutations, glaucoma phenotype, and ancestry for future
glaucoma risk assessment.
METHODS: DNA samples from 414 unrelated Peruvian subjects, including 205
open-angle glaucoma cases (10 juvenile glaucoma [JOAG], 19 normal-tension
glaucoma [NTG], and 176 POAG) and 209 randomly sampled controls, were screened
for nucleotide changes in MYOC exon 3 by conformational sensitive gel
electrophoresis (CSGE) and mutation screening.
RESULTS: We identified a probable causative novel MYOC missense mutation,
Gly326Ser, in one POAG case and found a consistent genotype-phenotype correlation
in eight of his relatives. We also found the known causative MYOC mutation
Trp286Arg in one JOAG case and one POAG case. A known causative single base MYOC 
deletion, T1357, was found in one POAG case. Two previously reported silent
polymorphisms, Thr325Thr and Tyr347Tyr, were found in both the case and the
control populations. A novel missense variant, Met476Arg, was identified in two
unrelated controls.
CONCLUSIONS: The screening of exon 3 of MYOC in a representative sample of 205
independent POAG patients from Peru and 209 matched controls identified novel and
previously reported mutations (both pathogenic and nonpathogenic) from other
global regions. These results reflect the complex admixture of Amerindian and Old
World ancestry in urban populations of Latin America, in general, and in Peru, in
particular. It will be important to gather information about the ancestral origin
of MYOC and other POAG gene mutations to develop screening panels and risk
assessment for POAG in Peru.


PMCID: PMC3413416
PMID: 22879734  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


496. J Med Food. 2012 Sep;15(9):818-23. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2012.2241. Epub 2012 Aug 7.

Ginkgo biloba extract and bilberry anthocyanins improve visual function in
patients with normal tension glaucoma.

Shim SH(1), Kim JM, Choi CY, Kim CY, Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) and anthocyanins are considered beneficial for
various vascular diseases. This study was performed to evaluate the effect of GBE
and anthocyanins on visual function in patients with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) based on the vascular theory of mechanisms of glaucomatous optic nerve
damage. Retrospective analysis was carried out by a chart review of 332 subjects 
(209 men and 123 women) who were treated with anthocyanins (n=132), GBE (n=103), 
or no medication (control, n=97). Humphrey Visual Field (HVF) test, logarithm of 
the minimal angle of resolution best-corrected visual acuity (logMAR BCVA),
intraocular pressure, blood pressure, and fasting blood glucose were determined
before and after treatment. Complete ocular and systemic examinations were
performed. The mean follow-up duration was 23.82±9.84 (range, 12-59) months; the 
mean anthocyanin treatment duration was 24.32±10.43 (range, 6-53) months, and the
mean GBE treatment duration was 23.81±10.36 months (range, 6-59) months. After
anthocyanin treatment, the mean BCVA for all eyes improved from 0.16 (±0.34) to
0.11 (±0.18) logMAR units (P=.008), and HVF mean deviation improved from -6.44
(±7.05) to -5.34 (±6.42) (P=.001). After GBE treatment, HVF mean deviation
improved from -5.25 (±6.13) to -4.31 (±5.60) (P=.002). A generalized linear model
demonstrated that the final BCVA was not affected by demographic differences
among the groups. These results suggest that anthocyanins and GBE may be helpful 
in improving visual function in some individuals with NTG.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2012.2241 
PMCID: PMC3429325
PMID: 22870951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Acta Ophthalmol. 2013 Sep;91(6):498-504. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02479.x.
Epub 2012 Aug 3.

Dual effect of prostaglandins on isolated intraocular porcine ciliary arteries.

Kringelholt S(1), Simonsen U, Bek T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus C, Denmark.
sidse@kringelholt.dk

PURPOSE: Prostaglandin analogues are used to reduce the intraocular pressure
(IOP) in glaucoma, but also affect the tone of the arteries supplying the ciliary
body. Previously, the effect of prostaglandins has been studied on the
extraocular ciliary arteries, whereas the effect on intraocular ciliary arteries 
has not been studied in detail.
METHODS: Intraocular long posterior porcine ciliary arteries were isolated and
mounted in a myograph system for isometric tension recording, and the effects of 
PGF2α , the prostaglandin analogue latanoprost, PGD2 , PGE2 , PGI2 and the
thromboxane analogue U46619 were studied in the presence and absence of selective
receptor antagonists.
RESULTS: The prostaglandins PGD2 and PGE2 induced relaxation at low
concentrations (10(-9) - 3 × 10(-7) m), which could be inhibited by blocking
either the DP or the EP4 receptor, whereas PGD2 , PGE2 , PGF2α , latanoprost and 
U46619 induced contraction at high concentrations (10(-6) - 10(-5) m), which
could be inhibited by blocking the TP receptor. Additionally, blocking of the FP 
receptor induced a right-shift of latanoprost-induced contraction.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostaglandins with affinity to DP1 and EP4 receptors induce
relaxation at low concentrations, and prostaglandins with affinity to TP and FP
receptors induce contraction at high concentrations of intraocular porcine
ciliary vessels in vitro. The findings may contribute to understanding the
regulation of blood flow to the ciliary body.

© 2012 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2012 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02479.x 
PMID: 22863185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Med Sci Monit. 2012 Aug;18(8):RA138-144.

Ocular ischemic syndrome - a systematic review.

Terelak-Borys B(1), Skonieczna K, Grabska-Liberek I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical Center of Postgraduate Education, Warsaw,
Poland.

Ocular ischemic syndrome is a rare condition, which is caused by ocular
hypoperfusion due to stenosis or occlusion of the common or internal carotid
arteries. Atherosclerosis is the major cause of changes in the carotid arteries. 
Ocular ischemic syndrome is manifested as visual loss, orbital pain and,
frequently, changes of the visual field, and various anterior and posterior
segment signs. Anterior segment signs include iris neovascularization and
secondary neovascular glaucoma, iridocyclitis, asymmetric cataract, iris atrophy 
and sluggish reaction to light. Posterior eye segment changes are the most
characteristic, such as narrowed retinal arteries, perifoveal telangiectasias,
dilated retinal veins, mid-peripheral retinal hemorrhages, microaneurysms,
neovascularization at the optic disk and in the retina, a cherry-red spot,
cotton-wool spots, vitreous hemorrhage and normal-tension glaucoma. Differential 
diagnosis of ocular ischemic syndrome includes diabetic retinopathy and moderate 
central retinal vein occlusion. Carotid artery imaging and fundus fluorescein
angiography help to establish the diagnosis of ocular ischemic syndrome. The
treatment can be local, for example, ocular (conservative, laser and surgical) or
systemic (conservative and surgical treatment of the carotid artery). Since the
condition does not affect the eyes alone, patients with ocular ischemic syndrome 
should be referred for consultation to the neurologist, vascular surgeon and
cardiologist.


PMCID: PMC3560693
PMID: 22847215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


499. BMC Ophthalmol. 2012 Jul 28;12:29. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-12-29.

Evaluation of peripapillary choroidal thickness in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma.

Hirooka K(1), Tenkumo K, Fujiwara A, Baba T, Sato S, Shiraga F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, 1750-1
Ikenobe, Miki, Kagawa 761-0793, Japan. kazuyk@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: To compare peripapillary choroidal thickness measurements between
normal and normal-tension glaucoma eyes.
METHODS: Cross-sectional comparative study. 50 normal and 52 normal-tension
glaucoma subjects were enrolled in the study. Peripapillary choroidal thickness
was measured with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography and enhanced depth
imaging. After obtaining circular B-scans around the disc, choroidal thicknesses 
were calculated based on the exported segmentation values. Visual fields were
measured using automated perimetry. Difference in peripapillary choroidal
thickness between the normal subjects and the patients with normal-tension
glaucoma was analyzed.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in age, axial length, or
refraction between the two groups. Peripapillary choroidal thickness was
inversely correlated with age in both the normal (r = -0.287, P = 0.04) and
normal and normal-tension glaucoma (r = -0.322, P = 0.02) groups. Peripapillary
choroidal thickness of inferonasal (125 vs 148 μm, P < 0.05), inferior (101 vs
122 μm, P < 0.05), or inferotemporal (100 vs 127 μm, P < 0.05) regions were
significantly thinner in the normal-tension glaucoma group as compared to normal 
subjects. Superior visual hemifield defect was significantly worse than inferior 
visual hemifield defect in normal and normal-tension glaucoma patients.
CONCLUSION: As compared to normal subjects, peripapillary choroidal thickness was
significantly thinner in the normal and normal-tension glaucoma patients, at
least in some locations.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-12-29 
PMCID: PMC3479055
PMID: 22839368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Aug 17;53(9):5609-14. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-9783.

The association between retinal vessel diameter and retinal nerve fiber layer
thickness in asymmetric normal tension glaucoma patients.

Kim JM(1), Sae Kim M, Ju Jang H, Ho Park K, Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the associations between retinal
vessel diameter and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness in patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This study included 67 untreated patients with asymmetric NTG, with no
evidence of glaucoma in the contralateral eyes, and 48 age- and sex-matched
normal control subjects. We included patients from 20 to 70 years of age who had 
no history of hypertension, diabetes, or other vascular diseases. All subjects
underwent detailed eye examinations that included red-free photography,
stereoscopic optic disc photography, automated perimetry, and measurement of RNFL
thickness with optical coherence tomography. We compared RNFL thicknesses,
temporal retinal arteriolar diameters (TRAD), and temporal retinal venular
diameters (between quadrants with and without RNFL defects) with
computer-assisted imaging software.
RESULTS: The mean diameter of the temporal retinal vessels in the quadrants with 
RNFL defects were significantly smaller in patients with NTG than in those with
quadrants without RNFL defects (P < 0.001) and in control subjects (P < 0.001).
TRADs were correlated with RNFL defects and RNFL thicknesses (P < 0.05) in binary
logistic regression analysis and in multiple linear regression analysis (P <
0.001). There were no statistically significant differences between vessel
diameters in control subjects and those in nondefective quadrants of the affected
NTG eyes or the unaffected eyes of patients with NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that narrower retinal vessels are found in areas of
RNFL defects. Considering previous reports and our analysis, this is likely due
to the decreased demand for retinal blood flow in damaged areas of the retina.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-9783 
PMID: 22836774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Am J Ophthalmol. 2012 Oct;154(4):702-11. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.04.015. Epub
2012 Jul 25.

Risk factors for visual field progression in the low-pressure glaucoma treatment 
study.

De Moraes CG(1), Liebmann JM, Greenfield DS, Gardiner SK, Ritch R, Krupin T;
Low-pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study Group.

Collaborators: Krupin T, Rosenberg LF, Ruderman JM, Yang JW, Tello C, Liebmann
JM, Ritch R, Myers JS, Katz LJ, Spaeth GL, Wilson RP, Moster MR, Cantor LB, Gross
RL, Dirks MS, Grimes SR, Greenfield DS, Bagga H, Sherwood MB, Feitl ME, Henry JC,
Gieser DK, Piltz-Seymour JR.

Author information: 
(1)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York,
USA. demoraesmd@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To investigate risk factors associated with visual field progression in 
the Low-pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study, a prospective trial designed to
compare the effects of the alpha2-adrenergic agonist brimonidine tartrate 0.2% to
the beta-adrenergic antagonist timolol maleate 0.5% on visual function in
low-pressure glaucoma.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
METHODS: Low-pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study patients with ≥5 visual field
tests during follow-up were included. Progression was determined using pointwise 
linear regression analysis, defined as the same 3 or more visual field locations 
with a slope more negative than -1.0 dB/year at P < 5%, on 3 consecutive tests.
Ocular and systemic risk factors were analyzed using Cox proportional hazards
model and further tested for independence in a multivariate model.
RESULTS: A total of 253 eyes of 127 subjects (mean age, 64.7 ± 10.9 years; mean
follow-up, 40.6 ± 12 months) were analyzed. Eyes randomized to timolol progressed
faster than those randomized to brimonidine (mean rates of progression, -0.38 ±
0.9 vs 0.02 ± 0.7 dB/y, P < .01). In the final multivariate model adjusting for
all tested covariates, older age (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.41/decade older, 95%
confidence interval [CI] = 1.05 to 1.90, P = .022), use of systemic
antihypertensives (HR = 2.53, 95% CI = 1.32 to 4.87, P = .005), and mean ocular
perfusion pressure (HR = 1.21/mm Hg lower, 95% CI = 1.12 to 1.31, P < .001) were 
associated with progression whereas randomization to brimonidine revealed a
protective effect (HR = 0.26, 95% CI = 0.12 to 0.55, P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: While randomization to brimonidine 0.2% was protective compared to
timolol 0.5%, lower mean ocular perfusion pressure increased the risk for
reaching a progression outcome in the Low-pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study. This
suggests that the beneficial effect of randomization to the brimonidine arm was
independent of possible differences in ocular perfusion pressures between the 2
treatment arms. The current results and large number of drop-outs in the
brimonidine 0.2% arm suggest that more research is necessary before altering
clinical practice paradigms.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.04.015 
PMID: 22835512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Vestn Oftalmol. 2012 Mar-Apr;128(2):51-2.

[What is essential to know to confirm or exclude diagnosis of normal tension
glaucoma?].

[Article in Russian]

Bolkov VV.


PMID: 22834240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Am J Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov;154(5):825-832.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.03.050. Epub
2012 Jul 24.

Association of Toll-like receptor 4 gene polymorphisms in Japanese subjects with 
primary open-angle, normal-tension, and exfoliation glaucoma.

Takano Y(1), Shi D, Shimizu A, Funayama T, Mashima Y, Yasuda N, Fukuchi T, Abe H,
Ideta H, Zheng X, Shiraishi A, Ohashi Y, Nishida K, Nakazawa T, Fuse N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Miyagi, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine whether polymorphisms in the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)
gene are associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG), and exfoliation glaucoma (XFG) in Japanese individuals.
DESIGN: Genetic association study.
METHODS:
SETTING: Multicenter study.
STUDY POPULATION: One hundred eighty-four unrelated Japanese patients with POAG, 
365 unrelated patients with NTG, and 109 unrelated patients with XFG from 5
hospitals.
PROCEDURES: Genomic DNA was extracted from leukocytes of the peripheral blood,
and 8 polymorphisms in the TLR4 genes were amplified by polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) and directly sequenced. Allele and genotype frequencies and the inferred
haplotypes were estimated.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Differences in allele and genotype frequencies and
haplotypes between subjects with POAG, NTG, and XFG.
RESULTS: The allele frequency of rs2149356 of the TLR4 gene in the POAG, NTG, and
XFG groups was the most significantly different from that of the control group
(minor allele frequency 0.446, 0.395, 0.404, vs 0.308; P = .000058, P = .0030,
and P = .015). The allele frequencies of the 5 TLR4 SNPs were higher in all of
the glaucoma groups than that in the control group. The statistics of genotypes
of TLR4 were approximately the same for all allele frequencies. The haplotypic
frequencies with Tag SNPs studied earlier showed that only POAG was statistically
significant. Other haplotypes, such as rs10759930, rs1927914, rs1927911, and
rs2149356, had higher statistical significance (overall P = .00078 in POAG,
overall P = .018 in NTG, and overall P = .014 in XFG).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that TLR4 polymorphisms are associated with 
NTG in the Japanese, and they also play a role in the pathogenesis of POAG and
XFG.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.03.050 
PMID: 22831837  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


504. J Glaucoma. 2014 Feb;23(2):81-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318265bbdc.

Assessment of the vision-specific quality of life using clustered visual field in
glaucoma patients.

Sawada H(1), Yoshino T, Fukuchi T, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University Medical and Dental Hospital,
Niigata, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the significance of vision-specific quality of life (QOL)
in glaucoma patients based on the location of visual field defects.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We examined 336 eyes of 168 patients. The 25-item National 
Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire was used to evaluate patients' QOL.
Visual field testing was performed using the Humphrey Field Analyzer; the visual 
field was divided into 10 clusters. We defined the eye with better mean deviation
as the better eye and the fellow eye as the worse eye. A single linear regression
analysis was applied to assess the significance of the relationship between QOL
and the clustered visual field.
RESULTS: The strongest correlation was observed in the lower paracentral visual
field in the better eye. The lower peripheral visual field in the better eye also
showed a good correlation. Correlation coefficients in the better eye were
generally higher than those in the worse eye. For driving, the upper temporal
visual field in the better eye was the most strongly correlated (r=0.509). For
role limitation and peripheral vision, the lower peripheral visual field in the
better eye had the highest correlation coefficients at 0.459 and 0.425,
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, clusters in the lower hemifield in the better eye were more
strongly correlated with QOL than those in the worse eye. In particular, the
lower paracentral visual field in the better eye was correlated most strongly of 
all. Driving, however, strongly correlated with the upper hemifield in the better
eye.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318265bbdc 
PMID: 22828009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Arch Ophthalmol. 2012 Jun;130(6):789-92. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.2517.

Effect of peripapillary vitreous opacity on retinal nerve fiber layer thickness
measurement using optical coherence tomography.

Hwang YH(1), Kim YY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Armed Forces Capital Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.2517 
PMID: 22801844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


506. PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e40107. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0040107. Epub 2012 Jul 5.

Common variants on chromosome 9p21 are associated with normal tension glaucoma.

Takamoto M(1), Kaburaki T, Mabuchi A, Araie M, Amano S, Aihara M, Tomidokoro A,
Iwase A, Mabuchi F, Kashiwagi K, Shirato S, Yasuda N, Kawashima H, Nakajima F,
Numaga J, Kawamura Y, Sasaki T, Tokunaga K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. mwatanabe-tky@umin.ac.jp

Although intraocular pressure (IOP) is the most definitive cause of glaucoma, a
subtype of open angle glaucoma (OAG) termed normal tension glaucoma (NTG), which 
occurs in spite of normal IOP, accounts for a large part of glaucoma cases,
especially in Japan. To find common genetic variants contributing to NTG in
Japanese patients, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS). We
performed the first screening for 531,009 autosomal SNPs with a discovery cohort 
of 286 cases and 557 controls, and then a second screening for the top 30
suggestive loci in an independent cohort of 183 cases and 514 controls. Our
findings identified a significantly associated SNP; rs523096 [combined
p-value = 7.40× 10(-8), odds ratio (OR)= 2.00 with 95% confidence interval (CI)
1.55-2.58] located 10 kbp upstream of CDKN2B on chromosome 9p21. Moreover,
analysis of another independent case-control set successfully replicated the
results of the screening studies (combined values of all 3 stages
p = 4.96 × 10(-11), OR= 2.13 with 95% CI 1.69-2.68). The SNPs near rs523096 were 
recently reported to be associated with OAG associated with elevated IOP in
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), the predominant subtype of glaucoma in
Caucasian populations. Our results revealed that the 9p21 locus is also
associated with NTG in Japanese. In addition, we identified SNPs more strongly
associated with NTG.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0040107 
PMCID: PMC3390321
PMID: 22792221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Acta Ophthalmol. 2013 Sep;91(6):514-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02472.x.
Epub 2012 Jul 9.

Lack of spontaneous venous pulsation: possible risk indicator in normal tension
glaucoma?

Abegão Pinto L(1), Vandewalle E, De Clerck E, Marques-Neves C, Stalmans I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centro Hospitalar de Lisboa Central, Portugal.

PURPOSE: Recently, the absence of spontaneous venous pulsation (SVP) has been
suggested as a vascular risk factor for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). As
the mechanism behind this phenomenon is still unknown, the authors have studied
this vascular component using colour Doppler imaging (CDI).
METHODS: A total of 236 patients were divided into three diagnostic groups:
healthy controls (81), POAG (86) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG; 69). All
subjects were submitted to CDI studies of the retrobulbar circulation,
intraocular pressure measurements and assessment of SVP existence. Mann-Whitney, 
chi-square contingency tables and Spearman correlations were used to explore
differences and correlations between variables in the diagnostic groups.
RESULTS: Eighty-two percent of healthy controls had SVP (66/81), while a smaller 
numbers were registered in both glaucoma groups: POAG - 50% (43/86); NTG - 51%
(35/69). In NTG patients, but not in POAG patients, the prevalence of the SVP
phenomenon decreases with increased glaucoma damage (p = 0.04; p = 0.55,
respectively). Overall glaucoma patients from both groups had lower central
retinal vein (CRV) velocities than the healthy controls (p < 0.05). NTG patients 
with SVP had less severe visual field defects (mean defect -6.92 versus -11.1, p 
< 0.05), higher [correction added after online publication 21 September 2012; the
word 'higher' has been inserted to replace the word 'lower'] peak systolic and
mean flow velocities in the central retinal artery (p < 0.01; p < 0.05,
respectively) as well as higher [correction added after online publication 21
September 2012; the word higher has been inserted to replace the word lower]
maximal velocities and RI of the CRV (p < 0.02; p < 0.05, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma patients have a decrease in CRV velocities. SVP is less
prevalent in glaucoma patients than in healthy individuals. This phenomenon
apparently reflects different hemodynamic patterns in the central retinal
vessels. This variable may be of particular importance in NTG patients, where it 
may be associated with more advanced functional damage.

© 2012 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2012 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02472.x 
PMID: 22776135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Biomech Eng. 2012 Jun;134(6):061002. doi: 10.1115/1.4006847.

Constitutive behavior of ocular tissues over a range of strain rates.

Kim W(1), Argento A, Rozsa FW, Mallett K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Michigan-Dearborn,
Dearborn, MI 48128, USA.

The constitutive behavior of bovine scleral and corneal tissues is measured in
tension and compression, at quasi-static and moderate strain rates. Experiments
are conducted at strain rates up to about 50 strain per second by a pneumatic
testing system developed to overcome noise and measurement difficulties
associated with the time dependent test of low impedance materials. Results for
the tissues at room and the natural bovine body temperatures are similar and
indicate that ocular tissue exhibits nonlinear stiffening for increasing strain
rates, a phenomena termed rate hardening. For example, at a tensile strain rate
of 29/s, corneal tissue is found to develop 10 times the stress that it does
quasi-statically at the same strain. Thus, conventional constitutive models will 
grossly underpredict stresses occurring in the corneo-scleral shell due to
moderate dynamic events. This has implication to the accuracy of ocular injury
models, the study of the stress field in the corneo-scleral shell for glaucoma
research and tonometry measurements. The measured data at various strain rates is
represented using the general framework of a constitutive model that has been
used to represent biological tissue mechanical data. Here it is extended to
represent the measured data of the ocular tissues over the range of tested strain
rates. Its form allows for straightforward incorporation in various numerical
codes. The experimental and analytical methods developed here are felt to be
applicable to the test of human ocular tissue.

DOI: 10.1115/1.4006847 
PMID: 22757499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Mol Vis. 2012;18:1526-39. Epub 2012 Jun 13.

Common TGFβ2, BMP4, and FOXC1 variants are not associated with primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Park S(1), Jamshidi Y, Vaideanu D, Fraser S, Sowden JC.

Author information: 
(1)Tennent Institute of Ophthalmology, Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow, UK.

PURPOSE: Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a common but complex disease with 
a strong genetic component. Notably, few genes have been robustly associated with
POAG. An obvious group of genes to test as susceptibility factors for POAG are
the developmental genes forkhead box C1 (FOXC1), transforming growth factor-beta 
2 (TGFβ2), and bone morphogenic protein 4 (BMP4). These genes are known to play
important roles in the normal morphogenesis of the anterior segment and/or have
been implicated in intra-ocular pressure (IOP) regulation and trabecular meshwork
function. This study investigates the role of FOXC1, TGFβ2, and BMP4 in POAG.
METHODS: The contribution of common genetic variation at the FOXC1, TGFβ2, and
BMP4 loci to risk of POAG was investigated in a case-control association study in
330 British Caucasian individuals comprised of 272 high-tension glaucoma (HTG)
and 58 ocular hypertension (OHT), and 276 matched controls.
RESULTS: All the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were in Hardy-Weinberg
equilibrium and genotyping success rate was >92% for all SNPs. With the exception
of a weak association between the BMP4 tagging SNP rs2761884 and the combined
patient group HTG+OHT that did not withstand permutation testing (uncorrected
p=0.0400, corrected p=0.1320), no associations (p<0.05) were identified between
the patient groups (HTG and OHT) and FOXC1, TGFβ2, and BMP4 alleles and
haplotypes compared to the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first association analysis of FOXC1, TGFβ2, and BMP4 and
POAG. These genes were selected as candidate genes for POAG because of their
biologic roles. No significant associations were identified between FOXC1, TGFβ2,
and BMP4 alleles and haplotypes and POAG. The lack of association suggests that
common variation in these genes do not have a significant role in the
pathogenesis of POAG among British Caucasian subjects.


PMCID: PMC3380945
PMID: 22736943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Curr Eye Res. 2012 Nov;37(11):1019-24. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2012.700755. Epub
2012 Jun 25.

Spectral analysis of intraocular pressure pulse wave in open angle glaucomas and 
healthy eyes.

Božić M(1), Dukić ML, Stojković M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Belgrade, Faculty of Medicine, Clinic of Ophthalmology, CCS,
Serbia. ammilovic@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To investigate the spectral content of intraocular pressure (IOP) pulse 
wave by advanced spectral signal processing of continuous IOP readings obtained
by dynamic contour tonometry.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A non-interventional case-control study included 20 healthy
subjects, 20 previously untreated primary open angle glaucoma patients, and 20
previously untreated normal tension glaucoma patients. The continuous IOP reading
obtained by dynamic contour tonometry was submitted to Fast Fourier Transform
signal analysis and further statistical data processing.
RESULTS: The spectral components of the IOP pulse wave were discerned up to the
fifth harmonic. Highly statistically significant difference was found between the
control group and the primary open angle group, and between the primary open
angle glaucoma group and the normal tension glaucoma group in the first, second
and the third harmonic amplitude (p < 0.01). Glaucoma patients had significantly 
higher ocular pulse volume values.
CONCLUSIONS: It is possible to determine spectral components of the IOP pulse
wave up to the fifth harmonic by a spectral analysis of dynamic contour tonometry
continuous readings. We found that high Ocular Pulse Amplitude values in primary 
open angle glaucoma group was associated with high harmonics amplitude, which
indicates low rigidity of blood vessels.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2012.700755 
PMID: 22730930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Jul 20;53(8):4842-51. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-9999.

Progressive retinal degeneration in transgenic mice with overexpression of
endothelin-1 in vascular endothelial cells.

Mi XS(1), Zhang X, Feng Q, Lo AC, Chung SK, So KF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and the State Key Laboratory of Brain and Cognitive
Science, Hong Kong, China.

PURPOSE: Endothelin-1 (ET-1), synthesized in vascular endothelial cells, is a
potent vasoconstrictor. ET-1-related vascular abnormality has been known to be
important in the pathogenesis of glaucoma, especially in normal tension glaucoma.
However, the long-term effect of increased vascular ET-1 on the retinal tissue is
still unclear.
METHODS: The mice with overexpression of ET-1 in vascular endothelial cells
(TET-1 mice) were examined with the profile of intraocular pressure (IOP),
retinal layer thickness, numbers of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), and axonal
changes associated with blood vessel changes.
RESULTS: The TET-1 mice exhibited a significant progressive loss of RGCs and
decrease of retinal thickness in the inner nuclear layer (INL) and outer nuclear 
layer (ONL) as early as around 10-12 months. At 24 months, the retinal
degeneration became more severe, with around 30% RGC loss associated with
thinning of the retinal nerve fiber layer and there was an increase in neuronal
loss and thinning of the INL and ONL. In the 24-month-old TET-1 mice, IgG leakage
in the blood vessels and decrease in the occludin protein were observed. There
was increased glial fibrillary acidic protein expression in the Müller cells. In 
addition, the astrocytic end-feet on blood vessels were enlarged. The IOP level
was normal in all ages (1-24 months) of TET-1 mice.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggested that TET-1 mice may be a useful model to
address endothelial ET-1-related mechanisms in vascular-associated retinal
degenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-9999 
PMID: 22729434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Jul 20;53(8):4813-20. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-9908.

Characteristics of optic disc morphology in glaucoma patients with parafoveal
scotoma compared to peripheral scotoma.

Jung KI(1), Park HY, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: We investigated the amount and location of optic nerve head (ONH)
abnormal points and the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness with
paracentral scotoma compared to peripheral scotoma.
METHODS: Totals of 35 normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with isolated
parafoveal scotoma (PFS) within a 10° radius in one hemifield, and 35 patients
with isolated peripheral nasal step (PNS) within the nasal periphery outside 10° 
of fixation in one hemifield were enrolled if their mean deviation was greater
than -10 decibels (dB). Global and sector optic disc stereometric parameters
obtained by Heidelberg retina tomography and analyzed by Moorfields regression
analysis (MRA), and retinal RNFL thickness measured using Cirrus spectral
domain-optical coherence tomography were compared between the two groups. The
percentages of superior and inferior field defects were evaluated.
RESULTS: In PFS, superior field defects (82.9%) were found to be dominant,
whereas PNS showed a predominance of inferior field defects (80.0%). The PFS
group revealed smaller rim area, more glaucomatous cup shape than the PNS group
(P = 0.036, 0.012, respectively). In MRA classification, the percentage outside
of normal limits (ONL) was greater in the PFS group (P = 0.006). Compared to the 
PNS group, the PFS group exhibited more glaucomatous ONH morphology in the
temporal and inferotemporal sectors in a sector analysis of optic disc
parameters, and had thinner RNFLs in the inferior quadrant, and at 7 and 8
o'clock (P = 0.007, 0.003, 0.005, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: In early NTG, paracentral scotoma may be more significant than
peripheral scotoma because of narrower optic disc rim and larger cup, especially 
inferotemporally.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-9908 
PMID: 22714895  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Am J Ophthalmol. 2012 Sep;154(3):466-475.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.03.028. Epub
2012 Jun 15.

Visual field characteristics in normal-tension glaucoma patients with autonomic
dysfunction and abnormal peripheral microcirculation.

Park HY(1), Jung KI, Na KS, Park SH, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To elucidate the visual field (VF) characteristics of normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients with either autonomic dysfunction or abnormal peripheral 
microcirculation.
DESIGN: Prospective, observational study.
METHODS: participants: Sixty NTG patients. procedures: All subjects underwent a
complete ophthalmic examination and were then referred to a rheumatology
department, where they were subjected to heart rate variability (HRV) assessment 
and nailfold capillaroscopy. Subjects with VF defect clusters confined to the
central 10 degrees or outside the central 10 degrees (defined as peripheral) in 1
hemifield were selected (n = 60). The central and peripheral regions were divided
further into superior and inferior sectors. Patients were classified into low,
middle, and high HRV groups using HRV assessment or normal and abnormal
capillaroscopy groups using nailfold capillaroscopy findings. The VF
characteristics of the groups were compared. main outcome measures: Location of
the VF defect, depth of the VF defect, mean deviation, and the pattern standard
deviation of the VF.
RESULTS: The VF defect was more frequent and deepest in the superior central
sector in both the low HRV and abnormal capillaroscopy groups. The mean deviation
was similar between groups, but the pattern standard deviation was significantly 
higher in eyes with central defects than in eyes with peripheral defects among
those in the low HRV group or abnormal capillaroscopy group. Logistic regression 
analysis revealed that the group classified by the HRV assessment and the
presence of abnormalities in the capillaroscopy were related to the location of
the VF defect.
CONCLUSIONS: NTG patients with low heart rate variability or abnormal nail
capillaroscopy may present as central VF defects. Therefore, vascular risk
factors need to be considered when NTG patients have central VF defects.

Crown Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.03.028 
PMID: 22704139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Eye (Lond). 2012 Aug;26(8):1122-30. doi: 10.1038/eye.2012.113. Epub 2012 Jun 8.

Effects of caffeinated coffee consumption on intraocular pressure, ocular
perfusion pressure, and ocular pulse amplitude: a randomized controlled trial.

Jiwani AZ(1), Rhee DJ, Brauner SC, Gardiner MF, Chen TC, Shen LQ, Chen SH,
Grosskreutz CL, Chang KK, Kloek CE, Greenstein SH, Borboli-Gerogiannis S,
Pasquale DL, Chaudhry S, Loomis S, Wiggs JL, Pasquale LR, Turalba AV.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, MA 02114,
USA.

PURPOSE: To examine the effects of caffeinated coffee consumption on intraocular 
pressure (IOP), ocular perfusion pressure (OPP), and ocular pulse amplitude (OPA)
in those with or at risk for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: We conducted a prospective, double-masked, crossover, randomized
controlled trial with 106 subjects: 22 with high tension POAG, 18 with normal
tension POAG, 20 with ocular hypertension, 21 POAG suspects, and 25 healthy
participants. Subjects ingested either 237 ml of caffeinated (182 mg caffeine) or
decaffeinated (4 mg caffeine) coffee for the first visit and the alternate
beverage for the second visit. Blood pressure (BP) and pascal dynamic contour
tonometer measurements of IOP, OPA, and heart rate were measured before and at 60
and 90 min after coffee ingestion per visit. OPP was calculated from BP and IOP
measurements. Results were analysed using paired t-tests. Multivariable models
assessed determinants of IOP, OPP, and OPA changes.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in baseline IOP, OPP, and OPA
between the caffeinated and decaffeinated visits. After caffeinated as compared
with decaffeinated coffee ingestion, mean mm Hg changes (± SD) in IOP, OPP, and
OPA were as follows: 0.99 (± 1.52, P<0.0001), 1.57 (± 6.40, P=0.0129), and 0.23
(± 0.52, P<0.0001) at 60 min, respectively; and 1.06 (± 1.67, P<0.0001), 1.26 (± 
6.23, P=0.0398), and 0.18 (± 0.52, P=0.0006) at 90 min, respectively. Regression 
analyses revealed sporadic and inconsistent associations with IOP, OPP, and OPA
changes.
CONCLUSION: Consuming one cup of caffeinated coffee (182 mg caffeine)
statistically increases, but likely does not clinically impact, IOP and OPP in
those with or at risk for POAG.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2012.113 
PMCID: PMC3420046
PMID: 22678051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Isr Med Assoc J. 2012 Apr;14(4):240-3.

Diastolic double-product: a new entity to consider in normal-tension glaucoma
patients.

Nesher R(1), Kohen R, Shulman S, Siesky B, Nahum Y, Harris A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Meir Medical Center, Kfar Saba, Israel.
nesher@inter.net.il

BACKGROUND: Vascular insufficiency is considered to play an important role in the
pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Autoregulation of blood flow in
the eye has been shown to be impaired in NTG, resulting in the inability to
compensate for changes in intraocular pressure or blood pressure in order to
maintain adequate perfusion.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the occurrence of combined bradycardia-hypotension during
24 hour monitoring of blood pressure and heart rate in patients with NTG.
METHODS: Eleven NTG patients participated in the study. All had episodic symptoms
of dizziness or lightheadedness, but were confirmed as not having a diagnosis of 
orthostatic hypotension. Twenty-four hour monitoring was performed with systemic 
blood pressure and heart rate automatically measured every 20 minutes during
daytime and every hour during the night. The cardiac diastolic and systolic
double products (dDP and sDP) at each reading were calculated by multiplying the 
heart rate by the respective blood pressure. dDP < 3600 and sDP < 5400
(corresponding to a heart rate of 60 beats/min and a blood pressure of 60 and 90 
mmHg, respectively) were considered abnormally low, and dDP < 2500 and sDP < 4000
(corresponding to a heart rate 50 beats/min and a blood pressure of 50 and 80
mmHg, respectively) were considered severely abnormal.
RESULTS: dDP was abnormally low in all 11 NTG patients on at least one occasion, 
the majority occurring during the nighttime hours, while abnormally low sDP was
present in 8 of the 11 patients. The mean cumulative duration of low dDP readings
was 4.2 +/- 3.2 hours. Severely low dDP readings were observed in six patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Abnormally low dDP was recorded in all NTG patients, lasting more
than an hour in the majority of cases. Abnormally decreased dDP may represent a
state of cardiovascular autonomic dysregulation, resulting in low ocular
perfusion in certain NTG patients.


PMID: 22675842  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


516. J Biol Chem. 2012 Jul 20;287(30):25395-406. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M112.370130. Epub
2012 Jun 6.

A potential neuroprotective role of apolipoprotein E-containing lipoproteins
through low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 in normal tension
glaucoma.

Hayashi H(1), Eguchi Y, Fukuchi-Nakaishi Y, Takeya M, Nakagata N, Tanaka K, Vance
JE, Tanihara H.

Author information: 
(1)Priority Organization for Innovation and Excellence, Kumamoto University,
Kumamoto 860-8556, Japan.

Glaucoma is an optic neuropathy and the second major cause of blindness worldwide
next to cataracts. The protection from retinal ganglion cell (RGC) loss, one of
the main characteristics of glaucoma, would be a straightforward treatment for
this disorder. However, the clinical application of neuroprotection has not, so
far, been successful. Here, we report that apolipoprotein E-containing
lipoproteins (E-LPs) protect primary cultured RGCs from Ca(2+)-dependent, and
mitochondrion-mediated, apoptosis induced by glutamate. Binding of E-LPs to the
low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 recruited the
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor, blocked intracellular Ca(2+) elevation, and
inactivated glycogen synthase kinase 3β, thereby inhibiting apoptosis. When
compared with contralateral eyes treated with phosphate-buffered saline,
intravitreal administration of E-LPs protected against RGC loss in glutamate
aspartate transporter-deficient mice, a model of normal tension glaucoma that
causes glaucomatous optic neuropathy without elevation of intraocular pressure.
Although the presence of α2-macroglobulin, another ligand of the low density
lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1, interfered with the neuroprotective
effect of E-LPs against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, the addition of E-LPs
overcame the inhibitory effect of α2-macroglobulin. These findings may provide a 
potential therapeutic strategy for normal tension glaucoma by an LRP1-mediated
pathway.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M112.370130 
PMCID: PMC3408193
PMID: 22674573  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Jun 26;53(7):4111-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-7536.

In vivo imaging of lamina cribrosa pores by adaptive optics scanning laser
ophthalmoscopy.

Akagi T(1), Hangai M, Takayama K, Nonaka A, Ooto S, Yoshimura N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Kyoto University Graduate
School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan. akagi@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To visualize and assess the surface-level pores of the lamina cribrosa
in patients with glaucoma by using a prototype adaptive optics scanning laser
ophthalmoscopy (AOSLO) system.
METHODS: The numbers of laminar pores were compared between color disc
photography, scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (SLO) without AO, and AOSLO. The pore 
area and elongation index were examined for correlation with ocular parameters
such as the mean deviation, disc area, cup/disc ratio, disc ovality index,
intraocular pressure (IOP), and axial length in the AOSLO images.
RESULTS: The 40 eyes (20 normal and 20 glaucomatous) of 40 subjects were
enrolled. The AOSLO provided laminar pore images of better quality than other
imaging methods, and the number of visible pores was significantly greater in the
AOSLO images than in the other imaging methods (the color disc photographs [P <
0.001] and SLO without AO images [P < 0.001]) when compared for 26 subjects. When
compared for 40 subjects using AOSLO, the pore area was significantly larger in
glaucomatous subjects than in normal subjects (P = 0.031), but elongation index
was not. The pore area correlated significantly with the axial length (P = 0.008)
in normal subjects, with the untreated IOPs (P = 0.002) in the glaucomatous
subjects, and with the axial length (P = 0.001) and cup/disc ratio (P = 0.012) in
the total subjects. Via multiple regression analysis, significant correlations
with pore area were found for axial length in the normal (β = 0.684, P = 0.001)
and total subjects (β = 0.496, P < 0.001) and untreated IOP in the glaucomatous
(β = 0.506, P = 0.023) and total subjects (β = 0.331, P = 0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: AOSLO is a useful imaging technology for assessing laminar pore
morphology. The laminar pore area may be affected by axial length and IOP.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-7536 
PMID: 22669726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


518. J Glaucoma. 2014 Jan;23(1):46-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31825af772.

Measurement of subfoveal choroidal thickness in normal-tension glaucoma in Korean
patients.

Rhew JY(1), Kim YT, Choi KR.

Author information: 
(1)*Institute of Ophthalmology and Optometry †Department of Ophthalmology, Ewha
Womans University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate subfoveal choroidal thickness (CT) in eyes with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) in patients who were visualized by enhanced depth
imaging optical coherence tomography.
METHODS: In this observational, comparative case series, subfoveal CT was
measured with enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography in 35 eyes of
normal individuals and 32 eyes of patients with NTG. Subfoveal CT in each eye was
analyzed by measuring the vertical distance from Bruch membrane to the innermost 
sclera layer.
RESULTS: The mean subfoveal CT in the normal individual group and the NTG patient
group were 300.0±52.7 and 289.5±100.4 µm, respectively. There was no difference
in subfoveal CT in the 2 groups (P=0.60). The mean subfoveal CT in all subjects
was significantly correlated negatively with age only (P=0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: The subfoveal CT does not differ between the eyes of the normal
individual group and the eyes in the NTG patient group, suggesting that CT may
not play a role in the pathogenesis of NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31825af772 
PMID: 22668982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Jul 3;53(8):4468-74. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-9784.

Genome-wide analysis of central corneal thickness in primary open-angle glaucoma 
cases in the NEIGHBOR and GLAUGEN consortia.

Ulmer M(1), Li J, Yaspan BL, Ozel AB, Richards JE, Moroi SE, Hawthorne F, Budenz 
DL, Friedman DS, Gaasterland D, Haines J, Kang JH, Lee R, Lichter P, Liu Y,
Pasquale LR, Pericak-Vance M, Realini A, Schuman JS, Singh K, Vollrath D, Weinreb
R, Wollstein G, Zack DJ, Zhang K, Young T, Allingham RR, Wiggs JL, Ashley-Koch A,
Hauser MA.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Center for Human Genetics, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate the effects of central corneal thickness (CCT)-associated
variants on primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) risk using single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNP) data from the Glaucoma Genes and Environment (GLAUGEN) and
National Eye Institute (NEI) Glaucoma Human Genetics Collaboration (NEIGHBOR)
consortia.
METHODS: A replication analysis of previously reported CCT SNPs was performed in 
a CCT dataset (n = 1117) and these SNPs were then tested for association with
POAG using a larger POAG dataset (n = 6470). Then a CCT genome-wide association
study (GWAS) was performed. Top SNPs from this analysis were selected and tested 
for association with POAG. cDNA libraries from fetal and adult brain and ocular
tissue samples were generated and used for candidate gene expression analysis.
RESULTS: Association with one of 20 previously published CCT SNPs was replicated:
rs12447690, near the ZNF469 gene (P = 0.001; β = -5.08 μm/allele). None of these 
SNPs were significantly associated with POAG. In the CCT GWAS, no SNPs reached
genome-wide significance. After testing 50 candidate SNPs for association with
POAG, one SNP was identified, rs7481514 within the neurotrimin (NTM) gene, that
was significantly associated with POAG in a low-tension subset (P = 0.00099; Odds
Ratio [OR] = 1.28). Additionally, SNPs in the CNTNAP4 gene showed suggestive
association with POAG (top SNP = rs1428758; P = 0.018; OR = 0.84). NTM and
CNTNAP4 were shown to be expressed in ocular tissues.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest previously reported CCT loci are not
significantly associated with POAG susceptibility. By performing a quantitative
analysis of CCT and a subsequent analysis of POAG, SNPs in two cell adhesion
molecules, NTM and CNTNAP4, were identified and may increase POAG susceptibility 
in a subset of cases.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-9784 
PMCID: PMC3394688
PMID: 22661486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2012 Jul;56(4):324-9. doi: 10.1007/s10384-012-0153-4. Epub 2012
Jun 5.

Risk factors for primary open-angle glaucoma in South Korea: the Namil study.

Kim M(1), Kim TW, Park KH, Kim JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seoul
National University College of Medicine, 166 Gumi-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam,
Gyeonggi-do 463-707, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the risk factors for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)
in the Namil study population.
METHODS: A cross-sectional, population-based epidemiological study of residents
aged ≥40 years from Namil-myon, South Korea, was conducted. Fifty-five subjects
with POAG and 1,409 controls were enrolled in this study. Univariate and
multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to identify ocular and
systemic factors associated with POAG.
RESULTS: Multivariate logistic regression analysis demonstrated that older age, a
history of thyroid disease and higher IOP were associated with an increased risk 
of POAG. Subgroup analysis showed that older age (OR 1.033, 95 % CI 1.003-1.063
per year), a history of thyroid disease (OR 7.373, 95 % CI 1.407-38.636) and
higher IOP (OR 1.132, 95 % CI 1.011-1.268 per mmHg) were risk factors for normal 
tension glaucoma (NTG, POAG with IOP ≤21 mmHg).
CONCLUSIONS: In the Namil study, higher IOP, older age and a history of thyroid
disease were significant risk factors for POAG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-012-0153-4 
PMID: 22661397  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Oct;96(10):1348-9. Epub 2012 May 31.

Control issues.

Blieden LS, Chen JL, Knape RM, Panarelli JF, Parrish R, Goldberg J, Porciatti V.

Comment on
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Apr;96(4):544-8.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2012-301985 
PMCID: PMC4266108
PMID: 22653315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Zhongguo Zhen Jiu. 2012 May;32(5):444-7.

[ZHANG Ren's experience of treatment on glaucoma with acupuncture].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu H(1), Wang S, Guo MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai
University of TCM, Shanghai 200030, China. sunshine21xu@yahoo.com.cn

ZHANG Ren, a chief physician, his experience of treatment on glaucoma with
acupuncture of removing the stagnated live qi and activating blood circulation is
introduced in this article. The treatment is applicable on primary open-angle
glaucoma, and especially effective for normal tension glaucoma. His basic point
prescription is: Muchuang (GB 16), Taiyang (EX-NH 5), Fengchi (GB 20), Xingjian
(LR 2), Xinming1 (Extra), Shangjingming (Extra), Chengqi (ST 1), Shangtianzhu
(Extra), etc. Meanwhile, supplementary methods such as acupoint injection, ear
therapy and dermal needles are also adopted to improve the eye symptoms and
recover the vision in a certain degree. Details of the manipulations are
expounded and typical cases are illustrated in the article as well.


PMID: 22650135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Middle East Afr J Ophthalmol. 2012 Apr-Jun;19(2):231-6. doi:
10.4103/0974-9233.95259.

Ocular clinical profile of patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome in a tertiary
eye care center in South India.

Philip SS(1), John SS, Simha AR, Jasper S, Braganza AD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, India.

PURPOSE: To study the clinical profile of pseudoexfoliation (PEX) syndrome in a
hospital setting.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A case series of patients with PEX, with and without
glaucoma attending the general ophthalmology clinic of a tertiary care center in 
South India. All patients underwent a complete ophthalmologic evaluation
including recording diurnal variation of tension (DVT), gonioscopy and visual
field assessment.
RESULTS: The study cohort comprised 529 patients (752 eyes). There were 296 (56%)
females. The highest number of patients (261 patients) was from the age group
between 60 and 69 years. Of 752 eyes, 57.8% eyes had unilateral PEX and 72% had
established PEX. Gonioscopy showed open angles in 98.1% of eyes. Intraocular
pressure (IOP) greater than 21 mmHg in at least 1 of 4 measurements was recorded 
in 5.7% eyes. DVT was normal in 96.4% of unilateral PEX eyes, similar to fellow
non-PEX eyes. Pseudoexfoliation glaucoma occurred in 1.9% of eyes and 4.7% of
eyes were glaucoma suspects. There was no correlation between the stage of PEX
and increased IOP. Mean central corneal thickness of PEX eyes was 522 ± 27μ.
Pupillary dilatation in 90.5% eyes with early PEX was ≥ 7 mm.
CONCLUSIONS: A small percentage of PEX eyes had raised IOP, and the number of
eyes with glaucomatous optic neuropathy was even lower. PEX eyes did not
demonstrate wide fluctuations in IOP. No correlation was found between raised IOP
and stage of PEX. There was good pupillary dilatation in early stage PEX eyes
suggesting that all PEX eyes may not have poor pupillary dilatation and related
complications.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-9233.95259 
PMCID: PMC3353674
PMID: 22623865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Glaucoma. 2013 Dec;22(9):780-4. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182595075.

Effect of Ginkgo biloba extract on visual field progression in normal tension
glaucoma.

Lee J(1), Sohn SW, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul †Department of Ophthalmology, Gangneung Asan Hospital, 
Ulsan University College of Medicine, Gangneung, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term effect of Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) on
progression of visual field (VF) defects in patients with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG).
METHODS: Forty-two eyes of 42 patients with treated NTG who received 80 mg GBE 2 
times daily and who had at least 5 VF tests using the Humphrey Visual Field
Analyzer for more than a 4-year period before and after GBE treatment were
evaluated in this retrospective study. We evaluated the change of progression
rate using mean deviation (MD), pattern standard deviation (PSD), and visual
field index (VFI) after GBE treatment. The time course of mean total deviation in
10 zones corresponding to the glaucoma hemifield test was analyzed using a linear
mixed effects model with unequal random effect variances.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up period was 12.3 years. The posttherapeutic
intraocular pressures before and after GBE treatment were not significantly
different (P=0.509 paired t test). Before GBE treatment, the regression
coefficients (RCs) of MD, PSD, and VFI change were -0.619 dB/y, 0.626 dB/y, and
-2.153%/y, respectively. After GBE treatment, the RCs of MD, PSD, and VFI change 
improved significantly to -0.379 dB/y, 0.342 dB/y, and -1.212%/y (P <0.001),
respectively. In zone 1, the RC of mean total deviation change was significantly 
increased after GBE administration (P <0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: GBE administration slowed the progression of VF damage in patients
with NTG, especially in zone 1 corresponding to the superior central field.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182595075 
PMID: 22595937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Ophthalmology. 2012 Sep;119(9):1844-51. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.03.006. Epub
2012 May 15.

Optic disc torsion direction predicts the location of glaucomatous damage in
normal-tension glaucoma patients with myopia.

Park HY(1), Lee K, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize optic disc tilt and torsion in normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) patients with myopia and to evaluate the relationship between optic disc
tilt and torsion with the location of visual field (VF) defect.
DESIGN: Retrospective, case-control design.
PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred twenty-five NTG patients.
METHODS: Patients were divided into a myopic NTG group (spherical equivalent more
than -2.00 diopters [D] or axial length more than 24.0 mm; n = 166) and nonmyopic
NTG group (spherical equivalent less than -0.50 D or axial length less than 24.0 
mm; n = 59). Disc tilt, which was identified by the tilt ratio, disc torsion, and
area of peripapillary atrophy (PPA), was measured from disc photographs. Patients
were divided further into superior and inferior defect groups according to the
location of the VF defect in the pattern deviation map. Logistic regression
analysis was used to determine the relationship between ocular factors, including
tilt ratio, torsion degree, and the VF defect location.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Tilt ratio, torsion degree, PPA area, and location of VF
defect.
RESULTS: Among 225 NTG eyes, 166 (73.8%) were myopic eyes. The myopic NTG group
was significantly younger (42.85 years) than the nonmyopic NTG group (60.73
years). Disc tilt (45.8%) and torsion (75.9%) were significantly more prevalent
in the myopic NTG group than in the nonmyopic NTG group. Although just short of
statistical significance (P = 0.057), PPA area was larger in the myopic NTG
group. The VF defect location was significantly different between the 2 groups,
with superior defects more prevalent in the myopic NTG group (69.9%; P<0.001).
Torsion degree was significantly different in the superior defect group (18.45°) 
compared with the inferior defect group (-3.81°; P = 0.001). Torsion degree was
the only factor related to VF defect location in both univariate (P = 0.001) and 
multivariate (P = 0.014) logistic regression analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Korean NTG patients had a high prevalence of myopia and young age.
Optic disc tilt and torsion were highly prevalent in Korean NTG patients with
myopia. The direction of the optic disc torsion may predict the location of
damage.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.03.006 
PMID: 22595297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Ophthalmology. 2012 Sep;119(9):1819-25. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.02.044. Epub
2012 May 12.

Association between genetic variants associated with vertical cup-to-disc ratio
and phenotypic features of primary open-angle glaucoma.

Mabuchi F(1), Sakurada Y, Kashiwagi K, Yamagata Z, Iijima H, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
Yamanashi, Japan. fmabuchi@yamanashi.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To assess the association between the genetic variants associated with
the optic nerve vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR) and the phenotypic features in 
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), including normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG).
DESIGN: Case-control study.
PARTICIPANTS AND CONTROLS: Japanese patients with NTG (n = 213) and HTG (n = 212)
and 191 control subjects without glaucoma.
METHODS: DNA samples were genotyped for 7 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) 
associated with VCDR: rs1063192 (near gene: CDKN2B), rs10483727 (SIX1),
rs17146964 (SCYL1), rs1547014 (CHEK2), rs1900004 (ATOH7), rs1926320 (DCLK1), and 
rs12015126 (RERE).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The VCDR was compared between genotypes, and allele
frequency differences were compared between NTG or HTG subjects and control
subjects. Demographic and clinical features were compared between alleles in
patients with NTG or HTG.
RESULTS: There were significant VCDR differences (P = 0.0077 and P = 0.019)
between the genotypes for rs1063192 (CDKN2B) and rs1547014 (CHEK2), respectively.
There were significant differences in the rs1063192 (CDKN2B) and rs1900004
(ATOH7) allele frequencies between the NTG subjects and control subjects (P =
0.0023 and P = 0.028, respectively) and a significant difference (P = 0.013) in
the rs1547014 (CHEK2) allele frequencies between the HTG subjects and control
subjects. Ages at diagnosis were significantly different in the NTG subjects with
and without the rs10483727 (SIX1) C allele (P = 0.017) or the rs1926320 (DCLK1) T
allele (P = 0.040). Likewise, the age at diagnosis was significantly different (P
= 0.037) in the HTG subjects with and without the rs12025126 (RERE) T allele.
There were no significant associations between the maximum intraocular pressure
(IOP) and 7 genotyped SNP alleles in patients with NTG or HTG.
CONCLUSIONS: The rs1063192 (CDKN2B) and rs1900004 (ATOH7) seem to be
non-IOP-related genetic risk factors for NTG, and the rs1547014 (CHEK2) is a
genetic risk factor for HTG. Although the rs10483727 (SIX1), rs1926320 (DCLK1),
or rs12025126 (RERE) alone may not be sufficient for the development of POAG, the
association of these SNPs with a phenotypic feature in patients with NTG or HTG
suggests that these loci contribute to the pathogenesis of POAG.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.02.044 
PMID: 22584021  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2012 Mar;116(3):233-67; discussion 268.

[A challenge to primary open-angle glaucoma including normal-pressure. Clinical
problems and their scientific solution].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugiyama K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Science, Kanazawa University Graduate
School of Medical Science, Kanazawa-shi, Ishikawa-ken, Japan.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), including normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), is
reported by the Tajimi Study to afflict 3.9% of the total population, and this
represents about 80% of all total glaucoma cases which, in total, afflict 5.0% of
the population. We tried to analyze the clinical problems relating to POAG by
looking at the pathogenesis, intraocular pressure (IOP), therapy, neuroprotection
and surgery of the disease. To elucidate the pathogenesis of glaucoma
progression, we measured retinal nerve fiber layer defect (RNFLD) angles', and
divided the NTG cases into 2 groups, enlarged RNFLD and stable RNFLD. Disc
hemorrhages were found to be significantly more frequent in the enlarged group
than in the stable group. RNFLD was enlarged in the direction of disc hemorrhage 
in over 80% of the eyes. In the majority of the eyes of the enlarged group, the
enlargement of RNFLD was toward the fovea. The enlargement of RNFLD in NTG was
closely associated with disc hemorrhage and the deterioration of the visual
field. We developed a simultaneous structure and function evaluation technique
combining spectral-domain (SD) optical coherence tomography (OCT) and
fundus-oriented perimeters for the detection of visual field abnormalities in the
RNFLD area. We superimposed the ganglion cell complex map obtained by SD-OCT on
the fundus-oriented perimeter image. We observed very early or preperimetric
normal pressure glaucoma as well as disc hemorrhage adjacent to the borders of
the RNFLD. The borderline of the RNFLD seemed to be the thinnest RNFL and had the
lowest retinal sensitivity (Active site for RNFLD progression). To clarify the
role of the circadian clock genes in the generation of a 24-hour IOP rhythm, we
used the microneedle method to measure the IOP at eight time points daily, both
in wild type mice and Cry-deficient (Cry 1-/-Cry 2-/-) mice. In the wild-type
mice living in light-dark conditions, the pressure measured in the light phase
was significantly lower than in the dark phase. This biphasic daily rhythm was
maintained under dark-dark conditions. In contrast, the Cry-deficient mice did
not show significant circadian changes in their IOP, regardless of the
environmental light conditions. These findings demonstrate that clock genes are
essential for the generation of the circadian rhythm of IOP. We evaluated the
relationship between the genetic polymorphisms of the adrenergic receptor (ADR)
and the diurnal IOP in untreated NTG patients. For Del 301-303 in α2B-ADR,
De1322-325 in α2C-ADR, and S 49G (A/G) in βl-ADR, the major homozygotes and minor
carriers had parallel diurnal IOP curves, but significantly different diurnal IOP
levels. Polymorphisms of the ADR gene may predict the diurnal IOP level of
patients with NTG. Looking toward the future, tailor-made medicine in glaucoma
therapy, we evaluated the relationship between the polymorphisms of the
prostaglandin F2α, receptor (FP receptor) gene and the effectiveness of topical
latanoprost treatment in 100 normal volunteers. One SNP(rs3753380) was located in
the promoter region of the FP receptor gene and was significantly correlated with
% IOP reduction. Two SNPs, rs3753380 and rs3766355 (an SNP in intron 1), were
associated with the degree of response to latanoprost. The genotype of these SNPs
may be an important determinant of variability in response to latanoprost. To
investigate the predictability of IOP response of the fellow eye in a one-eye
trials, we compared the correlation of the fellow-eye's IOP response in one-eye
trials performed separately for each eye with that of bilateral treatment in 41
normal subjects. Correlation of mean diurnal IOP reduction between 2 one-eye
trials was poor (r2 = 0.102), even after subtracting the nontreated eye IOP
fluctuations from the treated eye IOPs (r2 = 0.097), but that between fellow eyes
in bilateral treatment was excellent (r2 = 0.849). Therefore, we examined the
effects of multiple IOP measurements on the correlation of response to glaucoma
medication between fellow eyes. Latanoprost was applied to the first eye and then
to both eyes of POAG or ocular hypertension patients. IOP measurements were
performed twice on different days at baseline, during treatment of the first eye 
only and for both eyes. No significant correlations of ΔIOP 1 (IOP at
baseline-IOP after treatment) between fellow eyes were found. ΔIOP 2 (ΔIOP 1-IOP 
fluctuation of the contralateral eye) was significantly correlated between the
fellow eyes using two post-treatment IOP measurements. Using multiple IOP
measurements may improve the prediction of a fellow eye's response to glaucoma
medication in one-eye trials. We used a scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) for
in vivo imaging and counting of rat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). RGC survival
decreased gradually after crushing the optic nerve. RGC counts by SLO were
comparable to those in retinal flat mounts. We developed OCT system for rat eyes.
The mean retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thicknesses in the circumpapillary OCT 
scans were unchanged 1 week after crushing the optic nerve, but then decreased
significantly and progressively after the second week. RNFL thicknesses in OCT
images correlated significantly with thicknesses determined histologically. SLO
and OCT will be useful for evaluating the effects of neuroprotective drugs. We
developed a new glaucoma filtration surgery system using a thin
honeycomb-patterned biodegradable film in rabbits. The film had a
honeycomb-patterned surface that faced the subconjunctival Tenon tissue, while
the other side was smooth. Postoperative IOPs of the film-treated eyes were
significantly lower than those of the control eyes, but were not significantly
different from those of the MMC-treated eyes. The thin honeycomb-patterned film
that was attached to the inner bleb wall worked as an adhesion barrier in
glaucoma filtration surgery in rabbits.


PMID: 22568103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Jun 20;53(7):3756-63. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-9818.

Association of TP53 polymorphisms with primary open-angle glaucoma: a
meta-analysis.

Guo Y(1), Zhang H, Chen X, Yang X, Cheng W, Zhao K.

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.

PURPOSE: To offer a comprehensive evaluation of the potential associations of
TP53 polymorphisms with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) through a systematic
review and meta-analysis of candidate genetic association study.
METHODS: Medline, Embase, Science Citation Index, the Cochrane Library, and other
databases (up to January 20, 2012) were searched by two investigators
independently. Pooled odd ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were used
to assess the strength of the associations between two TP53 polymorphisms (codon 
72 in exon 4 and 16 base-pair [bp] insertion in intron 3) and POAG. Statistical
analysis was performed with a commercial statistical and data analysis software
package.
RESULTS: Nine independent studies on TP codon 72 (1930 cases and 1463 controls)
and four articles on TP intron 3 16-bp insertion (858 cases and 683 controls)
were identified. The overall results showed that there was significant
association between TP53 codon 72 genotype and POAG risk in the recessive model
(OR = 1.31, 95% CI 1.05-1.64, P = 0.017). Also, our analysis suggested that TP53 
intron 3 16-bp insertion polymorphism was associated with decreased POAG risk in 
overall population when examining the contrast of Ins versus Del (OR 0.75, 95% CI
= 0.57-0.97, P = 0.031). In subgroup analyses for ethnicity (Caucasian, Asian),
we detected the association between codon 72 polymorphism and risk for POAG in
Asian populations (recessive model: OR = 1.36, 95% CI 1.03-1.80, P = 0.026) but
not in Caucasian populations. However, no significant finding was noted between
P53Arg72Pro and risk for open-angle glaucoma either in high tension glaucoma or
in normal tension glaucoma. Because of insufficient studies on TP53 16-bp
insertion polymorphism, no subgroup analyses were conducted according to
ethnicity and glaucoma subtype to detect the effect of this polymorphism on the
susceptibility to POAG.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis showed the evidence that TP53 codon 72 (CC versus
CG+GG) and intron 3 16-bp insertion (Ins versus Del) polymorphisms may affect
individual susceptibility to POAG. Moreover, stratified analyses that detected
the effect of TP53 codon 72 polymorphism seemed to be varied by ethnicity. Given 
the limited sample size, further investigations are needed to validate the
association.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-9818 
PMID: 22562509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Can J Ophthalmol. 2012 Apr;47(2):155-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2012.01.008. Epub
2012 Mar 13.

Relationship between central corneal thickness and progression of visual field
loss in patients with open-angle glaucoma.

Cao KY(1), Kapasi M, Betchkal JA, Birt CM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether a relationship exists between central corneal
thickness (CCT) and visual field (VF) progression in treated patients with
open-angle glaucoma and asymmetric corneal thickness.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
PARTICIPANTS: We studied 100 charts of patients with open-angle glaucoma and also
bilateral CCT and VF data.
METHODS: Charts from 2 glaucoma subspecialty practices were reviewed. The CCT and
the rate of progression and event analysis of visual field data were assessed in 
all subjects. Subanalysis was performed for subjects whose CCT asymmetry was ≥ 16
μm.
RESULTS: The mean CCT was 544 ± 40 μm OD and 541 ± 40 μm OS. The mean CCT
difference between fellow eyes was 15 ± 11 μm (range, 1 to 52 μm). There was no
significant intrasubject difference in the mean deviation (MD) and the pattern
standard deviation (PSD) (p =0.917 and p = 0.704, respectively; paired t test).
The more advanced VF MDs and PSDs were found in the thin eyes of 47 and 50
subjects, respectively (p = 0.459 and p = 0.317, respectively; χ(2)). Of the 65
subjects whose visual field indexes were available, 34 had the more rapid visual 
field index rates of progression in the thin eye (p = 0.400; χ(2)). Of the 27
subjects for whom event analysis was available, 15 had the worse progression
category in the thin eye (p = 0.453, χ2). Subgroup analysis of 48 subjects with ≥
16 μm CCT asymmetry did not find any significant difference in analyses of field 
progression between fellow eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: No relationship was found between CCT and VF loss in treated
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma with
asymmetrical CCT. Specifically, the thin eye did not have the more advanced VF
loss or more rapid VF progression.

Copyright © 2012 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2012.01.008 
PMID: 22560421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Ophthalmologe. 2012 Jul;109(7):683-90. doi: 10.1007/s00347-012-2593-0.

[Effectiveness of selective laser trabeculoplasty in patients with insufficient
control of intraocular pressure despite maximum tolerated medical therapy].

[Article in German]

Hirn C(1), Zweifel SA, Töteberg-Harms M, Funk J.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, UniversitätsSpital Zürich, Frauenklinikstr. 24, 8091, Zürich,
Schweiz. corneliahirn@aol.de

BACKGROUND: Reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) is still the primary goal of 
glaucoma treatment. The aim of this prospective study was to examine the IOP
lowering effect of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) in patients on maximum
tolerated medical therapy (MTMT), especially with regard to a potential influence
of pseudophakia and topical prostaglandin analogues (PGA) on IOP reduction.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 30 patients with a diagnosis of primary open
angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma and pseudoexfoliative glaucoma with
uncontrolled IOP despite MTMT underwent SLT treatment circumferentially over
360°. Follow-up visits were conducted 1 day after SLT and then 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12
months post-treatment. The initial medication was continued unchanged for 3
months.
RESULTS: Median follow-up was 11.97 ± 3.1 months, mean IOP at baseline was
19.60 ± 4.69 mmHg, mean IOP reduction was -19.95 ± 17.14% 1 month after and
-14.07 ± 23.57% 12 months after SLT (p < 0.001 and p = 0.003, respectively).
Patients with higher baseline IOP had greater reduction of IOP after SLT
(R(2) = 0.482, p < 0.001). Phakic patients had a significantly greater IOP
reduction compared to pseudophakic patients (- 4.55 ± 4.45 mmHg and
+ 2.75 ± 6.75 mmHg, respectively, p = 0.010). Patients without PGA had a
statistically insignificant greater IOP reduction compared to patients with PGA
(- 7.40 ± 4.72 mmHg and -2.48 ± 5.22 mmHg, respectively, p = 0.066) and four
patients needed additional surgery to lower IOP.
CONCLUSION: Even in patients already on maximum IOP lowering medication, SLT has 
the potential to significantly reduce IOP up to 1 year after treatment. The IOP
reduction is most pronounced in phakic eyes with high preoperative IOP.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-012-2593-0 
PMID: 22555462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Aug;90(5):e337-43. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02425.x.
Epub 2012 May 2.

Risk factors for progression of normal-tension glaucoma under β-blocker
monotherapy.

Araie M(1), Shirato S, Yamazaki Y, Matsumoto C, Kitazawa Y, Ohashi Y;
Nipradilol‐Timolol Study Group.

Collaborators: Shirato S, Yamazaki Y, Araie M, Matsumoto C, Shirato S, Yamazaki
Y, Araie M, Ohashi Y, Hamada C, Kitazawa Y, Ohashi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Kanto Central Hospital, Tokyo, Japan Yotsuya-Shirato Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.
araie-tky@umin.net

PURPOSE: To prospectively study prognostic factors for normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) under treatment with topical β-blocker.
METHODS: One hundred and forty-six eyes of 146 patients with NTG with a mean
untreated intraocular pressure (IOP) of 14 mmHg, mild to moderate visual field
damage and mean spherical equivalent refraction of -3.5 (-8.0 to +2.0) dioptre
were randomized to topical nipradilol or timolol and followed for 3 years. The
Humphrey full threshold 30-2 visual field test was performed every 6 months, and 
optic disc photographs were obtained every 12 months. Progression was defined as 
visual field progression, optic disc and/or peripapillary nerve fibre layer
change, and factors relating to progression were evaluated using Cox proportional
hazards models.
RESULTS: IOP decreased by 1.0 mmHg over the 3-year period, during which 35%
showed progression according to the aforementioned criteria. Optic disc
haemorrhage (hazard ratio [HR] 4.00, p < 0.001) and less extent of myopia (per
dioptre, HR 1.15, p = 0.013) were significant risk factors. When progression was 
defined by visual field progression only, less extent of myopia was again a
significant risk factor (HR 1.17, p = 0.038).
CONCLUSION: Beside optic disc haemorrhage, less extent of myopia was a risk
factor for progression in the current NTG population where most patients were
mildly myopic and IOP during follow-up averaged 13.2 mmHg under topical
β-blocker.

© 2012 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2012 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02425.x 
PMID: 22551324  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Aug;96(8):1145-6; author reply 1146. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2012-301832. Epub 2012 Apr 25.

How much of invasive clinical research is still ethically justified?

Grzybowski A.

Comment on
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Apr;96(4):544-8.
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Jan;96(1):53-6.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2012-301832 
PMID: 22535329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


533. J Glaucoma. 2013 Aug;22(6):510-4. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318255dbcf.

Familial juvenile normal-tension glaucoma with anterior segment dysgenesis: a
clinical report of a new phenotype.

Barkana Y(1), Shoshany N, Almer Z, Pras E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Assaf Harofe Medical Center, Zerifin, Israel.
yanivbarkana@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To describe a new familial syndrome consisting of anterior segment
dysgenesis, glaucomatous optic neuropathy, and intraocular pressure (IOP) in the 
normal range.
DESIGN: Observational case series.
METHODS: Subjects were available for examination from a 2-generation pedigree.
Ophthalmic examination and photography, visual field examination, and optical
coherence tomography of the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer were
performed. In some subjects, medical work-up was performed.
RESULTS: Eight affected subjects were identified. All had signs of Axenfeld-like 
anterior segment dysgenesis, ranging from a single fine iris process to diffuse
broad iris synechiae extending to a prominent posterior embryotoxon. Four of the 
8 subjects had glaucoma-appearing optic nerve heads with corresponding visual
field defects; in a fifth subject, glaucoma was suspected on the basis of optic
nerve appearance, but the visual field was full. IOP was consistently in the
low-teens to mid-teens except in 1 eye in which it was 22 mm Hg, the highest
recorded pressure in all examined subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: A new phenotype is presented, characterized by IOP in the normal
range, glaucomatous-appearing optic nerve cupping, and anterior segment
dysgenesis. The suggested mode of inheritance is autosomal dominant with marked
intrafamilial variability.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318255dbcf 
PMID: 22525125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Ophthalmology. 2012 Aug;119(8):1539-45. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.02.004. Epub
2012 Apr 21.

Glaucoma risk alleles at CDKN2B-AS1 are associated with lower intraocular
pressure, normal-tension glaucoma, and advanced glaucoma.

Burdon KP(1), Crawford A, Casson RJ, Hewitt AW, Landers J, Danoy P, Mackey DA,
Mitchell P, Healey PR, Craig JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre,
Adelaide, Australia. kathryn.burdon@flinders.edu.au

PURPOSE: Genetic variation at the 9p21 locus encompassing the CDKN2B-AS1, CDKN2A,
and CDKN2B genes has been associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in
several independent studies. This study aimed to dissect the association further 
and to determine genotype-phenotype correlations between genetic variation at
this locus and a range of glaucoma-related traits in a large cohort of POAG
patients.
DESIGN: Comparative case series and case-control study.
PARTICIPANTS: One thousand four hundred thirty-two POAG patients and 595
unaffected controls recruited from 2 population-based and 2 cross-sectional
studies.
METHODS: Each patient was genotyped at 9 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
previously associated with POAG at the 9p21 locus. Each SNP was assessed for
association with each outcome measure using linear regression under an additive
genetic model. Associated traits were explored further including adjustment for
relevant covariates. Highest recorded intraocular pressure (IOP) also was
analyzed both with and without correction for central corneal thickness (CCT) and
was dichotomized into high-tension glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intraocular pressure and vertical cup-to-disc ratio
(VCDR).
RESULTS: Glaucoma risk alleles at 9p21, particularly, rs7049105 and rs10120688,
were associated with the presence of both NTG and advanced POAG. The SNP
rs10120688 was associated with greater VCDR after adjustment for covariates (P = 
0.003; β = 0.016; standard error, 0.006). In addition, multiple SNPs in the
region were associated with reduced IOP, before and after adjustment for CCT. The
SNP most significantly associated with IOP was also rs10120688 (P = 0.001; β =
-2.135; standard error, 0.634) after adjustment for covariates under an additive 
model. In a comparison of high-tension versus low-tension glaucoma, this SNP was 
also the most significantly associated, particularly when IOP was corrected for
CCT before classification of the type of glaucoma (P = 0.0009; odds ratio, 0.63; 
95% confidence interval, 0.48-0.83).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with POAG carrying the glaucoma risk alleles at the 9p21
locus have larger VCDR and lower IOP than POAG patients without these alleles.
Carriers of these alleles seem to be predisposed to POAG developing at lower IOP 
levels and exhibit stronger associations with NTG and advanced glaucoma
phenotypes. This may be of relevance when setting target pressures in patients
carrying these risk alleles.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.02.004 
PMID: 22521085  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2012 Apr;26(2):84-91. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2012.26.2.84. Epub
2012 Mar 22.

Circulating total glutathione in normal tension glaucoma patients: comparison
with normal control subjects.

Park MH(1), Moon J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yeouido St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic
University of Korea School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: Oxidative stress plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. 
Glutathione is a major antioxidant molecule present in intracellular or
extracellular space. Herein, we aimed to examine circulating glutathione level in
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), which comprises the largest proportion of glaucoma
disease in the Korean population.
METHODS: Nineteen NTG patients (NTG group) and 30 age- and gender-matched normal 
control subjects (control group) were included. Antecubital venous puncture was
performed between 8 and 10 o'clock in the morning to obtain a 4 mL venous blood
sample. Total glutathione level was measured by the spectrophotometric method at 
412 nm. Correlation of total glutathione level with mean deviation and pattern
standard deviation from the Humphrey visual field test was analyzed in the NTG
group.
RESULTS: Total glutathione level in circulating blood was 524.02 ± 231.09 nmol
and 586.06 ± 156.08 nmol in the NTG group and the control group, respectively.
The difference between these values was not statistically significant (p = 0.121,
F = 2.212). Age had no significant effect on circulating total glutathione level 
in either the NTG group (p = 0.171, r = -0.328) or the control group (p = 0.380, 
r = -0.166). In the NTG group, circulating total glutathione level had no
significant relationship with mean deviation (p = 0.226, F = 1.636) and pattern
standard deviation (p = 0.200, F = 1.766) after correcting for age and gender.
CONCLUSIONS: In NTG patients, circulating total glutathione levels were not
different compared to those of normal subjects.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2012.26.2.84 
PMCID: PMC3325626
PMID: 22511833  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Jun 14;53(7):3629-37. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-8538.

Do patients with glaucoma have difficulty recognizing faces?

Glen FC(1), Crabb DP, Smith ND, Burton R, Garway-Heath DF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Visual Science, City University London, UK.

PURPOSE: To compare face recognition performance of glaucomatous patients with
age-similar visually healthy people.
METHODS: Percentage of correctly identified faces in the Cambridge Face Memory
Test was assessed in glaucomatous patients (n = 54; mean age = 69) with a range
of visual field (VF) defects and visually healthy controls (n = 41; mean age =
67). All participants underwent cognitive and visual assessment (binocular visual
acuity [BVA], contrast sensitivity [CS], and Humphrey VFs, both 10-2 and 24-2)
and had BVA of at least 0.18 logMAR. Patients were classified as having "early," 
"moderate," or "advanced" VF defects using the Hodapp, Parrish and Anderson
Method: Patients were also stratified by better-eye 10-2 mean deviation (MD)
being better or worse than the 1% normative value.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in age (P = 0.25) or cognitive
ability (P = 0.31) between groups; however, differences in BVA and CS were
statistically significant (P < 0.05). Patients with advanced VF defects
identified fewer faces on average (±SD) (66% ± 15%) than those with early (75% ± 
11%) and moderate (75% ± 13%) defects and controls (75% ± 11%); P < 0.05.
Patients with a best-eye 10-2 MD P < 1% identified fewer faces (67% ± 13%) than
those with 10-2 MD P > 1% (77% ± 11%) and controls P < 0.01 (75% ± 11%). Multiple
regression analysis revealed CS was important for face recognition.
CONCLUSIONS: When compared with age-similar people with healthy vision,
glaucomatous patients with advanced bilateral 24-2 VF loss, significant 10-2 VF
loss, or poor CS are more likely to experience problems with face recognition.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-8538 
PMID: 22511628  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J Ophthalmol. 2012;2012:327326. doi: 10.1155/2012/327326. Epub 2012 Feb 8.

Visual field loss morphology in high- and normal-tension glaucoma.

Iester M(1), De Feo F, Douglas GR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC,
Canada V5Z 3N9.

Purpose. To determine whether the patterns of visual field damage between
high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) are equivalent.
Methods. In this retrospective cross-sectional study, fifty-one NTG and 57 HTG
patients were recruited. For each recruited patient only the left eye was chosen.
Glaucomatous patients had abnormal visual fields and/or glaucomatous changes at
the optic nerve head. They were classified as HTG or NTG on the basis of
intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements. Patients' visual fields were analyzed by
using Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA), program 30-2, full threshold. The visual
field sensitivity values and the pattern deviation map values of the 72 tested
points were considered. Then a pointwise analysis and an area analysis, based on 
the Glaucoma Hemifield test criteria, were performed, and a comparison between
the two subgroups was made by Student's t test. Results. Between NTG and HTG, no 
significant difference was found pointwise for almost all the visual field
points, except for two locations. One was under the blind spot, and the other was
in the inferior hemifield around the twenty-degree position. When area analysis
was considered, three areas showed a significantly different sensitivity between 
HTG and NTG. Conclusions. These data suggested that there was no relevant
difference in the pointwise analysis between NTG and HTG; however, when visual
field areas were compared, no difference in paracentral areas was found between
NTG and HTG, but superior nasal step and inferior and superior scotomata showed
to be deeper in HTG than in NTG.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/327326 
PMCID: PMC3306982
PMID: 22496961  [PubMed]


538. Open Ophthalmol J. 2012;6:6-16. doi: 10.2174/1874364101206010006. Epub 2012 Mar
22.

Scanning laser topography and scanning laser polarimetry: comparing both imaging 
methods at same distances from the optic nerve head.

Kremmer S(1), Keienburg M, Anastassiou G, Schallenberg M, Steuhl KP, Selbach JM.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Hospital, Evangelisches Krankenhaus Gelsenkirchen, Munckelstr. 27, D-45879
Gelsenkirchen, Germany.

PURPOSE: To compare the performance of scanning laser topography (SLT) and
scanning laser polarimetry (SLP) on the rim of the optic nerve head and its
surrounding area and thereby to evaluate whether these imaging technologies are
influenced by other factors beyond the thickness of the retinal nerve fiber layer
(RNFL).
MATERIALS AND METHODOLOGY: A total of 154 eyes from 5 different groups were
examined: young healthy subjects (YNorm), old healthy subjects (ONorm), patients 
with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), patients with open-angle glaucoma and early
glaucomatous damage (OAGE) and patients with open-angle glaucoma and advanced
glaucomatous damage (OAGA). SLT and SLP measurements were taken. Four concentric 
circles were superimposed on each of the images: the first one measuring at the
rim of the optic nerve head (1.0 ONHD), the next measuring at 1.25 optic nerve
head diameters (ONHD), at 1.5 ONHD and at 1.75 ONHD. The aligned images were
analyzed using GDx/NFA software.
RESULTS: Both methods showed peaks of RNFL thickness in the superior and inferior
segments of the ONH. The maximum thickness, registered by the SLT device was at
the ONH rim where the SLP device tended to measure the lowest values. SLT
measurements at the ONH were influenced by other tissues besides the RNFL like
blood vessels and glial tissues. SLT and SLP were most strongly correlated at
distances of 1.25 and 1.5 ONHD.
CONCLUSIONS: While both imaging technologies are valuable tools in detecting
glaucoma, measurements at the ONH rim should be interpreted critically since both
methods might provide misleading results. For the assessment of the retinal nerve
fiber layer we would like to recommend for both imaging technologies, SLT and
SLP, measurements in 1.25 and 1.5 ONHD distance of the rim of the optic nerve
head.

DOI: 10.2174/1874364101206010006 
PMCID: PMC3322449
PMID: 22496715  [PubMed]


539. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Jun;90(4):e295-302. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02346.x. 
Epub 2012 Apr 10.

Anterior visual pathway assessment by magnetic resonance imaging in
normal-pressure glaucoma.

Zhang YQ(1), Li J, Xu L, Zhang L, Wang ZC, Yang H, Chen CX, Wu XS, Jonas JB.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.

PURPOSE: To analyze the axonal architecture of the optic nerve in patients with
normal-pressure glaucoma and determine whether these parameters correlate with
the disease severity.
METHODS:   Using magnetic resonance (MRI) imaging (1.5-Tesla unit) and diffusion 
tensor (DT) MRI, we measured the optic nerve diameter, optic chiasm height and
lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) volume in patients with normal-pressure glaucoma
and an age-matched control group. The retinal nerve fibre layer thickness (RNFL) 
was determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT).
RESULTS:   The study included 30 patients with normal-pressure glaucoma and 30
age-matched control subjects. Optic nerve diameter (p < 0.001), optic chiasm
height (p < 0.001) and LGN volume (p = 0.02) were significantly smaller in the
glaucoma group than in the control group and were significantly correlated with
RNFL thickness and perimetric loss. In the control group, the parameters
significantly (p < 0.05) decreased with age. The DT-MRI-derived fractional
anisotropy for the optic nerve was significantly lower (p < 0.001), and the
DT-MRI-derived mean diffusivity (p < 0.001), radial diffusivity (λ(⊥) ; p <
0.001) and axial diffusivity (λ(||) ; p = 0.009) for the optic nerve were
significantly higher in the glaucoma group and significantly correlated with RNFL
thickness and mean perimetric defect.
CONCLUSIONS:   Patients with normal-pressure glaucoma show an age-adjusted
reduced optic nerve diameter, optic chiasm height and LGN volume as measured by
MRI, correlating with a reduced RNFL thickness and increased perimetric loss. MRI
may be applied to examine the optic nerve in patients with glaucoma with opaque
optic media.

© 2012 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2012 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02346.x 
PMID: 22489916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Doc Ophthalmol. 2012 Aug;125(1):1-9. doi: 10.1007/s10633-012-9324-3. Epub 2012
Apr 5.

Clinical use of multifocal visual-evoked potentials in a glaucoma practice: a
prospective study.

De Moraes CG(1), Liebmann JM, Ritch R, Hood DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye
and Ear Infirmary, 310 East 14th Street, New York, NY 10003, USA.
demoraesmd@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To test a framework that describes how the multifocal visual-evoked
potential (mfVEP) technique is used in a particular glaucoma practice.
METHODS: In this prospective, descriptive study, glaucoma suspects, ocular
hypertensives and glaucoma patients were referred for mfVEP testing by a single
glaucoma specialist over a 2-year period. All patients underwent standard
automated perimetry (SAP) and mfVEP testing within 3 months. Two hundred and ten 
patients (420 eyes) were referred for mfVEP testing for the following reasons:
(1) normal SAP tests suspected of early functional loss (ocular hypertensives, n 
= 43; and glaucoma suspects on the basis of suspicious optic disks, n = 52); (2) 
normal-tension glaucoma patients with suspected central SAP defects (n = 33); and
(3) SAP abnormalities needing confirmation (n = 82).
RESULTS: All the glaucoma suspects with normal SAP and mfVEP results remained
untreated. Of those with abnormal mfVEP results, 68 % (15/22) were treated
because the abnormal regions on the mfVEP were consistent with the abnormal
regions seen during clinical examination of the optic disk. The mfVEP was
abnormal in 86 % (69/80) of eyes with glaucomatous optic neuropathy and SAP
damage, even though it did not result in an altered treatment regimen. In NTG
patients, the mfVEP showed central defects in 44 % (12 of 27) of the eyes with
apparently normal central fields and confirmed central scotomata in 92 % (36 of
39), leading to more rigorous surveillance of these patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In a clinical practice, the mfVEP was used when clinical examination
and subjective visual fields provided insufficient or conflicting information.
This information influenced clinical management.

DOI: 10.1007/s10633-012-9324-3 
PMCID: PMC3498911
PMID: 22476612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


541. J Glaucoma. 2012 Apr-May;21(4):276. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318252d39b.

Disc hemorrhage is a sign of progression in normal-tension glaucoma.

Nitta K.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318252d39b 
PMID: 22466150  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


542. J Glaucoma. 2012 Apr-May;21(4):275-6. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318252d36a.

Disc hemorrhage: is that a risk factor or sign of progression?

Sung KR.

Comment on
    J Glaucoma. 2011 Mar;20(3):189-95.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318252d36a 
PMID: 22466149  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Ophthalmologe. 2012 Mar;109(3):250-6. doi: 10.1007/s00347-012-2524-0.

[Color Doppler sonography of retrobulbar vessels and hypercapnia in normal
tension glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Plange N(1), Bienert M, Harris A, Remky A, Arend KO.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik , Universitätsklinikum Aachen, Pauwelsstr. 30, 52057 Aachen.
nplange@ukaachen.de

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to investigate retrobulbar flow velocities
during hypercapnia in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) without
systemic vasospasm and jn controls.
METHODS: A total of 16 NTG patients (mean age 58 ± 14 years) and 16 control
subjects (mean age 50 ± 13 years, p = 0.10) were enrolled in this study. Flow
velocities, peak systolic velocity (PSV), end-diastolic velocity (EDV) and
resistive indices (RI) of the ophthalmic (OA) and central retinal arteries (CRA) 
were assessed using color Doppler imaging. Blood flow velocities were measured
under normocapnic and hypercapnic conditions (increasing the end-tidal pCO(2) by 
15%). Blood pressure, ventilation rate and oxygen saturation were monitored
simultaneously.
RESULTS: During hypercapnia, velocity responses of the PSV (p = 0.044) and EDV (p
= 0.037) of the CRA were significantly different in NTG patients and healthy
controls, showing a greater increase of flow velocities in control subjects. Flow
velocities of the OA increased significantly in both groups (PSV p = 0.039, EDV p
= 0.003) during hypercapnia. Blood pressure, oxygen saturation and intraocular
pressure changed similarly in both study groups with carbon dioxide provocation.
CONCLUSIONS: Velocity response to hypercapnia was reduced in the CRA of NTG
patients compared to controls. This may indicate a faulty vasodilatory response
in NTG patients without vasospastic disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-012-2524-0 
PMID: 22447422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Vestn Oftalmol. 2011 Nov-Dec;127(6):6-10.

[Optic neuropathies of different etiology and normal tension glaucoma: the point 
of differential diagnosis].

[Article in Russian]

Sheremet NL, Kozlova IV, Akopian AI, Antonov AA.

62 patients (109 eyes) with glaucoma-like optic nerve head cupping and normal IOP
indices (Po not more than 21 mm Hg) were examined to find the etiology of optic
nerve changes. Regarding corneal biomechanics new-onset primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) were diagnosed in 27% and 3% of
examined patients respectively. In 59% of patients optic neuropathy (ON) of
different etiology was found to be the cause of glaucoma-like optic nerve changes
including compression ON due to lesion of intracranial portion of optic nerve and
chiasma in 6% of cases. In 11% physiologic large optic nerve head cupping with
normal visual functions and absence of nerve fiber structural changes was found.


PMID: 22442985  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Sep-Oct;40(7):713-20. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02793.x. Epub 2012 Jun 4.

Correlation between optic nerve head parameters and retinal nerve fibre layer
thickness measured by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in myopic
eyes.

Hwang YH(1), Kim YY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Konyang University, Kim's Eye Hospital, Myung-Gok
Eye Research Institute, Seongnam, Korea.

BACKGROUND:   To evaluate the correlation between optic nerve head parameters and
retinal nerve fiber layer thickness measured by Cirrus HD spectral-domain optical
coherence tomography (Cirrus HD-OCT; Carl Zeiss Meditec) in healthy myopic eyes.
DESIGN:   Cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS:   One hundred and sixty-one right eyes from 161 healthy young
myopic subjects.
METHODS:   Optic nerve head parameters and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness
were measured with the Cirrus HD-OCT. The distance between optic disc margin and 
scan circle (disc margin-to-scan distance) was measured on the Cirrus HD-OCT
en-face optic nerve head image with aid of National Institutes of Health ImageJ
image-analysis software (developed by Wayne Rasbands, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES:   The correlations among optic nerve head parameters,
retinal nerve fibre layer thickness and the disc margin-to-scan distance were
evaluated with and without adjustment of the magnification effect.
RESULTS:   Without correction of the magnification effect, the thicker average
retinal nerve fiber layer was correlated with greater rim area and lower degree
of myopia (P < 0.001). When the magnification effect was corrected, thicker
average retinal nerve fibre layer was associated with greater disc area and
greater rim area in univariate and multivariate analyses (P ≤ 0.028); however,
degrees of myopia and the disc margin-to-scan distance were not significantly
associated with average RNFL thickness (P ≥ 0.104).
CONCLUSIONS:   Thicker average retinal nerve fibre layer thickness was associated
with greater rim and disc areas. Disc margin-to-scan distance was not
significantly correlated with average retinal nerve fibre layer thickness in
healthy myopic eyes.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2012 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02793.x 
PMID: 22429807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Apr 30;53(4):2448-53. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-9388.

Ophthalmic artery Doppler waveform changes associated with increased damage in
glaucoma patients.

Abegão Pinto L(1), Vandewalle E, De Clerck E, Marques-Neves C, Stalmans I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centro Hospitalar de Lisboa Central, Portugal.

PURPOSE: To characterize Doppler waveform variables (early systolic acceleration 
[ESA] and systolic/diastolic mean velocity ratios [Sm/Dm]) of the Ophthalmic
Artery (OA) by color Doppler imaging (CDI) in eyes with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Analysis of CDI examinations of the retrobulbar circulation of patients 
with POAG (n = 102), normal tension glaucoma (NTG, n = 89), and healthy controls 
(n = 59) by a condition-masked investigator. One-way ANOVA, chi-square, and
Spearman's rank correlation tests were used to determine differences, establish
comparisons, and to explore associations between variables, respectively.
RESULTS: The overall Doppler waveform presented a shift to the right in the
glaucoma groups, with significantly lower Sm/Dm ratios when compared to the
control group (healthy: 2.94 ± 0.86, POAG: 2.60 ± 0.67, NTG: 2.63 ± 0.84; P =
0.01). ESA was significantly lower in the glaucoma groups (healthy: 688.8 ± 484
cm·s(-2), POAG: 548.1 ± 419 cm·s(-2), NTG: 548.5 ± 337 cm·s(-2); P = 0.03). No
statistical differences were, however, detected in the OA velocities or
resistance index (P ranged between 0.08 and 0.96). In the glaucoma groups,
waveform parameters such as ESA, acceleration time, and systolic mean velocities 
correlated with systemic blood pressure variables (P < 0.05). In these groups,
negative correlations were detected between Sm/Dm ratios and the degree of visual
field defects (POAG: P = 0.01; r = -0.25) and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness
(NTG: P = 0.02; r = -0.25).
CONCLUSIONS: The pattern of blood flow velocities in the OA throughout the
cardiac cycle seems to be altered in glaucoma patients. Further studies on how
systemic blood pressure affects waveform variables in glaucoma patients may
provide a better understanding of an underlying vascular dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-9388 
PMID: 22427555  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov;250(11):1681-8. doi:
10.1007/s00417-012-1982-z. Epub 2012 Mar 14.

Evaluation of the visual function in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome patients
and normal-tension glaucoma by means of the multifocal visual evoked potentials.

Gutiérrez-Díaz E(1), Pérez-Rico C, de Atauri MJ, Mencía-Gutiérrez E, Blanco R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Doce de Octubre, Madrid,
Spain.

Comment in
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 May;251(5):1457.
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 May;251(5):1459-60.

BACKGROUND: This study was designed to objectively evaluate visual function and
the causal relationship between sleep apnea and optic nerve dysfunction in
patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) with or without diagnosis
of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) using multifocal visual evoked potentials
(mfVEP).
METHODS: This observational, cross-sectional study assessed 20 patients with
recently diagnosed OSAS with or without NTG. Diagnosis of sleep apnea was based
on overnight polysomnography (ApnoeScreen). All participants underwent a complete
physical and ophthalmologic examination. MfVEP recordings obtained using VERIS
software (Electro-Diagnostic Imaging, San Mateo, USA), SITA-standard 30-2
automated perimetry (Humphrey Visual Field Analyzer II) and optic coherence
tomography (Topcon 3D OCT-1000) exams were performed to evaluate the changes.
RESULTS: Abnormal mfVEP amplitudes defects (interocular and monocular probability
analysis) were found in 40% of the eyes in the non-glaucoma group and in 90% of
eyes of the NTG patients. As well, delayed mfVEP latencies (interocular and
monocular probability analysis) were seen in 30 and 60% of the eyes of the
non-glaucoma and NTG groups, respectively. The average RNFL (retinal nerve fiber 
layer) thickness was significantly reduced in the NTG eyes compared to the
control database and the non-glaucoma eyes. On the Humphrey Visual Field total
deviation analysis, all the NTG eyes showed significant clusters of abnormal
points but none was detected in the non-glaucoma group eyes. However, the mfVEP
amplitude and latency did not show any significant correlation with the standard 
perimetry and OCT variables, because the mfVEP technique was able to detect far
more early visual defects in these patients. Systolic blood pressure, sleep
efficiency, arousal index, mean and minimum arterial oxygen saturation (SaO(2)), 
time SaO(2) < 90%, oxyhemoglobin desaturation index, number of central and mixed 
apneas and apnea-hipopneas index were shown to be significantly correlated with
mfVEP amplitude and latency.
CONCLUSIONS: A significant incidence of subclinical optic nerve involvement, not 
detected with other structural and psychophysics diagnostic techniques was seen
by means of the mfVEP. In this sense, the mfVEP may be a useful diagnostic tool
in the clinic for early diagnosis and monitoring of optic nerve function
abnormalities in patients with OSAS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-012-1982-z 
PMID: 22411129  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Cornea. 2012 Nov;31(11):1229-34. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e31823f8e7d.

Comparison of the long-term effects of various topical antiglaucoma medications
on meibomian glands.

Arita R(1), Itoh K, Maeda S, Maeda K, Furuta A, Tomidokoro A, Aihara M, Amano S.

Author information: 
(1)Itoh Clinic, Saitama, Japan.

PURPOSE: To examine the effects of long-term antiglaucoma eye drop treatment on
meibomian glands.
METHODS: The subjects were 71 eyes of 71 glaucoma patients (group 1) receiving
one type of antiglaucoma eye drops, 61 eyes of 61 glaucoma patients (group 2)
receiving two types of antiglaucoma eye drops, and 30 eyes of 30 glaucoma
patients (group 3) receiving three types of antiglaucoma eye drops. Controls
comprised 75 eyes of 75 healthy volunteers. Subjective symptoms were evaluated by
questionnaire, and lid margin and superficial punctate keratopathy were evaluated
by slit lamp examination. Meibomian glands of upper and lower eyelids were
observed and scored using noncontact meibography (meiboscore). Tear film break-up
time (BUT) was measured and meibum was graded.
RESULTS: Lid margin abnormality, superficial punctate keratopathy, meiboscore,
and meibum scores were significantly higher in glaucoma patients than in controls
(P < 0.001). BUT and Schirmer scores were significantly lower in glaucoma
patients than in controls (P < 0.001). Subgroup analysis of the parameters in
group 1 revealed no significant difference between patients receiving
prostaglandin and those receiving β-blockers, or among groups 1, 2, and 3.
Multivariate regression analysis demonstrated that meiboscore significantly
correlated with lid margin abnormality score (P = 0.007) and BUT (P = 0.045) in
group 1; with BUT (P = 0.004), symptom score (P = 0.003), and age (P = 0.026) in 
group 2; and with lid margin abnormality score (P = 0.001) in group 3.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term use of antiglaucoma eye drops was associated with
alterations in meibomian gland morphology and function.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e31823f8e7d 
PMID: 22406943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov;90(7):e570-1. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02371.x.
Epub 2012 Mar 9.

Retinal vessel diameter in young patients with open-angle glaucoma: comparison
between high-tension and normal-tension glaucoma.

Lee JY, Yoo C, Park JH, Kim YY.

Comment on
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2008 Dec;49(12):5397-402.
    Ophthalmology. 2005 Feb;112(2):245-50.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02371.x 
PMID: 22405080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 May;96(5):624-8. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-300945.
Epub 2012 Mar 7.

Cardiac autonomic dysfunction in patients with normal tension glaucoma: 24-h
heart rate and blood pressure variability analysis.

Wierzbowska J(1), Wierzbowski R, Stankiewicz A, Siesky B, Harris A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Military Institute of Medicine, 128 Szaserów Str.
04-141 Warsaw 44, Poland. joanna.wierzbowska@gmail.com

AIMS: To define parameters of autonomic nervous system activity in patients with 
normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Ambulatory 24-h ECG (Lifecard CF) and 24-h blood pressure (BP)
monitoring (SpaceLab 90207-30) were carried out in 54 patients with NTG (44
women, mean age 59.7) and 43 matched control subjects (34 women, mean age 57.0). 
Heart rate variability time and frequency domain parameters (low frequency (LF), 
high frequency (HF) and LF/HF ratio), BP variability (BPV), diurnal and nocturnal
BP variables were compared between study groups.
RESULTS: Patients with NTG demonstrated higher LF, LF/HF and lower HF values than
control subjects for the 24-h, daytime and night-time periods. The mean 24-h,
daytime and night-time LF/HF ratios were statistically higher in patients with
glaucoma as compared to control subjects ((3.2±1.5 vs 2.2±0.8, p=0.0009),
(3.5±1.7 vs 2.7±1.0, p=0.0173) and (2.6±1.7 vs 1.4±0.6, p=0.0001), respectively).
There were no statistical differences in the mean BP during the whole day,
daytime and night-time, and in BPV (10.4±1.9 vs 10.5±2.1, p=0.790) between study 
groups. No difference was also found in the percentage decrease in night-time
mean BP (12.3% vs 13.6%, p=0.720). 'Dippers', 'non-dippers' and 'overdippers'
with NTG showed significantly higher LF/HF ratio as compared to the same
subgroups of control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: The sympathovagal balance of autonomic nervous system in patients
with NTG shifted towards sympathetic activity however with no change of 24-h
pattern of BPV as compared to controls.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-300945 
PMID: 22399689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Acta Ophthalmol. 2013 Sep;91(6):505-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02356.x.
Epub 2012 Mar 6.

Nutritional, lifestyle and environmental factors in ocular hypertension and
primary open-angle glaucoma: an exploratory case-control study.

Renard JP(1), Rouland JF, Bron A, Sellem E, Nordmann JP, Baudouin C, Denis P,
Villain M, Chaine G, Colin J, de Pouvourville G, Pinchinat S, Moore N, Estephan
M, Delcourt C.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital du Val de Grâce, Service d'ophtalmologie, Paris, France.
pr_renard@yahoo.fr

PURPOSE: To evaluate known and potential risk factors, including nutritional,
lifestyle and environmental factors, differentiating patients with high-tension
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) from control subjects with ocular hypertension
(OHT).
METHODS: In 2006-2007, 111 French ophthalmologists prospectively enrolled 339
cases of POAG and 339 age-matched controls with OHT. After a clinical examination
with assessment of ocular risk factors, the ophthalmologist filled, during
face-to-face interview, a detailed questionnaire developed by nutritionists and
epidemiologist on lifestyle and environmental risk factors, including
socio-demographic variables, dietary habits related to omega-3 fatty acids
intake, smoking and alcohol drinking and professional exposure to pesticides and 
other chemicals. Associations of POAG with risk factors were estimated using
conditional logistic regression, with adjustment for age, gender and duration of 
disease.
RESULTS: In the final multivariate model, by comparison with OHT, POAG was
significantly associated with more frequent use of pesticides during the
professional life [OR = 2.65, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.04-6.78, p = 0.04] 
and with low consumption of fatty fish (OR = 2.14, 95% CI: 1.10-4.17, p = 0.02)
and walnuts (OR = 2.02, 95% CI: 1.18-3.47, p = 0.01). POAG was also associated
with higher frequency of heavy smoking (40 pack-years or more, OR = 3.93, 95% CI:
1.12-13.80, p = 0.03) but not with moderate (20-40 pack-years) and light smoking 
(<20 pack-years).
CONCLUSIONS: These exploratory observations suggest a protective effect of
omega-3 fatty acids and a deleterious effect of heavy smoking and professional
exposure to pesticides in POAG. This will need to be confirmed in future studies.

© 2012 The Author. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2012 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica 
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02356.x 
PMID: 22394398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Sep-Oct;40(7):721-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02782.x. Epub 2012 May 17.

Comparison of optic nerve head parameters using Heidelberg Retina Tomograph 3 and
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.

Sato S(1), Hirooka K, Baba T, Shiraga F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, 1750-1
Ikenobe, Miki, Kagawa, Japan.

BACKGROUND:   To assess the agreement between the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph and
Cirrus spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (Cirrus HD-OCT [Carl Zeiss
Meditec, Dublin, CA, USA]) when measuring optic disc parameters.
DESIGN:   Prospective, cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS:   A total of 96 glaucoma patients and 21 normal subjects were
analysed.
METHODS:   Optic nerve head measurements, including disc area, rim area,
cup-to-disc ratio and cup volume were obtained using both the Cirrus HD-OCT and
Heidelberg Retina Tomograph 3 (Heidelberg Engineering GmbH, Heidelberg, Germany).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS:   Bland-Altman plots were used to evaluate the
agreement between each of the optic disc parameters.
RESULTS:   Although Cirrus HD-OCT values were smaller than Heidelberg Retina
Tomograph 3 values for the disc and rim areas, overall the Cirrus HD-OCT and
Heidelberg Retina Tomograph 3 measurements were highly correlated (r = 0.657 to
0.821). As compared with Heidelberg Retina Tomograph 3, disc and rim areas tended
to be minimized by Cirrus HD-OCT, especially when there were large disc and rim
areas, although there was no relationship between the discrepancy and the level
of measurement of the cup-to-disc ratio. The optical coherence tomography
overestimated the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph-determined cup volume, especially
when there were large cup volumes.
CONCLUSIONS:   Bland-Altman analyses revealed that with the exception of the
cup-to-disc ratio, there was poor agreement between the Cirrus HD-OCT and
Heidelberg Retina Tomograph 3 morphometric measurements. In addition, with the
exception of the cup-to-disc ratio, the optic nerve head measurements could not
be directly compared between the Cirrus HD-OCT and Heidelberg Retina Tomograph 3.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2012 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02782.x 
PMID: 22394383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Ophthalmologica. 2012;228(1):36-41. doi: 10.1159/000335978. Epub 2012 Feb 25.

Low diastolic blood pressure is associated with the progression of normal-tension
glaucoma.

Okumura Y(1), Yuki K, Tsubota K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

AIMS: The objective of this study was to investigate the association between
blood pressure (BP) and visual field defect progression in normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: The subjects were 35 consecutive patients with NTG who were admitted to 
Keio University Hospital for 24-hour intraocular pressure evaluation; all
subjects underwent 6 or more visual field tests in either eye and were followed
up for more than 5 years. Systolic and diastolic BPs were measured at 9.00 h.
Subjects with negative regression lines and p values of less than 0.05 were
classified as progressive; all others were defined as stable. Systolic BP,
diastolic BP, and ocular perfusion pressure were compared between the 2 groups.
RESULTS: Twelve subjects showed progression in glaucomatous visual field defects 
(age 55.1 ± 15.1 years). Twenty-three subjects showed no progression (age 57.2 ± 
10.9 years). Diastolic BP (stable group: 77.0 ± 12.1 mm Hg; progressive group:
67.7 ± 9.7 mm Hg; p = 0.03) was significantly lower in the progressive group than
in the stable group. Multivariable analysis revealed that low diastolic BP is a
significant risk factor for progression (OR 0.90; 95% CI 0.82-0.99).
CONCLUSIONS: Low diastolic BP was associated with glaucomatous visual field
progression in subjects with NTG.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000335978 
PMID: 22377835  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 Jan;251(1):243-53. doi:
10.1007/s00417-011-1887-2. Epub 2012 Feb 26.

DTI parameters of axonal integrity and demyelination of the optic radiation
correlate with glaucoma indices.

Michelson G(1), Engelhorn T, Wärntges S, El Rafei A, Hornegger J, Doerfler A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Schwabachanlage 6,
91054 Erlangen, Germany. georg.michelson@uk-erlangen.de

BACKGROUND: In glaucoma, damage of retinal ganglion cells may continue to the
linked optic radiations. This study investigates the correlation of glaucoma
severity indicators with parameters of axonal and myelin integrity of the optic
radiations.
METHODS: In this observational case-control study, 13 patients with
normal-tension glaucoma, 13 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, and seven 
control subjects (mean age, 57.6 ± 12.5 years) were randomly selected for
diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) of the optic radiations. The results of the
frequency doubling test (FDT) and the HRT-based linear discriminant functions of 
Burk (BLDF) and Mikelberg (MLDF) were correlated with the mean of the fractional 
anisotropy (FA), apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), and radial diffusivity
(RD) of the optic radiations. Multiple correlation analysis, corrected for age,
stage of cerebral microangiopathy, diagnosis group, and gender was conducted at
increasing thresholds of linear anisotropy (C(L)) to reduce mismeasurements
because of complex fiber situations.
RESULTS: The best correlations were found for BLDF with FA at C(L) threshold 0.3 
(0.594, p = 0.001), with ADC at C(L) 0.4 (-0.511, p = 0.005), and with RD at C(L)
0.4 (-0.585, p = 0.001). MLDF correlated with FA at C(L) 0.4 (0.393, p = 0.035). 
The FDT score correlated with FA at C(L) 0 (-0.491, p = 0.007) and with RD at
C(L) 0 (-0.375, p = 0.045).
CONCLUSIONS: In glaucoma, DTI-derived parameters of the axonal integrity (FA,
ADC) and demyelination (RD) of the optic radiation are linked to HRT-based
indices of glaucoma severity and to impairment of the spatial-temporal contrast
sensitivity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-011-1887-2 
PMID: 22366916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


555. J Glaucoma. 2012 Dec;21(9):596-600. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31824cfbf7.

Relationship between ocular pulse amplitude and glaucomatous central visual field
defect in normal-tension glaucoma.

Lee M(1), Cho EH, Lew HM, Ahn J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between central visual field (VF)
defects and ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) in early normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This retrospective study included 100 eyes of 100 subjects:
54 NTG patients whose mean deviations were better than -7.00 dB and 46 normal
subjects. OPA was measured by dynamic contour tonometry. NTG patients were
divided into 2 subgroups according to VF tests: the central VF-invading and the
central VF-sparing groups. Ocular parameters including OPA, intraocular pressure 
(IOP), and indices of VF tests were analyzed in glaucoma patients and normal
subjects.
RESULTS: There was no difference in the OPA between the NTG and normal groups.
However, IOP and OPA of the central VF-invading group (14.4 ± 2.87 and 2.9 ± 0.78
mm Hg) were higher than those of the central VF-sparing group (12.7 ± 2.52 and
2.0 ± 0.80 mm Hg; P = 0.025 and P < 0.001, respectively). OPA, but not IOP,
showed a positive correlation with the VF test indices that represented central
field defects (r = 0.494, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Increased OPA was related to more centrally located VF defects in
NTG patients with mild VF defects.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31824cfbf7 
PMID: 22366705  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


556. J Glaucoma. 2013 Jun-Jul;22(5):384-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31824c9423.

Comparison of optic nerve head parameter measurements obtained by time-domain and
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.

Savini G(1), Barboni P, Carbonelli M, Sbreglia A, Deluigi G, Parisi V.

Author information: 
(1)GB Bietti Eye Foundation-IRCCS, Rome, Italy. giacomo.savini@alice.it

PURPOSE: To compare the measurements of the optic nerve head (ONH) parameters
provided by time-domain (TD) and spectral-domain (SD) optical coherence
tomography (OCT).
METHODS: Four ONH parameters were analyzed: optic disc area, rim area,
cup-to-disc area ratio (CDR), and vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR). Stratus OCT 
and Cirrus HD-OCT were used to obtain measurements by TD-OCT and SD-OCT,
respectively. Stratus OCT measurements were collected before and after manual
correction of the ONH edges.
RESULTS: Twenty healthy participants and 20 patients with glaucomatous eyes were 
enrolled. Although manual correction of Stratus OCT measurements reduced the
differences compared with Cirrus HD-OCT, the latter measured a smaller mean disc 
area than Stratus OCT in healthy (2.02±0.31 vs. 2.18±0.29 mm2, P=0.0003) and
glaucomatous eyes (1.92±0.35 vs. 2.19±0.38 mm2, P<0.0001). Cirrus HD-OCT measured
a smaller rim area than Stratus OCT in healthy (1.31±0.30 vs. 1.56±0.32 mm2,
P<0.0001) and glaucomatous eyes (0.80±0.25 vs. 0.97±0.36 mm2, P=0.0052), a higher
CDR (0.55±0.11 vs. 0.49±0.11, P<0.0001) and VCDR in healthy eyes (0.55±0.11 vs.
0.49±0.11, P<0.0001), and a higher CDR in glaucomatous eyes (0.74±0.10 vs.
0.58±0.18, P<0.0001). No statistically significant differences were detected for 
VCDR in glaucomatous eyes. All measured values showed good correlation (r≥0.70). 
Large 95% limits of agreement between the 2 devices were found for most
parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: ONH parameter measurements provided by TD-OCT and SD-OCT show
significant differences and cannot be considered interchangeable.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31824c9423 
PMID: 22366702  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Mol Vis. 2012;18:390-402. Epub 2012 Feb 9.

Ginkgo biloba: an adjuvant therapy for progressive normal and high tension
glaucoma.

Cybulska-Heinrich AK(1), Mozaffarieh M, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

Gingko biloba has been used for hundreds of years to treat various disorders such
as asthma, vertigo, fatigue and, tinnitus or circulatory problems. Two of the
main extracts are EGb761 and LI 1370. Most pharmacological, toxicological and
clinical studies have focused on the neuroprotective value of these two main
extracts. Neuroprotection is a rapidly expanding area of research. This area is
of particular interest due to the fact that it represents a new avenue of therapy
for a frustrating disease that may progress despite optimal treatment. One such
disease is glaucoma.Glaucoma leads to the loss of retinal ganglion cells and
their axons but also to tissue remodelling which involves both the optic nerve
head and the retina. In the retina the astrocytes get activated. In addition, the
optic nerve gets thinner and the cells of the lateral geniculate ganglion
disappear partially. On average, ocular blood flow (OBF) is reduced in glaucoma
patients in various tissues of the eye. Increased intraocular pressure (IOP) is a
major risk factor for glaucomatous damage. Nevertheless, there is little doubt
that other risk factors besides IOP are involved. One such risk factor is a
primary vascular dysregulation (PVD) occurring in patients with a disturbed
autoregulation, another risk factor is oxidative stress.


PMCID: PMC3283204
PMID: 22355250  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2012 Feb;229(2):143-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1299262. Epub 
2012 Feb 14.

[Integrity/demyelination of the optic radiation, morphology of the papilla, and
contrast sensitivity in glaucoma patients].

[Article in German]

Michelson G(1), Wärntges S, Engelhorn T, El-Rafei A, Hornegger J, Dörfler A.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universitätsklinikum Erlangen.

BACKGROUND: In primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and its non-barotraumatic
subgroup, normal tension glaucoma (NTG), the pathophysiological differences are
not clear. A participation of the 4th neuron of the visual pathway (optic
radiation) appears possible on the basis of related experimental studies. The
goal of the present study was the evaluation of the optic radiation by diffusion 
tensor imaging (DTI), which is based on the magnetic resonance imaging. The
diffusion and anisotropy parameters of the optic radiation as a marker of axonal 
integrity and demyelination/damage of glial cells, respectively, were used to
investigate the relation between the morphology of the papilla (BLDF, linear
discriminant function of Burk) and the contrast sensitivity (FDT, frequency
doubling test).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this prospective observational study 13 POAG patients,
13 NTG patients, and 7 control patients of the same mean age were included. For
segmentation of the optic radiation a semi-automated algorithm was applied and
the diffusion and anisotropy parameters were calculated. The importance of the
covariates age, BLDF, and FDT for the DTI parameters was determined using partial
correlation analysis.
RESULTS: Analysis of the covariates partially showed a clear autocorrelation. The
correlations between the DTI parameters and BLDF were significant in all groups
after correction of the measurement values for the covariates. FDT correlated
with DTI parameters in controls and POAG. The NTG group did not show this
correlation due to a strong spreading of the FDT values.
CONCLUSION: After statistical elimination of the autocorrelation of the
covariates age, BLDF, and FDT the morphology of the papilla correlated with the
axonal integrity and demyelination/glia cell impairment of the optic radiation in
controls and glaucoma. In NTG the impaired contrast sensitivity is highly
variable and is not associated with the condition of the 3rd or 4th neuron,
respectively, as compared to POAG. The autocorrelation between individual
covariates represents an important element for the judgement of the visual
pathway.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1299262 
PMID: 22334412  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2012 Feb;26(1):26-31. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2012.26.1.26. Epub
2012 Jan 14.

The efficacy of a monocular drug trial in normal-tension glaucoma.

Lee JY(1), Hwang YH, Kim YY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gachon University Gil Hospital, Incheon, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of a monocular drug trial in eyes with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This prospective study enrolled 74 patients with NTG. The monocular drug
trial was started using latanoprost 0.005% for one week. If the intraocular
pressure (IOP) reduction was greater than 15%, the same medication was
administered to both eyes for one month. The unadjusted change and adjusted
change (the change in the treated eye minus the change in the contralateral eye) 
in IOP were evaluated, and the predictors of IOP response were analyzed by
multivariate linear regression.
RESULTS: Among the initial 74 patients, 31 (41.9%) were included; others were
excluded because they did not meet the requisite conditions. The most significant
predictors of IOP response in the initial eye and subsequent eye were the
baseline IOPs in both eyes (β = 0.907, 0.771, respectively). The adjusted change 
in IOP of the initial eye had greater association (β = 0.589) with the IOP after 
monocular trial in the initial eye than that of unadjusted IOP change (β =
0.279). The adjusted change in IOP also had greater predictability (β = 0.348)
for IOP after monocular trial in the subsequent eye than that of the unadjusted
IOP change (β = 0.090).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the monocular trial in NTG patients had limited efficacy
due to its stringent conditions, it was useful for evaluating the IOP response in
the initial eye and for predicting the IOP response in the subsequent eye.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2012.26.1.26 
PMCID: PMC3268165
PMID: 22323882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


560. J Glaucoma. 2012 Aug;21(6):426-30. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182182897.

Progression of visual field defects in eyes with different optic disc appearances
in patients with normal tension glaucoma.

Nakazawa T(1), Shimura M, Ryu M, Himori N, Nitta F, Omodaka K, Doi H, Yasui T,
Fuse N, Nishida K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Miyagi 980-8574, Japan. ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between the optic disc appearance and
the progression of visual field defects in eyes with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG).
METHODS: Two hundred nine patients with NTG, who were being treated with topical 
antiglaucoma drugs and had been followed for at least 3 years, were studied. The 
baseline optic disc appearance was classified into 4 types: focal ischemic (FI), 
myopic glaucomatous (MY), senile sclerotic (SS), and generalized cup enlargement 
(GE). The progression of the NTG was assessed by the slope of the mean deviations
(MDs) obtained from the visual field results collected during the follow-up
examinations. The baseline and mean intraocular pressures (IOPs) were also
followed.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven patients were placed in the FI group, 63 into the MY group,
24 into the SS group, and 43 into the GE group. Fifty-two patients (24.9%) could 
not be classified. There were no significant differences in the percentage
reduction of the IOP among the 4 groups. The MD slope in the GE group (-0.51±0.74
dB/y) was significantly steeper than that in the other groups. Regression
analyses showed that the factors most associated with the MD slope were the age
in the FI (r, -0.495) and the GE (r=0.496) groups, and the relative reduction of 
the IOP (r=0.413) in the SS group. None of the factors in the MY group was
significantly associated with the MD slope.
CONCLUSIONS: The rate of progression of the field defects, the MD slope, in
patients with NTG is possibly dependent on the baseline optic disc appearance.
Thus, the optic disc appearance may be useful for the management of patients with
NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182182897 
PMID: 22314251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Am J Ophthalmol. 2012 May;153(5):840-849.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.10.032. Epub
2012 Feb 4.

Relationship between corneal biomechanical properties, central corneal thickness,
and intraocular pressure across the spectrum of glaucoma.

Kaushik S(1), Pandav SS, Banger A, Aggarwal K, Gupta A.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Eye Centre, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research,
Chandigarh, India.

PURPOSE: To evaluate corneal biomechanical properties across the glaucoma
spectrum and study the relationship between these measurements and intraocular
pressure measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT-IOP) and central corneal
thickness (CCT).
DESIGN: Prospective cross-sectional study.
METHODS:
SETTING: Tertiary-care teaching institute.
STUDY POPULATION: A total of 323 eyes of 323 participants (71 normal, 101
glaucoma suspect [GS], 38 ocular hypertension [OHT], 59 primary angle-closure
disease [PACD], 36 primary open-angle glaucoma [POAG], and 18 normal-tension
glaucoma [NTG]) who had received no ophthalmic treatment.
OBSERVATION PROCEDURES: Corneal hysteresis (CH), corneal resistance factor (CRF),
corneal-compensated IOP (IOPcc), and Goldmann-correlated IOP (IOPg) measured by
the Ocular Response Analyzer (ORA). GAT-IOP and CCT recorded in all subjects.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Regression analysis used to determine the relationship
between GAT-IOP, CCT, age, CRF, and CH. Bland-Altman plots used to assess
agreement between IOP measured by GAT and the ORA (IOPg).
RESULTS: CH measurements were significantly less in POAG and NTG compared to
normal subjects (P = .034 and P = .030 respectively), regardless of the IOP. The 
CRF was significantly less in NTG and maximum in POAG and OHT. Regression
analysis with CH as dependant variable showed significant association with
GAT-IOP and CRF (P < .001) but not CCT, persisting on multivariate analysis
(adjusted R(2) = 0.483). GAT-IOP correlated strongly with Goldmann-correlated IOP
on the ORA (IOPg) (r = 0.82; P < .001), but limits of agreement between the
measurements were poor.
CONCLUSIONS: CH and CRF may constitute a pressure-independent risk factor for
glaucoma. CRF appears to influence GAT-IOP measurements more than simple
geometric thickness measured by CCT. However, IOP measurements from the ORA are
not interchangeable with, and are unlikely to replace, Goldmann applanation
tonometry at the present time.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.10.032 
PMID: 22310080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Exp Eye Res. 2012 Mar;96(1):178-80. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.12.021. Epub 2012
Jan 2.

Confirmation of TBK1 duplication in normal tension glaucoma.

Kawase K, Allingham RR, Meguro A, Mizuki N, Roos B, Solivan-Timpe FM, Robin AL,
Ritch R, Fingert JH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.12.021 
PMCID: PMC3296819
PMID: 22306015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Aug;40(6):576-82. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02762.x. Epub 2012 Mar 27.

Relationship between progression of visual field damage and choroidal thickness
in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma.

Hirooka K(1), Fujiwara A, Shiragami C, Baba T, Shiraga F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, 1750-1
Ikenobe, Miki, Kagawa, Japan. kazuyk@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND:   To measure choroidal thickness in normal eyes and in patients with 
normal-tension glaucoma using enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography
and evaluate the association between choroidal thickness and progression of
visual field damage.
DESIGN:   Cross-sectional comparative study.
PARTICIPANTS:   A total of 62 eyes of 62 normal subjects and 45 eyes of 45
normal-tension glaucoma patients were examined.
METHODS:   The choroid was measured at the fovea and 3 mm nasal and temporal from
the fovea. In the separate study, both eyes of the patients with normal-tension
glaucoma were included in the analyses. Visual fields were measured with
automated perimetry. Changes in mean deviation per year (dB/year), that is, mean 
deviation slope, were calculated.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES:   Difference in the choroidal thickness between the normal
subjects and the patients with normal-tension glaucoma. The relationship between 
mean deviation slope and the choroidal thickness in eyes with normal-tension
glaucoma was analysed.
RESULTS:   Compared with normal subjects, the choroidal thickness was
significantly thinner in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma at 3 mm nasal from the
fovea (P = 0.02). There was a significant correlation between the choroidal
thickness at 3 mm nasal from the fovea and the mean deviation slope (Pearson's
r = 0.413; P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION:   The decrease in the thickness of the choroid at 3 mm nasal from the
fovea in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma may be associated with progressive
visual field loss. Thus, choroidal abnormalities may play a role in the
pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2012 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02762.x 
PMID: 22300430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Int Ophthalmol. 2012 Feb;32(1):85-8. doi: 10.1007/s10792-012-9516-6. Epub 2012
Jan 26.

Topical beta-blocker treatment for migraine.

Chiam PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Eye Unit, Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8AL, UK. 
pjtchiam@yahoo.com

Beta-blockers are a well-known prophylactic treatment for migraine; however,
treatment by the ocular route has not been widely considered. This case
illustrates the resolution of a visual field defect associated with migraine and 
improvement of symptoms possibly due to administration of a topical beta-blocker.
This novel method of treatment especially when visual field defects are present
may have a place in the management of migraine.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-012-9516-6 
PMID: 22278763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 May;90(3):e214-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02335.x.
Epub 2012 Jan 23.

Disturbed correlation between arterial resistance and pulsatility in glaucoma
patients.

Abegão Pinto L(1), Vandewalle E, Stalmans I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centro Hospitalar de Lisboa Central, Portugal.

PURPOSE: (i) To investigate whether pulsatility index (PI) and mean flow
velocities (MFV) are altered in glaucoma patients. (ii) To evaluate the
significance of PI in retrobulbar autoregulation capacity.
METHODS: Patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG; n = 49), normal tension
glaucoma (NTG; n = 62) and healthy controls (n = 48) underwent colour Doppler
imaging measurements of the retrobulbar vasculature. Kruskal-Wallis test was used
to compare variables between the three diagnostic groups. Restricted cubic
splines were used to determine nonlinearities between the resistive index (RI)
and PI correlations.
RESULTS: Mean flow velocities (MFV) were lower in both short posterior ciliary
arteries (SCPA) and central retinal arteries (CRA) from the two glaucoma groups
(p < 0.04 versus healthy controls). No differences were detected in RI or PI in
any arteries of the three diagnostic groups (p > 0.08). In healthy individuals,
correlations between RI and PI were linear in all arteries. In both POAG and NTG 
patients, CRA presented a nonlinear curve with a cutpoint at RI 0.77 (p < 0.001) 
and 0.61 (p = 0.03), respectively, above which the slope increased nearly five-
and tenfold (POAG: 1.96 to 10.06; NTG: -0.46-4.06), respectively. A nonlinear
correlation in the ophthalmic artery was only observed in NTG patients, with a
cutpoint at RI 0.82 (p < 0.001), above which the slope increased from 3.47 to
14.03.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma patients do not present the linear relationships between RI
and PI observed in healthy individuals. Their nonlinear relations may be
indicative of an altered autoregulation and suggest a possible threshold RI could
be determined above which autoregulatory disturbances become more relevant.

© 2012 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2012 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02335.x 
PMID: 22268445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Feb 21;53(2):881-7. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-7846.

Circadian (24-hour) pattern of intraocular pressure and visual field damage in
eyes with normal-tension glaucoma.

Lee YR(1), Kook MS, Joe SG, Na JH, Han S, Kim S, Shin CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan, College
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To characterize the circadian (24-hour) pattern of habitual-position
intraocular pressure (IOP) and its association with visual field (VF) damage in
eyes with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: A total of 177 eyes with NTG were examined over a 3-year period. IOP was
recorded at 8 AM, 10 AM, 12 PM, 2 PM, 4 PM, 6 PM, 8 PM, 10 PM, 12 AM, 3 AM, and 6
AM by a single, well-trained ophthalmology resident using a hand-held tonometer. 
The circadian pattern and peak hours of habitual-position IOP and seated IOP were
analyzed in all patients. Subgroup analysis was also performed, with groups
defined by the time of maximum habitual-position IOP. The relationship between
24-hour habitual-position IOP parameters and VF indices was evaluated.
RESULTS: There were 72 men and 105 women, all of whom were Koreans. Analysis of
the entire population indicated a nocturnal peak (acrophase) for
habitual-position IOP. Subgroup analysis indicated that 28 (15.8%) patients had
diurnal acrophase, 91 (51.4%) patients had nocturnal acrophase, and 58 (32.8%)
patients had no evident acrophase. There were no correlations between various
24-hour habitual-position IOP parameters and VF indices.
CONCLUSIONS: In the 177 NTG patients, there was a significant nighttime elevation
of habitual-position IOP, and nocturnal seated IOP was significantly less than
nocturnal habitual-position IOP. Subgroup analysis indicated three distinct daily
patterns of peak IOP in the patients. There was no relationship between nocturnal
elevation of habitual IOP and the magnitude of VF damage.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-7846 
PMID: 22266515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Klin Oczna. 2011;113(7-9):201-8.

Investigation into the vasospastic mechanisms in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous
neuropathy.

Terelak-Borys B(1), Czechowicz-Janicka K.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Medical Centre of Postgraduate Education, Warsaw,
Poland. kl.okulistyki@szpital-orlowskiego.pl

Spasm of blood vessels supplying the optic nerve head is considered one of
possible ischaemic mechanisms of glaucomatous optic neuropathy.PURPOSE: The aim
of the study was to evaluate the role of two potent and long-acting
vasoconstrictors: endothelin-1 (ET-1) and neuropetide Y (NPY) in the pathogenesis
of glaucoma by: 1) measurement of plasma ET-1 and NPY concentrations in primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients with high intraocular pressure (HTG patients)
and with normal intraocular pressure (NTG patients) at baseline and following
peripheral exposure to cold (cold-pressor test), 2) assessment whether changes,
if any, in the plasma concentrations of both peptides following the cold-pressor 
test correlate with visual field defects.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study was conducted in three groups of subjects: 1) HTG
patients, 2) NTG patients and 3) controls. All subjects were young and free from 
any cardiovascular disorders. ET-1 and NPY concentrations in the plasma were
measured by radioimmunoassay (ET-1: Amersham International UK, NPY: Peninsula
Laboratories INC). The cold-pressor test was performed by immersing the whole
hand in ice-cold water (4 degrees C) for 2 minutes. Visual fields were examined
using standard automated perimetry (Octopus 101, G-2 programme, normal strategy).
RESULTS: In the NTG patients the mean baseline plasma ET-1 concentration was
significantly lower and the mean baseline plasma NPY concentration significantly 
higher compared to controls. On the other hand, there were no statistically
significant differences in the mean baseline peptide levels between the HTG
patients and the control subjects. After the cold-pressor test the mean ET-1
concentrations considerably increased in the three groups. The highest increase
was seen in the NTG group and it was statistically significant compared to the
HTG group and controls. Following the cold-pressor test the mean NPY
concentration was significantly decreased in the NTG group, but remained
virtually unchanged in the HTG group and controls. In the NTG patients,
significant increase in the mean ET-1 concentration and decrease in the mean NPY 
concentration seen after the cold-pressor test were accompanied by a significant 
decrease in the mean MS (mean retinal sensitivity) value in the second eye
examined after the cold-pressor test, but no correlation was found between
changes in the MS values and changes in the ET-1 and NPY concentrations. There
were no significant changes in the mean MS values after cold-pressor test in the 
HTG patients and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest abnormal neuro-endothelial mechanisms of
vascular tone control in NTG patients, related to the effects of ET-1 and NPY,
secondary to endothelial dysfunction and to dysregulation of the autonomic
nervous system. These abnormalities may involve potentiation of the
vasoconstrictive effects of both ET-1 and NPY leading to the optic nerve head
ischaemia and subsequent development of visual field defects in the course of
normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 22256559  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2012 Mar;23(2):127-34. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32834ff2b7.

Recent clinical pearls from clinical trials in glaucoma.

Grover DS(1), Smith O.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Associates of Texas, Dallas, Texas 75231, USA.
dgrover@glaucomaassociates.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Over the past several years, numerous clinical trials in
glaucoma have contributed to our understanding of the medical and surgical
treatment of the disease. The goal of this review is to summarize the findings
and conclusions of what the authors feel are the key clinical trials in glaucoma.
RECENT FINDINGS: One of the major findings of Low-Pressure Glaucoma Treatment
study was that patients randomized to the brimonidine group were statistically
less likely to have progressive visual field loss than those randomized to the
timolol group, even though there was no significant difference between the
intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering effect of these two drugs. The Ocular
Hypertension Treatment Study has effectively demonstrated that patients with
ocular hypertension should be risk stratified prior to initiation of treatment
and that it appears to be relatively safe to delay treatment in low-risk
patients. The 3-year canaloplasty study demonstrates the long-term safety and
efficacy of this surgery. However, it also demonstrates that canaloplasty can
deliver a modest IOP reduction and therefore is likely more suited for patients
with mild damage and a higher target IOP. The 1-year results from the Ahmed
Baerveldt Comparison Study do not demonstrate a clear superiority of one implant 
over the other. These findings are consistent with prior retrospective studies in
the literature.
SUMMARY: These four studies have furthered our understanding of the field of
glaucoma and provided key insights into the medical and surgical management of
patients with this complex disease.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32834ff2b7 
PMID: 22249234  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Feb 16;53(2):779-85. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-8277.

Interactive effects of ATOH7 and RFTN1 in association with adult-onset primary
open-angle glaucoma.

Chen JH(1), Wang D, Huang C, Zheng Y, Chen H, Pang CP, Zhang M.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Shantou International Eye Center, Shantou University and the Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Shantou, China. zmz@jsiec.org

PURPOSE: Genome-wide association studies have shown association of the atonal
homolog 7 (ATOH7) and raftlin lipid raft linker 1 (RFTN1) genes with
glaucoma-related optic disc parameters. ATOH7 and RFTN1 sequence variations were 
investigated in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and their
relationships with vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR) and central corneal
thickness (CCT) were determined.
METHODS: In 289 unrelated controls and 142 patients with adult-onset POAG,
including 117 with high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and 25 with normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG), the single exon of ATOH7 was sequenced by direct sequencing.
Additional single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) at upstream ATOH7 (rs1900004 and
rs3858145) and an RFTN1 SNP (rs690037) were genotyped. Quantitative trait and
disease associations were analyzed by linear and logistic regression
respectively, controlling for sex and age.
RESULTS: ATOH7 rs61854782 was associated with VCDR (P = 0.004) in controls and
RFTN1 rs690037 was associated with CCT in combined POAG (HTG+NTG; P = 0.026). No 
coding mutation was detected in POAG, and no SNP was associated with POAG (P
between 0.441 and 0.996). However, ATOH7 rs3858145 showed significant interaction
with RFTN1 rs690037 in NTG and combined POAG (P = 0.026 and 0.013 respectively). 
ATOH7 rs3858145 GG combined with RFTN1 rs690037 TT conferred risk for glaucoma in
HTG, NTG, and combined POAG (odds ratio = 2.11, 8.44, and 2.69, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Coding mutations of ATOH7 were unlikely to be involved in POAG. But 
combination of ATOH7 and RFTN1 SNPs increased risk to POAG, indicating their
diversified effects in the complex genetics of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-8277 
PMID: 22222511  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Jan 31;53(1):483-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-8349.

2-D pattern of nerve fiber bundles in glaucoma emerging from spectral-domain
optical coherence tomography.

Garvin MK(1), Abràmoff MD, Lee K, Niemeijer M, Sonka M, Kwon YH.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Prevention and Treatment of Visual Loss, Iowa City VA Health
Care System, Iowa City, Iowa, USA. mona-garvin@uiowa.edu

PURPOSE: To correlate the thicknesses of focal regions of the macular ganglion
cell layer with those of the peripapillary nerve fiber layer using
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in glaucoma subjects.
METHODS: Macula and optic nerve head SD-OCT volumes were obtained in 57 eyes of
57 subjects with open-angle glaucoma or glaucoma suspicion. Using a custom
automated computer algorithm, the thickness of 66 macular ganglion cell layer
regions and the thickness of 12 peripapillary nerve fiber layer regions were
measured from registered SD-OCT volumes. The mean thickness of each ganglion cell
layer region was correlated to the mean thickness of each peripapillary nerve
fiber layer region across subjects. Each ganglion cell layer region was labeled
with the peripapillary nerve fiber layer region with the highest correlation
using a color-coded map.
RESULTS: The resulting color-coded correlation map closely resembled the nerve
fiber bundle (NFB) pattern of retinal ganglion cells. The mean r(2) value across 
all local macular-peripapillary correlations was 0.49 (± 0.11). When separately
analyzing the 30 glaucoma subjects from the 27 glaucoma-suspect subjects, the
mean r(2) value across all local macular-peripapillary correlations was
significantly larger in the glaucoma group (0.56 ± 0.13 vs. 0.37 ± 0.11; P <
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: A two-dimensional (2-D) spatial NFB map of the retina can be
developed using structure-structure relationships from SD-OCT. Such SD-OCT-based 
NFB maps may enhance glaucoma detection and contribute to monitoring change in
the future.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-8349 
PMCID: PMC3292380
PMID: 22222272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Ophthalmology. 2012 Jan;119(1):1-2. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2011.08.013.

Probing the floor of the optic nerve head in glaucoma.

Anderson DR.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2012 Jan;119(1):10-20.
    Ophthalmology. 2012 Jan;119(1):3-9.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2011.08.013 
PMID: 22214940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Oftalmologia. 2012;56(4):59-65.

[Normal tension glaucoma or syndrome of chronic ocular ischemia].

[Article in Romanian]

Mocanu C, Olaru A, Popa D, Deca A, Barascu D.

Chronic ischemia related to a manifest ophthalmic artery stenosis, determines
extremely rare ischemic chronic modifications at the level of the optic nerve,
with progressive optic atrophy and visual fun ction alteration. It is presented
the case of a 59 years patient, who was hospitalized in Clinic of Ophthalmology, 
Emergency Clinic Districtual Hospital, for decreased vision of the left eye.
Fundus eye examination reveals normal aspect of papilla of the right eye and
glaucomatous like modification of the left eye, confirmed by perimetry and OCT
exams, which present typical glaucomatous lesions. Doppler examination revealed
an enormous thrombus at the level of the left internal carotid, with more than
90% stenosis. In this context the diagnosis was chronic ocular ischemia, atypical
form. lschemic ocular syndrome presents polymorphic clinic aspects, the most
frequent are the ischemic lesions of posterior pole of the eye: retinal
hemorrhages, neovascularization, ischemic edema, red cherry macula, cotton-wool
spots. lschemic optic neuropathy is less frequent presented, and
pseudo-glaucomatous lesion of optic nerve with papillary excavation is
exceptional.


PMID: 23755519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 May-Jun;40(4):358-63. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02744.x. Epub 2012 Feb 20.

Genome-wide association studies in the hunt for genes causing primary open-angle 
glaucoma: a review.

Burdon KP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia,
Australia. Kathryn.burdon@flinders.edu.au

Genome-wide association studies are a powerful tool for the identification of
genetic risk factors for complex disease. This methodology has been successfully 
applied to primary open-angle glaucoma through the analysis of primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) as well as specific subgroups of patients including those with
normal tension glaucoma and advanced glaucoma. In addition, the analysis of
quantitative traits important in POAG, including optic disc area and vertical
cup-to-disc ratio has also identified genes important in POAG development. This
review explores findings of genome-wide association studies for POAG and related 
traits.

© 2011 The Author. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02744.x 
PMID: 22171998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Jul;250(7):1075-80. doi:
10.1007/s00417-011-1878-3. Epub 2011 Dec 10.

Intraocular pressure correlates with optic nerve sheath diameter in patients with
normal tension glaucoma.

Abegão Pinto L(1), Vandewalle E, Pronk A, Stalmans I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centro Hospitalar de Lisboa Central, Alameda de
Santo António dos Capuchos, Lisbon, Portugal.

PURPOSE: 1. Identify differences in optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD) as an
indirect measure of intracranial pressure (ICP) in glaucoma patients and a
healthy population. 2. Identify variables that may correlate with ONSD in primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: Patients with NTG (n = 46) and POAG (n = 61), and healthy controls
(n = 42) underwent B-scan ultrasound measurement of ONSD by an observer masked to
the patient diagnosis. Intraocular pressure (IOP) was measured in all groups,
with additional central corneal thickness (CCT) and visual field defect
measurements in glaucomatous patients. Only one eye per patient was selected.
Kruskal-Wallis or Mann-Whitney were used to compare the different variables
between the diagnostic groups. Spearman correlations were used to explore
relationships among these variables.
RESULTS: ONSD was not significantly different between healthy, NTG and POAG
patients (6.09 ± 0.78, 6.03 ± 0.69, and 5.71 ± 0.83 respectively; p = 0.08).
Visual field damage and CCT were not correlated with ONSD in either of the
glaucoma groups (POAG, p = 0.31 and 0.44; NTG, p = 0.48 and 0.90 respectively).
However, ONSD did correlate with IOP in NTG patients (r = 0.53, p < 0.001), while
it did not in POAG patients and healthy controls (p = 0.86, p = 0.46
respectively). Patient's age did not relate to ONSD in any of the groups
(p > 0.25 in all groups).
CONCLUSIONS: Indirect measurements of ICP by ultrasound assessment of the ONSD
may provide further insights into the retrolaminar pressure component in
glaucoma. The correlation of ONSD with IOP solely in NTG patients suggests that
the translaminar pressure gradient may be of particular importance in this type
of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-011-1878-3 
PMID: 22160505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


575. J Ophthalmol. 2011;2011:652904. doi: 10.1155/2011/652904. Epub 2011 Nov 3.

Retrobulbar hemodynamic effects of nipradilol in normal and normal-tension
glaucoma eyes.

Fukukita M(1), Ido M, Osawa S, Sasoh M, Furuta M, Ito K, Sugimoto M, Uji Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mie University School of Medicine, Mie 514-8507, 
Japan.

Purpose. To investigate the effects of nipradilol on retrobulbar hemodynamics.
Methods. We investigated normal and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes. Topical
nipradilol (one eye) and placebo eye drops (fellow eye) were instilled for 1 week
in volunteers. Nipradilol was also instilled in NTG patients. Ultrasound color
Doppler imaging for the posterior vessels was performed before, 2 hr, 1 week (for
normal), and at 4 weeks (for NTG). Results. In normal eyes, there were
significant decreases in the resistance index (RI) for the temporal short
posterior ciliary arteries (PCA) at 2 hr and for the ophthalmic arteries at 1
week. There were no significant changes in the placebo-treated eyes. In the NTG
eyes, there was a significant decrease in the RI for the central retinal artery, 
nasal, and temporal PCA at 2 hr and 4 weeks. Conclusion. Short-term observations 
found that nipradilol increased the ocular blood flow in normal and NTG eyes.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/652904 
PMCID: PMC3216384
PMID: 22132312  [PubMed]


576. Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Apr;96(4):544-8. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-300663.
Epub 2011 Nov 24.

Cerebrospinal fluid exchange in the optic nerve in normal-tension glaucoma.

Killer HE(1), Miller NR, Flammer J, Meyer P, Weinreb RN, Remonda L, Jaggi GP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kantonsspital Aarau, CH-5001 Aarau, Switzerland. 
killer@ksa.ch

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Oct;96(10):1348-9.
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Aug;96(8):1145-6; author reply 1146.

AIM: To report on the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) exchange between the intracranial
spaces (ie, basal cisterns) and the subarachnoid space (SAS) of the optic nerve
(ON) in subjects with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) compared with control
subjects without NTG or other forms of glaucoma.
METHODS: CT cisternography of the brain and orbits was performed in 18 patients
with NTG (7 women, 11 men; mean age 64.9 ± 8.9 years) and in four patients
without glaucoma or intracranial disease (4 women; mean age 62.8 ± 18.4 years).
The density of contrast-loaded cerebrospinal fluid (CLCSF) in the intracranial
spaces and in the SAS surrounding the ONs was measured in Hounsfield units.
STUDY DESIGN: Unmasked, prospective series. Statistical analysis was performed
using an independent two-tailed t test and the non-parametric Spearman
correlation test.
RESULTS: The density of CLCSF in the SAS surrounding the ONs in the NTG group was
significantly reduced compared with its density in the intracranial CSF spaces
and in the SAS of ONs measured in the control group (p=0.006). There were no
significant differences between men and women within the NTG group (p>0.35).
CONCLUSIONS: The finding of a difference in the concentration gradients between
the CLCSF within the intracranial spaces and the SAS of the ONs in this group of 
NTG patients compared with control subjects supports the hypothesis of a
disturbed CSF exchange between the CSF in the intracranial spaces and the CSF in 
the SAS surrounding the ONs. The disturbance of CSF dynamics in this specific CSF
pathway can be explained by ON compartmentation. The clinical importance of this 
finding warrants further investigation.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-300663 
PMID: 22116958  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


577. J Glaucoma. 2012 Oct-Nov;21(8):505-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318239c32b.

Correlation between macular thickness and glaucomatous visual fields.

Boling W(1), WuDunn D, Cantor LB, Hoop J, James M, Nukala V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute, Indiana
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of the study was to establish whether predictable structural
relationships exist between macular thickness parameters and anatomically related
visual field (VF) defects.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The optical coherence tomography (OCT) macular scans and
automated VFs of 127 eyes of 127 glaucoma patients were examined retrospectively.
The macular scan parameters recorded included the superior inner and outer
sectors and the inferior inner and outer sectors. For the VFs, the threshold
sensitivities of the central 4×4 points were recorded. The 16 points were grouped
into superior outer, superior inner, inferior inner, and inferior outer rows, and
the mean of each row was calculated. The OCT macular scan sectors and the VF rows
were compared using the Spearman correlation.
RESULTS: Statistically significant structural relationships between each macular 
parameter and its anatomically related VF defect were noted in this study.
Highest correlations were found between the inferior outer macular thickness and 
the superior outer VF region, the inferior inner macular and the superior inner
VF region, the superior inner macula and the inferior inner VF region, and the
superior outer macula and the inferior outer VF region.
CONCLUSIONS: As a predictable and significant structural relationship exists
between macular thickness and VF defects, macular scan OCT should be studied
further and considered more carefully in the diagnosis and management of
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318239c32b 
PMID: 22104726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2011 Sep;115(9):839-47.

[Relationship between the frequency of disc hemorrhage and the enlargement of
nerve fiber layer defects and the deterioration speed of visual field loss in
normal-tension glaucoma with wedge-shaped nerve fiber layer defects].

[Article in Japanese]

Nitta K(1), Sugiyama K, Tanahashi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Fukui-ken Saiseikai Hospital, Japan.

PURPOSE: To examine progressive visual field loss in relation to disc hemorrhage 
(DH) and enlarged nerve fiber layer defects (NFLDs) in normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: There were 106 eyes of 106 NTG patients (mean follow-up:
9.1 years) with well-defined NFLD borders and at least 3 years of follow-up.
Examination was performed on their rate of visual field loss (MD slope and
hemifield TD slope) and their rate of NFLD angle enlargement. For the NFLD angle,
we took color fundus photographs and converted color photos into black-white
photos extracted the blue ingredient. The midpoint between the fovea and the disc
center was determined. The center was established as the disc, and the distance
to the midpoint was established as the radius of a circle. The NFLD angle was
defined as the angle formed by the two points where this circle intersected the
NFLD and a third point which was the disc center.
RESULTS: DH was seen in 51/106 (48.1%)cases and it occurred 1.28 +/- 1.99 times. 
In the DH group, the MD slope was -0.30 dB/year, indicating a significantly
faster rate of visual field loss than that of the non-DH group (-0.13 dB/year);
the rate of NFLD enlargement was 1.90 degrees/year, indicating a significantly
faster rate than that of the non-DH group at 0.64 degrees/year. As the occurrence
of DH increased, the TD slope (r = -0.263, p = 0.0056) and the rate of NFLD
enlargement (r = 0.410, p<0.0001) increased significantly.
CONCLUSION: Examination was performed on NTG eyes with well-defined NFLD borders 
which were divided into the groups of with and without DH. The DH eyes had a
faster rate of NFLD enlargement and faster progression of visual field loss
compared with the non-DH eyes. In addition, the rate of NFLD enlargement and
progression of visual field loss increased in the cases with frequent DHs.


PMID: 22073601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2011 Sep-Oct;139(9-10):572-8.

Correlation between ocular pulse amplitude measured by dynamic contour tonometer 
and colour Doppler flow imaging of the arteric retrobulbar vessels.

Marjanović I(1), Mijajlović M, Covicković-Sternić N, Kontić D, Hentova-Senćanić
P, Marković V, Bozić M.

Author information: 
(1)Clinic of Eye Diseases, Clinical Centre of Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia.
ivanmarjanovic007@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION: An altered perfusion of the optic nerve head has been proposed as a
pathogenic factor in glaucoma.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the correlation between ocular
pulse amplitude (OPA), measured by Dynamic contour tonometer (DCT) and colour
Doppler imaging (CDI) of the arteric retrobulbar vessels.
METHODS: Twenty patients older than 50 years were examined, and divided into two 
equal groups. The first group comprised of patients with normal tension glaucoma 
treated with topical antiglaucomatous therapy, and the second group included
patients with ocular hypertension and glaucoma suspicious without any
antiglaucomatous therapy. Ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) was measured with DCT. CDI
was also performed. We measured haemodynamic parameters of the internal carotid
artery (ICA), ophthalmic artery (OA), central retinal artery (CRA), and posterior
ciliary arteries (PCA). Peak systolic (PSV), end-diastolic (EDV) velocities were 
measured, and resistance index (RI) and pulsatility index (PI) were calculated.
RESULTS: Correlation with OPA showed indirect servitude in the RI of the ICA, RI 
and PI of the CRA, in the first group; and in the PSV and EDV of the ICA, in the 
RI and PI of the OA, EDV and RI of the CRA, and RI of the PCA, in the second
group
CONCLUSION: Increase of OPA was mostly followed by the increase of the parameters
(PSV, EDV, RI, and PI) of the arteric retrobulbar vessels in the first group; in 
the second group, increase of OPA was in almost 50% of parameters followed by
their decrease.


PMID: 22069989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Clin Ophthalmol. 2011;5:1515-20. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S24058. Epub 2011 Oct 14.

Additive intraocular pressure-lowering effect of dorzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5%
fixed combination on prostaglandin monotherapy in patients with normal tension
glaucoma.

Mizoguchi T(1), Ozaki M, Wakiyama H, Ogino N.

Author information: 
(1)Mizoguchi Eye Clinic, Sasebo.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering effect of adding
dorzolamide 1.0%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination (DTFC) to prostaglandin analogs
(PGAs) as monotherapy in patients with normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: A prospective, clinical, case-controlled study of patients with normal
tension glaucoma. Patients had been on a once-daily night dose of prostaglandins 
(PGs) as monotherapy and then received DTFC added to PGs for 8 weeks. The IOP was
measured at 9 am, week 0 (baseline), week 4, and week 8.
RESULTS: The baseline IOP of 40 patients who had previously been treated by
prostaglandin monotherapy was 15.6 ± 2.0 mmHg at baseline. The IOPs at 4 and 8
weeks after adding DTFC to PGs were 13.5 ± 2.1 mmHg and 13.7 ± 2.2 mmHg,
respectively. Significant decrease of the IOP was observed at each time point of 
measurement as compared with the baseline IOP before adding DTFC (P = 0.01). The 
percent IOP reduction from the baseline IOP at week 4 and week 8 was 13.5% ±
12.3% and 11.7% ± 13.1%, respectively. The percentage of patients who achieved
10% or more IOP reduction from the baseline IOP at week 8 was 62.5%. The baseline
IOP was significantly correlated with the percent IOP reduction at week 8 (P =
0.03, r = 0.34).
CONCLUSION: DTFC therapy added to PGAs as glaucoma monotherapy is effective in
patients with normal tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S24058 
PMCID: PMC3206124
PMID: 22069355  [PubMed]


581. Curr Eye Res. 2012 Jan;37(1):1-11. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2011.622849. Epub 2011
Oct 26.

Endothelin and its suspected role in the pathogenesis and possible treatment of
glaucoma.

Shoshani YZ(1), Harris A, Shoja MM, Rusia D, Siesky B, Arieli Y, Wirostko B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana
46202, USA.

PURPOSE: To review the role of endothelin in intraocular pressure control, its
effect on the trabecular meshwork (TM) and the outflow facility, effect on ocular
blood flow and vascular regulation and the potential role of endothelin-1 (ET-1) 
antagonism in the therapeutic paradigm of glaucoma.
METHODS: A thorough review of the medical literature and a meta-analysis on the
level of ET-1 in OAG patients in an attempt to demonstrate the evolving
importance of endothelin in glaucoma.
RESULTS: ET-1 has been identified in the plasma in concentrations that are
markedly increased in a number of systemic as well as ocular pathologies such as 
glaucoma where underlying vascular dysfunction and pathology play a role. It has 
been shown that ET-1 induces human TM cell contraction in culture and that it can
affect the outflow facility. Evidence indicates that systemic ET-1 regulatory
mechanisms and vascular responses to it are also altered in glaucoma. Recently,
several endothelin antagonists have been shown to have a potential role in
glaucoma therapy. In our meta-analysis, only patients with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) (as opposed to patients with high tension glaucoma (HTG)) had
significantly higher plasma ET-1 levels compared to non-glaucomatous control.
High tension glaucomaHTG patients had significant higher levels of ET-1 in the
aqueous humor.
CONCLUSIONS: The potential role of ET-1 antagonism in the therapeutic paradigm of
glaucoma is an exciting possible new approach in the treatment of OAG patients.
In NTG, ET-1 may have both a local and systemic component of vascular
dysregulation, while whereas in HTG, the role of ET-1 may be dominantly localized
to ocular tissue.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2011.622849 
PMID: 22029631  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;152(5):880; author reply 880-1. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2011.06.019.

The rate of progression and ocular perfusion pressure in the Low-pressure
Glaucoma Treatment Study.

Quaranta L, Floriani I.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Apr;151(4):671-81.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.06.019 
PMID: 22017846  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;152(5):877; author reply 877-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2011.07.009.

A randomized trial of brimonidine versus timolol in preserving visual function:
results from the Low-pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study.

Garudadri CS, Choudhari NS, Rao HL, Senthil S.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Apr;151(4):671-81.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.07.009 
PMID: 22017843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;152(5):715-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.06.015.

Clinical evidence for neuroprotection in glaucoma.

Cordeiro MF, Levin LA.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Apr;151(4):671-81.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.06.015 
PMCID: PMC3298033
PMID: 22017839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Ophthalmology. 2012 Jan;119(1):10-20. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2011.07.033. Epub
2011 Oct 20.

Enhanced depth imaging detects lamina cribrosa thickness differences in normal
tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Park HY(1), Jeon SH, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2012 Jan;119(1):1-2.

OBJECTIVE: To confirm the advantages of the enhanced depth imaging (EDI) mode
over the standard mode of the Heidelberg Spectralis spectral domain optical
coherence tomography (SD-OCT) for imaging of the lamina cribrosa, and to compare 
laminar thicknesses of various glaucoma types with or without disc hemorrhage in 
a similar state of visual field loss.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional, case-control design.
PARTICIPANTS: We included 137 glaucoma patients and 49 healthy controls.
METHODS: Optic nerve head B-scans were obtained by both the standard and EDI
modes of the Spectralis OCT. Laminar thickness was measured at the center of
mid-superior, central, and mid-inferior horizontal B-scans. Laminar thickness in 
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) was compared with that in patients
with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). To verify the reproducibility of EDI
imaging, intraclass correlation coefficients and test-retest variability were
calculated from selected B-scans.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Laminar thickness and mean deviation values on standard
automatic perimetry.
RESULTS: The EDI OCT imaging showed significantly better intraobserver,
interobserver, intravisit, and intervisit reproducibility than those by standard 
imaging. Laminar thickness in mid-superior, central, and mid-inferior regions was
thinner in the POAG and NTG groups than in the normal control group (P<0.001).
The mid-superior, central, and mid-inferior regions of the lamina were also
significantly thinner in patients with NTG and disc hemorrhage than in those with
NTG but no disc hemorrhage.
CONCLUSIONS: The EDI mode of the Heidelberg Spectralis SD-OCT detected
differences in the lamina cribrosa by glaucoma type. The lamina cribrosa was
thinner in NTG eyes and in NTG eyes with disc hemorrhage.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest
in any of the materials discussed in this article.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2011.07.033 
PMID: 22015382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov-Dec;59(6):491-7. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.86320.

Cupped disc with normal intraocular pressure: the long road to avoid
misdiagnosis.

Choudhari NS(1), Neog A, Fudnawala V, George R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Jadhavbhai Nathamal Singhvi Glaucoma and Neuro-Ophthalmology,
Medical Research Foundation, Sankara Nethralaya, 18, College Road, Chennai,
India. nkl164@gmail.com

Comment in
    Indian J Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov-Dec;60(6):581-2.

We present a series of six patients who had been receiving treatment for normal
tension glaucoma (NTG; five patients) or primary open angle glaucoma (one
patient). All of them were found to have optic neuropathy secondary to
compression of the anterior visual pathway. Even though uncommon, compression of 
the anterior visual pathway is an important differential diagnosis of NTG.
Diagnosis of NTG should be by exclusion. Here the possible causes of misdiagnosis
are discussed. We present an approach to distinguish glaucomatous from
nonglaucomatous optic neuropathy. The article also emphasizes how important it is
for the clinicians to consider the total clinical picture, and not merely the
optic disc morphology, to avoid the mismanagement of glaucoma, especially the
NTG.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.86320 
PMCID: PMC3214422
PMID: 22011496  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Mar;40(2):218-20. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02721.x. Epub 2011 Dec 6.

Progression of normal tension glaucoma in Kearns-Sayre syndrome over 10 years.

Zarnowski T, Kosior-Jarecka E.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02721.x 
PMID: 22004289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Arch Ophthalmol. 2011 Oct;129(10):1299-304. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.249.

Nail bed hemorrhage: a clinical marker of optic disc hemorrhage in patients with 
glaucoma.

Park HY(1), Park SH, Oh YS, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the characteristics of nailfold capillary changes in
patients with glaucoma and to analyze their possible relationship to other
clinical characteristics of glaucoma.
METHODS: One hundred eight glaucoma patients and 38 control patients were
enrolled in the study. Eighty-six patients were classified as having normal
tension glaucoma and 22 patients as having primary open-angle glaucoma. All
patients underwent a complete ophthalmic examination and then a physical
examination (in the rheumatology department) and were questioned regarding a
history of systemic symptoms. Nailfold capillaroscopy was performed, and the
results were analyzed by a single observer in a masked manner. Both the χ(2) test
and multivariate logistic regression analysis were performed to determine which
ocular characteristics were associated with the findings of nailfold
capillaroscopy.
RESULTS: In the glaucoma patients, 55.6% showed dilated vessels, 35.2% showed
loss of capillaries, and 19.4% showed nail bed hemorrhages by nailfold
capillaroscopy. Disc hemorrhage was significantly associated with avascular area 
(odds ratio, 11.13; P < .001) and nail bed hemorrhage (81.59; P < .001). By
multivariate logistic regression analysis, avascular area and nail bed hemorrhage
continued to be independently associated with the presence of disc hemorrhages in
glaucoma patients. No significant differences of association were found between
patients having normal tension glaucoma and those having primary open-angle
glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Nailfold capillaroscopy may give valuable information about some
features of patients with glaucoma. Nail bed hemorrhage and loss of nail
capillaries were strongly associated with the presence of optic disc hemorrhage, 
and the association was stronger with nail bed hemorrhage. No differences were
observed between patients with normal tension glaucoma and patients with primary 
open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.249 
PMID: 21987672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Exp Eye Res. 2011 Dec;93(6):818-24. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.09.014. Epub 2011
Oct 2.

Changes in optic nerve head blood flow, visual function, and retinal histology in
hypercholesterolemic rabbits.

Shibata M(1), Sugiyama T, Hoshiga M, Hotchi J, Okuno T, Oku H, Hanafusa T, Ikeda 
T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, 2-7 Daigaku-machi,
Takatsuki, Osaka 569-8686, Japan.

We investigated the effects of hypercholesterolemia on optic nerve head (ONH)
blood flow, visual function, and retinal histology in a rabbit model.
Hypercholesterolemia was induced in rabbits by feeding them a high cholesterol
(1%) diet for 12 weeks. Changes in blood pressure, intraocular pressure (IOP),
and ONH blood flow were monitored at 6 and 12 weeks after treatment. The
autoregulation of ONH blood flow as detected by laser speckle flowgraphy was
verified by an artificial elevation of IOP at 12 weeks. Visually evoked
potentials (VEPs) were also recorded and analyzed at 6 and 12 weeks. Finally, a
histological examination as well as immunohistochemistry to endothelial nitric
oxide synthase (eNOS) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was performed.
In the hypercholesterolemic rabbits, blood pressure, IOP, and ONH blood flow did 
not alter significantly throughout this study. The autoregulation of ONH blood
flow against IOP elevation was found to be impaired at 12 weeks. The amplitudes
of the first negative peak of VEPs were diminished. Both the density of the
retinal ganglion cells and the thickness of the inner nuclear layer and
photoreceptor cell layer were reduced. Immunoreactivity to eNOS was reduced and
that to iNOS was enhanced in the hypercholesterolemic rabbits compared to those
in the normal control rabbits. The results of this study show that
hypercholesterolemia induces impairment in the autoregulation of ONH blood flow
and deterioration in visual function and histology. Downregulation of eNOS
activity might be one of the causes for impairment of the autoregulation.
Enhanced activity of iNOS might be involved in the impaired visual function and
histology.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.09.014 
PMID: 21983218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2011 Jul-Aug;139(7-8):428-32.

[Differences of optic disc appearance between normal tension and high tension
glaucoma patients].

[Article in Serbian]

Stojčić M, Hentova-Senćić P, Stojčić B.

INTRODUCTION: The term glaucoma is used to cover a wide range of diseases, whose 
main feature is optic neuropathy. According to the level of intraocular pressure 
(IOP), the open angle glaucoma is arbitrarily divided into high tension glaucoma 
(HTG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the differences of optic disc
cup appearance between patients with NTG and HTG.
METHODS: Prospective study included 30 patients (60 eyes) with NTG and 30
patients (60 eyes) with HTG. IOP was measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry. 
Examination of optic disc head was performed by indirect ophthalmoscopy with Volk
90 D superfield lens through a dilated pupil to observe qualitative and
quantitative parameters. Visual fields were examined in all patients with the
Octopus program G1, full threshold strategy (Octopus 500 EZ, Interzeag,
Switzerland).
RESULTS: Vertical form of optic disc cup was present in 11 eyes with NTG (18.3%) 
and three eyes with HTG (5%) (p < 0.05). A disc with localized tissue loss (polar
notching) on the inferior pole was observed in eight eyes with NTG (13.3%) and in
one eye with HTG (1.7%) (p < 0.01). Uniformly enlarged, round cup was more
frequent in patients with HTG than NTG: 93.3% and 68.3% respectively (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The perceived differences indicate a complex multifactorial nature of
glaucoma disease and a possible existence of two pathophysiological ways of optic
disc changes within the same basic disease.


PMID: 21980649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Curr Eye Res. 2011 Dec;36(12):1129-38. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2011.608240. Epub
2011 Oct 6.

Continuous IOP fluctuation recording in normal tension glaucoma patients.

Pajic B(1), Pajic-Eggspuchler B, Haefliger I.

Author information: 
(1)Swiss Eye Research Foundation, Eye Clinic ORASIS, Titlisstrasse, Reinach,
Switzerland. bpajic@datacomm.ch

BACKGROUND: Intraocular pressure (IOP) remains the only treatable risk factor of 
progressive glaucoma. Recently a device became available to continuously record
IOP fluctuation in contrast to classical, discreet IOP measurements.
OBJECTIVES: To perform 24-h IOP fluctuation monitoring using a CE-marked silicone
lens-embedded strain gauge sensor (SENSIMED Triggerfish) in five normal tension
glaucoma patients in the presence and absence of anti-glaucomatous treatment and 
to show the clinical importance of this diagnostic tool.
METHODS: 24-h continuous IOP fluctuation monitoring was performed on two
occasions separated by at least 6 weeks in each patient. In the control session
patients were untreated or previous IOP-lowering medication was washed-out for at
least 6 weeks. In the treatment session patients received IOP-lowering medication
for at least 6 weeks. The continuous recordings were analyzed for differences
between daytime and nighttime data and for repeatability over time. Furthermore, 
profiles recorded in each patient in treated and non-treated conditions were
compared.
RESULTS: Highly individual and repeatable profiles were obtained. Data recorded
during daytime portions of the recordings showed higher coefficients of variation
than nighttime data. Positive and significant linear slopes for the transition
period from wake time to sleep time were detected in all patients in the absence 
of anti-glaucomatous treatment, while in three patients of five no significant
slopes were detected under treated conditions.
CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that the continuous IOP fluctuation monitoring
device is sensitive to individual IOP rhythms and to differences in such rhythms 
due to anti-glaucomatous drug therapy.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2011.608240 
PMID: 21978205  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2011 Oct;25(5):323-8. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2011.25.5.323. Epub
2011 Sep 20.

Short-term effects of Ginkgo biloba extract on peripapillary retinal blood flow
in normal tension glaucoma.

Park JW(1), Kwon HJ, Chung WS, Kim CY, Seong GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, NHIC Ilsan Hospital, Goyang, Korea.
malgnnun@freechal.com

PURPOSE: Based on the vascular theory of glaucoma pathogenesis, we wanted to
evaluate the effect of Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) on peripapillary blood flow in
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Thirty patients with NTG were randomly placed in the GBE-treated or
control groups. The GBE-treated group received 80 mg GBE orally, twice a day for 
four weeks, and the control group received a placebo twice a day for four weeks. 
Complete ocular examinations including visual field, Heidelberg retina flowmeter,
and systemic examinations were performed on the first study day and on the day
treatment was completed.
RESULTS: After GBE treatment, the mean blood flow, volume, and velocity increased
at almost all points, and there was a statistically significant increase in blood
flow at almost all points, in comparison to the placebo. Blood volume
significantly increased only in the superior nasal and superior temporal
neuroretinal rim areas. GBE also significantly increased blood velocity in areas 
of the inferior temporal neuroretinal rim and superior temporal peripapillary
area.
CONCLUSIONS: GBE administration appears to have desirable effect on ocular blood 
flow in NTG patients.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2011.25.5.323 
PMCID: PMC3178766
PMID: 21976939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Acta Ophthalmol. 2013 May;91(3):288-93. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02260.x.
Epub 2011 Oct 5.

Visual field progression outcomes in glaucoma subtypes.

De Moraes CG(1), Liebmann JM, Liebmann CA, Susanna R Jr, Tello C, Ritch R.

Author information: 
(1)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York,
NY, USA. demoraesmd@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To determine whether glaucoma subtype is an independent risk factor for 
visual field (VF) progression.
METHODS: We reviewed the charts of glaucoma suspects and glaucoma patients seen
in a referral practice between 1999 and 2009. Automated pointwise linear
regression analysis determined the rates of VF change. A progression endpoint was
determined when two or more adjacent test locations in the same hemifield showed 
a threshold sensitivity decline at a rate of ≥1.0 dB/year with p < 0.01.
RESULTS: We included 841 eyes (841 patients; mean age, 64.1 ± 12.6 years; mean
number of VF tests, 10.8 ± 2.8; mean follow-up, 6.4 ± 1.7 years). The
glaucomatous group consisted of angle-closure glaucoma (76 eyes), juvenile
primary open-angle glaucoma (37 eyes), normal-tension glaucoma (81 eyes),
pigmentary glaucoma (34 eyes), primary open-angle glaucoma (275 eyes) and
exfoliative glaucoma (XFG, 84 eyes). Normal-tension glaucoma eyes were more
likely to present with beta-zone parapapillary atrophy and disc haemorrhage (p < 
0.01). Exfoliative glaucoma eyes had the fastest rates of global VF change (-0.65
dB/year), as well as the highest mean, fluctuation, and peak intraocular pressure
during follow-up (16.5, 3.0 and 22.0 mmHg, respectively) and reached a
progression endpoint more frequently (40%). After adjusting for all covariates,
including the glaucoma phenotype, there was no difference among groups regarding 
global rates of VF change and the risk of reaching a progression endpoint.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite different clinical features, epidemiology and genetics,
glaucoma phenotype is not an independent risk factor for VF progression. Rather, 
variations in well-known, reported risk factors remain important disease
parameters that affect progression.

© 2011 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2011 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02260.x 
PMID: 21974913  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Clin Ophthalmol. 2011;5:1211-6. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S23233. Epub 2011 Aug 26.

Effect of five years of treatment with nipradilol eye drops in patients with
normal tension glaucoma.

Inoue K(1), Noguchi K, Wakakura M, Tomita G.

Author information: 
(1)Inouye Eye Hospital, Toho University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of topical
nipradilol monotherapy for 5 years on intraocular pressure, visual field
performance, and optic disk topography.
METHODS: Thirty patients with normal tension glaucoma were monitored for
intraocular pressure every 1-3 months. A Humphrey visual field test and
measurement of optic disk configuration using the Heidelberg retina tomograph II 
was done after every year of treatment and the results compared with those before
treatment. Visual field performance was also evaluated by trend and event
analysis.
RESULTS: The mean intraocular pressure ± standard deviation after 3 years of
nipradilol treatment (14.1 ± 2.0 mmHg) and after 5 years of nipradilol treatment 
(13.7 ± 2.1 mmHg) was significantly lower than that before treatment (17.0 ± 1.8 
mmHg, P < 0.0001). Heidelberg retina tomograph II parameters, such as mean cup
depth and height variation contour after treatment, were significantly increased 
compared with those before treatment. Visual field performance worsened in eight 
eyes by trend analysis and eight eyes by event analysis.
CONCLUSION: Nipradilol monotherapy was effective in reducing intraocular pressure
over at least 5 years without worsening of optic disk topography. Furthermore,
mean cup depth and height variation contour were also significantly improved.
However, visual field performance worsened in 16.0% of patients with normal
tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S23233 
PMCID: PMC3180485
PMID: 21966188  [PubMed]


595. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Nov 17;52(12):8849-61. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-7591.

Histopathology of the trabecular meshwork and Schlemm's canal in primary
angle-closure glaucoma.

Hamanaka T(1), Kasahara K, Takemura T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Japanese Red Cross Medical Center, 4-1-22 Hiroo, 
Shibuyaku, Tokyo 150-8935, Japan. hamanaka_teruhiko@med.jrc.or.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate the detailed histopathology of trabecular meshwork
changes associated with primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG).
METHODS: Thirty trabecular blocks obtained from trabeculectomy (TLE) of 25 PACG
patients were embedded in paraffin for immunohistochemical staining of
thrombomodulin, CD68, D2-40, and epon for transmission electron microscopy.
Eleven TLE blocks obtained from normal-tension glaucoma patients were used as a
control. Histologic changes of outflow routes were analyzed by comparing the
existence of iridotomy, gonioscopy-evaluated angle closure, intraocular pressure 
(IOP), episodes of acute attack, visual field defect classified by Aulhorn-Greve,
anterior chamber depth, lens thickness, and axial length.
RESULTS: Occlusion of the Schlemm's canal (SC) of <150 μm was observed in 11
eyes, which significantly correlated with gonioscopy-evaluated angle closure (T =
19.33 > χ² (f,α) = 9.488). Moderate correlation between SC occlusion and IOP
before TLE was also observed (correlation coefficient: -0.540). Slightly negative
or no correlations were found between SC occlusion and the other parameters.
Thinned SC endothelium at the junction or degenerated SC endothelium and various 
degrees of SC occlusion and fusion of the trabecular beams where trabecular cells
degenerated with damaged mitochondria were the general findings in the PACG eyes 
involved in this study.
CONCLUSIONS: Persistent trabecular-iris contact or peripheral anterior synechia
may block aqueous outflow resulting in a progressive process of SC endothelial
damage and subsequent SC occlusion, as well as trabecular cell damage possibly
due to impairment of mitochondrial function and subsequent fusion of the
trabecular beams. These changes may be the reason for residual glaucoma after
laser iridotomy or cataract surgery.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-7591 
PMID: 21960557  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Mar;90(2):e132-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02255.x.
Epub 2011 Sep 28.

Conjunctival findings in hyperbaric and low-tension glaucoma: an in vivo confocal
microscopy study.

Agnifili L(1), Carpineto P, Fasanella V, Mastropasqua R, Zappacosta A, Di Staso
S, Costagliola C, Mastropasqua L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Ageing Sciences, Ophthalmic Clinic, University of
Chieti-Pescara, Italy. l.agnifili@unich.it

PURPOSE: To analyse the epithelial features of the bulbar conjunctiva in
hyperbaric and low-tension glaucoma (LTG) using in vivo confocal microscopy
(IVCM).
METHODS: Thirty-six eyes of 36 patients [18 affected by primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) and 18 with LTG] were studied; control group was constituted by
28 eyes of 28 healthy subjects. All eyes were examined using digital confocal
laser-scanning microscopy (HRT II Rostock Cornea Module). The main IVCM outcome
measurements were mean density (MMD: cysts/mm(2)) and mean total area (MMA:
μm(2)) of the epithelial microcysts.
RESULTS: The mean intraocular pressure level (mmHg ± SD) was 15.1 ± 1.7, 16.3 ±
3.1 and 12.6 ± 1.8 in healthy, POAG and LTG eyes, respectively. Conjunctival
microcysts were found in all patients and subjects: for healthy subjects, MMD =
10.9 ± 11.1 cysts/mm(2) and MMA = 1501.9 ± 1191.1 μm(2); for patients infected
with POAG, MMD = 36.8 ± 28.6 cysts/mm(2) and MMA = 7904.8 ± 7050.5 μm(2); and for
patients infected with LTG MMD = 45.6 ± 29.0 cysts/mm(2) and MMA =7946.9 ± 5227.5
μm(2). MMD and MMA were not significantly different between patients infected
with POAG and those with LTG, whereas they were significantly greater in patients
(fourfold and fivefold, respectively) than healthy subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated that conjunctival microcysts
represent an in vivo feature in all eyes with medically controlled POAG and LTG. 
Therefore, conjunctiva deserves careful analysis, because its accurate
microscopic definition could help clarify the pathophysiology of aqueous outflow 
in glaucoma.

© 2011 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2011 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02255.x 
PMID: 21955651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Saudi J Ophthalmol. 2011 Oct;25(4):373-9. doi: 10.1016/j.sjopt.2011.09.001. Epub 
2011 Sep 16.

The profile of glaucoma in a Tertiary Ophthalmic University Center in Riyadh,
Saudi Arabia.

Al Obeidan SA(1), Dewedar A, Osman EA, Mousa A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, King Saud University,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

PURPOSE: To report the pattern of glaucoma among Saudi patients who were
presented to King Abdul Aziz University Hospital (KAUH).
METHODS: All glaucoma or glaucoma suspect patients who were presented to KAUH
from 2006 to 2008 were included; medical files of all patients were retrieved and
evaluated through standardized international guidelines. Collected data included:
age, sex, laterality, intraocular pressure, and cup/disk ratio. Prevalence of
different glaucoma types (including 95% CI) was calculated, ANOVA and post hoc
tests were applied to evaluate the difference in indices across different types.
RESULTS: A total of 2296 eyes of 1236 patients were included. Primary angle
closure glaucoma (PACG) was the predominant type (46.6%) followed by primary
angle closure (PAC) (17.2%), then primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) (12.8%), and
secondary glaucoma (13%). Other types including (normal tension glaucoma (5.9%), 
childhood glaucoma (2.6%), and juvenile glaucoma (1.9%)) were also present but of
lower prevalence.
CONCLUSION: Primary angle closure glaucoma was the predominant form of glaucoma
followed by PAC, and POAG suggesting that the pattern in Saudi Arabia could be
quite different from that reported for primary glaucomas in the Western
literature. In addition, pseudoexfoliation was the most common form of secondary 
open and closed angle glaucoma. These results indicate the need for a national
intervention program for early detection and referral of glaucoma cases in order 
to prevent significant visual loss. There is also a need for a community based
assessment to determine the prevalence of glaucoma as a baseline for future
intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjopt.2011.09.001 
PMCID: PMC3729326
PMID: 23960951  [PubMed]


598. J Glaucoma. 2013 Feb;22(2):104-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182312047.

Aqueous vascular endothelial growth factor and endothelin-1 levels in branch
retinal vein occlusion associated with normal tension glaucoma.

Sin BH(1), Song BJ, Park SP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kangdong Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym University
Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate aqueous levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) 
and endothelin-1 (ET-1) in patients with branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO)
with and without normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and to assess the therapeutic
efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) in these patients.
METHODS: Sixteen eyes with NTG of 48 age and sex-matched eyes without NTG that
had previously received IVB for BRVO were followed for 6 months. Aqueous VEGF and
ET-1 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay at the time of
baseline IVB. Logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution best corrected visual 
acuity (BCVA) and central macular thickness (CMT) were measured at baseline and
then at 1, 3, and 6 months postinjection.
RESULTS: The obstruction site of BRVO was closer to the optic disk in eyes with
NTG compared with controls (P=0.001). Baseline BCVA, CMT, and VEGF levels were
similar between the 2 groups. Baseline ET-1 levels were significantly higher in
eyes with NTG than those without NTG (P=0.009). After IVB, there was a
significant improvement in both BCVA and CMT at 6 months, irrespective of the
presence of NTG. However, BCVA in the presence of NTG was significantly worse at 
6 months compared with eyes without NTG even though CMT was similarly reduced in 
both groups (P=0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Aqueous VEGF levels are similar in patients with BRVO with or
without NTG, whereas aqueous ET-1 levels are elevated in the presence of NTG.
Although IVB may be effective in the treatment of BRVO, the presence of NTG may
limit visual recovery despite anatomic recovery of CMT.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182312047 
PMID: 21946550  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Glaucoma. 2013 Feb;22(2):117-22. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31822e8c65.

Association between plasma endothelin-1 and severity of different types of
glaucoma.

Chen HY(1), Chang YC, Chen WC, Lane HY.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medical Science, China Medical University.
hsin7850@url.com.tw

PURPOSE: Endothelin-1 (ET-1) has been suggested to play an important role in the 
pathogenesis of glaucoma. Herein, we studied whether increased levels of plasma
ET-1 are associated with changes in the visual field and changes in optical
coherence tomography (OCT)-measured retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness in
patients with different types of glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: : Plasma concentration of ET-1 was determined in 31
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, 18 patients with normal tension
glaucoma, 16 patients with primary angle-closure glaucoma, and in 37 normal
controls. In all participants, visual field testing was performed and OCT was
used to measure RNFL thickness. The correlation between mean ET-1 level and
changes in the visual field (mean deviation, dB) and changes in OCT-measured RNFL
thickness in 1 randomly selected eye from each patient in each group was then
evaluated.
RESULTS: The ET-1 level was 3.27±1.25 pg/mL in the primary open-angle glaucoma
group (-14.09±8.76 dB), 3.12±1.46 pg/mL in the normal tension glaucoma group
(-8.87±6.15 dB), 2.58±.22pg/mL in the primary angle-closure glaucoma group
(-14.55±10.2 dB), and 1.53±1.49 pg/mL in the control group. Although mean ET-1
levels were significantly higher in all 3 of the glaucoma groups than in the
control group, there was no significant difference in ET-1 level among the 3
glaucoma groups. In addition, no significant correlation was found between levels
of plasma ET-1 and structural or functional changes in patients with different
types of glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: : There was no correlation between plasma levels of ET-1 and
severity of glaucoma. The role ET-1 plays in the pathogenesis of glaucoma remains
to be determined.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31822e8c65 
PMID: 21946544  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Mol Vis. 2011;17:2343-8. Epub 2011 Aug 31.

Toll-like receptor 4 gene polymorphisms do not associate with normal tension
glaucoma in a Korean population.

Suh W(1), Kim S, Ki CS, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) gene
polymorphisms with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in the South Korean population.
METHODS: A total of 147 normal tension glaucoma patients in South Korea were
recruited from April, 2007 to August, 2008. Allele, genotype, and haplotype of 8 
different types of TLR4 single nucleotide polymorphisms were analyzed:
rs10759930, rs1927914, rs1927911, rs12377632, rs2149356, rs11536889, rs7037117,
and rs7045953. Three hundred eighty healthy, unrelated South Korean adults were
enrolled as controls.
RESULTS: Frequencies of the TLR4 allele did not show any statistically
significant difference between normal tension glaucoma patients and the control
group (p>0.00625). The same results were observed in genotype frequency analysis.
In addition, no statistically significant difference was observed in the
frequency of haplotypes in cases of normal tension glaucoma when compared with
controls.
CONCLUSIONS: TLR4 single nucleotide polymorphisms are not associated with normal 
tension glaucoma. Findings from this study suggest that TLR4 polymorphisms may
not play an important role in NTG pathogenesis in the South Korean population.


PMCID: PMC3171501
PMID: 21921986  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Helicobacter. 2011 Sep;16 Suppl 1:65-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2011.00883.x.

Extragastric manifestations of Helicobacter pylori infection.

Suzuki H(1), Franceschi F, Nishizawa T, Gasbarrini A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. hsuzuki@a6.keio.jp

In the previous year, some extragastric diseases, possibly linked to Helicobacter
pylori infection, have been largely investigated. There are, in fact, several
studies concerning cardiovascular diseases, lung diseases, hematologic diseases, 
eye and skin diseases, hepatobiliary diseases, diabetes mellitus, and
neurological disorders. Among them, the relationship between bacterial CagA
positivity and coronary heart disease is reportedly emphasized. Concerning normal
tension glaucoma, new interesting data are playing in favor of the association
with H. pylori infection. For other diseases, there are many interesting results,
although more studies are needed to clarify the reality of the proposed
association.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2011.00883.x 
PMID: 21896088  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Feb;90(1):e48-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02242.x.
Epub 2011 Sep 13.

Corneal biomechanical properties in normal-tension glaucoma.

Morita T(1), Shoji N, Kamiya K, Fujimura F, Shimizu K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kitasato University School of Medicine,
Sagamihara, Kanagawa, Japan. tamosace@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To investigate the intraocular pressure (IOP) and corneal biomechanical 
properties of normal and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes.
METHODS: This study included 83 normal and 83 NTG eyes. We measured
corneal-compensated IOP (IOPcc), Goldmann-correlated IOP (IOPg), corneal
resistance factor (CRF), corneal hysteresis (CH) and central corneal thickness
(CCT) three times each for normal and NTG eyes using an Ocular Response Analyzer 
(ORA).
RESULTS: No significant difference in CCT was seen between normal eyes (541.4 ±
26.8 μm) and NTG eyes (535.4 ± 24.9 μm; p = 0.16). IOPcc was significantly higher
in NTG eyes (16.1 ± 2.6 mmHg) than in normal eyes (15.1 ± 2.9 mmHg; p = 0.01),
while IOPg was significantly lower in NTG eyes (14.1 ± 2.7 mmHg) than in normal
eyes (15.1 ± 3.0 mmHg; p = 0.04). CRF and CH were significantly lower in NTG eyes
(CRF, 8.9 ± 1.5 mmHg; CH, 9.2 ± 1.3 mmHg) than in normal eyes (CRF, 10.6 ± 1.4
mmHg; CH, 10.8 ± 1.3 mmHg; p < 0.0001 each).
CONCLUSION: IOPcc was significantly higher in NTG eyes than in normal eyes. The
ORA may be useful for distinguishing between the IOPcc of NTG eyes with normal
IOP and that of normal eyes. In addition, the ORA enables CRF and CH to be
measured in vivo, and weakness of the lamina cribrosa may be clinically inferred 
from the fact that CRF and CH were reduced in NTG eyes in our study. Low CRF and 
CH may be clues to the pathology of NTG.

© 2011 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2011 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02242.x 
PMID: 21914145  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Arch Ophthalmol. 2011 Sep;129(9):1205-11. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.242.

Novel software strategy for glaucoma diagnosis: asymmetry analysis of retinal
thickness.

Asrani S(1), Rosdahl JA, Allingham RR.

Author information: 
(1)Duke Eye Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA. asran002@mc.duke.edu

The benefits of high-speed, detailed retinal thickness measurement by
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in glaucoma diagnosis have not been 
fully realized. We have modified the software protocols for such measurement and 
applied it for diagnosis at different stages of glaucoma. Using the Spectralis
SD-OCT (Heidelberg Engineering, Carlsbad, California), we have customized the
retinal thickness protocol to acquire detailed retinal thickness measurements of 
the central 20° of the posterior pole. These custom maps are displayed in a
compressed color scale that reveals small losses in retinal thickness. A novel
asymmetry analysis protocol was created to highlight differences between the eyes
and the 2 hemispheres within each eye. We present case examples illustrating the 
ability of this strategy to detect glaucomatous defects, showing the promise of
the protocol in the diagnosis and management of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.242 
PMID: 21911669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 May-Jun;40(4):e237-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02702.x. Epub 2011 Nov 4.

Carnitine palmitoyl transferase II deficiency: a possible association with
progression of normal pressure glaucoma.

Singh R, Dubey R, Montfort J, Jeffries M, Agar A, Bank A, McNaught P, Francis IC.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02702.x 
PMID: 21902793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Int Ophthalmol. 2011 Oct;31(5):355-61. doi: 10.1007/s10792-011-9463-7. Epub 2011 
Sep 8.

Intraocular pressure reduction in normal-tension glaucoma patients in South
Korea.

Ma KT(1), Kim CY, Seong GJ, Lee SH, Park JW, Ha SJ, Cho BJ, Stewart JA,
Kristoffersen MS, Nelson LA, Stewart WC.

Author information: 
(1)Siloam Eye Hospital, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, South Korea.

To evaluate the potential benefit of intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients in South Korea. A retrospective,
multi-center analysis of Korean NTG patients with 5-years follow-up, typical
glaucomatous optic disc and/or visual field changes and no recorded IOP >21 mmHg.
Progression was identified by Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study visual field
scoring. There were 90 (42%) progressed patients and 127 (58%) stable patients
included in the study. Mean IOP measured higher in the progressed
(14.3 ± 2.2 mmHg) than stable patients (14.0 ± 1.9 mmHg), but was not
statistically different between the groups (P = 0.29). The mean IOP that best
discriminated stable patients was ≤15 mmHg, but no statistical difference existed
in the numbers of progressed versus stable patients at ≤15 mmHg compared to
>15 mmHg (P = 0.07). Multivariate regression analysis showed that the baseline
number of glaucoma medicines and visual field as well as mean, peak and
fluctuation of IOP were significant risk factors for glaucomatous progression
(P < 0.01). This study suggests that in Korean NTG patients, despite relatively
similar IOPs between progressed and stable patients, and based on multivariate
regression analysis, IOP may be a risk factor for glaucomatous progression.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-011-9463-7 
PMID: 21901560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 May-Jun;40(4):e183-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02669.x. Epub 2011 Oct 20.

Clock-hour laminar displacement and age in primary open-angle glaucoma and normal
tension glaucoma.

Rho CR(1), Park HY, Lee NY, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: To find out the relationship between laminar displacement and age
between patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma.
DESIGN: Retrospective study conducted at a tertiary university hospital.
PARTICIPANTS OR SAMPLES: Twenty-six eyes of 26 primary open-angle glaucoma
patients and 52 eyes of 52 normal tension glaucoma patients.
METHODS: Patients were scanned with a Stratus optical coherence tomography
apparatus to measure the retinal nerve fibre layer thickness and to visualize the
cross-sectional laminar displacement of 12 clock-hour segments, 30 degrees each. 
Depth1 was defined as the longest distance between the retinal pigment epithelium
and the anterior laminar cribrosa surface, which represents the amount of laminar
displacement.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Partial correlation coefficients adjusted by mean deviation
and intraocular pressure between (i) retinal nerve fibre layer thickness and age,
and (ii) Depth1 and age.
RESULTS: In the primary open-angle glaucoma group, strong negative correlations
(approximately -0.343 ≈ -0.738) were found between Depth1 and age. Eight of 12
clock-hour segments' correlations were significant after Bonferroni correction (α
= 0.0021; 24 comparisons). However, no significant correlations were found
between Depth1 and age in the normal tension glaucoma group. When the correlation
coefficients were compared between the two groups, eight clock-hour segments
showed significant differences after Bonferroni correction.
CONCLUSIONS: The significantly different correlation between laminar displacement
and age between primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma patients 
may suggest a different role of the lamina cribrosa to the disease.

© 2011 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02669.x 
PMID: 21875431  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;55(6):605-13. doi: 10.1007/s10384-011-0082-7. Epub
2011 Aug 27.

Efficacy and safety of tafluprost in normal-tension glaucoma with intraocular
pressure of 16 mmHg or less.

Nakano T(1), Yoshikawa K, Kimura T, Suzumura H, Nanno M, Noro T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Jikei University School of Medicine, 3-19-18 
Nishi-Shinbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8461, Japan. tnakano@jikei.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP)-reducing effects and safety
of 0.0015% tafluprost ophthalmic solution (tafluprost) in normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) patients with an IOP of 16 mmHg or less.
METHODS: NTG patients with a baseline IOP of 16 mmHg or less were enrolled for a 
one-eye study in which tafluprost was applied once daily for 12 weeks. The
presence of adverse drug reactions and the cumulative incidence of adverse events
were also investigated.
RESULTS: Among the 44 enrolled patients, 41/44 (93.2%) eyes completed the study. 
The baseline IOP was 13.2 ± 1.3 mmHg in the study eyes and 13.0 ± 1.3 mmHg in the
fellow eyes, which was not statistically significant (P = 0.9173, Student's t
test). The values obtained for IOP in the study eyes versus fellow eyes were 10.2
± 1.6 versus 12.1 ± 1.5 mmHg at week 12. The IOP difference between the study
eyes and the fellow eyes was statistically significant (P < 0.0001, Student's t
test). The cumulative incidence of adverse events was 58.5% by week 12. Ocular
itching was the most frequently observed adverse event (29.3%). All adverse
events were clinically tolerable.
CONCLUSIONS: Tafluprost induced significant IOP reductions in NTG patients with a
baseline IOP of 16 mmHg or less without raising any safety concerns.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-011-0082-7 
PMID: 21874307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Hum Mol Genet. 2011 Dec 1;20(23):4707-13. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddr382. Epub 2011 Aug 
26.

Common variants near CAV1 and CAV2 are associated with primary open-angle
glaucoma in Caucasians from the USA.

Wiggs JL(1), Kang JH, Yaspan BL, Mirel DB, Laurie C, Crenshaw A, Brodeur W,
Gogarten S, Olson LM, Abdrabou W, DelBono E, Loomis S, Haines JL, Pasquale LR;
GENEVA Consortium.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, MA 02114,
USA. janey_wiggs@meei.harvard.edu

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a genetically complex common disease
characterized by progressive optic nerve degeneration that results in
irreversible blindness. Recently, a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for POAG
in an Icelandic population identified significant associations with single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) between the CAV1 and CAV2 genes on chromosome
7q31. In this study, we confirm that the identified SNPs are associated with POAG
in our Caucasian US population and that specific haplotypes located in the
CAV1/CAV2 intergenic region are associated with the disease. We also present data
suggesting that associations with several CAV1/CAV2 SNPs are significant mostly
in women.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddr382 
PMCID: PMC3209825
PMID: 21873608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Am J Ophthalmol. 2012 Jan;153(1):10-6.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.05.037. Epub
2011 Aug 23.

Evaluation of the choroidal thickness using high-penetration optical coherence
tomography with long wavelength in highly myopic normal-tension glaucoma.

Usui S(1), Ikuno Y, Miki A, Matsushita K, Yasuno Y, Nishida K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine,
Suita, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the choroidal thickness by high-penetration optical
coherence tomography (OCT) using long wavelength in highly myopic normal-tension 
glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Cross-sectional retrospective study.
METHODS:
SETTINGS: Institutional.
PARTICIPANTS: Twelve eyes from 8 patients under 45 years old, diagnosed as NTG
without any other ocular diseases, spherical equivalent refractive error between 
-6 and -12 diopters, and axial length greater than 26.5 mm; and 12 eyes of
matched healthy volunteers.
INTERVENTION: Choroid was imaged with prototype high-penetration OCT and its
thickness was measured.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Choroidal thickness at the fovea and 5 locations: 2 mm
superior, temporal, and inferior to the center of the optic nerve head, and 2 mm 
superior (superotemporal) and 2 mm inferior (inferotemporal) to the temporal
location.
RESULTS: Overall, the choroidal thickness in the NTG group was approximately 50% 
that in controls. Mean choroidal thickness in the NTG group was significantly
thinner in the control group at the fovea (166 vs 276 μm, P < .001), superior
(172 vs 241 μm, P < 0.05), superotemporal (161 vs 244 μm, P < .01), temporal (110
vs 161 μm, P < .01), and inferotemporal (115 vs 159 μm, P < .05) to the optic
nerve head. Stepwise analysis disclosed that the foveal choroidal thickness is
the most influential factor on the occurrence of NTG (P < .0001, R(2) = 0.4).
CONCLUSIONS: Choroidal thickness in highly myopic NTG is significantly thinner
than in controls, at least in some specific locations. Choroidal thinning is
somehow related with highly myopic NTG and may be a useful diagnostic parameter
for myopic NTG.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.05.037 
PMID: 21864827  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;249(11):1721-7. doi:
10.1007/s00417-011-1779-5. Epub 2011 Aug 20.

Evaluation of the relationship between quality of vision and the visual function 
index in Japanese glaucoma patients.

Sawada H(1), Fukuchi T, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University Medical and Dental Hospital,
Niigata, 951-8510, Japan. hanako057@yahoo.co.jp

BACKGROUND: We compared two types of visual field index including mean deviation 
(MD) and the visual field index (VFI) for assessing the relationship between
quality of life (QOL) and the loss of visual field in open-angle glaucoma
patients.
METHODS: We examined 336 eyes of 168 consecutive glaucoma patients. All
participants completed the Japanese version of the 25-item National Eye Institute
Visual Function Questionnaire (NEI VFQ-25). Visual field testing using the
Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA) was performed to obtain both MD and VFI in the
bilateral eyes of each patient. We defined eyes of better MD or VFI as the better
eye and the fellow eyes as the worse eye. Visual field data and scores of NEI
VFQ-25 were compared between patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). A single linear regression
analysis was applied to assess the significance of the relationship between QOL
and visual field, and to compare the strength of correlations between MD and the 
VFI. An unpaired t test was used for the comparison the data between NTG and
POAG.
RESULTS: A significant relationship was observed between QOL and visual field in 
nine subscales and the composite in both the better eye and the worse eye. The
relationship was stronger in the better eye than in the worse eye. The
correlation coefficients of the VFI were slightly higher than those of MD
overall. The highest correlation coefficients were demonstrated in ten subscales 
and the composite in the better eye of the VFI. Only the score for general vision
was significantly higher in NTG patients than POAG patients.
CONCLUSIONS: A significant relationship was found between QOL and both the VFI
and MD, but the VFI had a marginally better correlation than that of MD. While
QOL was better related with visual field loss in the better eye than in the worse
eye, the difference was not large. Not much of a difference was found in the
status of QOL between NTG patients and POAG patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-011-1779-5 
PMID: 21858466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Med Hypotheses. 2011 Nov;77(5):827-31. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.07.047. Epub 2011
Aug 19.

An hypothesis on pressure transmission from anterior chamber to optic nerve.

Gerometta R(1), Escobar D, Candia OA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Oftalmología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Nacional Del
Nordeste (UNNE), Corrientes, Argentina.

Few studies have characterized how pressure in the anterior chamber (AC) of the
eye is transmitted via the vitreous to the vitreous-ganglion cell interface. We
are aware of only one study that simultaneously measured the pressures in the AC 
and vitreous humor; and of only one study that simultaneously measured the
pressures in the AC and the suprachoroidal space (SCS). The pressure in the AC is
defined as the intraocular pressure (IOP), which when elevated beyond
statistically normal limits is a recognized risk factor for glaucoma, a malady
best described as an optic neuropathy with degeneration and eventual death of the
retinal ganglion cells (GC's) and highly characteristic changes in the optic
nerve head (ONH). Most investigators currently believe that the prevalent risk
factor for GC apoptosis is ocular hypertension, but no one has demonstrated how
an increase in IOP in the AC is transmitted to the GC's. In patients with primary
open angle glaucoma, the pressure in the AC increases due to an increase in the
resistance of the trabecular meshwork (TM) outflow pathway. We questioned how
such increased pressure in the AC would be transmitted to the GC to produce the
changes in the ONH seen in glaucoma. Based on our preliminary data and purview of
the literature, we hypothesize that a pressure increase originating in the AC is 
likely transmitted via both the SCS and the vitreous, with transmission via the
former pathway probably most efficient in affecting the GC. Independently of the 
mechanism that produces GC apoptosis, the ones that are first affected, as
repeatedly shown by visual field tests, are the most peripheral ones; i.e., those
whose axons are the most external as they form the ONH and enter the lamina
cribrosa. There are no published reports explaining this peculiarity. The dogma
is that the pressure transmitted via the vitreous is higher at the periphery
because it is transmitted across a shorter distance, since the vitreous acts as a
buffer that absorbs part of the pressure being transmitted. We propose that IOP
is not only transmitted via the vitreous but also via the SCS. Increases in IOP
could be efficiently applied via the SCS to the most external axons of the ONH as
they leave the eye. Our hypothesis can also explain low-tension glaucoma in which
the most peripheral GC's are also affected first, because pressure is transmitted
without decay due to a reduced uveoscleral (UVS) flow.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.07.047 
PMCID: PMC3713462
PMID: 21855227  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Dec;152(6):989-998.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.04.030.

The association between glaucomatous and other causes of optic neuropathy and
sleep apnea.

Stein JD(1), Kim DS, Mundy KM, Talwar N, Nan B, Chervin RD, Musch DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, USA. jdstein@med.umich.edu

PURPOSE: To determine whether an association exists between sleep apnea and
open-angle glaucoma, normal-tension glaucoma, nonarteritic ischemic optic
neuropathy (NAION), papilledema, or idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH)
and whether treatment with continuous positive airway pressure affects the
development of these conditions.
DESIGN: Retrospective, longitudinal cohort study.
METHODS: Billing records for beneficiaries 40 years of age and older enrolled in 
a large United States managed care network from 2001 through 2007 were reviewed. 
Incidence of open-angle glaucoma, normal-tension glaucoma, NAION, papilledema,
and IIH were determined for the beneficiaries and were stratified by sleep apnea 
status. Cox regression analyses determined the hazard of each of these conditions
developing among individuals with and without sleep apnea, with adjustment for
sociodemographic, ocular, and medical conditions.
RESULTS: Among the 2 259 061 individuals in the study, 156 336 (6.9%) had 1 or
more sleep apnea diagnoses. The hazard of open-angle glaucoma was no different
among persons with sleep apnea either treated (adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 0.99; 
95% confidence interval [CI], 0.82 to 1.18) or untreated with continuous positive
airway pressure (HR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.98 to 1.05) and individuals without sleep
apnea. Similar findings were observed when assessing the hazard of normal-tension
glaucoma developing (P > .05 for both comparisons). A significantly increased
hazard of NAION developing (HR, 1.16; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.33) and IIH (HR, 2.03;
95% CI, 1.65 to 2.49) was observed among individuals with sleep apnea who were
not receiving continuous positive airway pressure therapy as compared with
individuals without sleep apnea, although similar increased risks could not be
demonstrated among continuous positive airway pressure-treated sleep apnea
patients for these conditions (P > .05 for both comparisons).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with untreated sleep apnea are at increased risk for IIH
and NAION. Clinicians should consider appropriate screening for these conditions 
in sleep apnea patients.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.04.030 
PMCID: PMC3223261
PMID: 21851924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Mol Vis. 2011;17:2157-70. Epub 2011 Aug 11.

Development of spontaneous neuropathy in NF-κBp50-deficient mice by
calcineurin-signal involving impaired NF-κB activation.

Nakamura-Yanagidaira T(1), Takahashi Y, Sano K, Murata T, Hayashi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shinshu University Graduate School of Medicine,
Nagano, Japan.

PURPOSE: The transcriptional regulator, nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB)/Rel family
are involved in neuronal cell death and survival. Previously, we reported that
NF-κBp50-deficient (p50-deficient) mice exhibit many features resembling human
normal tension glaucoma (NTG). The developmental mechanism of human NTG is not
clearly understood, and a radical curative treatment has yet to be established.
Our aim is to elucidate the signal cascade which mediates the spontaneous optic
neuropathy in p50-deficient mice as a model of NTG.
METHODS: To demonstrate the expression and activation of pro-apoptotic factors,
which mediate the death of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in p50-deficient mice,
western blot (WB) and luciferase reporter assays with retinas from p50-deficient 
and wild type mice, and cultured RGC-5 cells were performed. Furthermore, we
tested the neuroprotective effects of chemical reagents (memantine, lomerizine,
and tacrolimus) against N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-susceptible RGC damage
according to in vitro experiments with RGC-5 cells. To elucidate the
NF-κB-mediated death signaling, the effects of chemical reagents on spontaneous
optic neuropathy were examined by histopathological studies.
RESULTS: WB experiments and luciferase reporter assays showed that
NF-κB-inducible BCL2-associated X protein (Bax) and a pro-apoptotic factor,
activated caspase 3 were expressed in the retina of p50-deficient mice as well as
NMDA-treated RGC-5 cells. Further, the constitutively active cleaved forms of
calcineurin (CaN), which have been reported to lead to apoptosis, were detected
in the retina of p50-deficient mice as well as NMDA-treated RGC-5 cells.
Pre-treatment with tacrolimus markedly protected RGC-5 cells from NMDA-induced
neurotoxicity, and then both spontaneous RGC death and degenerative changes to
the optic nerve in p50-deficient mice were significantly reduced by the chronic
administration of tacrolimus. The experiments with cultured RGC-5 cells supported
the results of histological examinations with p50-deficient mice, suggesting that
CaN activation leads to NF-κB-induced Bax activation and caspase 3 activation,
and mediates spontaneous optic neuropathy in p50-deficient mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Research findings show that the chronic administration of tacrolimus
significantly reduces spontaneous optic neuropathy in p50-deficient mice. We
demonstrated a potential CaN signal cascade, which spontaneously induces
age-dependent RGC death and degenerative optic nerve changes in p50-deficient
mice.


PMCID: PMC3156783
PMID: 21850191  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Mol Vis. 2011;17:1957-69. Epub 2011 Jul 19.

Co-variation of STI1 and WDR36/UTP21 alters cell proliferation in a glaucoma
model.

Footz T(1), Dubois S, Sarfarazi M, Raymond V, Walter MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada.

PURPOSE: To investigate the role of multigenic variation in primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) involving the rRNA processing gene WD repeat domain 36 (WDR36).
METHODS: We examined the heat shock protein 70/90 (HSP70/90)-organizing
co-chaperone stress-induced-phosphoprotein 1 (STI1) as a potential co-modifying
gene in glaucoma patients found to harbor WDR36 amino acid variation. The STI1
gene was sequenced and its POAG-associated amino acid variant K434R, as well as
the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) P173T, were tested for functional
defects in a yeast model system previously used to characterize WDR36 variants
(using the homologous yeast gene U3 protein 21 [UTP21]).
RESULTS: A POAG patient heterozygous for the WDR36 variant L25P was discovered to
also carry the STI1 variant K434R in a heterozygous state. Variant K434R, located
at an evolutionarily-conserved site, was not found in a pool of
clinically-examined individuals lacking WDR36 variation which included 55 normal 
controls and 20 patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG). STI1 (K434R) and the
homologous yeast variant K470R were able to rescue yeast growth-inhibition by the
HSP90-inhibitor radicicol. Double mutant haploid strains expressing human STI1
(K434R) and recombinant yeast UTP21 variants did not have significantly different
levels of 18S rRNA from the corresponding hSTI1 (WT) strains. However, specific
double mutant K434R strains exhibited significantly slower culture growth at 37
°C. Double mutant P173T strains also displayed altered growth rates at 37 °C.
CONCLUSIONS: STI1 variation does not play a significant direct role in the
genetics of POAG. However, as previously found for the STI1 null allele,
non-synonymous variants of human STI1 confer growth dysregulation in the context 
of specific yeast UTP21 mutations and heat stress. Based on the genetic
association of two co-heterozygous STI1 and WDR36 variants in a POAG patient and 
the functional analyses performed in a model system for basic eukaryotic cellular
processes, these experiments point to a conserved molecular pathway involving
STI1 and WDR36.


PMCID: PMC3154128
PMID: 21850170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2011;7:283-90. doi: 10.2147/TCRM.S20495. Epub 2011 Jul 12.

Demonstration of an online tool to assist managed care formulary evidence-based
decision making: meta-analysis of topical prostaglandin analog efficacy.

Kymes SM(1), Burk C, Feinman T, Williams JM, Hollander DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this paper was to demonstrate the use of an online
service for conducting a systematic review and meta-analysis of the efficacy of
topical prostaglandin analogs in reducing intraocular pressure (IOP) in glaucoma 
and ocular hypertension.
METHODS: An online service provider (Doctor Evidence) reviewed and extracted data
from the peer-reviewed literature through September 2009. Randomized controlled
studies of at least three months' duration assessing at least two prostaglandin
analogs in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension, or
normal-tension glaucoma were included. The primary endpoint was mean IOP. Summary
estimates were created using random-effects models. The Q Chi-square test was
used to assess statistical heterogeneity.
RESULTS: Sixteen studies satisfied the inclusion criteria and were analyzed. On
average, greater IOP-lowering was seen with bimatoprost relative to latanoprost
(1 mmHg, P = 0.025) and travoprost (0.8 mmHg, P = 0.033) based on mean IOP after 
12-26 weeks of treatment. No statistical difference was observed in IOP-lowering 
between latanoprost and travoprost (P = 0.841). Findings were similar to
previously published meta-analyses of topical prostaglandin analogs.
CONCLUSION: Systematic reviews relying on meta-analytic techniques to create
summary statistics are considered to be the "gold standard" for synthesizing
evidence to support clinical decision-making. However, the process is
time-consuming, labor-intensive, and outside the capability of most formulary
managers. We have demonstrated the effectiveness of a commercial service that
facilitates the process of conducting such reviews.

DOI: 10.2147/TCRM.S20495 
PMCID: PMC3150474
PMID: 21845051  [PubMed]


616. Can J Ophthalmol. 2011 Aug;46(4):352-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2011.06.013. Epub
2011 Jul 7.

The Toronto epidemiology glaucoma survey: a pilot study.

Anraku A(1), Jin YP, Butty Z, Jinapriya D, Alasbali T, Mammo Z, Flanagan JG,
Trope GE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, University of Toronto, ON,
Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of undetected glaucoma in a Toronto
population.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional survey.
PARTICIPANTS: Toronto residents aged 50 years or older.
METHODS: Telephone calls were randomly made to Toronto residents. Those who
indicated they did not have glaucoma were invited to the Toronto Western Hospital
for a comprehensive ophthalmic assessment, including best corrected visual acuity
testing, applanation tonometry, pachymetry, gonioscopy, disc assessment,
frequency doubling technology, and Heidelberg retinal tomography. Patient
suspected to have glaucoma were asked to return for further evaluation, including
a 24-2 Humphrey automated visual field test, repeat Heidelberg retinal
tomography, repeat disc assessment, and possibly a diurnal tension curve. The
diagnosis of glaucoma was made based on standardized criteria modified from those
used by the Rotterdam Study and Foster and associates.
RESULTS: Among 975 eligible respondents, 73 (7.5%) stated that they had glaucoma.
Of the remaining 902 negative respondents, 271 booked clinical appointments, and 
180 completed the clinical assessment; their mean age was 61.6 years. Of the
participants, 7 (3.9%) were diagnosed with glaucoma: 5 (2.8%) had primary
open-angle glaucoma (3 with low-pressure and 2 with high-pressure glaucoma); 1
had (0.6%) chronic angle-closure glaucoma; and 1 (0.6%) had pseudoexfoliation
glaucoma. A further 8 (4.4%) participants were classified as probably having
open-angle glaucoma and 33 (18.3%) as being suspected to have glaucoma. Narrow
angles were found in 27 participants (15%), and 37 (20.6%) had family histories
of glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of undetected glaucoma appears to be high in Toronto. 
Further studies involving larger numbers of participants are required to confirm 
this finding.

Copyright © 2011 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2011.06.013 
PMID: 21816256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Sep 1;52(9):7007-11. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-7643.

Patients have two eyes!: binocular versus better eye visual field indices.

Asaoka R(1), Crabb DP, Yamashita T, Russell RA, Wang YX, Garway-Heath DF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Visual Science, City University London, London,
United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: To test the hypothesis that better eye measures overestimate binocular
visual field (VF) defect severity in glaucoma.
METHODS: Humphrey VFs (24-2 SITA standard) from 67 consecutive patients with
glaucoma were retrospectively examined (mean age, 65 years; range, 31-88 years). 
The better mean deviation (MD) from the two eyes was recorded (better eye MD).
Binocular integrated visual field (IVF) was constructed for each patient by
merging corresponding sensitivity values from monocular VF. An IVF MD was
calculated from the average of total deviation values in the IVF. The differences
between better eye MD and IVF MD were assessed.
RESULTS: The average IVF MD was significantly better than the average better eye 
MD (mean difference, 1.3 dB; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.0-1.7 dB; P <
0.001). Twenty-four percent of patients had an IVF MD that was at least 2 dB
healthier than the MD in the better eye (95% CI, 14%-34%). The size of the
differences between better eye and IVF MD was significantly associated with the
severity of VF defect (P < 0.001; R² = 0.44).
CONCLUSIONS: Monocular measures, such as better eye MD, can give the impression
that a patient's VF loss is more degraded than it might be under binocular
viewing. This effect is more pronounced in patients with advanced VF defects. The
IVF offers a rapid assessment of a patient's binocular VF severity without extra 
testing.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-7643 
PMID: 21810985  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


618. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2011 Oct;27(5):499-502. doi: 10.1089/jop.2011.0020. Epub
2011 Jul 26.

Efficacy and safety of switching from topical latanoprost to bimatoprost in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Sato S(1), Hirooka K, Baba T, Mizote M, Fujimura T, Tenkumo K, Ueda H, Shiraga F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, Miki,
Kagawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
bimatoprost in Japanese patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) who showed
insufficient response to latanoprost.
METHODS: A prospective, nonrandomized study was conducted in patients with NTG,
with ≤20% intraocular pressure (IOP) decrease from pretreatment baseline with
latanoprost monotherapy who had been switched to bimatoprost. The IOP was
measured at 4, 8, and 12 weeks after the switch to bimatoprost. In 12 weeks after
the switch to bimatoprost, efficacy and safety were evaluated.
RESULTS: Postswitch to bimatoprost, IOP was significantly reduced at every visit.
Bimatoprost produced significantly greater mean% IOP reduction rate from
pretreatment than that of latanoprost at week 12 (P<0.01). There was a
significant correlation between% IOP reduction of bimatoprost and that of
latanoprost (Pearson r(2)=0.374; P=0.007). No significant difference was observed
in the mean scores of conjunctival hyperemia and corneal epithelial disorder
between bimatoprost-treated eyes and latanoprost-treated eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant additional IOP lowering was achieved by switching to
bimatoprost in Japanese patients with NTG with insufficient response to
latanoprost. Bimatoprost treatment was safe and well tolerated.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2011.0020 
PMID: 21790301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2011 Sep;55(5):460-6. doi: 10.1007/s10384-011-0063-x. Epub 2011
Jul 20.

Effect of trabeculectomy on ocular and corneal higher order aberrations.

Fukuoka S(1), Amano S, Honda N, Mimura T, Usui T, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, 7-3-1
Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan.

PURPOSE: To examine the effect of trabeculectomy on ocular and corneal higher
order wavefront aberrations.
METHODS: Trabeculectomy with a limbal-based conjunctival flap was performed in 13
patients (13 eyes). Ocular and corneal higher order aberrations were measured
using a wavefront analyzer before and after surgery. The higher order aberrations
for a 4-mm pupil diameter were expanded into Zernike's polynomials. Coma
aberration, spherical aberration, and total higher order aberrations were
evaluated as root mean square values.
RESULTS: Mean intraocular pressure was significantly reduced from 15.5 ± 3.1 mmHg
preoperatively to 7.5 ± 3.5 and 7.2 ± 4.4 mmHg at 1 and 3 months after surgery,
respectively. The mean spherical equivalent refractive error was not changed by
the surgery. Mean vector powers for surgically induced refractive changes at 1
and 3 months postoperatively were 1.29 ± 0.69 and 1.30 ± 0.89 diopters,
respectively. Corneal coma-like, spherical-like, and total higher order
aberrations were not significantly changed by surgery. Trabeculectomy
significantly increased ocular coma-like (P = 0.0021) and total (P = 0.0019)
higher-order aberrations at 1 month, but not at 3 months postoperatively.
CONCLUSION: Ocular coma-like and total aberrations were significantly increased
at 1 month after trabeculectomy with a limbal-based conjunctival flap, but they
had returned to normal levels by 3 months.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-011-0063-x 
PMID: 21773749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Med Hypotheses. 2011 Oct;77(4):598-600. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.06.043. Epub
2011 Jul 20.

Are intracranial pressure fluctuations important in glaucoma?

Wostyn P(1), De Groot V, Audenaert K, De Deyn PP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, PC Sint-Amandus, Reigerlostraat 10, 8730 Beernem,
Belgium. wostyn.peter@skynet.be

Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness. Primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), the most common type, is a progressive optic
neuropathy with characteristic structural changes in the optic nerve head and
functional changes in the visual field. Mechanical and vascular theories for the 
pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic neuropathy have been proposed. Elevated
intraocular pressure (IOP) is a strong risk factor, although a subset of POAG
patients has normal IOP and is designated normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Clearly,
factors other than IOP are likely to be involved in retinal ganglion cell death
in glaucoma. An intriguing finding of recent studies is that intracranial
pressure (ICP) is lower in patients with POAG and NTG when compared with
nonglaucomatous control subjects. It has been suggested that the relationship
between IOP and ICP may play a fundamental role in the development of glaucoma. A
decreased ICP could result in an increased trans-lamina cribrosa pressure
difference (IOP minus ICP) and lead to glaucomatous damage. In the present paper,
we raise the question of whether ICP fluctuations also may be important in
glaucoma. The effect of ICP fluctuation might be comparable to that of IOP
fluctuation, which has been recognized as an independent risk factor for glaucoma
progression.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.06.043 
PMID: 21767918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Med Hypotheses. 2011 Oct;77(4):591-2. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.06.040. Epub 2011 
Jul 18.

Hypothesis of optineurin as a new common risk factor in normal-tension glaucoma
and Alzheimer's disease.

Liu YH(1), Tian T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Xiang-Ya Hospital, Central-South University,
Changsha, Hunan Province, People's Republic of China.

Growing evidences suggest a link between normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Both of them are progressive neurodegenerative
disorders. Recently researches provide a clue that optineurin may be a new common
underlying risk factor involved in NTG and AD. OPTINEURIN (OPTN) gene coding for 
"optineurin" protein is identified as the causative gene in NTG. Interestingly,
optineurin was also found in neurofibrillary tangles and dystrophic neurites in
AD, as well as other neurodegenerative diseases. This suggested a new hypothesis 
for neurodegeneration in AD involving chronic optineurin neurotoxicity, mimicking
NTG at the molecular level. A theoretical relationship between optineurin, NTG
and AD seems to exist. Indicating that optineurin may play a role in both NTG and
AD will shed new light on the link between these two diseases and lead to a
better understanding of the common mechanisms underlying NTG and AD.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.06.040 
PMID: 21764520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


622. J Glaucoma. 2012 Sep;21(7):486-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318220daf0.

Assessment of corneal biomechanical properties in normal tension glaucoma and
comparison with open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension, and normal eyes.

Grise-Dulac A(1), Saad A, Abitbol O, Febbraro JL, Azan E, Moulin-Tyrode C,
Gatinel D.

Author information: 
(1)Cataract and Refractive Surgery Department, Fondation Ophtalmologique Adolphe 
de Rothschild, CEROC, Paris, France. alice.grise.dulac@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To assess the biomechanical properties of corneas in patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and to compare them with those of patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), ocular hypertension (OHT), and normal
controls (N).
METHODS: Corneal hysteresis (CH), corneal resistance factor (CRF), Goldmann
intraocular pressure (IOPg), and corneal compensated IOP (IOPcc) were obtained
using an ocular response analyzer for 28 eyes in 14 patients with NTG, 75 eyes in
38 patients with chronic POAG, 53 eyes of 27 patients with OHT, and 44 eyes of 22
N controls. IOP using Goldmann applanation tonometry (IOPGA) and ultrasonic
central corneal thickness (CCT) were also measured for each eye. Analysis of
variance test was used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: CH was significantly lower in the NTG group (9.88±2.02 mm Hg) compared
with the N group (11.05±1.53 mm Hg; P<0.01). CRF was significantly lower in the
NTG group (9.5±1.89 mm Hg) compared with the POAG group (11.15±2.35 mm Hg;
P<0.01) and to the N group (11.00±1.75 mm Hg; P<0.01). CCT was not considered
significantly different between the 4 groups. However, IOPcc was found to be
significantly lower in NTG group compared with the POAG group and OHT group
(P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: NTG was associated with significantly lower CRF than chronic POAG and
N patients. CH and CRF could be a useful tool in early diagnosis of NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318220daf0 
PMID: 21734593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Med Hypotheses. 2011 Sep;77(3):466. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.06.039. Epub 2011
Jul 2.

Normal-tension glaucoma and Alzheimer's disease: retinal vessel signs as a
possible common underlying risk factor.

Tian T, Liu YH.

Comment on
    Med Hypotheses. 2007;68(1):228-9.
    Med Hypotheses. 2006;67(5):1255-6.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.06.039 
PMID: 21726961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


624. J Glaucoma. 2013 Feb;22(2):98-103. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182254bc0.

Central blood pressure, arterial waveform analysis, and vascular risk factors in 
glaucoma.

Graham SL(1), Butlin M, Lee M, Avolio AP.

Author information: 
(1)Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Macquarie University, Sydney,
Australia. stuart.graham@mq.edu.au

PURPOSE: Reduced ocular perfusion pressure has been linked to glaucoma, and
increased arterial stiffness is implicated in systemic cardiovascular risk. This 
study measured central blood pressure (BP) and arterial waveforms derived from
pulse tonometry, together with data on systemic and ocular vascular factors
relevant to glaucoma status.
METHODS: A total of 126 patients and 66 normal controls were tested, including 90
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients and 36 normal tension glaucoma (NTG) 
patients. Glaucoma patients had been followed for at least 3 years and inclusion 
required several (>4) reliable visual fields such that glaucoma progression could
be determined. Radial pulse tonometry and brachial BP data were collected,
together with data on disc hemorrhages, spontaneous venous pulsation,
peripapillary atrophy, smoking, and medications.
RESULTS: Brachial BP or derived central aortic BP parameters generally showed no 
significant differences between glaucoma patients and normal individuals. The
POAG group had a lower pulse pressure, which was also significant in the
regression analysis (P<0.002). In the arterial waveform analysis, POAG was
associated with a lower brachial form factor than NTG (P<0.001) and higher
subendocardial viability ratio (P<0.008). NTG was associated with a lower body
mass index, and POAG with a smoking history. There was an increased incidence of 
disc hemorrhages and a reduced incidence of spontaneous venous pulsations in the 
progressing group.
CONCLUSIONS: Derived central BP does not reveal significant differences from
controls or in glaucoma subgroups, but a reduced pulse pressure was identified.
There may be some changes in arterial pulse waveform shape suggesting possible
differences in diastolic perfusion. Disc hemorrhages and loss of spontaneous
venous pulsation were associated with disease progression.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182254bc0 
PMID: 21716126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


625. J Glaucoma. 2013 Feb;22(2):133-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182254cde.

Comparison of macular ganglion cell complex thickness by Fourier-domain OCT in
normal tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Kim NR(1), Hong S, Kim JH, Rho SS, Seong GJ, Kim CY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Vision Research, Yonsei University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare perimacular ganglion cell complex (GCC) parameters between
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG).
METHODS: Participants, consecutively enrolled from January 2009 to June 2009,
underwent optical coherence tomographic imaging with RTVue-100 (Optovue Inc,
Fremont, CA). Optic nerve head (ONH) parameters, retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL)
parameters, and GCC parameters were acquired. Mean measurements of ONH, RNFL, and
GCC parameters among the normal, NTG, and POAG groups were compared using
analysis of variance. Area under the receiver operator characteristic curve was
used to assess the ability of each parameter to detect glaucomatous changes.
RESULTS: Fifty-eight normal controls, 51 patients with NTG, and 52 patients with 
POAG were included. Mean measurements of ONH parameters were similar between the 
NTG and POAG groups (all P>0.05). Average RNFL thickness did not differ between
the NTG and POAG groups (P=0.053), whereas average GCC thickness significantly
differed between the NTG and POAG groups (P=0.001). In terms of pattern-based
parameters of GCC, focal loss volume did not differ between the NTG and POAG
groups (P=0.165), whereas global loss volume was significantly higher in the POAG
group (P<0.001). There were no statistically significant differences between RNFL
and GCC measurements with respect to the ability to detect glaucomatous changes.
CONCLUSIONS: GCC loss in the NTG group was more localized compared with diffuse
GCC loss in the POAG group. Perimacular GCC parameters could be a good
alternative or supplement to peripapillary RNFL measurements for diagnosis and
research in patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3182254cde 
PMID: 21701394  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Aug 11;52(9):6329-39. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-7836.

In vitro models for glaucoma research: effects of hydrostatic pressure.

Lei Y(1), Rajabi S, Pedrigi RM, Overby DR, Read AT, Ethier CR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: The response of cells (e.g., optic nerve head [ONH] cells) to mechanical
stress is important in glaucoma. Studies have reported the biological effects of 
hydrostatic pressure on ONH cells cultured on a rigid substrate. An apparatus,
designed to independently vary hydrostatic pressure and gas tension (including
oxygen tension) in culture medium, was used to evaluate the effects of pressure
and tension on cell migration, shape, and α-tubulin architecture in a transformed
cell line (DITNC1 rat cortical astrocytes).
METHODS: During the assay period, cells were exposed to one of four experimental 
configurations: (1) control pressure and control gas tension; (2) high-pressure
(7.4 mm Hg) and reduced gas tension; (3) control pressure and reduced gas
tension; and (4) high-pressure and control gas tension.
RESULTS: Calculations suggested that the cells in configurations 2 and 3 were
hypoxic, as confirmed by direct measurements in configuration 2. No effects of
hydrostatic pressure were observed on cell migration or α-tubulin architecture.
However, cells cultured under low gas tension (configurations 2 and 3) showed
increased migration at 48 and 72 hours (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A hydrostatic pressure of 7.4 mm Hg has no effect on DITNC1
astrocytes cultured on rigid coverslips, whereas hypoxia associated with a fluid 
column creating this pressure does. These results differ from those in a previous
report, the results of which may be explained by altered gas tensions in the
culture medium. Steps are recommended for control of secondary effects when
testing the effect of pressure on cultured cells.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-7836 
PMID: 21693606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2011 Jan-Mar;115(1):127-32.

[Contributions to know the involvement of cardio-vascular diseases in glaucoma
etiology, studied on a sample of 996 patients assisted in Clinic of
Ophthalmology, "Prof. N. Oblu" Emergency Hospital, Iasi].

[Article in Romanian]

Popa SA(1), Bucătariu PM, Costin D, Manole A, Matei MC, Merchez M.

Author information: 
(1)Universităţii de Medicină si Farmacie "Gr.T. Popa" Iaşi.

MATERIAL AND METHOD: The authors present the results of clinical and
epidemiological research on a sample of 8118 patients assisted in the
Ophthalmology Clinic of the Hospital "Prof. Dr. N. Oblu", including 996 (12.1%)
with glaucoma, of which 54.1% primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), 22.6%, normal
tension glaucoma (NTG), 5.7% primary angle closure-glaucoma (PACG) and 17.6%
secondary glaucoma, during 2006-2010.
RESULTS: For patients with glaucoma authors assessed the prevalence of arterial
hypertension (POAG: 33.1%; NTG: 32%; PACG: 8.7%, secondary: 8%), diabetes
mellitus (POAG : 19.9%, TNG : 12.9%; PACG : 5.3%, secondary : 5.2%),
atherosclerosis (POAG: 10.2%, TNG: 12%; PACG: 5.2%, secondary: 2.9%), vasospasm
(POAG: 45 2%, TNG: 47.3%; PACG: 39.3%, secondary: 44.3%).


PMID: 21688568  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Arch Ophthalmol. 2011 Jun;129(6):785-7. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.117.

Ocular hypertension and normal-tension glaucoma: time for banishment and burial.

Sommer A.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.117 
PMID: 21670346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


629. BMJ Clin Evid. 2011 Jun 9;2011. pii: 0703.

Glaucoma.

Shah R(1), Wormald RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Glaucoma is characterised by progressive optic neuropathy and
peripheral visual field loss. It affects 1% to 2% of white people aged over 40
years and accounts for 8% of new blind registrations in the UK. The main risk
factor for glaucoma is raised intraocular pressure, but 40% of people with
glaucoma have normal intraocular pressure and only 10% of people with raised
intraocular pressure are at risk of optic-nerve damage. Glaucoma is more
prevalent, presents earlier, and is more difficult to control in black people
than in white populations.
METHODS AND OUTCOMES: We conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the
following clinical questions: What are the effects of treatments for established 
primary open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension, or both? What are the effects
of lowering intraocular pressure in people with normal-tension glaucoma? What are
the effects of treatment for acute angle-closure glaucoma? We searched: Medline, 
Embase, The Cochrane Library, and other important databases up to May 2010
(Clinical Evidence reviews are updated periodically; please check our website for
the most up-to-date version of this review). We included harms alerts from
relevant organisations such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the 
UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).
RESULTS: We found 12 systematic reviews, RCTs, or observational studies that met 
our inclusion criteria. We performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of
evidence for interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: In this systematic review we present information relating to the
effectiveness and safety of the following interventions: laser trabeculoplasty
(alone or plus topical medical treatment), topical medical treatments, and
surgical trabeculectomy.


PMCID: PMC3275300
PMID: 21658300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jun;25(3):166-73. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2011.25.3.166. Epub 
2011 May 24.

Comparison of retinal nerve fiber layer thickness between Stratus and Spectralis 
OCT.

Shin HJ(1), Cho BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Konkuk University School of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness 
of normal patients and those with various glaucoma diseases by time domain
(Stratus) and spectral domain (Spectralis) optical coherence tomography (OCT).
METHODS: The RNFL thickness as measured by the Stratus and Spectral OCT was
compared (paired t-test). The relationship and agreement of RNFL thickness
between the two OCT modalities were evaluated by Pearson correlation,
Bland-Altman plot, and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve.
RESULTS: Two-hundred seventeen eyes of 217 patients, including twenty-four normal
eyes, ninety-one glaucoma suspects, seventy-six normal tension glaucoma cases,
and twenty-six primary open angle glaucoma cases (POAG) were analyzed. The
peripapillary RNFL thicknesses as measured by Stratus OCT were significantly
greater than those measured by Spectralis OCT. However, in quadrant comparisons, 
the temporal RNFL thickness obtained using Stratus OCT were significantly less
than those obtained using Spectralis OCT. Correlations between RNFL parameters
were strong (Pearson correlation coefficient for mean RNFL thickness = 0.88); a
high degree of correlation was found in the POAG group. Bland-Altman plotting
demonstrated that agreement in the temporal quadrant was greater than any other
quadrant.
CONCLUSIONS: Both OCT systems were highly correlated and demonstrated strong
agreement. However, absolute measurements of peripapillary RNFL thickness
differed between Stratus OCT and Spectralis OCT. Thus, measurements with these
instruments should not be considered interchangeable. The temporal quadrant was
the only sector where RNFL thickness as measured by Spectralis OCT was greater
than by Stratus OCT; this demonstrated greater agreement than other sectors.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2011.25.3.166 
PMCID: PMC3102819
PMID: 21655041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Glaucoma. 2011 Sep;20(7):401-4. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181f3e5d9.

Central corneal thickness in Chinese subjects with primary angle closure
glaucoma.

Pang CE(1), Lee KY, Su DH, Htoon HM, Ng JY, Kumar RS, Aung T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Singapore Eye Research Institute and Singapore
National Eye Center, Singapore.

PURPOSE: To characterize central corneal thickness (CCT) in Chinese eyes with
primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG).
METHODS: CCT was measured by ultrasound pachymetry in PACG eyes and compared with
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) eyes. POAG eyes were further subdivided into
high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) for analysis. PACG 
eyes had glaucomatous optic neuropathy and visual field loss, an angle in which
at least 180 degrees of angle in which the posterior trabecular meshwork was not 
visible, and raised intraocular pressure (IOP) and/or peripheral anterior
synechiae. Both HTG (IOP >21 mm Hg) and NTG (IOP consistently <21 mm Hg) eyes had
glaucomatous optic neuropathy with compatible visual field defects and open
angles. Further comparison was made with CCT data of 1067 normal subjects
previously enrolled in a population-based study.
RESULTS: We enrolled 154 patients with PACG and 300 with POAG. Mean age of PACG
patients was 68.1±8.3 years compared with 71.1±12.4 years in POAG patients
(P=0.002). There was no difference in mean CCT of PACG eyes (541.28±33.95 μm) and
POAG eyes (539.28±34.84 μm, P=0.56) or normal eyes of control subjects
(536.74±31.08 μm) (P=0.07). However, mean CCT of NTG eyes (535.23±36.10 μm) was
significantly lower than that of HTG eyes (543.44±33.10 μm, P=0.04), and HTG eyes
had thicker CCT than normal eyes (P=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: PACG eyes had similar CCT as those with POAG or normal eyes in
Chinese subjects.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181f3e5d9 
PMID: 21654516  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Curr Med Res Opin. 2011 Aug;27(8):1499-502. doi: 10.1185/03007995.2011.586027.
Epub 2011 Jun 9.

The intraocular pressure reducing effect of brinzolamide as adjunctive therapy to
latanoprost.

Li Yim JF(1), Montgomery DM.

Author information: 
(1)Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom.
jamesly@doctors.org.uk

AIM: To determine the intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering effect of brinzolamide 
when added to latanoprost.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients who were simultaneously on brinzolamide and
latanoprost were identified from the large prospective database of patients
diagnosed with primary open angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma or ocular
hypertension maintained in our glaucoma clinic. Only patients who had been on
latanoprost for at least six weeks before introduction of brinzolamide were
included. Their case notes were reviewed to determine the intraocular pressure at
baseline, after addition of brinzolamide and prior to subsequent treatment change
if any.
RESULTS: Ninety-three patients were identified. Data for seventy-two patients
were analysed. Average age was 70 with a male to female ratio of 4:5. The mean
baseline IOP was 20.8 ± 4.6 mmHg with 47 diagnosed with primary open angle
glaucoma, 16 with normal tension glaucoma and 9 with ocular hypertension. The
reduction in IOP was 4.1 ± 0.9 mmHg (95% confidence limits, p < 0.001) at 4.0
months median follow up. This corresponds to 19.8% reduction of IOP from
baseline. A 12.5% proportion of patients did not have a reduction in IOP, 3.2%
and 2.1% reported ocular irritation and blurring of vision respectively. At last 
mean follow up of 45 months, 51% of patients remained on this treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: In the majority of patients, brinzolamide reduced IOP by a further
19.8% in patients already on latanoprost monotherapy. This effect was maintained 
in 51% of patients after 42 months.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2011.586027 
PMID: 21651425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Jul 15;52(8):5260-5. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-6691.

During glaucoma, alpha2-macroglobulin accumulates in aqueous humor and binds to
nerve growth factor, neutralizing neuroprotection.

Bai Y(1), Sivori D, Woo SB, Neet KE, Lerner SF, Saragovi HU.

Author information: 
(1)Lady Davis Institute-Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

PURPOSE: Glaucoma is an optic neuropathy caused by the chronic and progressive
death of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), resulting in irreversible blindness.
Ocular hypertension is a major risk factor, but RGC death often continues after
ocular hypertension is normalized, and can take place with normal tension.
Continuous RGC death was related in rodents and humans to the local upregulation 
of neurotoxic proteins, such as TNF-α. In rat models of glaucoma, ocular
hypertension also upregulates the expression of α2-macroglobulin, which is
neurotoxic. α2-macroglobulin upregulation in the retina is long-lived, even after
high IOP is reduced with medication. α2-macroglobulin is examined as a possible
biomarker in human glaucoma, and a possible neurotoxic mechanism of action is
sought.
METHODS: Quantitative Western blotting of α2-macroglobulin in samples obtained
from aqueous humor (human and rat) and retina (rat) was conducted. Ex vivo
neuronal survival assays and nerve growth factor-α2-macroglobulin binding studies
using surface plasmon resonance were used.
RESULTS: Increased soluble α2-macroglobulin protein is also present in the
aqueous humor in a rat glaucoma model, as well as in the aqueous humor of human
glaucoma patients but not in cataract patients. One mechanism by which
α2-macroglobulin is neurotoxic is by inhibiting the neuroprotective activity of
nerve growth factor via TrkA receptors.
CONCLUSIONS: This work further documents a potential novel mechanism of RGC death
and a potential biomarker or therapeutic target for glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-6691 
PMID: 21642630  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


634. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2011 Aug;27(4):347-52. doi: 10.1089/jop.2011.0014. Epub
2011 Jun 1.

Effect of brimonidine on retinal blood flow autoregulation in primary open-angle 
glaucoma.

Feke GT(1), Hazin R, Grosskreutz CL, Pasquale LR.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine whether topically applied brimonidine affects the retinal
hemodynamic autoregulatory response to posture change in patients with normal
tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Six patients with normal tension glaucoma (primary open-angle glaucoma
and maximum untreated intraocular pressure <22 mmHg) in each eye were studied. We
retrospectively reviewed retinal hemodynamic data acquired when the patients were
off and on treatment with brimonidine 0.15% (twice a day, both eyes) during the
course of their care. At each testing session, vessel diameter and blood speed at
the same site along the inferior temporal retinal artery of 1 eye were measured
while sitting, while reclining for 30 min, and again while sitting using a
retinal laser Doppler instrument. Blood flow was computed automatically. Brachial
artery blood pressure and heart rate were also measured. The Wilcoxon signed rank
test was used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in each
measured parameter while subjects were on and off brimonidine.
RESULTS: Off brimonidine, the mean blood flow rate increased by 68.0%±34.3%
(range: +17% to +108%) after 30 min in reclined posture compared to
baseline-seated measures. On brimonidine, the mean blood flow rate increased by
8.9%±16.8% (range: -9.7 to +28.0%) after 30 min in reclined posture compared to
baseline-seated measures. The difference in the posture-induced changes for blood
flow rate while on brimonidine compared to off brimonidine was statistically
significant (P=0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: Off brimonidine, the patients exhibited marked increases in retinal 
blood flow while reclining. On brimonidine, the hemodynamic changes were
consistent with normal autoregulatory control of retinal blood flow.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2011.0014 
PMID: 21631365  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


635. J Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Jun 3;2(6):164.

Dallas Glaucoma Registry: Preliminary Results.

Kooner KS(1), Joseph A(1), Shar A(1), Marquardt FA(2), AlBdoor M(3), Cho BJ(4),
Whitson JT(1), Aggarwal N(1), Adams-Huet B(5).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, Texas, USA 75390-9057 and VA North Texas health
care System, 4500 S. Lancaster Road, Dallas, Texas 75216, USA. (2)Departments of 
Ophthalmology University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry Hines
Blvd., Dallas, Texas, USA 75390-9057 and VA North Texas health care System, 4500 
S. Lancaster Road, Dallas, Texas 75216, USA ; Currently at Sao Vicente de Paulo
Hospital, Tres de Maio, Brazil 988 02 540. (3)Departments of Ophthalmology
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, 
Texas, USA 75390-9057 and VA North Texas health care System, 4500 S. Lancaster
Road, Dallas, Texas 75216, USA ; Currently at Department of Ophthalmology, King
Hussein Medical Center, Jordan. (4)Departments of Ophthalmology University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, Texas, USA
75390-9057 and VA North Texas health care System, 4500 S. Lancaster Road, Dallas,
Texas 75216, USA ; Currently at Department of Ophthalmology, Konkuk University
Medical Center, Seoul Korea 143729. (5)Department of Clinical Sciences, Division 
of Biostatistics, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry
Hines Blvd., Dallas, Texas, USA 75390-9057 and VA North Texas health care System,
4500 S. Lancaster Road, Dallas. Texas 75216, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide, yet
there are no large databases where risk factors, current management options and
outcomes may be evaluated. With this concept in mind, Dallas Glaucoma Registry
was established to focus on an ethnically mixed North Texas population.
METHODS: This is a retrospective, chart review of 2,484 patients (4,839 eyes)
with glaucoma from three clinics. Data collected included: age, race, gender,
intraocular pressure, visual acuity, central corneal thickness, cup-to-disk
ratio, extent of visual field damage, glaucoma diagnoses, medical and surgical
therapies.
RESULTS: The most prevalent glaucoma was primary open angle glaucoma accounting
for 44.4% of patients, followed by glaucoma suspect (39.5%), secondary glaucoma
(7.2%), angle closure glaucoma (6.8%), normal tension glaucoma (1.7%), and
childhood glaucoma (0.5%). The mean (SD) age was 68.7 (13.8) and 41.3% were non
Hispanic white, 37.0% were black, 10.4% were Hispanic and 11.3% were of other
ethnic origin. Hispanic representation in glaucoma did not match their numbers in
general population of North Texas.
CONCLUSION: Large numbers of patients in the ongoing Dallas Glaucoma Registry do 
provide adequate data to better understand risk factors, early detection,
improved screening targets, treatment options, outcomes and future studies.

DOI: 10.4172/2155-9570.1000164 
PMCID: PMC4130371
PMID: 25126448  [PubMed]


636. J Glaucoma. 2013 Jan;22(1):36-43. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31821e85f3.

Comparison of the optic nerve imaging by time-domain optical coherence tomography
and Fourier-domain optical coherence tomography in distinguishing normal eyes
from those with glaucoma.

Kim NR(1), Kim JH, Kim CY, Jun I, Seong GJ, Lee ES.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea ‡Seran Eye Center, Seoul, Korea †Department of Ophthalmology, Inha
University School of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.

PURPOSE: To assess agreement in cup-to-disc ratio (CDR) estimation between
stereoscopic optic disc photography, time-domain optical coherence tomography
(OCT), and Fourier-domain OCT, and to compare the discriminating ability of optic
nerve head (ONH) parameters by time-domain OCT and Fourier-domain OCT for
glaucoma detection.
METHODS: Participants underwent stereoscopic photography, Stratus OCT (fast optic
disc scan), and RTVue-100 (nerve head mapping), at the same visit. Vertical and
horizontal CDRs (VCDR and HCDR) from stereoscopic photography were determined by 
averaging the results from 2 independent glaucoma specialists. VCDR, HCDR, disc
area, cup area, rim area, and cup-to-disc area ratio were acquired from the 2
OCTs. Agreement was assessed by intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) and
Bland-Altman plots. Area under the receiver operator characteristic curve was
used to assess the ability of each parameter to detect glaucoma.
RESULTS: A total of 185 eyes were used in final analysis. VCDR and HCDR
measurements from RTVue were highest, followed by those from Stratus OCT and
stereoscopic photography. CDRs from both OCTs showed excellent agreement with
those from stereophotography (ICC, 0.80 to 0.86). Agreement in ONH parameters
including CDRs between the 2 OCTs was excellent (ICC, 0.86 to 0.94). There were
no statistically significant differences between the ONH parameters from the 2
OCTs with respect to ability to detect glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: VCDR and HCDR measurement by time-domain and Fourier-domain OCTs
exhibited excellent agreement with each other and agreed equally well with those 
by stereoscopic photography. The ONH parameters between the 2 OCTs performed
similarly in determining glaucoma status.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31821e85f3 
PMID: 21623218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Curr Eye Res. 2011 Jul;36(7):647-53. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2010.521876. Epub 2011
May 24.

The hemorheological mechanisms in normal tension glaucoma.

Cheng HC(1), Chan CM, Yeh SI, Yu JH, Liu DZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the differences in hemorheological parameters between
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and normal controls.
METHODS: Twenty patients with NTG and 21 age-matched normal controls were
included in the study. Hemorheological parameters of the venous blood samples,
including blood viscosity at the shear rates of 500, 250, and 5 s(-1), and
viscoelasticity were measured using a rotational rheometer; erythrocyte
deformability and aggregation were measured using a ektacytometer; and
erythrocyte rigidity and the oxygen transport efficiency of blood were
calculated.
RESULTS: Higher blood viscosities at the high (p < 0.01), medium (p < 0.01), and 
low (p < 0.01) shear rates were found in the NTG group than in the control group.
Significantly higher erythrocyte aggregation index (p < 0.01); lower index of
erythrocyte deformability at medium (p < 0.01) and high shear rates (p < 0.05);
and lower oxygen transport efficiency of blood at low (p < 0.01), medium
(p < 0.01), and high shear rates (p < 0.05) were obtained in the NTG group.
CONCLUSIONS: The higher blood viscosity of the NTG patients at the high shear
rate may be related to impaired erythrocyte deformability associated with a
change in erythrocyte rigidity. Higher blood viscoelasticity and blood viscosity 
of NTG patients at the low shear rate was due to increased erythrocyte
aggregability. Also, the impaired erythrocyte deformability of NTG patients is
susceptible to developing abnormalities of the distal microcirculation.
Furthermore, the increased blood viscosity and low oxygen transport efficiency of
blood may result in hypoperfusion of optic nerve in NTG patients.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2010.521876 
PMID: 21609272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


638. J Glaucoma. 2012 Jun-Jul;21(5):296-301. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31821206b1.

Longitudinal changes in anterior chamber configuration in eyes with open-angle
glaucoma and associated factors.

Pan Z(1), Furuya T, Kashiwagi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Interdisciplinary School of Medicine and
Engineering, University of Yamanashi, Chuo Yamanashi, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate longitudinal changes in anterior chamber depth (ACD) and 
anterior chamber angle (ACA) and the associated factors in patients with primary 
open-angle glaucoma using the scanning peripheral ACD analyzer.
METHODS: The scanning peripheral ACD analyzer evaluated ACD by numeric grade
(ACDG 1 to 12) and ACA twice in 2003 and 2008. The exclusion criteria were as
follows: history of laser or incisional surgery, other ocular diseases that may
affect visual field, visual acuity less than 20/30, and treatment with
pilocarpine ophthalmic solution. Patients with pseudophakic eye were used as
control.
RESULTS: One hundred fifty-seven patients with glaucoma and 26 patients with
pseudophakic eye were subjected to the analysis. ACDG and ACA of patients with
glaucoma were significantly decreased from 7.2±2.3 to 6.5±2.1 (P<0.001) and from 
34.2±12.6 to 28.1±10.3 degrees (P<0.0001), respectively, whereas patients with
cataract surgery showed no significant changes in ACDG and ACA. The change in ACD
was greater at the peripheral region than at the central region. The decrease in 
ACDG was significantly associated with deep initial ACDG and wide ACA. Patients
having shallow ACDG and narrow ACA showed more rapid deterioration of visual
field than those having deep ACDG and wide ACA.
CONCLUSIONS: ACDG and ACA decreased with age, and initial ACDG and ACA were
related to the progression of open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31821206b1 
PMID: 21602708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2011 Apr;115(4):362-7.

[Investigation of the correlation between the right-left differences of visual
field defects and the right-left differences of ocular anatomical factors in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayamizu F(1), Yamazaki Y, Nakagami T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, Department of Visual Science, Nihon University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. hayamizu@med.nihon-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate the effects of optic disc area to visual field (VF)
defects of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), the correlation between the right-left 
differences of VF defects and those of diurnal variations of intraocular pressure
and the ocular anatomical factors were evaluated in patients with NTG.
METHODS: One hundred eighteen eyes of 59 NTG patients with the right-left
difference value of mean deviation (MD) of between 2 dB and 12 dB obtained with
Humphrey field analyzer program 30-2 were enrolled in the study. The correlation 
between the right-left differences of MD values and those of refraction, axial
length, central cornea thickness, diurnal variation of intraocular pressure, and 
disc area measured with Heidelberg Retina Tomograph were evaluated by multiple
regression analysis.
RESULTS: The multiple correlation coefficient was 0.520, and the coefficient of
determination was 0.271. The right-left differences of axial length (p = 0.041)
and disc area(p = 0.002) were judged to be the statistically significant factors 
correlated with those of VF defects.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the right-left differences of axial
length and disc area are associated with the right-left differences of VF defects
in patients with NTG.


PMID: 21598604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


640. J Glaucoma. 2012 Feb;21(2):112-5. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318202791c.

Argon versus selective laser trabeculoplasty in younger patients: 2-year results.

Liu Y(1), Birt CM.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness of argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) and 
selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) in lowering intraocular pressure (IOP) in
younger patients (age 60 or less).
METHODS: This was a prospective randomized control trial. Forty-two young
patients (age 29 to 60 y) had 1 eye randomized to ALT (n=22) or SLT (n=20). IOP
was measured before laser and 1 hour, 1 day, 6 weeks, 3 months, every 3 months
until 2 years, and then yearly postlaser. Chi-square analysis and Student t test 
were used to determine statistical significance.
RESULTS: The mean IOP before treatment was 21.9 mm Hg for ALT and 19.1 mm Hg for 
SLT with no statistical difference between the groups (P>0.05). At 2 years, 86.4%
of ALT and 75.0% of SLT eyes required no further surgical intervention (laser
trabeculoplasty or trabeculectomy). During the same time period, there was a
statistically significant IOP decrease of 11.1% after ALT (P=0.01) and 7.7% after
SLT (P=0.01) with no statistical difference between the lasers (P>0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In younger patients, both ALT and SLT have a significant ocular
hypotensive effect 2 years after treatment, with no differences in outcome
identified between the laser modalities.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318202791c 
PMID: 21572334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Ophthal Plast Reconstr Surg. 2012 Mar-Apr;28(2):e33-5. doi:
10.1097/IOP.0b013e31821639cc.

Bilateral upper eyelid retraction caused by topical bimatoprost therapy.

Noma K(1), Kakizaki H.

Author information: 
(1)Noma Eye Clinic, Kokutaiji, Naka-ku, Hiroshima, Japan.

The authors report a case with upper eyelid retraction caused by topical
bimatoprost therapy. Topical bimatoprost 0.03% was administered to a 69-year-old 
woman with bilateral normal-tension glaucoma. It was first administered to the
left eye, and 3 weeks later, therapy on the right side of the eye was initiated. 
One week after the initiation of therapy on the right side, right upper eyelid
retraction occurred, and 63 days after starting treatment on the left side (42
days after initiation on the right side), conspicuous bilateral upper eyelid
retraction was observed. Bimatoprost instillation was then stopped and the
medication was switched to latanoprost 0.005%. Upper eyelid retraction was
reversed to normal levels approximately 1 week after cessation of bimatoprost
therapy. In conclusion, a rare case of upper eyelid retraction caused by topical 
bimatoprost therapy, which was reversed after discontinuation of the medication, 
is reported.

DOI: 10.1097/IOP.0b013e31821639cc 
PMID: 21562439  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


642. J Glaucoma. 2012 Jan;21(1):22-6. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318202777e.

Frequency doubling technology for earlier detection of functional damage in
standard automated perimetry-normal hemifield in glaucoma with low-to-normal
pressure.

Nakagawa S(1), Murata H, Saito H, Nakahara H, Mataki N, Tomidokoro A, Iwase A,
Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan. snakagawa-tky@umin.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To compare the longitudinal change of frequency doubling technology
(FDT) perimetry and standard automated perimetry (SAP) results in SAP-normal
hemifield in open-angle glaucoma (OAG) eyes with low-to-normal intraocular
pressure (IOP).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: FDT perimetry with the N-30 full threshold protocol and
SAP using the Humphrey Field Analyzer with the 30-2 Swedish Interactive Threshold
Algorithm-standard protocol were periodically performed for at least 3 years in
39 eyes of 39 OAG patients with low-to-normal IOP and visual field damage
confined to only one hemifield. The time courses of the mean of the threshold
values of FDT and the mean of total deviations (TDs) in SAP-normal and
SAP-abnormal fields were analyzed using a linear mixed model.
RESULTS: The average follow-up was 4.9 years and the average IOP during follow-up
was 12.6 mm Hg with or without medication. The aging effect-corrected rate of
change in the mean FDT threshold values was significantly negative (P=0.004) in
the SAP-normal hemifield, whereas that of mean of TD values by SAP did not
significantly differ. In the SAP-abnormal hemifield, the rate of change was
significantly negative for both tests (P<0.001). The mean of the slope of the
mean TD values in the SAP-abnormal hemifield was significantly more negative than
that in the SAP-normal hemifield (P=0.011), whereas that of the mean FDT
threshold values showed no significant difference between the 2 hemifields.
CONCLUSIONS: FDT is useful for monitoring functional damage in the SAP-normal
hemifield in OAG eyes with low-to-normal IOP.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318202777e 
PMID: 21543995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Mol Vis. 2011 Mar 25;17:792-6.

Investigation of the association between SLC1A3 gene polymorphisms and normal
tension glaucoma.

Yasumura R(1), Meguro A, Ota M, Nomura E, Uemoto R, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F,
Iijima H, Kawase K, Yamamoto T, Nakamura M, Negi A, Sagara T, Nishida T, Inatani 
M, Tanihara H, Aihara M, Araie M, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Higashide T, Sugiyama K,
Kanamoto T, Kiuchi Y, Iwase A, Ohno S, Inoko H, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama City University School of Medicine,
Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether the solute carrier family 1, member 3 (SLC1A3)
gene, which encodes the glutamate aspartate transporter, is associated with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in Japanese patients.
METHODS: Two hundred and ninety-five Japanese patients with NTG and 518 Japanese 
healthy controls were recruited. Patients exhibiting comparatively early NTG
onset were selected because early onset suggests that genetic factors may show
stronger involvement. We genotyped 5 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in
SLC1A3 and assessed the allelic and genotypic diversity among cases and controls.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences in the frequency of 
SLC1A3 alleles and genotypes between cases and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed no association between SLC1A3 and NTG, suggesting
that the SLC1A3 gene may not be an associated factor in NTG pathogenesis.


PMCID: PMC3081802
PMID: 21528001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Jun 28;52(7):4626-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-7382.

Association between SRBD1 and ELOVL5 gene polymorphisms and primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Mabuchi F(1), Sakurada Y, Kashiwagi K, Yamagata Z, Iijima H, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology and Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Yamanashi, Yamanashi, Japan. fmabuchi@yamanashi.ac.jp

PURPOSE: The S1 RNA binding domain 1 (SRBD1) and elongation of long-chain fatty
acids family member 5 (ELOVL5) have been reported to be susceptibility genes for 
early-onset normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). The present study we conducted to
assess whether these genes were associated with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG), including late-onset NTG and high-tension glaucoma (HTG).
METHODS: Three hundred seventy Japanese patients with POAG, including 158 NTG and
212 HTG patients and 191 control subjects were analyzed for SRBD1 (rs3213787) and
ELOVL5 (rs735860) gene polymorphisms.
RESULTS: The A allele frequencies of rs3213787 were significantly higher in NTG
(98.4%, P = 0.0003) and HTG (97.6%, P = 0.0013) patients than in the control
subjects (92.7%). The A allele frequency was significantly higher (P = 0.014),
even though the NTG patients were limited to those diagnosed at ages older than
60 years. The POAG patients with the CC or CT risk genotypes of rs735860 were
significantly older (P = 0.032, analysis of variance, P = 0.043 and P = 0.015,
respectively) than were the POAG patients with the TT genotype, and the frequency
of a family history of glaucoma in POAG patients with the CC risk genotype was
significantly higher (P = 0.015) than that in POAG patients with the TT genotype.
CONCLUSIONS: SRBD1 gene polymorphism is associated with the development of HTG as
well as NTG, including late-onset NTG. Typical POAG associated with ELOVL5 gene
polymorphism may have a late rather than an early onset.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-7382 
PMID: 21508110  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


645. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2011 Jun;34(6):396-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2011.01.016. Epub 2011
Apr 19.

[Glaucoma and sleep apnea syndrome].

[Article in French]

Blumen-Ohana E(1), Blumen M, Aptel F, Nordmann JP.

Author information: 
(1)Centre hospitalier des Quinze-Vingts, 28, rue de Charenton, 75012 Paris,
France. blumen-ohana@club-internet.fr

Glaucomatous optic neuropathy is multifactorial, with currently one known and
modifiable risk factor, with good results on the prognosis and intraocular
pressure. Nevertheless, some patients may experience progression of their
neuropathy even though their intraocular pressure seems appropriately controlled.
Vascular risk factors are hypothesized and researched. Obstructive sleep apnea
syndrome (OSAS) could be considered one of these risk factors. Screening for this
cardiovascular risk factor in glaucomatous patients presenting evocative signs,
should be proposed.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2011.01.016 
PMID: 21507510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Curr Eye Res. 2011 May;36(5):429-35. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2011.559563.

Clinical profiles of primary open angle glaucoma versus normal tension glaucoma
patients: a pilot study.

Asrani S(1), Samuels B, Thakur M, Santiago C, Kuchibhatla M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
asran002@mc.duke.edu

PURPOSE: To study the health profiles and behavioral differences between primary 
open angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: Confidential mail survey of ICD-9 defined POAG (n = 277) and NTG
(n = 116) patients was carried out to collect information regarding age, gender, 
height, weight, waist circumference, blood pressure (BP), medications
[prescription (Rx) and over the counter (OTC)], education, and the Short Health
Anxiety Inventory (SHAI).
RESULTS: NTG patients (59/116) were significantly more likely to respond to the
survey than POAG patients (43/277), p = 0.0001, and to have obtained college
level education (70% vs. 42%), p = 0.003. Body weight, waist circumference, body 
mass index, systolic BP, pulse pressure, and ratio of prescription medications to
OTC medications were significantly lower in the NTG group (p < 0.0001). The SHAI 
score, mean age, and diastolic BP were not different between the two groups. A
subgroup analysis of college-educated patients in both groups revealed persisting
significant differences in waist circumference, systolic BP, and ratio of Rx to
OTC medications.
CONCLUSIONS: NTG patients do not have significantly greater health anxiety than
POAG patients. NTG patients are more likely to have lower BMI, systolic BP, and
ratio of Rx to OTC medications than POAG patients. The pilot nature of this study
limits generalizability of these findings. Larger studies confirming these
findings and elucidating the role of refractive error and medical history on such
differences are needed.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2011.559563 
PMID: 21501076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Niger J Clin Pract. 2011 Jan-Mar;14(1):29-33. doi: 10.4103/1119-3077.79236.

Real-life experience study of the safety and efficacy of travoprost 0.004% /
timoptol 0.50% fixed combination ophthalmic solution in intraocular pressure
control.

Olali C(1), Malietzis G, Ahmed S, Samaila E, Gupta M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Royle Eye, Pilgrim Hospital, Boston, Lincolnshire, England.
akikio771@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of timolol 0.5%/travoprost 0.004%
combination (duotrav) as observed in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), ocular
hypertension (OHT) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in real-life conditions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with uncontrolled intraocular pressure (IOP) on
other medication and no contraindication to β-blockers were switched to duotrav
in 56 eyes of 28 patients. The drop in IOP was the primary outcome measured.
RESULTS: Switch to duotrav provided an additional IOP reduction after 3-month
follow-up that was statistically significant for those on latanoprost
(P=0.02857), bimatoprost (P =0.04978) and travoprost (P =0.0078). Patients on
latanotrost had an additional 25.9% drop 3 months after switching to duotrav
while those on bimatoprost and travatan had 18.04% and 17.59% drop, respectively,
after the switch. It was effective in lowering the IOP to clinically significant 
levels of ≤ 18.5 mmHg in POAG, NTG and OHT (12.5-17.9% drop), but not in chronic 
angle closure glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: Duotrav was well-tolerated and produced significant additional IOP
reduction when switched from other anti-glaucoma drugs in patients with
uncontrolled glaucoma. It also achieved IOP of ≤ 18.5 mmHg in glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.4103/1119-3077.79236 
PMID: 21493988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Jun 23;52(7):4467-71. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-6710.

Systemic vascular dysregulation and retrobulbar hemodynamics in normal-tension
glaucoma.

Galassi F(1), Giambene B, Varriale R.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Oculistica, Università di Firenze, Firenze, Italy.

PURPOSE: To investigate the influence of systemic vascular dysregulation on
retrobulbar hemodynamics in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Forty-four untreated patients with NTG and 40 healthy controls matched
for age, sex, and intraocular pressure were included. Cold-induced nailfold
capillaroscopic features, mean and diastolic ocular perfusion pressures (mOPP,
dOPP), endothelin-1 (ET-1) and nitric oxide markers, as nitrates (NO(2)), plasma 
values were recorded. Peak-systolic velocity, end-diastolic velocity (EDV), and
resistivity index (RI) were measured in the ophthalmic artery (OA), short
posterior ciliary arteries, and the central retinal artery by color Doppler
imaging. Differences between groups were determined by Student's t-test.
Relationships among ET-1, NO(2), OPPs, and retrobulbar hemodynamics were assessed
using correlation and multiple linear regression analyses.
RESULTS: Altered capillaroscopy was more frequent (72.7% vs. 5.0%, P < 0.001),
mOPP and dOPP values were lower (44.54 ± 2.81 vs. 52.18 ± 4.47 mm Hg; 57.89 ±
4.30 vs. 68.28 ± 6.91 mm Hg; P < 0.001), and ET-1 and NO(2) values were
respectively higher and lower (1.62 ± 0.22 vs. 1.12 ± 0.20 pg/mL and 142.17 ±
14.34 vs. 231.30 ± 6.16 μmol/mg prot; P < 0.001) in patients than the same values
in controls. EDV was lower and RI higher in OA (5.87 ± 1.17 vs. 11.41 ± 2.30
cm/s; 0.76 ± 0.03 vs. 0.64 ± 0.03; P < 0.001) in subjects with NTG than in
controls. In patients RI-OA was positively related to ET-1 (t = 2.704, P = 0.010)
and negatively related to NO(2) (t = -4.477, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Impaired retrobulbar hemodynamics may proceed from a vascular
endotheliopathy in patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-6710 
PMID: 21482642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2011 Mar;115(3):213-36; discussion 237.

[Basic and clinical studies of pressure-independent damaging factors of open
angle glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Araie M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Tokyo Graduate School of
Medicine, Japan. araie-tky@umin.net

Pathogenesis of open-angle glaucoma involves both pressure-dependent damaging
factors and pressure-independent damaging factors. The high prevalence of
open-angle glaucoma with normal pressure (normal-tension glaucoma) in Japan
implies that treatment of pressure-independent damaging factors in Japanese
open-angle glaucoma patients is of importance. In an attempt to investigate the
roles of pressure-independent damaging factors in open-angle glaucoma, we carried
out basic and clinical studies and obtained the following results. 1. The rate of
deterioration of visual field after trabeculectomy in normal tension glaucoma
patients with post-operative intraocular pressure (IOP) of 10 mmHg was found to
be -0.25 dB/year of mean deviation (MD), suggesting that contribution of
pressure-independent damaging factors to the deterioration of MD in open-angle
glaucoma is around -0.25 dB/year of mean deviation (MD). 2. Experiments using
isolated purified cultured retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) indicated that
calcium-channel blockers and some of antiglaucoma drugs showed neuroprotective
effects on RGCs at concentrations of 0.01 microM or higher. 3. In mice, damage to
RGCs resulted in secondary degeneration of neurons and activation of glial cells 
in the lateral geniculate nucleous (LGN) and superior colliculus, and these
secondary changes in the central nervous system (CNS) due to RGC damage was
partly ameliorated by systemic administration of memantine. 4. Mice experimental 
high IOP glaucoma models could be established using laser irradiation of the
limbal area, and the usefulness of Tonolab in IOP measurements of mice eye was
confirmed. 5. Monkey experimental high IOP glaucoma models revealed that in the
glaucomatous optic nerve head vaso-constrictive reactions to an alpha-1 agonist
was abolished, while vasodilative reaction to a prostaglandin FP receptor agonist
was retained. 6. In monkeys with experimental high IOP glaucoma, secondary damage
to neurons in the LGN and the glial reaction to it were also found, similar to
the mice experiments. In living monkeys the glial reaction in the LGN could be
observed by means of positron emission tomography. 7. In the LGN of monkeys with 
experimental high IOP glaucoma, the M-cell system was preferentially damaged in
the early stage, while in the later stages both the M- and P-cell systems were
damaged. 8. In a single-instituted prospective double-blinded clinical trial,
oral administration of nilvadipine at 4 mg/day, a DHP calcium-channel blocker,
was found to significantly retard the visual field progression in normal tension 
glaucoma patients over 3 years, while significantly increasing the choroidal and 
optic nerve blood flow by about 35%. 9. A multi-instituted prospective
double-blinded clinical trial in normal tension glaucoma patients revealed that
the rate of MD deterioration under monotherapy with either topical nipradilol or 
timolol was around -0.05 dB/year, thought to be considerably slower than -0.25
dB/year, the commonly estimated rate of MD deterioration by pressure-independent 
damaging factors. The current results indicate the possibility of treatment of
pressure-independent damaging factors of open-angle glaucoma in Japanese
open-angle glaucoma patients with oral nilvadipine and topical anti-glaucoma
agents.


PMID: 21476309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Aug;249(8):1255-8. doi:
10.1007/s00417-011-1668-y. Epub 2011 Apr 1.

Macular retinoschisis associated with normal tension glaucoma.

Zhao M(1), Li X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Key Laboratory of Vision Loss and Restoration,
Ministry of Education, People's Hospital of Peking University, Xizhimen South
Street 11, Xi Cheng District 100044 Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: To describe a case of macular retinoschisis in a patient with normal 
tension glaucoma without evidence of optic nerve pits or peripapillary
retinoschisis.
METHODS: Case report.
RESULTS: This patient, diagnosed with normal tension glaucoma, was noted to have 
macular retinoschisis in the right eye, with matching changes on visual field and
optical coherence tomographic (OCT) results. Follow-up examination revealed that 
the schisis kept on appearing in the right eye.
CONCLUSIONS: Macular retinoschisis may appear in patients with normal tension
glaucoma. It is possible that microholes in the thinning and structural defects
areas in the nerve fiber layer around the optic cup allowed liquid vitreous to
enter the retina via the nerve fiber layer. The fluid caused retinal edema, a
schisis and even a serous retinal detachment. Further studies are needed to
better understand this disease process.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-011-1668-y 
PMID: 21455774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Med Princ Pract. 2011;20(3):220-4. doi: 10.1159/000323596. Epub 2011 Mar 29.

Is symptomatic atherosclerotic cerebrovascular disease a risk factor for
normal-tension glaucoma?

Güngör IU(1), Güngör L, Ozarslan Y, Arıtürk N, Beden U, Erkan D, Onar MK, Oge I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ondokuz Mayıs University, Samsun, Turkey.
ligungor@omu.edu.tr

OBJECTIVE: To compare the incidence of glaucomatous optic disk appearance between
patients with symptomatic atherosclerotic stroke and healthy individuals with
normal intraocular pressures (IOP).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: 46 patients with ischemic stroke with evident lacunar
infarction or large vessel atherosclerosis, and 93 age- and sex-matched healthy
individuals, all with normal IOP, were included. Patients and controls were
examined for the presence of high cup-to-disk ratios (> 0.5).
RESULTS: Seven patients (15.22%) in the ischemic cerebrovascular disease (CVD)
group and 3 controls (3.23%) had glaucomatous optic disk appearance. All subjects
with glaucomatous optic disk appearance in the control group and 3 patients in
the study group had visual field defects in concordance with normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG). The incidence of glaucomatous optic disk appearance was
significantly higher in the group with symptomatic atherosclerotic CVD.
CONCLUSION: Atherosclerotic CVD is a risk factor for having glaucomatous optic
disk appearance. Symptomatic atherosclerosis involving the brain vasculature may 
also affect the eye and lead to NTG. Patients with ischemic strokes due to large 
artery atherosclerosis or small artery occlusion must be examined and followed
for NTG.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000323596 
PMID: 21454990  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Clin Ter. 2011;162(1):61-4.

[Clinic use of Laser Doppler Flowmetry (LDF) in the study of subfoveal choroidal 
circulation].

[Article in Italian]

Riva CE(1), Falsini B, Anselmi G, Gari M.

Author information: 
(1)Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Istituto di Oftalmologia, Roma, Italia.

Today our knowledge of the choroidal circulation is limited: we know its anatomy,
but, on the other hand, its physiopathology remains to be fully. The choroid is
involved in a number of important ocular diseases. The Laser Doppler Flowmetry
(LDF) is a technique that allows non-invasive measurement of haemodynamic
parameters of the subfoveal choroidal circulation. It is easy to use in daily
clinic activity. The aim of this mini-review is to describe LDF studies of the
choroidal circulation performed in healthy subjects under different environmental
conditions, in subjects with ocular diseases, as well as studies of the effects
of various drugs can induce on this circulation.


PMID: 21448548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Hum Mol Genet. 2011 Jun 15;20(12):2482-94. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddr123. Epub 2011 Mar
29.

Copy number variations on chromosome 12q14 in patients with normal tension
glaucoma.

Fingert JH(1), Robin AL, Stone JL, Roos BR, Davis LK, Scheetz TE, Bennett SR,
Wassink TH, Kwon YH, Alward WL, Mullins RF, Sheffield VC, Stone EM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA. john-fingert@uiowa.edu

We report identification of a novel genetic locus (GLC1P) for normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) on chromosome 12q14 using linkage studies of an African-American
pedigree (maximum non-parametric linkage score = 19.7, max LOD score = 2.7).
Subsequent comparative genomic hybridization and quantitative polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) experiments identified a 780 kbp duplication within the GLC1P
locus that is co-inherited with NTG in the pedigree. Real-time PCR studies showed
that the genes within this duplication [TBK1 (TANK-binding kinase 1), XPOT,
RASSF3 and GNS] are all expressed in the human retina. Cohorts of 478 glaucoma
patients (including 152 NTG patients), 100 normal control subjects and 400
age-related macular degeneration patients were subsequently tested for copy
number variation in GLC1P. Overlapping duplications were detected in 2 (1.3%) of 
the 152 NTG subjects, one of which had a strong family history of glaucoma. These
duplications defined a 300 kbp critical region of GLC1P that spans two genes
(TBK1 and XPOT). Microarray expression experiments and northern blot analysis
using RNA obtained from human skin fibroblast cells showed that duplication of
chromosome 12q14 results in increased TBK1 and GNS transcription. Finally,
immunohistochemistry studies showed that TBK1 is expressed in the ganglion cells,
nerve fiber layer and microvasculature of the human retina. Together, these data 
link the duplication of genes on chromosome 12q14 with familial NTG and suggest
that an extra copy of the encompassed TBK1 gene is likely responsible for these
cases of glaucoma. However, animal studies will be necessary to rule out a role
for the other duplicated or neighboring genes.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddr123 
PMCID: PMC3098731
PMID: 21447600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2011 Feb;47(2):105-8.

[Is normal-tension glaucoma different from primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang L(1), Zhang YQ, Xu L, Yang H, Wu XS.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing
Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing Ophthalmology & Visual
Sciences Key Lab, Beijing 100005, China.

Based on the clinical consideration, Chinese glaucoma specialist reached a
consensus (2008) that normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a subtype of primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and the dividing line is whether the intraocular
pressure (IOP) more than 21 mm Hg or not. But it is still a controversial problem
in the world that whether NTG is different from POAG or not. Some studies have
confirmed that the pathogenesis of optic neuropathy, clinical features, risk
factors for glaucomatous optic neuropathy progression and treatment strategy in
NTG are different from those of POAG, indicating that they may be two different
disorders.


PMID: 21426838  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Jun 13;52(7):4143-50. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-6294.

Retinal ganglion cell loss in superoxide dismutase 1 deficiency.

Yuki K(1), Ozawa Y, Yoshida T, Kurihara T, Hirasawa M, Ozeki N, Shiba D, Noda K, 
Ishida S, Tsubota K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Retinal Cell Biology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the influence of deficiency in superoxide dismutase (SOD)
1, a major antioxidative enzyme, on retinal ganglion cells (RGCs).
METHODS: In the SOD1 total knockout (SOD1-deficient) mice, the level of
superoxide anion was measured using dihydroethidium. The number of RGCs was
counted in both the retinal sections and the flat-mount retinas after retrograde 
labeling. Thickness of nerve fiber layer (NFL) was measured in the sections, and 
the amount of neurofilament protein was measured by immunoblot analysis. Pattern 
electroretinogram (ERG), which reflects the function of retinal ganglion cells,
dark-adapted ERG, and cone ERG were performed. The intraocular pressure (IOP) was
measured with an induction-impact tonometer. The levels of SOD-1 and -2 were
measured by ELISA, in the serum of 47 newly diagnosed consecutive normal tension 
glaucoma (NTG) patients and 44 consecutive control subjects.
RESULTS: The level of superoxide anion in the RGC layer was significantly higher 
in 24-week-old SOD1-deficient mice than in wild-type mice. The RGC number was
significantly reduced in 24-week-old SOD1-deficient mice, although they were not 
in 8-week-old mice. The NFL thickness and neurofilament protein were reduced in
24-week-old SOD1-deficient mice. The amplitude of pattern ERG was significantly
reduced, although dark-adapted and cone ERGs showed no impairment, in 24-week-old
SOD1-deficient mice. The IOP level was not changed in the SOD1-deficient mice.
The serum level of SOD1, but not SOD2, was significantly lower in the NTG
patients than in the healthy controls.
CONCLUSIONS: SOD1 deficiency causes RGC vulnerability, which may be involved in
the underlying condition of NTG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-6294 
PMID: 21421868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Feb 22;91(7):445-50.

[Clinical characteristics of eyes with unilateral disc hemorrhage in normal
tension glaucoma patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Li M(1), Cai Y, Pan YZ, Qiao RH, Fang Y, Liu LN, Wang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, First Hospital of Peking University, Beijing
100034, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical characteristics of the eyes with
unilateral disc hemorrhage (DH) in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: 37 normal-tension glaucoma patients with unilateral DH were studied.
Extensive parameters were analyzed to evaluate which parameters differ
significantly between the DH eyes and the companion eyes. These parameters are:
(1) intraocular pressure (IOP), (2) dioptres of refractive errors, (3) central
corneal thickness (CCT), (4) disc area, (5) disc shape including horizontal
diameter, vertical diameter and horizontal diameter/vertical diameter, (6) global
parameters of optic disc, including rim area (G-RA), rim volume (G-RV), mean
retinal never fiber layer thickness (G-MRNFLT), cup shape measure (G-CSM) and
height variation contour (G-HVC), (7) sectorial parameters of DH located area,
including S-RA, S-RV, S-MRNFLT, S-CSM and S-HVC, (8) parameters of the
peripapillary atrophy (PPA) beta zone including the incidence rate, area, extent 
and maximum width. The global and sectorial parameters of the optic disc were
obtained directly from HRT-II. The other parameters, such as optic disc
horizontal diameter, vertical diameter and PPA, were obtained by processing the
raw optic disc images acquired from HRT-II using computer software Image-pro plus
version 6. Univariate and multivariate regression analyses were performed on the 
acquired parameters.
RESULTS: The disc vertical diameter (P < 0.01) and incidence rate (P = 0.031) of 
zone beta appeared to be significantly larger in the DH eyes than the ones in the
contra-lateral eyes, while horizontal diameter/vertical diameter was
significantly smaller in the DH eyes. As for the optic disc global parameters,
the G-MRNFLT (P = 0.028), G-HVC (P = 0.047) were significantly lower in the DH
eyes than in the contra-lateral eyes while the G-CSM was significantly higher in 
DH eyes (P = 0.047). The differences of G-RA, G-RV between two eyes were not
significant. As for the regional parameters, S-RA, S-RV, S-MRNFLT were
significantly smaller in the DH eyes than in the contra-lateral eyes with
P-values 0.033, 0.01 and 0.008 respectively. S-CSM was significantly larger in DH
eyes (P = 0.021). S-HVC did not display significant difference between two
groups. There were also no significant differences in CCT, dioptres of refractive
errors, IOP, PPA parameters (including area, extent and maximum width) between DH
eyes and companion eyes. Multivariate regression analysis demonstrated that
contained disc area, dioptres of refractive errors, G-RA, G-MRNFLT, G-CSM,
horizontal diameter/vertical diameter and zone beta extent, the horizontal
diameter/vertical diameter were the significant factors independently associated 
with disc hemorrhage (P = 0.032, OR < 0.001: < 0.001 - 0.35). Logistic regression
analysis also showed that contained disc area, dioptres of refractive errors,
S-RA, S-MRNFLT, S-CSM, horizontal diameter/vertical diameter and zone beta
extent, the horizontal diameter/vertical diameter and S-MRNFLT were the
significant factors independently associated with disc hemorrhage (S-MRNFLT: P = 
0.019, OR < 0.001: < 0.001 - 0.154; horizontal diameter/vertical diameter: P =
0.02, OR < 0.001: < 0.001 - 0.124).
CONCLUSION: Our study indicates that horizontal diameter/vertical diameter is
significantly smaller in NTG patients with unilateral optic disc hemorrhages. The
DH located area also appears to have thinner RNFL thickness. Unilateral optic
disc hemorrhages tend to have severe RNFL damage in DH located area and their
optic disc shape tend to be longer, therefore we hypothesis that the elongation
of the optic disc may be associated with the occurrence of DH.


PMID: 21418973  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Jan;96(1):53-6. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2010.199224. Epub 2011 Mar
11.

Optic nerve sheath diameter in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Jaggi GP(1), Miller NR, Flammer J, Weinreb RN, Remonda L, Killer HE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kantonsspital Aarau, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Aug;96(8):1145-6; author reply 1146.

BACKGROUND: To report on the optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD) in patients with 
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) compared with controls without known optic nerve
(ON) or intracranial disease.
METHODS: In 18 patients with NTG (mean age 64.9 ± 8.9 years; 7 women and 11 men),
CT of the orbit was performed. 17 age- and gender-matched patients without ON or 
intracranial disease, who underwent CT of the orbits for non-ophthalmological
reasons, served as controls. The widest intraorbital ONSD in axial sections was
measured using a standardised technique.
STUDY DESIGN: unmasked. Statistical analysis was performed using an independent
two-tailed t Test and the non-parametric Spearman correlation test.
RESULTS: ONSD was significantly (p<0.001) increased in NTG patients (right side: 
mean 7.9 ± 0.9 mm SD; left: 8.0 ± 1.1 mm) compared with controls (right: 6.3 ±
0.5 mm; left: 6.1 ± 0.6 mm). Neither the NTG nor the control group had a
significant difference in ONSD between males and females or between right and
left sides.
CONCLUSIONS: An increased ONSD is generally associated with increased
intracranial pressure; however, ONSDs in a group of NTG patients also were
significantly increased compared with controls. ON sheath compartmentation and
thinning of the ON sheath are two possible explanations for an increase in the
ONSD in patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2010.199224 
PMID: 21398413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 May 18;52(6):3430-5. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-6600.

Lack of association between glaucoma and macular choroidal thickness measured
with enhanced depth-imaging optical coherence tomography.

Mwanza JC(1), Hochberg JT, Banitt MR, Feuer WJ, Budenz DL.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, Florida, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare choroidal thickness measurements among normal eyes, eyes with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and those with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG),
and to correlate choroidal thickness with demographic and clinical ocular
parameters.
METHODS: Choroidal thickness was measured with enhanced depth-imaging (EDI)
optical coherence tomography (OCT) in one eye of 38 normal, 20 NTG, and 56 POAG
subjects and compared among groups. The mean age was 69.3 ± 13.6 years (60.1 ±
13.4 years for normal subjects and 73.8 ± 11.3 years for glaucoma subjects; P <
0.001). Measurements were made at the fovea and in the temporal and nasal choroid
every 0.5 mm up to 3 mm away from the fovea. Univariate and multivariate linear
regression analyses were performed to assess the association between choroidal
thickness and demographic and ocular parameters.
RESULTS: There were no differences in foveal, temporal, or nasal choroidal
thickness between normal, NTG, and POAG subjects (all P > 0.05) after adjusting
for age, axial length, and intraocular pressure. Similarly, glaucoma severity
groups did not differ from each other in all choroidal thickness measurements
(all P > 0.05). Age (β = -1.78; P < 0.001) was the most significant factor
associated with subfoveal choroidal thickness in the entire group, followed by
axial length (β = -11.8; P = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Choroidal thickness does not differ among normal, NTG, and POAG
subjects, suggesting a lack of relationship between choroidal thickness and
glaucoma based on EDI OCT measurements.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-6600 
PMCID: PMC3109036
PMID: 21357398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Acta Ophthalmol. 2011 Mar;89(2):e142-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.02015.x.

Cerebrospinal fluid pressure in ocular hypertension.

Ren R(1), Zhang X, Wang N, Li B, Tian G, Jonas JB.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing
Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, China.

Comment in
    Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Feb;90(1):e77-8; author reply e78-9.

BACKGROUND: To assess the lumbar cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSF-P) in ocular
hypertensive subjects with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) but without
development of glaucomatous optic nerve damage.
METHODS: The prospective interventional study included 17 patients with ocular
hypertension and 71 subjects of a nonglaucomatous control group. All patients
underwent a standardized ophthalmologic and neurological examination including
measurement of lumbar CSF-P. In the ocular hypertensive group, the IOP was
corrected for its dependence on central corneal thickness (IOP(corrected) ). The 
trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference (Trans-LCPD) was calculated as
IOP(corrected) - CSF-P.
RESULTS: CSF-P was significantly (p < 0.001) higher in the ocular hypertensive
group (16.0 ± 2.5 mmHg) than in the control group (12.9 ± 1.9 mmHg). CSF-P was
significantly associated with IOP(corrected) (p < 0.001; r = 0.82). In
multivariate analysis, CSF-P was significantly correlated with IOP(corrected) (p 
< 0.001) and marginally significantly with mean blood pressure (p = 0.05).
Trans-LCPD was not associated significantly with blood pressure (p = 0.69).
CONCLUSION: Some ocular hypertensive subjects with increased intraocular pressure
measurements (after correction for their dependence on central corneal thickness)
had an abnormally high lumbar cerebrospinal fluid pressure. Assuming that lumbar 
cerebrospinal fluid pressure correlated with orbital cerebrospinal fluid
pressure, one may postulate that the elevated retro-lamina cribrosa pressure
compensated for an increased intraocular pressure. The elevated retro-lamina
cribrosa pressure may have led to a normal trans-laminar pressure difference in
the eyes with elevated intraocular pressure, so that glaucomatous optic nerve
damage did not develop. Intraocular pressure, cerebrospinal fluid pressure and
arterial blood pressure were correlated with each other.

© 2011 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2011 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.02015.x 
PMID: 21348961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Nov;90(7):683-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02125.x.
Epub 2011 Feb 18.

Normal tension glaucoma and Alzheimer disease: comorbidity?

Bach-Holm D(1), Kessing SV, Mogensen U, Forman JL, Andersen PK, Kessing LV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital of Copenhagen, Glostrup,
Denmark. daniella@dadlnet.dk

PURPOSE: To investigate whether normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is associated with 
increased risk of developing dementia/Alzheimer disease (AD).
METHODS: A total of 69 patients with NTG were identified in the case note files
in the Glaucoma Clinic, University Hospital of Copenhagen (Rigshospitalet),
Denmark from 1980 to 2001. The rate of a subsequent diagnosis of dementia as
recorded in nationwide health care registers from 1980 to 2005 was estimated and 
compared with the rate for the general population [standard mortality rate (SMR) 
= observed number of cases of dementia/expected number of cases of dementia].
RESULTS: The 69 patients had a median age of 64 years (quartiles 57 and 73) at
the time of the diagnosis, and the average follow-up period was 12.7 years. The
SMR(dementia) was 0.20 (95% CI 0.01-1.11). No patient developed AD.
CONCLUSION: Normal tension glaucoma was not associated with an increased risk of 
developing dementia/AD.

© 2011 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2011 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02125.x 
PMID: 21332678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Ophthalmology. 2011 Jun;118(6):1031-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.10.024. Epub
2011 Feb 18.

Differences in rates of glaucoma among Asian Americans and other racial groups,
and among various Asian ethnic groups.

Stein JD(1), Kim DS, Niziol LM, Talwar N, Nan B, Musch DC, Richards JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA. jdstein@med.umich.edu

PURPOSE: To determine the incidence and prevalence of different glaucoma types
among Asian Americans and other races, and evaluate the hazard for glaucoma among
different races and Asian ethnicities.
DESIGN: Retrospective, longitudinal, cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: A group of 2,259,061 eye care recipients, aged ≥ 40, who were
enrolled in a US managed-care network in 2001-2007.
METHODS: Incidence and prevalence rates of open-angle glaucoma (OAG),
narrow-angle glaucoma (NAG), and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) were calculated
and stratified by race and Asian ethnicity. Cox regression was performed to
assess the hazard of developing OAG, NAG, and NTG for Asian Americans and other
races, and among different Asian ethnicities, with adjustment for potentially
confounding variables.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Multivariable adjusted hazard of OAG, NAG, and NTG among
different races and Asian ethnicities.
RESULTS: The OAG prevalence rate for Asian Americans, 6.52%, was similar to that 
of Latinos (6.40%) and higher than that of non-Hispanic whites (5.59%). The NAG
and NTG prevalence rates were considerably higher among Asian Americans (3.01%
and 0.73%, respectively) relative to other races. After adjustment for potential 
confounding factors, Asian Americans had a 51% increased hazard of OAG (adjusted 
hazard ratio [HR], 1.51 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.42-1.60]), a 123%
increased hazard of NAG (adjusted HR, 2.23; CI, 2.07-2.41), and a 159% increased 
hazard of NTG (adjusted HR, 2.59; CI, 2.22-3.02) compared with non-Hispanic
whites. Vietnamese Americans (adjusted HR, 3.78; CI, 3.19-4.48), Pakistani
Americans (adjusted HR, 2.45, CI 1.50-4.01), and Chinese Americans (adjusted HR, 
2.31, CI 2.06-2.59) had considerably higher hazards of NAG, whereas Japanese
Americans (adjusted HR, 4.37, CI 3.24-5.89) had a substantially higher hazard of 
NTG, compared with non-Asian Americans.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the rapid rise in the number of Asian Americans in the US
population, resources should be devoted to identifying and treating glaucoma in
these patients. Eye-care providers should be aware of the increased risk for OAG,
NAG, and NTG among Asian Americans relative to other races. Knowing
Asian-American patients' ancestral country of origin may permit more precise
estimation of their risks for OAG, NAG, and NTG.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest
in any materials discussed in this article.

Copyright © 2011 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.10.024 
PMCID: PMC3109193
PMID: 21310489  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Neuropathology. 2011 Dec;31(6):569-74. doi: 10.1111/j.1440-1789.2011.01199.x.
Epub 2011 Feb 1.

Optineurin in neurodegenerative diseases.

Osawa T(1), Mizuno Y, Fujita Y, Takatama M, Nakazato Y, Okamoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Gunma University Graduate School of Medicine, Gunma, 
Japan.

Optineurin is a gene associated with normal tension glaucoma and primary
open-angle glaucoma, one of the major causes of irreversible bilateral blindness.
Recently, mutations in the gene encoding optineurin were found in patients with
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Immunohistochemical analysis showed
aggregation of optineurin in skein-like inclusions and round hyaline inclusions
in the spinal cord, suggesting that optineurin appears to be a more general
marker for ALS. However, our detailed examinations demonstrated that optineurin
was found not only in ALS-associated pathological structures, but also in
ubiquitin-positive intraneuronal inclusions in ALS with dementia, basophilic
inclusions in the basophilic type of ALS, neurofibrillary tangles and dystrophic 
neurites in Alzheimer's disease, Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites in Parkinson's
disease, ballooned neurons in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, glial cytoplasmic
inclusions in multiple system atrophy, and Pick bodies in Pick disease. With
respect to optineurin-positive basophilic inclusions, these structures showed
variable immunoreactivities for ubiquitin; some structures were obviously
ubiquitin-positive, while others were negative for the protein, suggesting that
optineurin expression was not always associated with the expression of ubiquitin.
This study indicates that optineurin is widely distributed in neurodegenerative
conditions; however, its significance is obscure.

© 2011 Japanese Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1789.2011.01199.x 
PMID: 21284751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Curr Eye Res. 2011 Apr;36(4):295-300. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2010.542865. Epub
2011 Feb 1.

Comparison of goldmann applanation tonometer, noncontact tonometer, and TonoPen
XL for intraocular pressure measurement in different types of glaucomatous,
ocular hypertensive, and normal eyes.

Kim NR(1), Kim CY, Kim H, Seong GJ, Lee ES.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements by Goldmann
applanation tonometer (GAT), noncontact tonometer (NCT), and TonoPen XL in
glaucomatous, ocular hypertensive (OHT), and normal eyes, all with various
central corneal thickness (CCT).
METHODS: In 508 subjects, IOP was measured by three different tonometers: GAT,
NCT, and TonoPen. CCT was also measured.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant difference between IOP
measurements made using the three different tonometers (RMANOVA, P < 0.0001).
Both NCT/GAT and TonoPen/GAT differences were significantly associated with age, 
CCT, IOP, and glaucoma diagnosis (multiple regression analysis, all P ≤ 0.05).
CCT and IOP had the greatest effect on IOP measurement variance by different
tonometers. IOP measurements made by NCT were consistently higher than those made
by GAT; this difference increased both with IOP and CCT levels, but decreased
with age and OHT. In addition, TonoPen overestimated the GAT in the eyes of
subjects with OHT.
CONCLUSION: IOP measurement differences between the three tonometers are affected
by age, type of glaucoma, and especially CCT and IOP levels.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2010.542865 
PMID: 21284505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


664. J Glaucoma. 2011 Sep;20(7):452-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181f7b134.

Substance use disorder and the risk of open-angle glaucoma.

French DD(1), Margo CE, Harman LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, VA Center of
Excellence on Implementing Evidence-based Practice, Regenstrief Institute Inc,
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
Dustin.French2@va.gov

PURPOSE: To test the hypothesis that cocaine use (abuse and/or dependency) is
associated with open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: A case-control study. Potential case patients were identified from the
Veterans Health Administration national clinical database using International
Classification of Disease, Version 9, Clinical Modification for open-angle
glaucoma for fiscal year 2009. Inclusion criteria included consecutive
prescriptions for 1 or more topical antiglaucoma medications. Cocaine exposure
was identified through International Classification of Disease, Version 9,
Clinical Modification codes. The odds of cocaine exposure were compared with the 
overall outpatient population of national Veterans Health Administration
beneficiaries and adjusted for age and other illicit drug use. A nested
case-control study was conducted to examine the confounding influence of race.
RESULTS: Age-adjusted odds ratios of cocaine exposure among patients with
glaucoma were statistically significant for both men [3.52 (95% confidence
interval, CI: 3.21-3.86)] and women [1.87 (95% CI: 1.79-1.96)], and did not
change significantly when analyzed according to drug-dependency status. Subset
analysis adjusted for age, other illicit drugs, and race remained significant for
men [1.45 (95% CI: 1.27-1.66)], but not women. Persons with substance use
disorder and glaucoma were nearly 18 years younger than glaucoma patients without
a drug exposure history.
CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study suggests the use of cocaine and possibly other
illicit drugs are predictive of glaucoma. Should the association of substance use
disorder (cocaine or cocaine/poly-drug abuse) and open-angle glaucoma be
verified, it represents a potentially modifiable risk factor for vision loss.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181f7b134 
PMID: 21278592  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Br J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jul;95(7):966-70. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2010.188607. Epub 2011
Jan 21.

Persistence of glaucoma medical therapy in the Glasgow Glaucoma Database.

Rahman MQ(1), Abeysinghe SS, Kelly S, Roskell NS, Shannon PR, Abdlseaed AA,
Montgomery DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Glasgow G31 2ER, UK.

AIMS: To report the persistence of glaucoma medical therapy in a database of 1006
patients with ocular hypertension (OHT), normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) attending the Glaucoma Clinic at Glasgow Royal
Infirmary, Glasgow, UK.
METHOD: Analyses have been carried out using specially written queries to
generate reports relating to initial treatment choice and persistence for
individual drugs. Queries were investigated in the database time period from 16
February 1982 to 11 February 2009. When investigating drug persistence, the
results from the database were split into two distinct time periods from 1997 to 
2001 and from 2002 to 2009 to reflect the available treatment options used.
RESULTS: The number of patients with each diagnosis was as follows: POAG 608; OHT
246; NTG 152. The Kaplan-Meier estimate for mean persistence from 1997 to 2001
(time to treatment discontinuation) of latanoprost was 58.8 ± 1.95 months,
timolol was 41.8 ± 3.94 months, brimonidine was 24.1 ± 3.05 months, and betaxolol
was 22.9 ± 2.04 months. The Kaplan-Meier estimate for mean persistence from 2002 
to 2009 of latanoprost (time to treatment discontinuation) was 52.0 ± 2.26
months, bimatoprost was 25.8 ± 2.89 months, and travoprost was 23.0 ± 1.27
months. The Kaplan-Meier estimate for mean persistence of latanoprost (time to
treatment change) was 37.5 ± 2.47 months, travoprost was 30.2 ± 2.70 months, and 
bimatoprost was 17.5 ± 2.88 months.
CONCLUSION: The introduction of the first prostaglandin analogue, latanoprost,
dramatically improved treatment persistence for glaucoma patients. In the current
prostaglandin-rich treatment environment, these data do not show any significant 
differences between prostaglandins with respect to treatment persistence.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2010.188607 
PMID: 21258080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Apr;151(4):671-81. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.09.026. Epub
2011 Jan 22.

A randomized trial of brimonidine versus timolol in preserving visual function:
results from the Low-Pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study.

Krupin T(1), Liebmann JM, Greenfield DS, Ritch R, Gardiner S; Low-Pressure
Glaucoma Study Group.

Collaborators: Krupin T, Rosenberg LF, Ruderman JM, Yang JW, Tello C, Liebmann
JM, Ritch R, Myers JS, Katz LJ, Spaeth GL, Wilson RP, Moster MR, Cantor LB, Gross
RL, Dirks MS, Grimes SR, Greenfield DS, Bagga H, Sherwood MB, Feitl ME, Henry JC,
Gieser DK, Piltz-Seymour JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University and the Chicago Center for Vision Research, Chicago, Illinois 60611,
USA. krupin@northwestern.edu

Erratum in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jun;151(6):1108.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;152(5):877; author reply 877-8.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;152(5):715-6.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;152(5):880; author reply 880-1.

PURPOSE: To compare the alpha2-adrenergic agonist brimonidine tartrate 0.2% to
the beta-adrenergic antagonist timolol maleate 0.5% in preserving visual function
in low-pressure glaucoma.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-masked, multicenter clinical trial.
METHODS: Exclusion criteria included untreated intraocular pressure (IOP) >21 mm 
Hg, visual field mean deviation worse than -16 decibels, or contraindications to 
study medications. Both eyes received twice-daily monotherapy randomized in
blocks of 7 (4 brimonidine to 3 timolol). Standard automated perimetry and
tonometry were performed at 4-month intervals. Main outcome measure was field
progression in either eye, defined as the same 3 or more points with a negative
slope ≥-1 dB/year at P<5%, on 3 consecutive tests, assessed by pointwise linear
regression. Secondary outcome measures were progression based on glaucoma change 
probability maps (GCPM) of pattern deviation and the 3-omitting method for
pointwise linear regression.
RESULTS: Ninety-nine patients were randomized to brimonidine and 79 to timolol.
Mean (± SE) months of follow-up for all patients was 30.0 ± 2. Statistically
fewer brimonidine-treated patients (9, 9.1%) had visual field progression by
pointwise linear regression than timolol-treated patients (31, 39.2%, log-rank
12.4, P=.001). Mean treated IOP was similar for brimonidine- and timolol-treated 
patients at all time points. More brimonidine-treated (28, 28.3%) than
timolol-treated (9, 11.4%) patients discontinued study participation because of
drug-related adverse events (P=.008). Similar differences in progression were
observed when analyzed by GCPM and the 3-omitting method.
CONCLUSION: Low-pressure glaucoma patients treated with brimonidine 0.2% who do
not develop ocular allergy are less likely to have field progression than
patients treated with timolol 0.5%.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.09.026 
PMID: 21257146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Eur J Hum Genet. 2011 Apr;19(4):445-51. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2010.217. Epub 2011 Jan
12.

Evidence for RPGRIP1 gene as risk factor for primary open angle glaucoma.

Fernández-Martínez L(1), Letteboer S, Mardin CY, Weisschuh N, Gramer E, Weber BH,
Rautenstrauss B, Ferreira PA, Kruse FE, Reis A, Roepman R, Pasutto F.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Friedrich-Alexander University of
Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.

Glaucoma is a genetically heterogeneous disorder and is the second cause of
blindness worldwide owing to the progressive degeneration of retinal ganglion
neurons. Very few genes causing glaucoma were identified to this date. In this
study, we screened 10 candidate genes of glaucoma between the D14S261 and D14S121
markers of chromosome 14q11, a critical region previously linked to primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Mutation analyses of two large cohorts of patients
with POAG, normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and juvenile open-angle glaucoma (JOAG),
and control subjects, found only association of non-synonymous heterozygous
variants of the retinitis pigmentosa GTPase regulator-interacting protein 1
(RPGRIP1) with POAG, NTG and JOAG. The 20 non-synonymous variants identified in
RPGRIP1 were all distinct from variants causing photoreceptor dystrophies and
were found throughout all but one domain (RPGR-interacting domain) of RPGRIP1.
Among them, 14 missense variants clustered within or around the C2 domains of
RPGRIP1. Yeast two-hybrid analyses of a subset of the missense mutations within
the C2 domains of RPGRIP1 shows that five of them (p.R598Q, p.A635G, p.T806I,
p.A837G and p.I838V) decrease the association of the C2 domains with
nephrocystin-4 (NPHPH). When considering only these five confirmed C2-domain
mutations, the association remains statistically significant (P=0.001).
Altogether, the data support that heterozygous non-synonymous variants of RPGRIP1
may cause or increase the susceptibility to various forms of glaucoma and that
among other factors, physical impairment of the interaction of RPGRIP1with
different proteins may contribute to the pathogenesis of forms of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2010.217 
PMCID: PMC3060327
PMID: 21224891  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2011;11(2):1-40. Epub 2011 Jun 1.

Diurnal tension curves for assessing the development or progression of glaucoma: 
an evidence-based analysis.

Health Quality Ontario.

CLINICAL NEED: CONDITION AND TARGET POPULATION There are two main types of
glaucoma, primary open angle (POAG) and angle closure glaucoma, of which POAG is 
the more common type. POAG is diagnosed by assessing degenerative changes in the 
optic disc and loss of visual field (VF). Risk factors for glaucoma include an
increase in intraocular pressure (IOP), a family history of glaucoma, older age
and being of African descent. The prevalence of POAG ranges from 1.1% to 3.0% in 
Western populations and from 4.2% to 8.8% in populations of African descent.
Usually the IOP associated with POAG is elevated above the normal distribution
(10-20 mmHg), but when IOP is not elevated it is often referred to as
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). In population based studies, approximately
one-third to half of the patients with glaucomatous VF loss have normal IOP on
initial examination. People with elevated IOP (>21 mmHg), but with no evidence of
optic disc or VF damage have ocular hypertension. It has been estimated that 3 to
6 million people in the United States including 4% to 7% of those older than 40
years have elevated IOP without detectable glaucomatous damage on standard
clinical tests. An Italian study found the overall prevalence of ocular
hypertension, POAG, and NTG in 4,297 people over 40 years of age to be 2.1%, 1.4%
and 0.6% respectively.
DIURNAL CURVES FOR INTRAOCULAR PRESSURE MEASUREMENT: DIURNAL CURVE: In normal
individuals, IOP fluctuates 2 to 6 mmHg over a 24 hour period. IOP is influenced 
by body position with higher readings found in the supine relative to the upright
position. As most individuals sleep in the supine position and are upright during
the day, IOP is higher on average in people, both with and without glaucoma, in
the nocturnal period. IOP is generally higher in the morning compared to the
afternoon. Multiple IOP measurements over the course of a day can be used to
generate a diurnal curve and may have clinical importance in terms of diagnosis
and management of patients with IOP related conditions since a solitary reading
in the office may not reveal the peak IOP and fluctuation that a patient
experiences. Furthermore, because of diurnal and nocturnal variation in IOP,
24-hour monitoring may reveal higher peaks and wider fluctuations than those
found during office-hours and may better determine risk of glaucoma progression
than single or office-hour diurnal curve measurements. There is discrepancy in
the literature regarding which parameter of IOP measurement (e.g., mean IOP or
fluctuation/range of IOP) is most important as an independent risk factor for
progression or development of glaucoma. The potential for increased rates or
likelihood of worsening glaucoma among those with larger IOP swings within
defined time periods has received increasing attention in the literature.
According to an expert consultant: The role of a diurnal tension curves is to
assess IOP in relationship to either a risk factor for the development or
progression of glaucoma or achievement of a target pressure which may direct a
therapeutic change.Candidates for a diurnal curve are usually limited to glaucoma
suspects (based on optic disc changes or less commonly visual field changes) to
assess the risk for development of glaucoma or in patients with progressive
glaucoma despite normal single office IOP measurements.Clinically diurnal tension
curves are used to determine the peak IOP and range.
SINGLE IOP MEASUREMENTS: Intraocular pressure fluctuation as a risk factor for
progression of glaucoma has also been examined without the use of diurnal curves.
In these cases, single IOP measurements were made every 3-6 months over several
months/years. The standard deviation (SD) of the mean IOP was used as a surrogate
for fluctuation since no diurnal tension curves were obtained.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the use of a diurnal tension curve (multiple IOP 
measurements over a minimum 8 hour duration) is more effective than not using a
diurnal tension curve (single IOP measurements) to assess IOP fluctuation as a
risk factor for the development or progression of glaucoma.To determine whether
the use of a diurnal tension curve is beneficial for glaucoma suspects or
patients with progressive glaucoma despite normal single office IOP measurements 
and leads to a more effective disease management strategy.
RESEARCH METHODS:
LITERATURE SEARCH:
SEARCH STRATEGY: A literature search was performed on July 22, 2010 using OVID
MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, EMBASE, the
Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), the Cochrane
Library, and the International Agency for Health Technology Assessment (INAHTA)
for studies published from January 1, 2006 until July 14, 2010. Abstracts were
reviewed by a single reviewer and, for those studies meeting the eligibility
criteria, full-text articles were obtained. Reference lists were also examined
for any additional relevant studies not identified through the search. Articles
with unknown eligibility were reviewed with a second clinical epidemiologist,
then a group of epidemiologists until consensus was established. The quality of
evidence was assessed as high, moderate, low or very low according to GRADE
methodology.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: Open angle glaucoma (established or OHT high risk) in an
adult populationIOP measurement by Goldmann applanation tonometry (the gold
standard)Number and timing of IOP measurements explicitly reported (e.g., 5
measurements a day for 5 visits to generate a diurnal curve or 1 measurement a
day [no diurnal curve] every 3 months for 2 years)IOP parameters include
fluctuation (range [peak minus trough] or standard deviation) and meanOutcome
measure = progression or development of glaucomaStudy reports results for ≥ 20
eyesMost recent publication if there are multiple publications based on the same 
study
EXCLUSION CRITERIA: Angle closure glaucoma or pediatric glaucomaCase reportsIOP
measured by a technique other than GAT (the gold standard)Number and timing of
IOP measurements not explicitly reported
OUTCOMES OF INTEREST: Progression or development of glaucoma
CONCLUSION: There is very low quality evidence (retrospective studies, patients
on different treatments) for the use of a diurnal tension curve or single
measurements to assess short or long-term IOP fluctuation or mean as a risk
factor for the development or progression of glaucoma. There is very low quality 
evidence (expert opinion) whether the use of a diurnal tension curve is
beneficial for glaucoma suspects or patients with progressive glaucoma, despite
normal single office IOP measurements, and leads to a more effective disease
management strategy.


PMCID: PMC3377558
PMID: 23074414  [PubMed]


669. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Aug;39(6):513-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02482.x.
Epub 2011 Feb 23.

Period prevalence and incidence of optic disc haemorrhage in normal tension
glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Suh MH(1), Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Busan, Korea.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Aug;39(6):485-6.

BACKGROUND: To investigate and compare the period prevalences and incidences of
optic disc haemorrhages in normal tension glaucoma and primary open-angle
glaucoma.
DESIGN: Hospital-based retrospective study.
PARTICIPANTS: Four hundred and four patients with normal tension glaucoma and 210
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma that underwent consecutive disc
examinations at least quarterly for at least 1 year and stereoscopic optic disc
photographs at intervals of 6 to 12 months between 1992 and 2007.
METHODS: The period prevalence of disc haemorrhages, gender predominance among
patients with disc haemorrhage, and cumulative incidence of normal tension
glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma were compared.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Period prevalence, cumulative incidence, and gender
predominance of DHs in patients with NTG and POAG.
RESULTS: Three hundred and eighty-seven patients (387 eyes) of normal tension
glaucoma patients and 205 patients (205 eyes) of primary open-angle glaucoma
patients were finally enrolled in the study. The period prevalence and incidence 
rates of the stereoscopic optic disc photograph-confirmed glaucomatous disc
haemorrhages were 33.3% (129/387), 0.46 ± 0.18 times/year in the normal tension
glaucoma group, and 17.6% (36/205), 0.34 ± 0.23 times/year in the primary
open-angle glaucoma group, respectively. The absolute values and ratios of
primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma in period prevalences and
incidence rates in the present study were higher than in previous studies. No
significant difference in gender ratios was found between patients that did or
did not develop disc haemorrhage for both types of open-angle glaucoma (P > 0.05,
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The primary open-angle glaucoma group had higher period prevalences 
and incidence rates of disc haemorrhage than those reported previously. Disc
haemorrhages were found to develop independent of gender.

© 2011 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02482.x 
PMID: 21176041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


670. J Glaucoma. 2012 Jan;21(1):35-40. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31820275b4.

IOP measured by dynamic contour tonometry correlates with IOP measured by
Goldmann applanation tonometry and non-contact tonometry in Japanese individuals.

Ito K(1), Tawara A, Kubota T, Harada Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, University of Occupational
and Environmental Health, Japan. itoken29@yahoo.co.jp

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was threefold. We sought to compare the
intraocular pressure (IOP) measured by dynamic contour tonometry (DCT) with that 
measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT) and noncontact tonometry (NCT). 
We also examined the influence of central corneal thickness (CCT) and corneal
curvature radius (CCR) on the IOP measurements. Last, we investigated the factors
that could affect the ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) measurements.
METHODS: Seventy-four patients with no history of intraocular surgery were
enrolled in this study. We measured IOP by DCT, GAT, and NCT, and the CCT, CCR,
and axial length (AL) in the right eye of each patient. We also measured OPA by
DCT. We subsequently analyzed the correlation of IOP measurements between GAT and
DCT and between NCT and DCT. We also examined the influence of CCT, CCR, and AL
on IOP readings by the 3 tonometers. In addition, we investigated the factors
that could affect the OPA measurements.
RESULTS: The mean IOP measured by DCT was 2.8 mm Hg higher than that by GAT and
3.2 mm Hg higher than that by NCT. This difference was greater with thinner CCT
in the lower IOP group than in the higher IOP group. IOP measurements by both GAT
and NCT significantly correlated with CCT; however, IOP measurement by DCT did
not correlate with CCT. No significant correlations were shown between the IOP
measured by each of the 3 tonometers and either CCR or AL. OPA measurements
positively correlated with age, IOP measurement by DCT, and pulse pressure.
CONCLUSIONS: IOP measured by DCT correlates with IOP measured by GAT or NCT with 
a roughly 3.0 mm Hg higher value, and these differences were greater in the
patients with a thinner CCT. IOP measurements by both GAT and NCT significantly
correlated with CCT; however, IOP measurement by DCT did not correlate with CCT. 
Our findings also indicate that OPA measured using DCT shows a positive
correlation with patient age, IOP measurement by DCT, and pulse pressure.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31820275b4 
PMID: 21173706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jan;59 Suppl:S97-101. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.73695.

Normal-tension glaucoma (Low-tension glaucoma).

Anderson DR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, Florida, USA. danderson@med.miami.edu

Glaucoma is now considered an abnormal physiology in the optic nerve head that
interacts with the level of intraocular pressure (IOP), with the degree and rate 
of damage depending on the IOP and presumably the degree of abnormal physiology. 
Diagnosis of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), defined as glaucoma without a clearly
abnormal IOP, depends on recognizing symptoms and signs associated with optic
nerve vulnerability, in addition to absence of other explanations for disc
abnormality and visual field loss. Among the findings are a halo or crescent of
absence of retinal pigment epithelium around the disc, bilateral pre-chiasmal
visual field defects, splinter hemorrhages at the disc margin, vascular
dysregulation (low blood pressure, cold hands and feet, migraine headache with
aura, and the like), or a family history of glaucoma. Possibly relevant, is a
history of hemodynamic crisis, arterial obstructive disease, or sleep apnea.
Neurological evaluation with imaging is needed only for atypical cases or ones
that progress unexpectedly. Management follows the same principle of other
chronic glaucomas, to lower the IOP by a substantial amount, enough to prevent
disabling visual loss. However, many NTG cases are non-progressive. Therefore, it
may often be wise in mild cases to determine whether the case is progressive and 
the rate of progression before deciding on how aggressivene to be with therapy.
Efforts at neuroprotection and improvement in blood flow have not yet been shown 
effective.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.73695 
PMCID: PMC3038511
PMID: 21150042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Ophthalmologe. 2011 Jul;108(7):637-43. doi: 10.1007/s00347-010-2305-6.

[Canaloplasty : a new alternative in non-penetrating glaucoma surgery].

[Article in German]

Matthaei M(1), Steinberg J, Wiermann A, Richard G, Klemm M.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Augenheilkunde, Universitätsklinikum
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistr. 52, 20246, Hamburg, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: Canaloplasty provides a new option in non-penetrating glaucoma
surgery. The aim of this study is to examine its early postsurgical safety and
efficacy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a retrospective study of canaloplasties performed 
at our institution in 2009 (n=46, 13 of which were combined with cataract
surgery). The mean follow-up was 6.0±3.4 months. The most important parameters
examined were intraocular pressure (IOP), number of topical medications,
postoperative complications, and required additional surgery.
RESULTS: Mean presurgical IOP: 18.2±5.8 mmHg on a mean of 2.3±1.2 applied topical
medications. Mean postsurgical IOP: 12.3±5.1 mmHg at 3 months, 11.7±3.0 mmHg at 6
months, and 12.6±2.4 mmHg at 12 months. Number of postsurgical medications:
0.8±1.1 at 3 months, 1.2±1.3 at 6 months, and 1.0±1.1 at 12 months. The most
frequent postoperative complications were transient hypotension (32.6%), bleb
leakage (26.1%), and microhyphema (23.9%). Revision surgery was required in 8.7% 
of all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Canaloplasty showed a good IOP-reducing effect. Complications
occurred mostly temporarily and were of a controllable nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-010-2305-6 
PMID: 21165623  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Curr Eye Res. 2011 Feb;36(2):125-34. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2010.533807. Epub 2010
Dec 15.

Comparison of peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness measured by
spectral vs. time domain optical coherence tomography.

Hong S(1), Seong GJ, Kim SS, Kang SY, Kim CY.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness 
measured by spectral and time domain optical coherence tomography (OCT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred and eighty-eight subjects (normal tension
glaucoma, n = 80; primary open angle glaucoma, n = 49; healthy controls, n = 59) 
were included in this study. Peripapillary RNFL thickness was measured by an
Optic Disc Cube 200 × 200 scan of the spectral domain Cirrus HD OCT and by a Fast
RNFL scan of the time domain Stratus OCT. They were compared using linear
regression (R(2)), Bland-Altman plots, weighted Kappa (K(w)) coefficients, and
areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AROC).
RESULTS: Except for the inferior quadrant, RNFL thickness measurements by Cirrus 
HD OCT were thinner than Stratus OCT (all p < 0.001); for the inferior quadrant, 
this tendency was vice versa (p  =  0.043). Average RNFL thicknesses of the two
OCTs showed a good correlation (R(2), 0.852) but not excellent agreement (mean of
difference, 4.0 μm; +1.96 SD, 10.7 μm; -1.96 SD, -18.6 μm). Regarding the
probability codes, only the average RNFL thickness had almost perfect agreement
(K(w), 0.983). In addition, Cirrus HD OCT had the largest AROC for the superior
quadrant (0.795), but Stratus OCT had the largest AROC for average RNFL thickness
(0.764) (p  =  0.281).
CONCLUSIONS: Except for the inferior quadrant, the average and quadrants RNFL
thickness measured by the Cirrus HD OCT were thinner than the Stratus OCT.
Regarding discriminating power for glaucoma detection, the Cirrus HD OCT was
better than the Stratus OCT for the superior and inferior quadrant RNFL
thicknesses but not for the average RNFL thickness.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2010.533807 
PMID: 21158587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Clin Ophthalmol. 2010 Nov 18;4:1315-23. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S13101.

Progression rate of total, and upper and lower visual field defects in open-angle
glaucoma patients.

Fukuchi T(1), Yoshino T, Sawada H, Seki M, Togano T, Tanaka T, Ueda J, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Graduated School of Medical and 
Dental Sciences, Niigata University, Niigata, Japan.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the progression rate of total, and upper and lower visual
field defects in treated open-angle glaucoma patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study was a retrospective, nonrandomized, comparative 
study. Five-hundred forty-four eyes from 315 Japanese open-angle glaucoma
patients were examined. The mean deviation (MD) and total deviation (TD) for both
the upper and lower slopes on the Humphrey Field Analyzer were calculated and
compared in high-tension glaucoma (>21 mmHg) and normal-tension glaucoma (≤21
mmHg).
RESULTS: Patients with over -20 dB of MD and over -23 dB of upper or lower TD
were enrolled into each analysis. Patients with -7.75 ± 5.30 (mean ± standard
deviation) dB of MD, -9.16 ± 10.80 dB of upper TD, or -7.11 ± 6.02 dB of lower TD
were followed up for 4-19 years. The mean MD slope was -0.41 ± 0.50 dB/year, the 
upper TD slope was -0.46 ± 0.65 dB/year, and the lower TD slope was -0.32 ± 0.53 
dB/year. Comparing high-tension glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma, the upper
TD slope was similar for both types of glaucoma, but the MD and lower TD slopes
in high-tension glaucoma were significantly lower than those in normal-tension
glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: The progression rates in lower visual field defects in high-tension 
glaucoma might be faster than those in normal-tension glaucoma. The results of
this study might be used to predict the prognosis of visual field defects, as
well as the quality of vision in patients with open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S13101 
PMCID: PMC2993106
PMID: 21139672  [PubMed]


675. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jan;151(1):100-105.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.07.025. Epub
2010 Nov 20.

Retinal vessel diameter, retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, and intraocular
pressure in korean patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Chang M(1), Yoo C, Kim SW, Kim YY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the retinal vessel diameter and evaluate the relationship
of the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness with retinal vessel diameter
and intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: A prospective, cross-sectional study.
METHODS: This study included 60 previously untreated patients with NTG (60 eyes) 
and 45 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (45 eyes) that had no history of
systemic vascular disease at a single institution. The diameters of the central
retinal arteries and veins were measured on retinal photographs. The central
retinal arteriolar equivalent (CRAE) and central retinal venular equivalent
(CRVE) were calculated using the revised Parr-Hubbard formula. The RNFL thickness
was measured using Stratus optical coherence tomography.
RESULTS: The mean central retinal arteriolar (P = .000) and venular (P = .000)
diameters were significantly smaller in the eyes with NTG than in the normal
eyes. Multivariate linear regression analysis demonstrated a significant positive
correlation between the RNFL thickness and CRAE (P = .014), and a negative
correlation between the RNFL thickness and IOP (P = .005) in the eyes with NTG.
However, there was no significant correlation between the RNFL thickness and the 
independent variables in the control group (P = .112).
CONCLUSION: The patients with NTG had smaller diameters of the central retinal
vessels than the normal subjects. Both IOP and CRAE were significantly associated
with RNFL thickness in the patients with NTG. Our results suggest that narrower
retinal vessels and higher IOP may be related to the thinning of the RNFL in
patients with NTG.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.07.025 
PMID: 21094935  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


676. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2011 Feb;27(1):73-6. doi: 10.1089/jop.2010.0071. Epub 2010
Nov 23.

Long-term effect of latanoprost on central corneal thickness in normal tension
glaucoma.

Kim HJ(1), Cho BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Konkuk University Medical Center, Konkuk
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term effect of latanoprost on central corneal
thickness (CCT) in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This was a retrospective study and included 166 eyes of 166 patients
[128 with NTG and 38 with glaucoma suspect, suspicious discs with normal visual
fields, and an intraocular pressure (IOP) ≤21  mmHg as the control group].
Patients with newly diagnosed NTG and who had not had previous topical
glaucomatous treatment were followed ≥24 months and received latanoprost 0.005%
monotherapy once a day. CCT measurements were performed with an ultrasound
pachymeter. CCT measurements before treatment and 24 months after treatment were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between the latanoprost group and 
the control group with respect to sex, age, baseline IOP, and CCT. A
statistically significant reduction in the mean CCT was observed in the
latanoprost group [535.5 ± 37.9 vs. 530.1 ± 36.4  μm (n = 128), P < 0.01], but
not in the control group [543.1 ± 40.2 vs. 542.6 ± 37.0  μm (n = 38), P = 0.786].
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term use of latanoprost may decrease the CCT in patients with
NTG. Therefore, clinicians must be aware of longitudinal CCT variations that may 
arise throughout the follow-up period for proper IOP targeting and management.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2010.0071 
PMID: 21091278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Mar 18;52(3):1507-15. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-6099.

The use of mucoadhesive polymers to enhance the hypotensive effect of a melatonin
analogue, 5-MCA-NAT, in rabbit eyes.

Andrés-Guerrero V(1), Molina-Martínez IT, Peral A, de las Heras B, Pintor J,
Herrero-Vanrell R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Technology, School of Pharmacy,
Complutense University, Madrid, Spain.

PURPOSE: 5-Methoxy-carbonylamino-N-acetyltryptamine (5-MCA-NAT, a melatonin
receptor agonist) produces a clear intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction in New
Zealand White rabbits and glaucomatous monkeys. The goal of this study was to
evaluate whether the hypotensive effect of 5-MCA-NAT was enhanced by the presence
of cellulose derivatives, some of them with bioadhesive properties, as well as to
determine whether these formulations were well tolerated by the ocular surface.
METHODS: Formulations were prepared with propylene glycol (0.275%), carboxymethyl
cellulose (CMC, 0.5% and 1.0%) of low and medium viscosity and
hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose (0.3%). Quantification of 5-MCA-NAT (100 μM) was
assessed by HPLC. In vitro tolerance was evaluated by the MTT method in human
corneal-limbal epithelial cells and normal human conjunctival cells. In vivo
tolerance was analyzed by biomicroscopy and specular microscopy in rabbit eyes.
The ocular hypotensive effect was evaluated measuring IOP for 8 hours in rabbit
eyes.
RESULTS: All the formulations demonstrated good in vitro and in vivo tolerance.
5-MCA-NAT in CMC medium viscosity 0.5% was the most effective at reducing IOP
(maximum IOP reduction, 30.27%), and its effect lasted approximately 7 hours.
CONCLUSIONS: The hypotensive effect of 5-MCA-NAT was increased by using
bioadhesive polymers in formulations that are suitable for the ocular surface and
also protective of the eye in long-term therapies. The use of 5-MCA-NAT combined 
with bioadhesive polymers is a good strategy in the treatment of ocular
hypertension and glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-6099 
PMID: 21087964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2010 Sep;54(5):407-13. doi: 10.1007/s10384-010-0855-4. Epub
2010 Nov 5.

Effects of brimonidine 0.2%-timolol 0.5% fixed-combination therapy for glaucoma.

Cho SW(1), Kim JM, Park KH, Choi CY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine,
Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effects of brimonidine 0.2%-timolol 0.5%
fixed-combination therapy in the treatment of patients with glaucoma.
METHODS: To measure the main treatment effects of a fixed combination of
brimonidine 0.2%-timolol 0.5%, we conducted three small studies: (1) a comparison
of diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP) at baseline and at 6 months after
brimonidine/timolol fixed-combination therapy (n = 81); (2) an assessment of the 
effects of one drop of the brimonidine/timolol fixed combination on diurnal IOP
(n = 25); and (3) the effects of brimonidine/timolol fixed-combination therapy on
the anterior ocular segment over time (n = 64).
RESULTS: (1) After 6 months of treatment with the brimonidine/timolol fixed
combination, the mean diurnal IOP in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) decreased
from 21.4 ± 2.0 to 14.5 ± 3.1 mmHg (32.2%, P < 0.001), and the mean diurnal IOP
in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) decreased from 13.5 ± 2.8 to 10.9 ± 2.0 mmHg
(19.3%, P < 0.001). (2) After instillation with one drop of the
brimonidine/timolol fixed combination, the IOP in the instilled eye was lowest at
9:00 p.m. and had decreased by 1.7 mmHg compared with the baseline IOP in the
instilled eye. The difference in IOP between the instilled eye and untreated
fellow eye was largest at 3:00 p.m., measuring 1.7 mmHg (P = 0.011). (3)
Brimonidine/timolol fixed-combination therapy caused significant miosis over time
(P = 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that brimonidine/timolol
fixed-combination therapy has beneficial IOP-lowering effects and significant
effects on pupil size.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-010-0855-4 
PMID: 21052902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Mol Vis. 2010 Sep 15;16:1874-9.

Genotyping HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1 alleles in Japanese patients with normal tension
glaucoma.

Suzuki M(1), Meguro A, Ota M, Nomura E, Kato T, Nomura N, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F,
Iijima H, Kawase K, Yamamoto T, Nakamura M, Negi A, Sagara T, Nishida T, Inatani 
M, Tanihara H, Aihara M, Araie M, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Higashide T, Sugiyama K,
Kanamoto T, Kiuchi Y, Iwase A, Ohno S, Inoko H, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science Yokohama City University
Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is a subtype of glaucoma in which
intraocular pressure is within the statistically normal range. NTG may be
associated with an immune disorder. The aim of this study was to determine
whether specific alleles in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1
genes correlated with NTG in Japanese patients.
METHODS: We genotyped the HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1 alleles in 113 Japanese patients 
with NTG and in 184 healthy Japanese control subjects using the polymerase chain 
reaction-sequence-specific oligonucleotide probes (PCR-SSOP) Luminex method. We
assessed the allelic diversity in patients and controls.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences in the allele
frequency of HLADRB1 and HLA-DQB1 between NTG patients and control subjects, and 
no HLA-DRB1-HLA-DQB1 haplotypes demonstrated any significant association with
NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1 polymorphisms have
no significant effect on the development of NTG in Japanese patients.


PMCID: PMC2956698
PMID: 21031025  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Acta Ophthalmol. 2010 Nov;88(7):e259-64. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.01997.x.
Epub 2010 Sep 9.

Increased serum total antioxidant status and decreased urinary
8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine levels in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Yuki K(1), Murat D, Kimura I, Tsubota K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan. glaucoma.keio@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To investigate the amount of systemic oxidative stress-related DNA
damage and serum total antioxidant status of patients with normal-tension
glaucoma compared with healthy controls.
METHODS: Forty-three patients with normal-tension glaucoma selected from 60
consecutive newly diagnosed patients with primary open-angle glaucoma were
enrolled. Each patient's intraocular pressure (IOP) was measured seven times over
a 24-hour period. Those whose highest IOP was over 21 mmHg were excluded. Forty
control subjects were recruited. The serum total antioxidant status was assessed 
colorimetrically by its ability to reduce the generation of the radical cation
ABTS (2,2-azinobis-3-ethylbenzthiazoline sulphonate). The urinary
8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine was measured as a marker of oxidative DNA damage and 
normalized to creatinine. The results were compared between healthy subjects and 
patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
RESULTS: The control and normal-tension glaucoma groups did now show significant 
differences for age, gender, serum fructosamine, cholesterol and triglyceride
levels; systolic and diastolic blood pressure, body mass index; and prevalence of
hypertension. The serum total antioxidant status was significantly higher (p =
0.01) and the urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine/creatinine level significantly 
lower (p = 0.03) in the patients with normal-tension glaucoma compared with the
controls. Even after we adjusted the data for independent variables, the
incidence of normal-tension glaucoma was significantly correlated with high serum
total antioxidant levels (p = 0.03; odds ratio, 1.007; 95% confidence interval,
1.001-1.013) and low urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine/creatinine (p = 0.02;
odds ratio 0.76; 95% confidence interval, 0.61-0.96).
CONCLUSIONS: Increased serum total antioxidant and decreased
8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine may reflect compensatory alterations in response to
increased systemic oxidative stress in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal compilation © 2010 Acta Ophthalmol.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.01997.x 
PMID: 20977690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jul-Aug;21(4):400-3. doi: 10.5301/EJO.2010.5821.

Analysis of the diurnal intraocular pressure profile pre and post trabeculectomy 
using 24-hour monitoring of intraocular pressure.

Ross AH(1), Jackson TE, Wertheim MS, Spry PG, Sparrow JM, Diamond JP.

Author information: 
(1)Bristol Eye Hospital, Bristol, UK.

PURPOSE: To compare the diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP) profile pre and post
trabeculectomy with a control group of medically controlled patients. We compared
the change in mean, peak, and diurnal IOP fluctuation.
METHODS: This was an observational study of patients at the Bristol Eye Hospital,
United Kingdom. All patients underwent initial and subsequent phasing, with
surgery between for cases. The unpaired Student t test compared the changes
(initial-subsequent) in mean, peak, and fluctuation between cases and controls.
RESULTS: Fifteen eyes underwent trabeculectomy surgery while the control group
contained 17 eyes controlled on topical medical treatment. There was a
statistically significant reduction in both mean IOP of 3.7 mmHg (p=0.002) and
peak IOP of 4.4 mmHg (p=0.025) in the surgical group compared to the medical
group. There was no statistically significant change in the IOP fluctuation
between the 2 study groups (p=0.296).
CONCLUSIONS: There is a significant reduction in mean IOP and peak IOP following 
trabeculectomy. We showed no statistically significant change in the diurnal
fluctuation of IOP following trabeculectomy.

DOI: 10.5301/EJO.2010.5821 
PMID: 20954146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Zhongguo Zhen Jiu. 2010 Aug;30(8):661-4.

[Effect of acupuncture on the expression of Bcl-xl and BDNF of retina in rabbits 
with chronic intraocular hypertension].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun H(1), Zhang H, Lin BS.

Author information: 
(1)The First Hospital Affiliated to Heilongjiang University of TCM, Harbin
150040, China. sunheworld@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To explore the protection effects of acupuncture on glaucomatous optic
nerve damage and its mechanism.
METHODS: Experimental glaucoma model was induced by intracameral injection of
compound Carbomer solution in rabbits. After 28 days, ocular tension returned to 
normal by filtration surgery. Twenty rabbits (40 eyes) were randomly divided into
a model group, an acupuncture group, a neurotrophy group and a nomal control
group, 5 cases in each group. The acupuncture group was treated with acupuncture 
at bilateral "Qiuhou" (EX-HN 7),"Fengchi" (GB 20) and "Xingjian" (LR 2), twice a 
day. The neurotrophy group was treated with intramuscular injection of Vitamin B1
(100 mg) and Vitamin B12 (500 microg), once a day, and the other groups with no
treatment. The expressions of Bcl-xl and BDNF in rabbits retina were observed
after 4 weeks.
RESULTS: At the end of the experiment, the positive expression cells of Bcl-xl
and BDNF were (31.20 +/- 5.97) per mm2 and (6.3 +/- 1.89) per mm2 in the
acupuncture group, being significantly higer than (26.70 +/- 4.32) per mm2 and
(4.0 +/- 1.89) per mm2 in the model group (both P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Acupuncture can raise the expression of Bcl-xl and BDNF of retina, so
as to prevent optic nerve damage caused by intraocular hypertension.


PMID: 20942284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Optom Vis Sci. 2011 Jan;88(1):164-72. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3181fa6312.

Valosin-containing protein is a novel autoantigen in patients with glaucoma.

Lee KJ(1), Jeong SM, Hoehn BD, Hong YJ, Lee SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry, Eulji University, Sungnam, Korea.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to identify novel autoantigens that react 
with specific serum autoantibodies in patients with glaucoma.
METHODS: Sera from patients with glaucoma (n = 80) and healthy subjects without a
known pathology (n = 20) were investigated by immunoblot performed with bovine
optic nerve lysates and resolved by one- and two-dimensional electrophoresis.
Proteins in the immunoreactive spots were selected and identified by liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) data analysis. All the sera
from subjects were assayed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to identify
autoantibodies.
RESULTS: We selected two prominent bands with molecular weights of 100 and 220
kDa by 8% sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis, and
these two bands were only found in the glaucoma patients. Using one-dimensional
electrophoresis and LC-MS/MS analyses, we identified these proteins to be
valosin-containing protein (VCP) and fodrin, respectively, and using
two-dimensional electrophoresis and LC-MS/MS analyses, VCP was identified to be a
common target antigen. In patients with primary open angle glaucoma and normal
tension glaucoma, the frequency of autoantibodies to recombinant human VCP was
42.0 and 23.3%, respectively (p < 0.002). In the enzyme-linked immunosorbent
assay tests, autoantibody titers to recombinant human VCP were significantly
higher than that in healthy controls (p < 0.025).
CONCLUSIONS: VCP represents a potential candidate target for autoantibodies on
the optic nerve in patients with glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3181fa6312 
PMID: 20935584  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Eye (Lond). 2010 Nov;24(11):1700-7. doi: 10.1038/eye.2010.135. Epub 2010 Oct 8.

Glaucoma surgery: trainee outcomes and implications for future training:
southeast Scotland.

Welch J(1), Vani A, Cackett P, Vallance J, Cobb C, Devlin H, Sanders R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Margaret Hospital, Dunfermline, Fife, UK.

Comment in
    Eye (Lond). 2011 May;25(5):658.

AIM: Postoperative outcome of trainee glaucoma surgery compared with glaucoma
specialist consultant surgery. Survey of Scottish consultant ophthalmologists'
views on trainee surgery.
METHOD: Retrospective analysis of 128 trainee and 176 consultant
trabeculectomies, with minimum postoperative follow-up of 2 years. Prospective
postal survey of 80 Scottish consultant ophthalmologists.
RESULTS: Trainees operated mainly on cases of chronic open angle glaucoma, while 
consultants operated on significantly more complicated glaucomas (P=0.0004).
Trainee cases had more bleb leaks (P=0.01), hypotony (P=0.05), early (P=0.01) and
late (P=0.03) return to theatre, and bleb interventions (P=0.01). Trainee
mitomycin trabeculectomies were associated with higher rates of return to theatre
(P=0.002), and cataract extraction within the first postoperative year (P=0.002).
Trainee cases of pseudoexfoliation had more early complications (P=0.024), and
trainee cases of low tension required more bleb interventions (P=0.05). There was
no significant difference (P>0.05) between average intra-ocular pressure control 
(IOP) at postoperative visit year 1 between consultant (14.3 mm Hg) and trainee
(13.9 mm Hg) cases. More than 50% of the 80 Scottish ophthalmology consultants
surveyed, indicated that glaucoma surgery training requirements should be
retained.
CONCLUSIONS: Trainee trabeculectomy cases showed significantly higher rates of
early complications, return to theatres, and bleb interventions compared with
consultant cases. Satisfactory IOP control was achieved in both groups at
postoperative year 1. Trainee cases require careful preoperative selection,
avoiding complicated glaucomas including pseudoexfoliation and low tension, and
those that require mitomycin. The majority of Scottish consultants wish to retain
glaucoma surgery within the remit of generic training.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2010.135 
PMID: 20930853  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Isr Med Assoc J. 2010 May;12(5):287-9.

Neurologic evaluations in normal-tension glaucoma workups: are they worth the
effort?

Kesler A(1), Haber I, Kurtz S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sourasky Tel Aviv Medical Center, affiliated with
Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Israel.
kesler@netvision.net.il

BACKGROUND: Normal-tension glaucoma is a chronic progressive optic neuropathy of 
unknown etiology. Neuro-imaging workup in these patients is controversial.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the value of routine neurologic and neuro-ophthalmologic
evaluations in patients with NTG.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of all patients diagnosed with NTG
in our institution between 2001 and 2006. Neurologic and neuro-ophthalmologic
data were evaluated.
RESULTS: Sixty-eight patients were considered suitable for the study 135 males,
33 females; age range 43-90 years). Neurologic and neuro-ophthalmologic findings 
were normal in all of them. The computed tomography brain scan was normal in 88% 
and duplex carotid Doppler scan was normal in 92%.
CONCLUSIONS: Pathologic findings in neurologic and neuro-ophthalmologic
assessments were uncommon in NTG. Therefore, contrary to earlier suggestions,
neurologic and neuro-ophthalmologlc evaluations in typical normal-tension
glaucoma patients appear to have no added value.


PMID: 20929082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Feb 9;52(2):737-43. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-5351.

Characteristics of visual field progression in medically treated normal-tension
glaucoma patients with unstable ocular perfusion pressure.

Sung KR(1), Cho JW, Lee S, Yun SC, Choi J, Na JH, Lee Y, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, University of Ulsan, Asan
Medical Center, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the characteristics of visual field (VF) progression in
medically treated normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients (Koreans) with unstable 
ocular perfusion pressure (OPP).
METHODS: One hundred one eyes of 101 NTG patients followed up for more than 4
years (mean follow-up, 6.2 years ± 12.1 months) were included. Modified Anderson 
criteria (MC) and linear regression analysis (LA) of VF mean deviation (MD)
within the central 10° and 10° to 24° area were assessed for determining VF
progression in groups with lowest (LMF) and highest (HMF) 24-hour mean OPP [MOPP 
= 2/3;(mean arterial pressure - IOP)] fluctuation. Kaplan-Meier analyses were
used to compare the elapsed time of confirmed VF progression in the two groups.
Hazard ratios (HRs) for the association between clinical risk factors including
24-hour MOPP and central VF progression were obtained by using Cox proportional
hazards models.
RESULTS: Three of 33 eyes in the LMF progressed, whereas 12 of 34 eyes in the HMF
progressed within the central 10° according to the MC; the between-group
difference was significant (P = 0.010). By LA within the central 10°, two eyes
from the LMF and nine from the HMF groups showed progression (P = 0.025). The HMF
showed a greater cumulative probability of central VF progression than the LMF,
by both LA and MC (Kaplan-Meier analysis, P = 0.003, 0.015, log-rank test). In
multivariate analysis, only 24-hour MOPP fluctuation was significantly associated
with central VF progression (P = 0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: The 24-hour MOPP fluctuation was the most consistent prognostic
factor among various IOP, blood pressure, and clinical factors for central VF
glaucomatous progression in our series of NTG eyes.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-5351 
PMID: 20861474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


687. J Glaucoma. 2011 Oct;20(8):502-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181f3eb4a.

Measurement of adherence to brimonidine therapy for glaucoma using electronic
monitoring.

Hermann MM(1), Bron AM, Creuzot-Garcher CP, Diestelhorst M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital, Cologne, Germany.
manuelhermann@uk-koeln.de

PURPOSE: To assess the patient adherence and behavior with brimonidine twice
daily (bid) or 3 times daily (tid) in patients used to topical glaucoma
medication.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy-five patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension 
were enrolled in a prospective, observational cohort study. Consenting patients
were randomly assigned to brimonidine bid or tid and received conventional
brimonidine eye drops with attached electronic monitoring devices for 4 weeks.
Patients were not explicitly informed on the compliance monitoring.
RESULTS: The study was completed by 67 patients (89%). In 65 patients (97%), at
least 1 dosing interval exceeded 24 hours. The mean adherence rates were better
in the brimonidine bid group (72 ± 19% vs. 62 ± 16%, P=0.04), although dosing
frequency was higher in the tid group (1.9 ± 0.5 vs. 1.4 ± 0.4 per day; P<0.001).
On average medication coverage was 70% for the bid group and 67% for the tid
group; 19 patients (28%) had a coverage rate above 75%, 42 patients (63%) 50% to 
75%, and 6 (9%) below 50%. Patients with normal-tension glaucoma had lower
coverage rates than patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
hypertension (P<0.05). Data also showed that on average 20% of the glaucoma
medication was wasted owing to inefficient drug delivery by using more than 1
drop per dosing.
CONCLUSIONS: Individual adherence with brimonidine was highly variable and
pharmacologically insufficient for more than two-third of the patients. Special
attention should be paid to compliance of patients with normal-tension glaucoma. 
Our findings underline the need to improve individual adherence and drug delivery
in topical glaucoma therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181f3eb4a 
PMID: 20852438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


688. J Glaucoma. 2011 Dec;20(9):553-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181f3eb81.

Normal tension glaucoma in patients with obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea
syndrome.

Lin PW(1), Friedman M, Lin HC, Chang HW, Wilson M, Lin MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital-Kaohsiung Medical
Center, Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Niao-Sung Hsiang, Kaohsiung
Hsien, 833, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in patients
with obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) and further investigate
whether the severity of OSAHS would increase the risk of glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred fifty-six participants were consecutively
admitted for polysomnographic exam to diagnose OSAHS. All participants, then
underwent a complete ophthalmologic evaluation, including best-corrected visual
acuity, intraocular pressure, slit lamp biomicroscopy, gonioscopy, fundoscopy,
automated visual field (VF), and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) evaluation.
RESULTS: A total of 247 participants were enrolled in the study. Two hundred nine
patients were OSAHS and 38 participants were classified as the normal group.
Among the OSAHS patients, NTG was found in 12 patients with a prevalence of 5.7%,
which was higher than that in the normal group (P=0.003). In the NTG patients, 1 
was in the mild, 3 were in the moderate, and 8 were in the severe OSAHS group.
There was no glaucoma patient in the normal group. The prevalence of NTG in
moderate/severe OSAHS patients was 7.1%, significantly higher (P=0.033) than that
in normal/mild OSAHS patients. The mean saturation of oxygen and lowest
saturation of oxygen correlated with the average thickness of RNFL in the OSAHS
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with OSAHS had a high prevalence of NTG, especially in
patients with moderate and severe OSAHS. The severity of OSAHS inversely
correlated with retinal nerve fiber layer thickness. Clinicians need to consider 
the possibility of glaucoma in patients with moderate and severe OSAHS.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181f3eb81 
PMID: 20852436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Oftalmologia. 2010;54(2):11-4.

[Normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Potop V, Dumitrache M, Ciocalteu A.

Normal Tension Glaucoma is known to be a special form of glaucoma which is still 
a matter of dispute in its etymologic, diagnostic, therapeutic aspects and in its
terminology. The diagnosis of normal tension glaucoma is by elimination of other 
disorders by pachymetry, tonometric curve, neurologic examination and sometimes
MRI. What remains may be a locus minoris of general pathology.


PMID: 20827906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Br J Ophthalmol. 2011 May;95(5):624-6. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2009.167494. Epub 2010
Sep 2.

Association between primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and WDR36 sequence
variance in Italian families affected by POAG.

Frezzotti P(1), Pescucci C, Papa FT, Iester M, Mittica V, Motolese I, Peruzzi S, 
Artuso R, Longo I, Mencarelli MA, Mittica P, Motolese E, Renieri A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Siena, Policlinico Le Scotte, V. Le
Bracci 2-53100, Siena, Italy. frezzottip@unisi.it

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To assess the involvement of WDR36 sequence variance in primary 
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in Italian patients.
METHODS: A cohort of 34 Italian families affected by POAG was analysed by
denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography for mutation in the WDR36 gene.
Among the 34 families enrolled, 25 were affected by high-tension glaucoma (HTG), 
four by juvenile open-angle glaucoma and one by normal tension glaucoma. In
addition, four families presented both juvenile open-angle glaucoma and HTG-POAG 
patients within the same pedigree.
RESULTS: Four previously identified intronic polymorphisms (IVS5+30C→T; IVS12+90 
G→T; IVS13+89G→A; IVS16-30A→G) and a novel one (IVS21-75G→A) have been
identified. In addition, one proband was found to carry the p.D658G mutation
reported as the more recurrent disease-causing allele.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that WDR36 sequence variance is only a rare
cause of glaucoma in Italian families. Clearly, investigation of additional
families with extensive studies is needed to clarify the role of WDR36 in the
pathophysiology of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2009.167494 
PMID: 20813748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Feb 3;52(2):665-8. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-6096.

Investigation of the association between Helicobacter pylori infection and normal
tension glaucoma.

Kim JM(1), Kim SH, Park KH, Han SY, Shim HS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine,
Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Seoul, Korea

PURPOSE: To investigate whether Helicobacter pylori infection is associated with 
normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: One hundred consecutive NTG patients (group 1) from an outpatient
glaucoma clinic were enrolled. Medical records of the 88 control participants
(control 1) of the outpatient clinic, and 104 NTG patients (group 2) and 1116
healthy controls (control 2) (1220 subjects in total) from a primary health care 
center were reviewed retrospectively to compare the results. Serum samples from
all subjects were analyzed for the presence of H. pylori-specific immunoglobulin 
G antibodies using ELISA. The distributions of serologic H. pylori test results
of the NTG patients and control subjects were compared, and possible associations
between clinical phenotypes and positive serologic results were assessed.
Bilaterality of NTG patients was also analyzed.
RESULTS: NTG patients had significantly more positive serologic results than did 
the healthy controls. There were significant differences between group 1 and
control 1 patients (P = 0.020; odds ratio [OR], 2.05), group 1 and control 2
patients (P = 0.016; OR, 1.73), and group 2 and control 2 patients (P = 0.008;
OR, 1.83). However, no significant association was found between clinical
characteristics and a positive serologic result for H. pylori in NTG patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that H. pylori infection may be associated with 
an increased risk for NTG. H. pylori may play a role in the development or
progression of NTG as a secondary aggravating factor because of the coexistence
of other main causes or it may be the primary cause.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-6096 
PMID: 20811063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Sep;90(6):546-51. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.01988.x.
Epub 2010 Aug 31.

Symptoms related to glaucomatous visual field abnormalities among male Japanese
workers in a population-based setting.

Tatemichi M(1), Nakano T, Hayashi T, Tanaka K, Hiro H, Miyamoto T, Aratake M,
Nishinoue N, Yamazaki A, Nakadate T, Sugita M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, Showa University, School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. tatemichi@med.showa-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To identify symptoms potentially related to glaucomatous visual field
abnormalities (VFAs) in a population-based setting, and to assess the
applicability of using these symptoms to identify persons at risk of developing
glaucoma.
METHODS: In this study, 10,214 Japanese male general workers (mean age, 45.3±8.8 
years) filled out a self-administered questionnaire and underwent frequency
doubling technology (FDT) perimetry testing. The questionnaire inquired about
whether the participant was suffering from any of nine symptoms, with scores for 
each response graded on a four-item Likert scale: 0 (none), 1 (rarely), 2
(sometimes), and 3 (always). Results from the questionnaire were compared among
three groups: participants without any VFAs (9767), participants with VFAs as
determined by the FDT test (FDT-VFA; 447), and 227 participants (of the 447
FDT-VFA participants) with glaucomatous VFAs who were newly diagnosed by
ophthalmologic examinations.
RESULTS: The mean summed scores for the total items were significantly (p<0.01)
higher in FDT- and glaucomatous VFA groups than in normal subjects. In
particular, responses citing the symptoms 'feeling of something in the front of
the eye' and 'feeling of hardness to see in dark places' were significantly
(p<0.05) more frequent in subjects with FDT- and glaucomatous VFAs than among
normal participants. However, the respective areas under the receiver operating
characteristic curve of summed scores for the nine total items and for the two
items which showed significant differences for the glaucoma groups were 0.57 (95%
confidence interval=0.53-0.60) and 0.58 (95% confidence interval=0.54-0.61).
CONCLUSION: Although the symptoms 'feeling of hardness to see in dark places' and
'feeling of something in the front of the eye' could be associated with
glaucomatous VFA in a population-based setting, inquiring about symptoms is of
little aid in identifying subjects with glaucomatous VFA as a strategy for public
health.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal compilation © 2010 Acta Ophthalmol.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.01988.x 
PMID: 20809905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Mol Vis. 2010 Aug 17;16:1654-8.

Peptidylarginine deiminase type 2 is over expressed in the glaucomatous optic
nerve.

Cafaro TA(1), Santo S, Robles LA, Crim N, Urrets-Zavalia JA, Serra HM.

Author information: 
(1)CIBICI, Faculty of Chemistry, National University of Córdoba, Argentina.

PURPOSE: To determine levels of Peptidyl arginine deiminase 2 (PAD2) and its
product protein-bound citrulline in cadaver eyes that suffered from normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) compared to primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), and
controls.
METHODS: Western analysis, ELISA, and immunohistochemical analysis were performed
with human tissues.
RESULTS: We report over expression of PAD2 and higher levels of its product
protein-bound citrulline in the optic nerve of normal tension glaucoma patients
(NTG).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report demonstrating that like in POAG, NTG also
possesses elevated levels of both PAD2 and protein-bound citrulline.


PMCID: PMC2927370
PMID: 20806090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Open Ophthalmol J. 2010 May 31;4:22-7. doi: 10.2174/1874364101004010022.

First-visit diagnosis of preperimetric glaucoma.

Ophir A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, Hillel-Yaffe Medical Centre, Hadera and The Ruth
and Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, The Technion, Haifa, Israel.

PURPOSE: To present a revised interpretation of the work-up data that enabled
diagnosis of preperimetric glaucoma (PPG) at the first examination.
METHODS: a) Literature analysis on PPG; b) 6-year follow-up of a glaucoma-suspect
patient.
RESULTS: TWO NEW CONCEPTS MAY BE ADAPTED: (a) the objective finding of retinal
nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thinning below the normal border in the opposing typical
glaucoma locations, the inferior and superior quadrants, and in a non-diffuse
pattern, appears asymptomatically and simultaneously only in glaucoma; and (b)
the imaging-related RNFL thickness may be considered the reference glaucoma
standard, whereas the suspicious early glaucomatous optic neuropathy, having a
potential diagnostic inaccuracy, would serve as a complementary revealing
finding. That approach enabled, in retrospect, a first-visit diagnosis of
low-tension PPG in the patient. Diagnosis was confirmed after 6 years, when
cecocentral scotoma and further RNFL thinning emerged despite treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: A revised approach enabled PPG diagnosis during the first visit.

DOI: 10.2174/1874364101004010022 
PMCID: PMC2928913
PMID: 20802808  [PubMed]


695. Clin Ophthalmol. 2010 Aug 9;4:889-93.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty reduces mean IOP and IOP variation in normal
tension glaucoma patients.

El Mallah MK(1), Walsh MM, Stinnett SS, Asrani SG.

Author information: 
(1)Ocala Eye, Ocala, Florida, USA. elmallah@post.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) in
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review was performed of NTG patients who
had undergone SLT at the Duke University Eye Center between 12/2002 and 7/2005.
For each eye of each patient at pre-laser and post-laser time points, the IOP
measurements were summarized by mean, standard deviation, and range. Then for
each of these descriptive statistics, the differences between pre-laser and
post-laser values were obtained. Statistical analysis was performed using a
random effects model.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: difference in mean IOP, standard deviation of IOP, and
range of IOP.
RESULTS: Thirty-one eyes of 18 patients were included for analysis. The average
of the mean pre-operative IOP measurements was 14.3 +/- 2.6 mmHg compared to 12.2
+/- 1.7 mmHg (P < 0.001) post-operatively. The mean pre-operative standard
deviation was 1.9 +/- 0.9 mmHg compared to 1.0 +/- 0.6 mmHg (P = 0.002)
post-operatively while the mean IOP range prior to treatment was 4.5 +/- 2.5 mmHg
compared to 2.5 +/- 1.9 mmHg (P = 0.017) after treatment.
CONCLUSION: In this pilot study, SLT was found to lower mean IOP and intervisit
IOP variation in NTG patients. Given the importance of IOP variation and its
association with glaucoma progression, measurement of IOP variation following
treatment with SLT may be considered.


PMCID: PMC2921297
PMID: 20714367  [PubMed]


696. Ophthalmology. 2010 Dec;117(12):2359-2364.e1-2. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.04.005. Epub 2010 Aug 11.

Association between genetic polymorphisms of adrenergic receptor and diurnal
intraocular pressure in Japanese normal-tension glaucoma.

Gao Y(1), Sakurai M, Takeda H, Higashide T, Kawase K, Sugiyama K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Kanazawa University Graduate
School of Medical Science, Kanazawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the relationship between genetic polymorphisms of the
adrenergic receptor (ADR) and diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP) in Japanese
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
DESIGN: Prospective, comparative case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Ninety-two untreated NTG patients.
METHODS: The IOP of both eyes was measured at 3-hour intervals from 0600 to 2400 
hours over 2 consecutive days. We used IOP data from the eye with the greater
visual field defect for statistical analysis. The mean IOP over 2 days was used
for each time point. Genetic polymorphisms in α1A-, α2A-, α2B-, α2C-, β1-, β2-,
and β3-ADR were determined mainly by direct DNA sequencing. The relationship
between IOP and genetic polymorphisms was analyzed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The IOP and genotypes of genetic polymorphisms.
RESULTS: Diurnal mean IOP of the subjects was 14.8 ± 2.1 mmHg (mean value ±
standard deviation). For Del 301-303 in α2B-ADR, insertion/insertion (I/I) had a 
significantly higher diurnal mean IOP (P = 0.017), peak IOP (P = 0.038), and
trough IOP (P = 0.046) than deletion (D) carriers. For Del 322-325 in α2C-ADR,
I/I had a significantly lower diurnal mean IOP (P = 0.037) and peak IOP (P =
0.029) than D carriers. For S49G (A/G) in β1-ADR, A/A had a significantly higher 
diurnal mean IOP (P = 0.023), peak IOP (P = 0.019), and trough IOP (P = 0.014)
than G carriers. For these 3 polymorphisms, repeated measures analysis of
variance showed that the major homozygotes and minor carriers had parallel
diurnal IOP curves, but significantly different diurnal IOP levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Polymorphisms of the ADR gene may alter the untreated IOP level of
patients with NTG.

Copyright © 2010 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.04.005 
PMID: 20705341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jul;54(4):291-5. doi: 10.1007/s10384-010-0816-y. Epub 2010
Aug 11.

Different types of optic disc shape in patients with advanced open-angle
glaucoma.

Nakazawa T(1), Fuse N, Omodaka K, Aizawa N, Kuwahara S, Nishida K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Aoba-ku, Sendai, Japan. ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To study the characteristics of patients with advanced open-angle
glaucoma.
METHODS: A hospital-based retrospective study was performed. Advanced glaucoma
was defined as visual acuity of 0.3 or less, or mean deviation of -24 dB or less.
First, we screened patients with advanced glaucoma and classified their glaucoma 
types. For patients with open-angle glaucoma (OAG), including both primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), disc types were
classified into four groups: focal ischemic (FI), myopic glaucomatous (MY),
senile sclerotic (SS), and generalized cup enlargement (GE).
RESULTS: After checking the medical history of 750 glaucoma patients, we
classified 141 (18.8%) as having the advanced stage of the disease. The
proportion of patients with advanced OAG was 47% (28% POAG, 19% NTG). The
classification of optic disc appearances in OAG patients showed that in patients 
with POAG the predominant disc type was GE (P = 0.0012) and in those with NTG it 
was MY (P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: In OAG patients in this study with severe glaucomatous damage, the
predominant disc phenotype was GE in patients with POAG and MY in those with NTG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-010-0816-y 
PMID: 20700795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jul;54(4):278-85. doi: 10.1007/s10384-010-0815-z. Epub
2010 Aug 11.

Visual field loss in patients with normal-tension glaucoma under topical
nipradilol or timolol: subgroup and subfield analyses of the nipradilol-timolol
study.

Araie M(1), Shirato S, Yamazaki Y, Kitazawa Y, Ohashi Y; Nipradilol-Timolol Study
Group.

Collaborators: Shirato S, Yamazaki Y, Araie M, Matsumoto C, Shirato S, Yamazaki
Y, Araie M, Ohashi Y, Hamada C, Kitazawa Y, Ohashi Y, Hara T, Hashimoto T, Tsuru 
T, Kojima T, Tomidokoro A, Nakajima F, Obata R, Yamazaki Y, Nakagami T, Hayamizu 
F, Yamagami J, Suzuki J, Kishimoto S, Oshima Y, Nakayama K, Otake Y, Kimura I,
Tanino T, Shirato S, Haneda M, Kimura T, Kawabata K, Yasuda N, Nakamoto K,
Matsumoto S, Yoshimoto M, Suzumura H, Tomita G, Suzuki Y, Tomidokoro A, Kunimatsu
S, Nakano T, Shirato S, Maruyama K, Inoue T, Kouzaki A, Inoue Y, Suzumura H,
Yoshikawa K, Miyata H, Shirakashi M, Kashiwagi K, Iwase A, Shono Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. araie-tky@umin.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To estimate the deterioration rates of visual field loss in Japanese
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients under either topical nipradilol or
timolol, and to explore intergroup differences in the treatment results.
METHODS: A total of 146 NTG patients with mild to moderate damage were randomized
to either nipradilol or timolol and followed for 3 years with a periodic
comprehensive ophthalmological visual field examination (30-2 Humphrey perimeter 
program) every 6 months (the Nipradilol-Timolol Study). The time course of mean
deviation (MD), the average total deviation (TD(mean)) in four subfields, and the
corrected pattern standard deviation (CPSD) were compared between the two groups 
using regression analysis with a linear mixed effect model.
RESULTS: The estimated slope for MD (dB/year) was -0.03 in the nipradilol and
-0.05 in the timolol group (P > 0.4). In both groups, TD(mean) in the
superior-central subfield and CPSD showed significant changes (-0.3 and 0.2-0.3, 
P <or= 0.001). In the patients with early visual field loss or those younger than
40 years, deterioration of some visual field parameters tended to be slower in
the nipradilol group than in the timolol group.
CONCLUSION: During 3 years of monotherapy with either nipradilol or timolol in
NTG patients, only TD(mean) in the superior-central subfield and the CPSD changed
significantly without any intergroup differences.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-010-0815-z 
PMID: 20700793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Nov;248(11):1683-4; author reply 1685.
doi: 10.1007/s00417-010-1474-y. Epub 2010 Aug 10.

Morphologic and functional glaucomatous change after occurrence of single or
recurrent optic disc hemorrhages.

Laemmer R, Nguyen TK, Horn FK, Mardin CY.

Comment on
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;248(6):839-44.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-010-1474-y 
PMID: 20697729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Br J Ophthalmol. 2011 Aug;95(8):1106-10. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2009.175992. Epub 2010 
Aug 7.

Pressure-cornea-vascular index (PCVI) for predicting disease progression in
normal tension glaucoma.

Leung DY(1), Iliev ME, Chan P, Baig N, Chi SC, Tham CC, Lam DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, 2/F, Hong Kong Eye Hospital, 147K Argyle Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
dexleung@alumni.cuhk.net

BACKGROUND: It has been shown that the pressure-to-cornea index (PCI), which
estimates the relative effects of intraocular pressure (IOP) and central corneal 
thickness (CCT), may differentiate between glaucoma and non-glaucoma states. The 
authors investigated the utility of the pressure-cornea-vascular index (PCVI) in 
predicting field-progression in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: PCVI was constructed from PCI (maximum IOP/CCT(3)) extended with risk
factors identified as associated with field-progression in a prospective NTG
cohort. Receiver operator characteristics and area under the curve (AUC) of a
range of constructs were calculated to arrive at an optimal PCVI.
RESULTS: 415 eyes from 415 NTG subjects (184 field-progressed and 231
field-stable) with 3 years of follow-up were analysed. The construct
PCVI=(maximum pretreatment office IOP × age at presentation × vertical
cup-to-disc ratio at presentation × (1.5 if presence of systemic hypertension;
2.5 if presence of disc haemorrhage; 3.5 if presence of both; 1.0 if
none))/(CCT(3)×100) (CCT in mm) gave the highest AUC at 0.71 (95% CI 0.66 to
0.76, p<0.001). The mean PCVI were 113.1±76.8 and 69.7±39.7 for progressed and
stable NTG groups, respectively (p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: PCVI may be useful for predicting progression in NTG with a
satisfactory AUC comparable to established scoring systems in neurovascular
medicine. Validation of PCVI in other NTG cohorts, preferably of different
ethnicity, is necessary. Trial registration number NCT00321386.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2009.175992 
PMID: 20693562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Clin Ophthalmol. 2010 Jul 30;4:643-7.

Effect of travoprost on 24-hour intraocular pressure in normal tension glaucoma.

Nomura Y(1), Nakakura S, Moriwaki M, Takahashi Y, Shiraki K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka City University, Japan.

PURPOSE: The effect of travoprost 0.004% on 24-hour intraocular pressure (IOP)
was examined in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: This study included 17 patients with newly diagnosed
unilateral NTG. IOP was measured at three-hour intervals over 24 hours by Goldman
applanation tonometer in patients taking topical travoprost 0.004% and was
compared retrospectively with 24-hour IOP data in untreated eyes.
RESULTS: IOP values were significantly reduced at individual time points after
treatment (P < 0.01). Mean 24-hour IOP, maximum 24-hour IOP, minimum 24-hour IOP,
and 24-hour IOP fluctuations at baseline (mean +/- SD) were 12.9 +/- 2.2 mmHg,
15.4 +/- 2.7 mmHg, 10.5 +/- 2.2 mmHg, and 4.9 +/- 1.2 mmHg, respectively, and
were significantly reduced to 10.3 +/- 2.0 mmHg, 12.4 +/- 2.5 mmHg, 8.5 +/- 1.9
mmHg (all P < 0.001), and 3.9 +/- 1.5 mmHg (P < 0.05), respectively, after
treatment. The rate of IOP reduction greater than 20% was 58.8% (10 eyes) for
maximum 24-hour IOP and 53.0% (nine eyes) for mean 24-hour IOP.
CONCLUSION: Travoprost reduced IOP throughout the 24-hour study period, with over
half of the eyes examined showing IOP reduction exceeding 20%.


PMCID: PMC2915846
PMID: 20689776  [PubMed]


702. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2010 Jul;114(7):592-7.

[Study on relationship between control of intraocular pressure and systemic risk 
factor for visual field progression in normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakagami T(1), Yamazaki Y, Hayamizu F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Division of Visual Science, Nihon University
School of Medicine, 30-1 Oyaguchikami-machi, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8610, Japan. 
nakagami@med.nihon-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To study the relationship between the reduction of intraocular pressure 
(IOP) and visual field (VF) damage in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with
or without systemic risk factors.
METHODS: Ninety-two eyes of 92 patients with NTG were enrolled in this study. All
patients were followed up for more than 2 years of taking topical antiglaucoma
medications. Personal history regarding migraine, diabetes mellitus,
hypertension, cerebrovascular disease, cardiovascular disease, Raynaud's
phenomenon, arrhythmia, and family history of glaucoma were collected from the
medical records. The survival data were analyzed using regression analysis based 
on the Cox proportional hazards model. The relationship between the presence of
each systemic factor and the effect of reduction of VF progression were evaluated
using the life table analysis.
RESULTS: The progression of VF damage was significantly associated with IOP (p = 
0.020). The eyes with larger IOP reduction showed significantly less VF
progression than eyes with smaller IOP reduction both in patients with and
without systemic diseases (with systemic diseases p = 0.027, without systemic
diseases p = 0.025) and a family history of glaucoma (p = 0.019). In patients
with a family history of glaucoma, the rate of VF progression did not show
statistically differences between the eyes with larger IOP reduction and those
with smaller IOP reduction.
CONCLUSIONS: IOP reduction is beneficial in reducing the risk of VF progression
regardless of the presence of systemic risk factors in patients with NTG.


PMID: 20681254  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Dec;51(12):6540-8. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-5718.
Epub 2010 Jul 29.

Sensitivity loss in early glaucoma can be mapped to an enlargement of the area of
complete spatial summation.

Redmond T(1), Garway-Heath DF, Zlatkova MB, Anderson RS.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Ulster, Coleraine, Northern
Ireland, United Kingdom. tony.redmond@moorfields.nhs.uk

PURPOSE: The area of complete spatial summation (Ricco's area) is the largest
stimulus size for which area × intensity is constant at threshold. The authors
sought to investigate whether Ricco's area changes in early glaucoma to account
for the decreased visual signal/noise ratio that may accompany retinal ganglion
cell loss.
METHODS: Spatial summation functions were measured, and Ricco's area was
determined at four 10° retinal locations in 24 patients with early glaucoma
(total deviation at test locations, mean, -1.3 dB; range, +2 dB to -8 dB) and 26 
age-similar healthy subjects under achromatic and S-cone isolation conditions.
Achromatic grating resolution acuity was measured at the same locations to
estimate functional ganglion cell density.
RESULTS: Ricco's area was enlarged in patients compared with controls for both
achromatic (enlarged by: superior field, 0.57 log units, P < 0.01; inferior
field, 0.72 log units, P < 0.01) and chromatic (enlarged by: superior field, 0.26
log units, P < 0.01; inferior field, 0.25 log units, P = 0.065) stimuli, with
negligible vertical summation curve shifts along the intensity axis. Resolution
acuity was significantly reduced in glaucoma patients in both hemifields (P <
0.001). There was a weak, but significant, relationship between Ricco's area and 
resolution acuity.
CONCLUSIONS: Enlargement of Ricco's area completely compensates for reduced
perimetric sensitivity in early glaucoma to maintain constant threshold at
Ricco's area, suggesting an increase in signal pooling in response to ganglion
cell loss. The rightward displacement of the spatial summation curve indicates
that perimetric stimuli should be capable of modulating in size as well
as/instead of contrast, which may boost the glaucoma signal within measurement
noise.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-5718 
PMID: 20671278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Clin Ophthalmol. 2010 Jul 21;4:617-23.

New approach for the glaucoma detection with pupil perimetry.

Asakawa K(1), Shoji N, Ishikawa H, Shimizu K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Kitasato University Graduate
School, Doctors Program of Medical Science, Kanagawa, Japan.
dm07002u@st.kitasato-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: To calculate the pattern deviation for identifying abnormal points of 
pupil perimetry, and also to evaluate the grayscale display for distinguishing
glaucomatous pupil field loss (abnormal test points) from normal pupil field
(normal test points).
METHODS: Fourteen patients ranging in age from 51 to 80 years, who had
normal-tension glaucoma (6 eyes) and primary open-angle glaucoma (8 eyes) were
tested. Pupil perimetry (Kowa & Hamamatsu, Japan) was used to objectively measure
the visual field. Also, to obtain a subjective visual field, the analysis was
performed with a Humphrey Field Analyzer (30-2, Full threshold program, Carl
Zeiss Meditec, Dublin). Of the 76 test points, the 22 surrounding points and the 
3 points corresponding to the blind spot are excluded; and among the remaining 51
points, the 85th percentile value of pupil perimetry was calculated. The abnormal
and normal test points were recorded, and the amount of positive or negative
deviation of each test point from the normal median value for the corresponding
test points was determined. We also used this technique to identify the value for
distinguishing glaucomatous pupil field loss from the normal pupil field.
RESULTS: This study could be improved by calculating the sensitivity and
specificity of a certain cut-off value between the normative data and the
glaucoma patients. The value for identifying both abnormal and normal test points
was a negative deviation of -4. Based on these results, pupil perimetry gray
scales were determined: white (< -3), 25% gray (from -4 to -8), 50% gray (from -9
to -13), 75% gray (from -14 to -18) and black (> -19). Glaucomatous pupil field
losses were generally distinguished from the normal pupil field by use of a gray 
scale.
CONCLUSION: Our studies demonstrated that, when a deviation of > -4 was regarded 
as an abnormal value, the detection of pupil perimetry exhibited improvement in
glaucoma patients.


PMCID: PMC2909891
PMID: 20668724  [PubMed]


705. Can J Ophthalmol. 2010 Oct;45(5):494-500. doi: 10.3129/i10-053.

Relation between blue-on-yellow perimetry and optical coherence tomography in
normal tension glaucoma.

Zhong Y(1), Zhou X, Cheng Y, Xie L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated Shanghai Jiaotong
University, Shanghai, China. yszhong68@yahoo.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: To assess the relation between blue-on-yellow perimetry (B/YP) indices
and optical coherence tomography (OCT) parameters in normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) patients and to investigate the diagnostic ability of B/YP and OCT in
discriminating NTG from normal eyes.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Eighty normal subjects (80 eyes) and 80 NTG patients (80 eyes) were
enrolled in the study.
METHODS: All patients underwent white-on-white perimetry, B/YP, and OCT
measurement. The correlation between B/YP indices and OCT parameters was
analyzed. The area of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was
calculated to discriminate NTG patients from normal subjects.
RESULTS: A highly significant correlation was found between B/YP mean deviation
(MD) and average thickness of the retinal nerve fibre layer (r2 = 0.707, p =
0.000), and a moderately significant correlation was found between B/YP MD and
temporal average (r2 = 0.437, p = 0.010) in the early NTG patients. A mildly or
moderately significant correlation was found between B/YP MD and average
thickness, inferior average, temporal average, superior maximum, and
maximum-minimum (r2 = 0.212-0.498, p = 0.001-0.048) in the moderate or late NTG
patients. The area under the ROC curve at the B/YP MD was 0.896, and the 3 OCT
parameters with the widest area under the curve were average thickness (0.957),
inferior average (0.932), and superior average (0.913). Average thickness showed 
the highest sensitivity (93%) with specificities at 90% and 80%.
CONCLUSIONS: The significant correlation between B/YP indices and OCT parameters 
in NTG patients suggests that the 2 tests detect similar areas or amounts of NTG 
damage and could be used for NTG early diagnosis.

DOI: 10.3129/i10-053 
PMID: 20648075  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 May;38(4):428-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02259.x.

Case of normal tension glaucoma induced or exacerbated by wearing swimming
goggles.

Kang MH, Morgan WH, Balaratnasingam C, Anastas C, Yu DY.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02259.x 
PMID: 20642590  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Ophthalmology. 2010 Jul;117(7):1463; author reply 1463-4. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.03.075.

Brimonidine and eye pressure.

Nowroozzadeh MH, Razeghinejad MR.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2009 Jul;116(7):1243-9.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.03.075 
PMID: 20610002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


708. J Glaucoma. 2011 Mar;20(3):189-95. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181e0799c.

Does the enlargement of retinal nerve fiber layer defects relate to disc
hemorrhage or progressive visual field loss in normal-tension glaucoma?

Nitta K(1), Sugiyama K, Higashide T, Ohkubo S, Tanahashi T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Fukui-ken Saiseikai Hospital, Funabashi, Fukui, Japan.
k-nitta@fukui.saiseikai.or.jp

Comment in
    J Glaucoma. 2012 Apr-May;21(4):275-6.

PURPOSE: We investigated the difference in clinical characteristics between cases
with enlarged retinal nerve fiber layer defects (RNFLD) and stable RNFLDs in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed NTG patients that were
diagnosed and followed up for at least 3 years at 1-month to 2-month intervals by
the same examiner, and selected eyes with distinct RNFLD borders. Using fundus
photographs, for which we extracted only a blue ingredient and processed it into 
black and white, we measured RNFLD angles and divided NTG cases into 2 groups,
enlarged RNFLD and stable RNFLD, and compared the clinical characteristics
between both groups.
RESULTS: Ninety-three eyes from 93 patients (mean follow-up, 8.2 y) were selected
and enlargement of RNFLD was detected in 55 eyes. Disc hemorrhage (DH) was found 
in 35 of 55 eyes (63.6%) in the enlarged group and in 6 of 38 eyes (15.8%) in the
stable group (P<0.0001). Twenty-one eyes (38.2%) from the enlarged group
exhibited recurrent DH. In 48 eyes (87.3%) from the enlarged group, the
enlargement of RNFLD was toward the fovea. When DHs located apart from RNFLD were
excluded, RNFLD enlarged in the direction of DH in 21 of 25 eyes (84.0%). The
cumulative probability of non progression in the visual field was significantly
lower in the enlarged group (10-year survival rate: 0.52±0.11) than in the stable
group (10-year survival rate: 0.89±0.08) (P=0.0019).
CONCLUSIONS: The enlargement of RNFLD in NTG was closely associated with DH
occurrence and the deterioration of visual field.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181e0799c 
PMID: 20577114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


709. J Glaucoma. 2011 Feb;20(2):95-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181dde051.

Central corneal thickness and anterior scleral thickness in Korean patients With 
Open-angle glaucoma: an anterior segment optical coherence tomography study.

Yoo C(1), Eom YS, Suh YW, Kim YY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.

PURPOSE: To assess the correlation between central corneal thickness (CCT) and
anterior scleral thickness (AST) in Korean patients with normal tension glaucoma 
(NTG) and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Consecutive patients with POAG, NTG, and normal individuals
were recruited. Anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT, Visante)
was used to measure CCT and AST. The AST was measured 2 mm posterior to the
scleral spur in the temporal meridian. Statistical analysis of the data included 
ANOVA and Pearson correlation analysis.
RESULTS: One hundred and eight participants (36 with NTG, 35 with POAG, and 37
normal individuals) were enrolled. The CCT (NTG 514.8 1± 25.03 μm; POAG 534.43 ± 
34.79 μm; controls 536.70 ± 32.11 μm) was found to be thinner in patients with
NTG compared with POAG and the control eyes (P=0.023; P=0.009). The AST (NTG
738.53 ± 53.63 μm; POAG 771.86 ± 53.75 μm; controls 783.62 ± 57.03 μm) was
thinner in the patients with NTG compared with POAG and the normal controls
(P=0.032; P=0.002). No significant difference in AST was found among the POAG and
control eyes (P=0.636). A correlation between CCT and AST was found only among
the patients with NTG (r=0.469, P=0.004). However, no correlation was observed
between CCT and AST in patients with POAG and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Anterior scleral thickness was correlated with CCT in the NTG group,
but this correlation was not observed among the POAG or control groups.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181dde051 
PMID: 20577104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


710. J Glaucoma. 2011 Jun-Jul;20(5):303-6. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181e666a1.

Rigidity of retinal vessel in untreated eyes of normal tension primary open-angle
glaucoma patients.

Oettli A(1), Gugleta K, Kochkorov A, Katamay R, Flammer J, Orgul S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: To analyze pulse wave propagation in the ocular circulation and
vessel stiffness in untreated eyes of normal tension primary open-angle glaucoma 
(NTG) patients.
METHODS: Inferotemporal retinal vessels of 22 NTG eyes and 25 controls were
examined with a Retinal Vessel Analyzer. Inferotemporal peripapillary retinal
nerve fiber layer thickness was measured by ocular coherence tomography. Phase
delay between venous trough and arterial peak was assessed at 3 sites centrifugal
from the disc and a choroid-to-retina pulse delay was calculated as an estimation
of vessel rigidity.
RESULTS: There was choroid-to-retina pulse delay of 0.26±0.08, 0.30±0.11, and
0.33±0.11 seconds, respectively, in NTG eyes at proximal, middle, and distal
sites; in control eyes, the corresponding values were 0.28±0.10, 0.35±0.12, and
0.40±0.17 seconds. Average choroid-to-retina pulse delay was shorter in NTG eyes 
(P=0.028). Retinal nerve fiber layer (inferotemporal) showed an opposite
correlation with choroid-to-retina pulse delay in controls (r=-0.48, P=0.019) and
in NTG eyes (r=0.47, P=0.032 ).
CONCLUSIONS: Untreated NTG eyes show stiffer retinal vessels. Vessel rigidity
correlates with level of glaucomatous damage.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181e666a1 
PMID: 20577102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2010 May;114(5):436-43.

[Intraocular pressure lowering effect of 0.0015% tafluprost as compared to
placebo in patients with normal tension glaucoma: randomized, double-blind,
multicenter, phase III study].

[Article in Japanese]

Kuwayama Y(1), Komemushi S; Tafluprost Multi-center Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Koseinenkin Hospital, Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare the efficacy and safety of 0.0015% tafluprost ophthalmic
solution (Tafluprost) with Placebo ophthalmic solution (Placebo) in normal
tension glaucoma (NTG).
SETTING: Total of 94 patients enrolled in a randomized, double-blind,
parallel-group and multicenter study.
METHOD: Patients with NTG were randomly assigned to either Tafluprost or Placebo.
Both ophthalmic solutions were instilled once a day in the morning for 4 weeks.
RESULTS: Mean intraocular pressure (IOP) changes from baseline were -4.0 +/- 1.7 
mmHg in Tafluprost administered patients and -1.4 +/- 1.8 mmHg in Placebo
administered patients at 4 weeks, with a statistically significant difference
(p<0.001). IOP change at 4 weeks, % IOP reduction at 2 and 4 weeks were also
significantly greater in Tafluprost than in Placebo. A total of 51.0% in
Tafluprost treated group and 8.9% in Placebo treated group reported adverse drug 
reactions.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that Tafluprost is clinically useful in the
treatment of NTG.


PMID: 20545217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Ophthalmologe. 2010 Nov;107(11):1032-6. doi: 10.1007/s00347-010-2170-3.

[Ocular risks in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome].

[Article in German]

Steindel A(1), Lautenschläger C, Struck HG.

Author information: 
(1)Augenarztpraxis Aschersleben, Dres. Steindel & Steindel Partnerschaft,
Taubenstrasse 14, Aschersleben, Deutschland. praxis@steindel.de

PURPOSE: A prospective controlled cohort study examined the effects of
obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) on the visual field, including
morphological and physiological aspects.
METHODS: Thirty-two patients with newly discovered and previously untreated
moderate to severe OSAS (apnea-hypopnea index >20) were compared with a control
group of 32 healthy individuals. Global visual field indices [mean deviation
(MD), corrected pattern standard deviation (CPSD)] were compared, and optic disc 
changes, intraocular pressure, correlations between MD and polysomnography, and
the frequency of local defects (using the Humphrey Field Analyzer) were examined.
RESULTS: The MD was significantly reduced (R -1.66/L -1.62 dB; p<0.001) in OSAS
patients, whereas there was no difference in CPSD. Diffuse local defects in the
middle periphery of the 30° visual field were increased in OSAS patients
(p<0.003). Normal intraocular tension values were found in all persons, with no
correlation to MD. The incidence of pathological optic disc changes was increased
in the apnea group (6.25%).
CONCLUSIONS: OSAS seems to lead to reduced sensitivity in the visual field by
diffuse rarefaction of nerve tissue in the retina, optic nerve, or both. An
increased incidence of development of a low-tension glaucoma is assumed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-010-2170-3 
PMID: 20532520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Cornea. 2010 Sep;29(9):955-70. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e3181ca363c.

Keratoconus and normal-tension glaucoma: a study of the possible association with
abnormal biomechanical properties as measured by corneal hysteresis.

Cohen EJ(1), Myers JS.

Author information: 
(1)Wills Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Thomas Jefferson University,
Philadelphia, PA, USA. ecohen@willseye.org

PURPOSE: To test the hypothesis that patients with keratoconus and pellucid who
have glaucoma or are glaucoma suspects have lower corneal hysteresis (CH) and/or 
corneal resistance factor (CRF) measurements compared with controls.
METHODS: A prospective study at a tertiary eye center of patients with
keratoconus and pellucid, with glaucoma or suspect glaucoma and age-matched
keratoconus and pellucid controls, was performed. After informed consent was
obtained, corneal topography, ocular response analyzer (ORA; Reicher, Buffalo,
NY), pachymetry, intraocular pressure, A scan measurements, Humphrey visual
fields (VFs), and disk photographs were done. Analyses compared cases with
controls on primary (CH and CRF) and secondary variables. Disk photographs and
VFs were rated in a masked fashion.
RESULTS: The mean CH [8.2 (SD = 1.6) and 8.3 (SD = 1.5)] and CRF [7.3 (SD = 2.0) 
and 6.9 (SD = 2.1)] were low and did not differ significantly between 20 study
(29 eyes) and 40 control patients (61 eyes), respectively. CH had a negative
significant correlation with maximum corneal curvature by topography (P < 0.002) 
and positive significant correlation with central corneal thickness (P < 0.003). 
The mean cup to disk ratio was larger (0.54, SD = 0.20) among cases than in
controls (0.38, SD = 0.20), P = 0.003. VFs were suspicious for glaucoma more
often among the study eyes (11 of 29, 33.9%) than controls (8 of 60, 13.3%), P = 
0.019.
CONCLUSIONS: CH was low in study and control patients and was correlated with
severity of keratoconus/pellucid but not with glaucoma/glaucoma suspect or
control status. Evidence of glaucoma was more common in study eyes than in
controls but was present in both.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e3181ca363c 
PMID: 20517150  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Cell Death Differ. 2010 Nov;17(11):1751-9. doi: 10.1038/cdd.2010.62. Epub 2010
May 21.

ASK1 deficiency attenuates neural cell death in GLAST-deficient mice, a model of 
normal tension glaucoma.

Harada C(1), Namekata K, Guo X, Yoshida H, Mitamura Y, Matsumoto Y, Tanaka K,
Ichijo H, Harada T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Neurobiology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for
Neuroscience, Japan.

Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) is an evolutionarily conserved
mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase kinase and has an important role
in stress-induced retinal ganglion cell (RGC) apoptosis. In the mammalian retina,
glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST) is a major glutamate transporter, and the
loss of GLAST leads to optic nerve degeneration similar to normal tension
glaucoma (NTG). In GLAST⁻(/)⁻ mice, the glutathione level in the retina is
decreased, suggesting the involvement of oxidative stress in NTG pathogenesis. To
test this hypothesis, we examined the histology and visual function of
GLAST(+/)⁻:ASK1⁻(/)⁻ and GLAST⁻(/)⁻:ASK1⁻(/)⁻ mice by multifocal
electroretinograms. ASK1 deficiency protected RGCs and decreased the number of
degenerating axons in the optic nerve. Consistent with this finding, visual
function was significantly improved in GLAST(+/)⁻:ASK1⁻(/)⁻ and
GLAST⁻(/)⁻:ASK1⁻(/)⁻ mice compared with GLAST(+/)⁻ and GLAST⁻(/)⁻ mice,
respectively. The loss of ASK1 had no effects on the production of glutathione or
malondialdehyde in the retina or on the intraocular pressure. Tumor necrosis
factor (TNF)-induced activation of p38 MAPK and the production of inducible
nitric oxide synthase were suppressed in ASK1-deficient Müller glial cells. In
addition, TNF-induced cell death was suppressed in ASK1-deficient RGCs. These
results suggest that ASK1 activation is involved in NTG-like pathology in both
neural and glial cells and that interrupting ASK1-dependent pathways could be
beneficial in the treatment of glaucoma, including NTG.

DOI: 10.1038/cdd.2010.62 
PMID: 20489729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Oct;51(10):5062-70. doi: 10.1167/iovs.09-4954.
Epub 2010 May 12.

Three-dimensional imaging of the macular retinal nerve fiber layer in glaucoma
with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.

Sakamoto A(1), Hangai M, Nukada M, Nakanishi H, Mori S, Kotera Y, Inoue R,
Yoshimura N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Kyoto University Graduate
School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the three-dimensional (3D), spectral-domain (SD) optical 
coherence tomography (3D,SD-OCT) imaging of the macular retinal nerve fiber layer
(RNFL) in eyes with glaucoma.
METHODS: The study included 38 eyes of 38 patients with glaucoma and 38 normal
eyes of 38 volunteers. With a 3D raster scan SD-OCT protocol, 512 × 128 axial
scans were acquired over a 6-mm(2) area of the macula. Findings on 3D,SD-OCT
images were compared with those on color and red-free fundus photographs and
time-domain (TD) OCT.
RESULTS: Fourteen (30.4%) more RNFL defects were detected on 3D,SD-OCT images
than on color fundus photographs. Of these 14, 12 were detected in 10 (90.9%) of 
11 eyes with tessellated fundi (P < 0.0001). On 3D,SD-OCT images, complete loss
of the RNFL reflectivity was seen in 63.0% of the RNFL defects and thinning of
the RNFL in the rest. On TD-OCT cpRNFL analysis, RNFL defects that appeared on
3D,SD-OCT as a complete loss of RNFL reflectivity were detected more often (P =
0.012) than those that appeared as thinning of the RNFL. Inter-rater agreement
was better for RNFL defects on 3D,SD-OCT (0.85) than for those on color
(0.62-0.64) or red-free (0.68-0.70) fundus photographs. However, 3D,SD-OCT
macular RNFL thickness measurements were substantially reproducible but not as
reproducible as macular retinal thickness measurements, and neither was as
sensitive as TD-OCT cpRNFL thickness measurements for detecting glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: 3D,SD-OCT imaging of the macular RNFL is an effective means of
detecting macular RNFL defects and their severity in eyes with glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.09-4954 
PMID: 20463326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Clin Interv Aging. 2010 Apr 26;5:133-9.

Levels of circulating homocysteine, vitamin B6, vitamin B12, and folate in
different types of open-angle glaucoma.

Turgut B(1), Kaya M, Arslan S, Demir T, Güler M, Kaya MK.

Author information: 
(1)Firat University School of Medicine, Department of Ophthalmology, Elaziğ,
Turkey. drburakturgut@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To compare the levels of plasma homocysteine (Hcy), vitamin B6
(vit-B6), serum vitamin B12 (vit-B12), and folate in healthy individuals and in
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (PXG), or
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
STUDY DESIGN: A prospective controlled trial.
PARTICIPANTS AND METHODS: Forty healthy subjects, 48 patients with NTG, 38
patients with PXG, and 34 patients with POAG were included in the study. Those
who used vitamin supplements or medications affecting Hcy and vitamin levels were
excluded from the study. The levels of Hcy and vit-B6 were measured by High
Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC). The levels of serum vit-B12 and folic
acid were measured by competitive chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay (CEI).
One-way analysis if variance (ANOVA), analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), and the
Tukey honestly significant difference test were used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: The mean Hcy level of the PXG group was 15.46+/-9.27 micromol/L which
was significantly higher (P=0.03) than that of the control group. There were no
statistical differences in serum vit-B12 and folate levels among control subjects
and NTG, PXG and POAG groups (P>0.05). It was found that the mean plasma vit-B6
level was significantly higher in subjects with NTG (P=0.03) and POAG (P=0.025)
versus controls. Mean vit-B6 levels in NTG and POAG were 30.50+/-11.29 microg/L
and 30+/-12.15 microg/L, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The plasma level of Hcy was found to be increased only in PXG
patients and the plasma levels of vit-B6 were found to increase in the NTG and
POAG sample groups. Using homocysteine and vit-B6 levels as the determinants of
hyperhomocysteinemia still needs further research.


PMCID: PMC2861848
PMID: 20458351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Oct;38(7):678-82. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02305.x. Epub 2010 Jul 21.

Comparative study of three prostaglandin analogues in the treatment of newly
diagnosed cases of ocular hypertension, open-angle and normal tension glaucoma.

Faridi UA(1), Saleh TA, Ewings P, Venkateswaran M, Cadman DH, Samarasinghe RA,
Vodden J, Claridge KG.

Author information: 
(1)Taunton and Somerset Hospital, Taunton, UK. uafaridi@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: To compare the efficacy and tolerance of three prostaglandin
analogues, bimatoprost, latanoprost and travoprost in patients with previously
untreated open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
METHODS: Prospective randomized single (investigator) masked comparative clinical
trial at the Taunton and Somerset NHS Hospital, Taunton, UK. Newly diagnosed,
treatment naïve glaucoma/ocular hypertension patients were recruited. Patients
were randomized into three groups to receive one of the three prostaglandin
analogues. Intraocular pressure (IOP) was measured before starting treatment and 
after 2 and 6 months of treatment. The IOP reduction and the tolerance profile of
each drug were compared. The data were analysed on the basis of intention to
treat, using analysis of covariance comparing IOP in the three groups at 2 and 6 
months, adjusting for baseline IOP. Tolerance levels were compared using
Kruskal-Wallis test.
RESULTS: Of the 122 patients, 40 patients were given bimatoprost, 42 received
latanoprost and 40 had travoprost. At 2 months, there was a significant
difference between the three treatment groups (P = 0.013) with bimatoprost
achieving a greater reduction in IOP than the other two drops. However, at 6
months, the difference was not statistically significant (P = 0.13). There was no
significant difference in the tolerance profile.
CONCLUSION: All the three topical prostaglandin analogues are effective at
lowering IOP, but bimatoprost was found to be most effective in the initial phase
of the trial, and there was no statistically significant difference in the
efficacy, among the three prostaglandin analogue eye drops after 6 months of
treatment.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal compilation © 2010 Royal Australian and New Zealand
College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02305.x 
PMID: 20456437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Br J Ophthalmol. 2010 May;94(5):663-5. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2009.163014.

Comparison of the clinical characteristics of normal tension glaucoma patients
with pretreatment intraocular pressures in the high-teens and low-teens.

Leung DY(1), Kwong YY, Li FC, Tham CC, Chi SC, Lam DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, 2/F., Hong Kong Eye Hospital, 147K Argyle Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
dexleung@alumni.cuhk.net

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2009.163014 
PMID: 20447973  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Br J Ophthalmol. 2010 May;94(5):639-42. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2009.158261.

Little evidence for association of the glaucoma gene MYOC with open-angle
glaucoma.

Sohn S(1), Hur W, Choi YR, Chung YS, Ki CS, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul 135-710, South Korea.

BACKGROUND/AIM To determine if overexpression of the glaucoma gene MYOC is
involved in the development of open-angle glaucoma (OAG) and if its promoter
variants are associated with glaucoma in the Korean population. METHODS Human
trabecular meshwork cells were cultured in the presence of ophthalmic steroids
such as fluorometholone, fluorometholone acetate, dexamethasone, prednisolone
acetate and rimexolone. The cells were cultured at a hydrostatic pressure of 32
mm Hg above atmospheric pressure and induction of MYOC was evaluated by northern 
blot analysis. Genomic DNA was extracted from blood samples obtained from 74
normal controls and 168 unrelated Korean patients with OAG, including primary
OAG, normal tension glaucoma and steroid-induced glaucoma. A 461 base pair (bp)
DNA fragment of the MYOC promoter region was amplified using PCR and its genotype
was analysed by directly sequencing the product. RESULTS The potencies of steroid
eye drops in MYOC induction in vitro was the same regardless of their potential
for elevating intraocular pressure in vivo. Hydrostatic pressure had no effect on
MYOC induction. A dinucleotide repeat polymorphism and three single nucleotide
polymorphisms were identified, but no obvious differences in the genotype
distribution and allele frequency of the variants between the control group and
any type of OAG were observed. CONCLUSION Our data suggest that MYOC
overexpression is not a cause or an effect of intraocular pressure elevation and 
that MYOC itself is not associated with OAG.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2009.158261 
PMCID: PMC2976471
PMID: 20447966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


720. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2010 Apr;26(2):187-92. doi: 10.1089/jop.2009.0117.

A pilot study for the effects of donepezil therapy on cerebral and optic nerve
head blood flow, visual field defect in normal-tension glaucoma.

Yoshida Y(1), Sugiyama T, Utsunomiya K, Ogura Y, Ikeda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ujigawa Hospital, vji, Kyoto, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of donepezil hydrochloride, an agent for the
treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), on the cerebral and optic nerve head (ONH)
blood flow, visual field defect in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with
decreased cerebral blood flow (CBF) that demonstrates an AD-like perfusion
pattern.
METHODS: The subjects were 5 NTG patients who exhibited AD-like decreased CBF
upon (123)I-iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography
((123)I-IMP SPECT). Donepezil hydrochloride (5 mg/day) was prescribed for each
patient during a period of 12 months. Intraocular pressure (IOP), mean deviation 
(MD) of the Humphrey visual field, ONH blood flow determined by a laser speckle
flowgraphy, and regional CBF (rCBF) determined by (123)I-IMP SPECT were measured 
before and every 6 months during the treatment.
RESULTS: MD, ONH blood flow, and rCBF were improved significantly after 6 months 
of the treatment, although IOP did not change significantly. No deterioration of 
NTG morbidity was found in any of the measured parameters after 12 months of the 
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral administration of donepezil hydrochloride in NTG patients might
prevent deterioration of visual field defect, ONH blood flow, and rCBF in the
temporal, parietal, and posterior lobes. This pilot study suggested the
possibility that donepezil hydrochloride might ameliorate glaucomatous optic
neuropathy in NTG.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2009.0117 
PMID: 20415624  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2010 Mar;54(2):144-50. doi: 10.1007/s10384-009-0777-1. Epub
2010 Apr 18.

Korean normative database for time domain optical coherence tomography to detect 
localized retinal nerve fiber layer defects (preliminary study).

Kang SH(1), Park KH, Kim JM, Seo JM, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hallym University College of Medicine, Chuncheon,
South Korea.

PURPOSE: To establish a Korean normative database of retinal nerve fiber layer
(RNFL) thickness.
METHODS: Data was collected from 103 healthy volunteers. Total ophthalmologic
examinations, including fast RNFL thickness analysis by time domain optical
coherence tomography (STRATUS OCT) were performed. The RNFL thickness of 64
glaucoma patients with localized RNFL defects and 48 independent healthy subjects
were collected. The RNFL thickness of both the glaucoma patients and the healthy 
subjects was evaluated using both normative databases.
RESULTS: The average RNFL thickness of Koreans was 108.3 +/- 10.3 microm. The
sensitivity rates recorded in the Korean normative database with 5% and 1%
significance were 0.984 and 0.984, with specificity values of 0.938 and 1.000. By
comparison, the sensitivity rates in the conventional normative database with 5% 
and 1% significance are 0.984 and 0.953, and the specificity values are 1.000 and
1.000.
CONCLUSION: In detecting localized RNFL defects, the Korean database showed
higher sensitivity than the conventional database.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-009-0777-1 
PMID: 20401564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2010 Mar;54(2):140-3. doi: 10.1007/s10384-009-0780-6. Epub 2010
Apr 18.

Effect of carteolol hydrochloride on 24-hour variation of intraocular pressure in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Nakamoto K(1), Yasuda N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Metropolitan Police Hospital, Nakano-ku,
Tokyo, Japan. user902850@aol.com

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effects of carteolol hydrochloride (carteolol) on 24-h
variations in intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG).
METHODS: Twelve patients with NTG were treated with carteolol 2% solution for
>or=8 weeks; their pretreatment 24-h IOP variations, blood pressure (BP), and
pulse rate (PR) were compared with those measured after the treatment period.
RESULTS: Daytime IOP (at 07:00, 10:00, 13:00, and 16:00), maximum IOP, and the
mean 24-h IOP were significantly reduced after treatment, as was the 24-h IOP
range. Systolic BP in the morning and both systolic and diastolic BP in the
afternoon were significantly decreased by the treatment, whereas no significant
change of PR was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Carteolol had no effect on nocturnal IOP but significantly helped
reduce daytime IOP, maximum IOP, mean 24-h IOP, and the 24-h IOP range. The drug 
exerted no statistically significant effect on the PR.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-009-0780-6 
PMID: 20401563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2010 Mar;54(2):117-23. doi: 10.1007/s10384-009-0779-z. Epub
2010 Apr 18.

Target intraocular pressure for stability of visual field loss progression in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Aoyama A(1), Ishida K, Sawada A, Yamamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine,
Yanagido, Gifu, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine the target intraocular pressure (IOP) level in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) for visual field (VF) stability following
trabeculectomy.
METHODS: Forty eyes of 40 patients who underwent trabeculectomy were enrolled in 
this study. Progression was determined by a decrease in the Advanced Glaucoma
Intervention Study VF defect score of four or more points. The Kaplan-Meier life 
table method was employed to compare the postoperative VF stability with
predetermined IOP levels.
RESULTS: The mean postoperative follow-up period was 12 years. At the final
visit, the IOP was reduced from 15.2 to 9.4 mmHg on average (P < 0.0001).
Reductions in IOP of 20% from baseline were achieved in 70.0% of eyes. The
cumulative probability of VF stability was 92.7% in patients having an IOP
reduction of >20%, whereas all patients in the poorly controlled IOP group showed
progression (P < 0.0001). When IOP values of 9, 10, 11, and 12 mmHg were employed
as the cutoff, the best VF prognosis was attained in eyes with a postoperative
IOP of 10 mmHg.
CONCLUSIONS: An IOP reduction of at least 20% from baseline or IOP <or=10 mmHg is
recommended as the target postoperative IOP in progressive NTG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-009-0779-z 
PMID: 20401559  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Am J Ophthalmol. 2010 May;149(5):826-30.e1-2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.12.030.

Estrogen receptor beta gene polymorphism and intraocular pressure elevation in
female patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.

Mabuchi F(1), Sakurada Y, Kashiwagi K, Yamagata Z, Iijima H, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
Chuo, Yamanashi, Japan. fmabuchi@yamanashi.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To assess whether the genetic polymorphisms of estrogen receptor beta
(ESR2) are associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
DESIGN: Case-control study.
METHODS: Four hundred and twenty-five Japanese patients with POAG, including
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG, n = 213) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG, n = 212), 
and 191 control subjects without glaucoma were analyzed for polymorphisms of
rs1256031 and rs4986938 in the ESR2 gene. The genotypic and allelic frequencies
were compared between NTG or HTG patients and control subjects. The phenotypic
features of patients with POAG were compared between each genotype.
RESULTS: There were significant differences in the genotype frequencies of
rs1256031 and rs4986938 between the HTG patients and control subjects in women (P
= .033 and P = .043 respectively). The frequencies of the C allele of rs1256031
and G allele of rs4986938 were significantly higher in patients with HTG in
comparison to the control subjects in women (rs1256031: 53.6% vs 43.4%, P = .044;
rs4986938: 89.2% vs 80.6%, P = .027). The maximum intraocular pressures in female
POAG patients with the CC or TC genotypes of rs1256031 were significantly higher 
than that in female POAG patients with the TT genotype (P = .039, analysis of
variance, P = .018 and P = .026 respectively).
CONCLUSION: The ESR2 gene polymorphism is therefore considered to be associated
with an intraocular pressure elevation in female patients with POAG.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.12.030 
PMID: 20399928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Am J Ophthalmol. 2010 May;149(5):704-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.01.018.

Blood pressure, perfusion pressure, and glaucoma.

Caprioli J(1), Coleman AL; Blood Flow in Glaucoma Discussion.

Collaborators: Alm A, Bereliani A, Chauhan B, Kaufman P, Kiel J, Krupin T, Leske 
C, McKinnon S, Wheeler L.

Author information: 
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, David Geffen School of
Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA. Caprioli@ucla.edu

PURPOSE: To provide a critical review of the relationships between blood
pressure, ocular blood flow, and glaucoma and the potential for glaucoma
treatment through modulation of ocular perfusion.
DESIGN: Summaries of the pertinent literature and input from glaucoma researchers
and specialists with relevant experience.
METHODS: Review and interpretation of selected literature and the results of a
1-day group discussion involving glaucoma researchers and specialists with
expertise in epidemiology, blood flow measurements, and cardiovascular
physiology.
RESULTS: Accurate, reproducible, and clinically relevant measurements of blood
flow within the optic nerve head and associated capillary beds are not fully
achievable with current methodology. Autoregulation of blood flow in the retina
and optic nerve head occurs over a large range of intraocular pressures and blood
pressures. Regulation of choroidal blood flow is provided by a mix of
neurohumoral and local mechanisms. Vascular factors may be important in a
subgroup of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, and particularly in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma and evidence of vasospasm. Low ocular
perfusion pressure and low blood pressure are associated with an increased risk
of glaucoma in population-based studies. The physiologic nocturnal dip in blood
pressure is protective against systemic end-organ damage, but its effects on
glaucoma are not well elaborated or understood. Large-scale longitudinal studies 
would be required to evaluate the risk of glaucomatous progression in
non-dippers, dippers, and extreme nocturnal blood pressure dippers.
CONCLUSIONS: Decreases in perfusion pressure and blood pressure have been
associated with glaucoma. However, there is no evidence to support the value of
increasing a patient's blood pressure as therapy for glaucoma. Such
recommendations are not currently warranted, since we lack crucial information
about the microvascular beds in which perfusion is important in glaucoma, and the
appropriate methods to evaluate their blood flow. There are also cardiovascular
safety concerns associated with treatments designed to increase ocular perfusion 
pressure and blood flow by increasing blood pressure, especially in elderly
patients. For these reasons and with present evidence it is unlikely that safe
and effective glaucoma treatments based on altering optic nerve perfusion will
soon be available.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.01.018 
PMID: 20399924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Clin Ophthalmol. 2010 Mar 24;4:163-70.

Clinical appraisal of tafluprost in the reduction of elevated intraocular
pressure (IOP) in open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Aihara M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan. aihara-tky@umin.net

An elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is one of the most important risk factors 
for the development of glaucoma, which causes progressive optic neuropathy.
Lowering IOP is currently the only therapeutic approach to the treatment of
glaucoma. Tafluprost, a novel prostaglandin analogue, was recently launched onto 
the market as an ocular hypotensive agent. Tafluprost is potent in its affinity
for the prostanoid FP receptor and in its intraocular lowering efficacy.
Moreover, it enhances the ocular hemodynamics and has neuroprotective effects.
Clinical studies have demonstrated its efficacy at decreasing intraocular
pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.


PMCID: PMC2850830
PMID: 20390038  [PubMed]


727. Hum Mol Genet. 2010 Jul 1;19(13):2606-15. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddq146. Epub 2010 Apr 
13.

Overexpression of optineurin E50K disrupts Rab8 interaction and leads to a
progressive retinal degeneration in mice.

Chi ZL(1), Akahori M, Obazawa M, Minami M, Noda T, Nakaya N, Tomarev S, Kawase K,
Yamamoto T, Noda S, Sasaoka M, Shimazaki A, Takada Y, Iwata T.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Sensory Organs, National Hospital Organization Tokyo
Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan.

Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of bilateral blindness affecting nearly 8
million people worldwide. Glaucoma is characterized by a progressive loss of
retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and is often associated with elevated intraocular
pressure (IOP). However, patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), a subtype
of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), develop the disease without IOP elevation.
The molecular pathways leading to the pathology of NTG and POAG are still
unclear. Here, we describe the phenotypic characteristics of transgenic mice
overexpressing wild-type (Wt) or mutated optineurin (Optn). Mutations E50K, H486R
and Optn with a deletion of the first (amino acids 153-174) or second (amino
acids 426-461) leucine zipper were used for overexpression. After 16 months,
histological abnormalities were exclusively observed in the retina of E50K mutant
mice with loss of RGCs and connecting synapses in the peripheral retina leading
to a thinning of the nerve fiber layer at the optic nerve head at normal IOP.
E50K mice also showed massive apoptosis and degeneration of entire retina,
leading to approximately a 28% reduction of the retina thickness. At the
molecular level, introduction of the E50K mutation disrupts the interaction
between Optn and Rab8 GTPase, a protein involved in the regulation of vesicle
transport from Golgi to plasma membrane. Wt Optn and an active GTP-bound form of 
Rab8 complex were localized at the Golgi complex. These data suggest that
alternation of the Optn sequence can initiate significant retinal degeneration in
mice.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddq146 
PMCID: PMC2883340
PMID: 20388642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Arch Ophthalmol. 2010 Apr;128(4):466-71. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2010.40.

Effect of latanoprost on the expression of matrix metalloproteinases and tissue
inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 on the ocular surface.

Honda N(1), Miyai T, Nejima R, Miyata K, Mimura T, Usui T, Aihara M, Araie M,
Amano S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of topical latanoprost on the expression of 
matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase 1
(TIMP-1) on the ocular surface.
METHODS: Tears were collected from 39 patients with glaucoma who used
latanoprost, 0.005%, eyedrops (Xalatan) and 28 healthy volunteers. The MMP-9
concentration was measured. Conjunctival epithelial cells were collected from 10 
eyes of 10 patients before and 1 to 3 months after starting to take topical
latanoprost, 0.005%, and MMP-1, MMP-9, and TIMP-1 messenger RNA (mRNA) expression
was analyzed. Both eyes of 48 mice were treated once a day with latanoprost,
0.005%, timolol gel, 0.5%, eyedrops, vehicle of Xalatan, or phosphate-buffered
saline, and MMP-9 and TIMP-1 mRNA expression was analyzed.
RESULTS: The median MMP-9 concentration in latanoprost-treated cases was 91.2
ng/mL (in controls, 19.7 ng/mL; P < .001). In latanoprost-treated cases, the
relative ratio of MMP-9 to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase mRNA was
significantly increased from 6.42 to 21.3 (P = .04, paired t test) and the
relative amount of TIMP-1 was significantly decreased from 154 to 105 (P = .009).
The relative amount of MMP-1 to GAPDH mRNA before and after latanoprost use was
not significantly different (P = .16). In mice, MMP-9 expression was increased
and TIMP-1 expression was decreased on the ocular surface at 8 weeks after
latanoprost use.
CONCLUSION: The topical use of latanoprost increases MMP-1 and MMP-9 and
decreases TIMP-1 on the ocular surface.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The use of topical latanoprost might not be recommended in
patients with keratoconus or after laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2010.40 
PMID: 20385943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Curr Eye Res. 2010 Apr;35(4):287-94. doi: 10.3109/02713680903545315.

Aqueous humor endothelin-1 (Et-1), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and 
cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) levels in Mexican glaucomatous patients.

Iwabe S(1), Lamas M, Vásquez Pélaez CG, Carrasco FG.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacobiology Department, Centro de Investigación y de Estudios Avanzados
del Instituto Politécnico Nacional (Cinvestav), Mexico City, Mexico.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the concentration of endothelin-1, vascular endothelial
growth factor, and cyclooxygenase-2 in aqueous humor from normal and glaucomatous
human patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Concentrations of these proteins were measured using ELISA 
kits in 83 patients (30 presenting for cataract surgery and 53 with glaucoma).
RESULTS: Endothelin-1, vascular endothelial growth factor, and cyclooxygenase-2
were detected in all samples. The ages of the patients with glaucoma (64.51 +/-
17.51 years) and cataracts subjects (59.30 +/- 19.15 years) were similar. The
endothelin-1 concentration in cataracts patients (48.55 +/- 9.50 pg/ml) was
statistically different when compared to endothelin-1 concentration in aqueous
humor from primary open-angle glaucoma (107.94 +/- 12.20 pg/ml) and neovascular
glaucoma (114.68 +/- 25.50 pg/ml) (p < 0.05). No statistical difference was
observed in normal tension glaucoma group (69.14 +/- 52.80 pg/ml) (p > 0.05).
Vascular endothelial growth factor concentration was higher in neovascular
glaucoma (81.84 +/- 6.40 pg/ml), being the difference statistically significant
when compared with the other groups (p < 0.0001). Cyclooxygenase-2 levels showed 
no statistical difference between cataract groups and any other glaucoma group (p
> 0.05). No effect of age, gender, or previously medication of aqueous humor
concentration of these proteins could be detected (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: In this study we observed increased levels of endothelin-1 in aqueous
humor from patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and neovascular glaucoma,
and increased levels of vascular endothelial growth factor only in neovascular
glaucoma patients, raising a possible connection between endothelin-1 and
vascular endothelial growth factor in the role of some types of glaucoma.
Regarding cyclooxygenase-2 levels detected, perhaps indicate that low values of
cyclooxygenase-2 are necessary for normal functions of the eye.

DOI: 10.3109/02713680903545315 
PMID: 20373895  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Ophthalmology. 2010 Jul;117(7):1331-8.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.12.001. Epub
2010 Apr 3.

Genome-wide association study of normal tension glaucoma: common variants in
SRBD1 and ELOVL5 contribute to disease susceptibility.

Writing Committee for the Normal Tension Glaucoma Genetic Study Group of Japan
Glaucoma Society(1), Meguro A, Inoko H, Ota M, Mizuki N, Bahram S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yokohama City University
Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.

Erratum in
    Ophthalmology. 2010 Nov;117(11):2103. Writing Committee fot the Normal Tension
Glaucoma Genetic Study of Japan Glaucoma Society [corrected to Writing Committee 
for the Normal Tension Glaucoma Genetic Study of Japan Glaucoma Society].

PURPOSE: Factors contributing to the development of normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), degenerative optic neuropathy characterized by the progressive loss of
retinal ganglion cells, optic nerve axons, and visual fields, have not been
determined. To identify genetic risk factors for NTG, we performed a genome-wide 
association study of NTG.
DESIGN: Case-control study.
PARTICIPANTS: The study cohort consisted of 305 Japanese patients with NTG and
355 controls.
METHODS: We genotyped 500,568 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and assessed
the allelic diversity among cases and controls.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Genotypes of 500,568 SNPs.
RESULTS: The 2 most strongly NTG-associated SNPs, rs3213787 and rs735860, are
located in an intron of SRBD1 and the 3'-untranslated region of ELOVL5 (P = 2.5 x
10(-9), odds ratio = 2.80 and P = 4.1 x 10(-6), odds ratio = 1.69), respectively.
Real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assays
showed significantly increased expression of each gene in the white blood cells
of subjects harboring the risk allele of these SNPs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our genome-wide association study identified SRBD1 and ELOVL5 as new
susceptibility genes for NTG. Because SRBD1 and ELOVL5 are reportedly involved in
the induction of cell growth inhibition or apoptosis, the regulation of SRBD1 and
ELOVL5 cascades may play an important physiologic role in the risk of NTG
development.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest
in any materials discussed in this article.

Copyright 2010 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.12.001 
PMID: 20363506  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Aug;51(8):4110-6. doi: 10.1167/iovs.09-4974. Epub
2010 Mar 31.

Association of polymorphisms of tumor necrosis factor and tumor protein p53 with 
primary open-angle glaucoma.

Fan BJ(1), Liu K, Wang DY, Tham CC, Tam PO, Lam DS, Pang CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, the Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the variants of 10 genes for association with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in a Chinese population.
METHODS: A total of 405 unrelated patients with POAG (255 high-tension glaucoma
[HTG], 100 normal-tension glaucoma [NTG], and 50 juvenile-onset open-angle
glaucoma [JOAG]) and 201 control subjects were recruited. Seventeen variants in
10 genes with reported association with POAG were genotyped for analysis of
allele and haplotype frequencies between cases and control subjects. These genes 
included CDH1 (cadherin 1, type 1, E-cadherin), CDKN1A (cyclin-dependent kinase
inhibitor 1A), CYP1B1 (cytochrome P450, family 1, subfamily B, polypeptide 1),
GSTM1 (glutathione S-transferase mu 1), GSTT1 (glutathione S-transferase theta
1), MTHFR (5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase), NOS3 (nitric oxide synthase
3), OPA1 (optic atrophy 1), TNF (tumor necrosis factor), and TP53 (tumor protein 
p53).
RESULTS: One SNP (-308G>A; rs1800629) in TNF demonstrated a significant
association with HTG (P = 0.012). The allele G frequency was higher in HTG
patients than in control subjects (94.6% vs. 90.3%; OR = 1.89). One haplotype
consisting of rs1799724 and rs1800629 was significantly associated with HTG (P = 
0.015, corrected P = 0.045). One SNP (R72P; rs1042522) in TP53 was significantly 
associated with NTG (P = 0.018). The allele G frequency was higher in NTG
patients than in control subjects (56.1% vs. 45.8%; OR = 1.52). The significance 
of these associations survived the Bonferroni correction (corrected P < 0.024).
Other gene variants were not significantly associated with HTG (P > 0.063) or NTG
(P > 0.13). None of the studied variants was significantly associated with JOAG
(P > 0.17).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that variants in TNF and TP53 are risk factors 
for POAG, whereas variants in other studied genes are not major risk factors for 
POAG, at least in the Chinese population.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.09-4974 
PMID: 20357201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Mol Vis. 2010 Mar 23;16:506-10.

Smell perception in normal tension glaucoma patients.

Mozaffarieh M(1), Hauenstein D, Schoetzau A, Konieczka K, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to quantify the ability to identify odors in
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and healthy subjects with and without a
primary vascular dysregulation (PVD).
METHODS: Both self-assessment of smell perception and evaluation of odor
identification by means of the 12-item odor identification test ("Sniffin'
Sticks") were performed in the following groups of subjects: 1) 18 NTG patients
with PVD (G+), 2) 18 NTG patients without PVD (G-), 3) 18 healthy subjects with
PVD (H(+)) and 4) 18 healthy subjects without PVD (H-). The subjects
self-assessment of smell perception was evaluated before the Sniffin' Sticks test
by asking them to judge their ability to identify odors as either "average,"
"better than average," or "worse than average."
RESULTS: Subjects with a PVD (G+ and H(+)) can identify odors significantly
better than those without a PVD (G- and H-; in a score scale of 1-12 the score
point difference=2.64, 95% CI=1.88-3.40, p<0.001). No significant differences in 
odor identification was found between NTG (groups G+ and G-) and healthy subjects
(groups H(+) and H-; score point difference=-0.14, 95% CI=-0.9-0.62, p=0.72).
CONCLUSIONS: Subjects with a PVD can identify odors significantly better than
those without a PVD.


PMCID: PMC2845666
PMID: 20352025  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Mol Vis. 2010 Mar 17;16:462-6.

Analysis of microsatellite polymorphisms within the GLC1F locus in Japanese
patients with normal tension glaucoma.

Murakami K(1), Meguro A, Ota M, Shiota T, Nomura N, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F,
Iijima H, Kawase K, Yamamoto T, Nakamura M, Negi A, Sagara T, Nishida T, Inatani 
M, Tanihara H, Aihara M, Araie M, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Higashide T, Sugiyama K,
Kanamoto T, Kiuchi Y, Iwase A, Ohno S, Inoko H, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama City University School of Medicine,
Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether the GLC1F locus is associated with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) in Japanese patients.
METHODS: We recruited 242 unrelated Japanese subjects, including, 141 NTG
patients and 101 healthy controls. The patients exhibiting a comparatively early 
onset were selected as they suggest that genetic factors may show stronger
involvement. Genotyping and assessment of allelic diversity was performed on 11
highly polymorphic microsatellite markers in and around the GLC1F locus.
RESULTS: Individuals carrying the 163 allele of D7S1277i had a statistically
significant increased risk of NTG (p=0.0013, pc=0.016, OR=2.47, 95%CI=1.42-4.30).
None of the other markers identified significant loci (pc>0.05) after
Bonferroni's correction.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggested that the genes in the GLC1F locus may be
associated with the pathogenesis of NTG.


PMCID: PMC2842094
PMID: 20309402  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Am J Ophthalmol. 2010 May;149(5):831-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.12.033. Epub 2010
Mar 15.

Influence of the extent of myopia on the progression of normal-tension glaucoma.

Sohn SW(1), Song JS, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gangneung Asan Hospital, Ulsan University College
of Medicine, Gangneung, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the influence of the extent of myopia on the progression
rate of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Retrospective, observational case series.
METHODS: One hundred forty-three eyes of 143 patients with NTG who were treated
from 1994 through 2006 and followed up with standard automated perimetry were
evaluated in this study. The participants were divided into 4 groups: mild myopia
(-0.76 to -2.99 diopters [D]), moderate myopia (-3 to -5.99 D), severe myopia (-6
D or less), and nonmyopia (emmetropia and hyperopia, -0.75 D or more) groups. The
change in mean deviation, corrected pattern standard deviation, mean thresholds
of 10 zones corresponding to the glaucoma hemifield test, and thresholds of 52
points of the nonmyopia group were compared with those of the other myopia
groups. Additionally, we controlled each analysis for age and posttherapeutic
intraocular pressure to preclude the possibility of these covariates influencing 
the analysis of the effect of myopia on the progression of glaucoma.
RESULTS: There was no statistically significant difference between the nonmyopia 
group and each of the myopia groups in terms of mean deviation, corrected pattern
standard deviation, mean thresholds of 10 zones corresponding to the glaucoma
hemifield test, and the thresholds of 52 point changes against refraction.
Moreover, with the control of the other covariates (age and posttherapeutic
intraocular pressure), no statistically significant differences were noted
(multivariate analysis using mixed model, P > .1).
CONCLUSIONS: Although a high incidence of open-angle glaucoma among myopic
patients has been reported previously, myopia did not influence the progression
rate of NTG after treatment.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.12.033 
PMID: 20231010  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Apr;248(4):607; author reply 609-10.

Intraocular pressure measured by dynamic contour tonometer and ocular response
analyzer in normal tension glaucoma.

Chen Z, Xu G.


PMID: 20229612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;248(6):845-51. doi:
10.1007/s00417-010-1323-z. Epub 2010 Mar 6.

Comparison of optic nerve head topography findings in eyes with non-arteritic
anterior ischemic optic neuropathy and eyes with glaucoma.

Horowitz J(1), Fishelzon-Arev T, Rath EZ, Segev E, Geyer O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Carmel Medical Center, affiliated to the Bruce
Rappaport Medical School, The Technion, Michal 7 St., Haifa, Israel.
horowitz1@012.net.il

BACKGROUND: To compare the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL)
thickness in eyes affected by non-arteritic ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) or 
glaucoma as determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT).
METHODS: This cross-sectional institutional study included 18 eyes with NAION (at
least 6 months since the acute event) and 29 eyes with glaucoma, both having
localized visual field (VF) defects confined to one hemifield. Twenty-nine normal
subjects served as controls. The fast RNFL thickness protocol (3.4) of the
Stratus OCT (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA, USA) was used. The RNFL thickness
and inferior maximum/temporal average (Imax/Tavg) and superior maximum/temporal
average (Smax/Tavg) data corresponding to the hemifield with and without visual
sensitivity loss were compared between NAION and glaucomatous eyes and with
corresponding quadrants in normal eyes. The area under the receiver operating
characteristic curve (AUC), sensitivities, and specificities were used to
determine the OCT parameters that differ most in the two groups.
RESULTS: The mean RNFL thickness in the quadrants corresponding to the affected
hemifield in the NAION and glaucomatous eyes was not significantly different (P >
0.9), but the values for both were decreased compared to the control eyes (P <
0.0001). The mean RNFL thickness in the quadrant corresponding to the unaffected 
hemifield was significantly lower in the glaucomatous eyes (73.8 +/- 20.04 micro)
than in the NAION eyes (96.6 +/- 23.32 micro, P = 0.023), and in both study
groups compared to the controls (117.2 +/- 13.44 micro, P < 0.0001 for
glaucomatous vs control eyes, and P < 0.025 for NAION vs control eyes). Smax/Tavg
and Imax/Tavg of the quadrant corresponding to the unaffected hemifield had the
strongest power to differentiate the two diseases (an AUC of 0.92).
CONCLUSIONS: Stratus OCT detected significant quantitative differences in RNFL
thickness between glaucomatous and NAION eyes, both conditions with hemifield
defects. These differences might hold a clue in understanding the processes
involved in optic nerve injury.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-010-1323-z 
PMID: 20213479  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Ophthalmology. 2010 Mar;117(3):640; author reply 640-1. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.11.031.

Normal-tension glaucoma or PVL?

Brodsky MC.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2009 Jul;116(7):1250-6.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.11.031 
PMID: 20189038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Clin Ophthalmol. 2010 Feb 18;4:91-4.

Serum free fatty acids levels not associated with normal tension glaucoma.

Yuki K(1), Kimura I, Tsubota K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine the free fatty acid levels in the sera of patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and compare it with that of normal controls.
METHODS: Forty-four consecutive patients with newly diagnosed normal-tension
glaucoma and forty-four age and gender matched controls were evaluated. The type 
and level of fatty acids in the sera were measured by gas chromatography (Model
GC17A; Shimazu, Kyoto, Japan). Twenty-four fatty acids were identified from 12:0 
to 24:1. The values were compared between the normal-tension glaucoma and control
groups by Mann-Whitney U tests.
RESULTS: No statistically significant difference was found in the levels of any
free fatty acids between the normal-tension glaucoma group and control group.
CONCLUSION: No significant association was found in the serum free fatty acids
levels including docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid between
normal-tension glaucoma patients and controls.


PMCID: PMC2827190
PMID: 20186282  [PubMed]


739. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;248(6):839-44. doi:
10.1007/s00417-010-1306-0. Epub 2010 Feb 25.

Recurrent disc hemorrhage does not increase the rate of visual field progression.

de Beaufort HC(1), De Moraes CG, Teng CC, Prata TS, Tello C, Ritch R, Liebmann
JM.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
heatherdebeaufort@gmail.com

Comment in
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Nov;248(11):1683-4; author reply 1685.

AIMS: To determine whether recurrent disc hemorrhage (DH) accelerates
glaucomatous visual field (VF) loss compared to an isolated, single, detected DH.
METHODS: We evaluated the disc photographs of consecutive patients with >/=5
SITA-Standard fields for DH. Group A had patients with a single DH in one eye,
and group B had at least one recurrence in the same eye. Automated pointwise
linear regression analysis was used to calculate rates of progression. Logistic
regression was used to determine ocular or systemic variables associated with DH 
recurrence after baseline assessment.
RESULTS: One hundred and seventeen patients were enrolled (group A = 72, group B 
= 45). The mean age was 67.1 +/- 10.8 years; most patients were women (65%) of
European ancestry (92%) diagnosed with primary open-angle glaucoma (47%). The
mean number of VF after the initial DH was 7.9 +/- 2.9, spanning a mean of 4.6
+/- 2.2 years. None of the ocular or systemic characteristics revealed a
significant difference between groups. The mean global rate of progression (group
A, -0.8 +/- 0.6 vs group B, -0.8 +/- 0.7 dB/year, p = 0.93) and number of eyes
reaching a progression endpoint (group A, 70% vs group B, 73%, p = 0.80) did not 
differ between groups. Recurrent DH eyes showed a tendency to be followed longer,
with a greater number of disc photographs, which was not significant in the
multivariate analysis. The global rates of progression between groups remained
non-significant even after adjusting to follow-up time and number of VF tests (p 
= 0.69).
CONCLUSION: Recurrent DH does not result in a faster rate of VF progression
compared to a single detected DH. Eyes with single or recurrent DH have similar
risks for future disease progression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-010-1306-0 
PMID: 20182885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


740. J Glaucoma. 2010 Dec;19(9):576-80. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181ca7c90.

Plasma homocysteine levels in patients with normal tension glaucoma.

Rössler CW(1), Baleanu D, Reulbach U, Lewczuk P, Bleich S, Kruse FE, Kornhuber J,
Schlötzer-Schrehardt U, Juenemann AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.
christopher.roessler@uk-erlangen.de

PURPOSE: To investigate whether there is an association of elevated plasma levels
of homocysteine (Hcy) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Plasma levels of Hcy (fluorescence polarization
immunoassay), vitamin B6 (high-performance liquid chromatography), vitamin B12,
and folate levels (immunoassay) were determined in 42 patients with NTG and in 42
age-matched and sex-matched controls.
RESULTS: No significant difference regarding Hcy (NTG: 10.95 μmol/L±2.65;
controls: 11.29 μmol/L±2.76) (P=0.639), vitamin B6 (NTG: 14.45 ng/mL±12.89;
controls: 13.57 ng/mL±10.41) (P=0.629), vitamin B12 (NTG: 387.73 pg/mL±282.04;
controls: 423.27 pg/mL±188.85) (P=0.052) and folate (NTG: 9.45ng/mL±3.42;
controls: 10.82 ng/mL±4.48) (P=0.181) levels were found between both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: An association of elevated Hcy levels and NTG was not found and
therefore a role of Hcy as a modifiable risk factor in the pathogenesis of NTG
seems unlikely.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181ca7c90 
PMID: 20179629  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Feb 17;(2):CD002222. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD002222.pub2.

WITHDRAWN: Interventions for normal tension glaucoma.

Sycha T(1), Vass C, Findl O, Bauer P, Groke I, Schmetterer L, Eichler HG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20,
Vienna, Austria, A-1090.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2003;(4):CD002222.

BACKGROUND: Normal tension glaucoma is a clinical condition in which the optic
nerve is pathologically excavated and the visual field is disturbed. Nevertheless
it has been assumed that intraocular pressure plays a role in the progression of 
visual field defects in this disease, but other, mainly vascular factors, have
been discussed as well.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review is to assess the effects of medical and 
surgical treatments for normal tension glaucoma.
SEARCH STRATEGY: Trials were identified from the Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group
trials register), MEDLINE, EMBASE and BIOSIS Previews. Bibliographies of
identified trials were searched to find additional trials. In addition,
investigators and pharmaceutical companies were contacted. Date of last search:
January 2001.
SELECTION CRITERIA: This review includes randomised controlled trials in which
medical or surgical interventions were compared to no treatment, placebo or other
treatment in people with normal tension glaucoma.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data were extracted by two reviewers and results
were compared for differences. Discrepancies were resolved by discussion. The
heterogeneity of interventions, follow-up periods and outcomes did not allow for 
statistical combinations of the study results.
MAIN RESULTS: According to the selection criteria on visual field loss, eight
studies were included in this review. Only three studies focussed on patient
relevant outcomes. In one trial a beneficial effect of lowering intraocular
pressure was found, but only if data were corrected for cataract development. In 
two small studies a beneficial effect on visual field loss of brovincamine, a
calcium antagonist was reported.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: In one study the effect of intraocular pressure lowering on
visual field outcome was only significant when data were corrected for cataract
development. The results for calcium antagonists are promising, but larger trials
have to be performed. Studies that focussed on reduction of intraocular pressure 
or haemodynamic variables are not necessarily relevant for the outcome in people 
with normal tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002222.pub2 
PMID: 20166063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


742. PLoS One. 2010 Feb 11;5(2):e9168. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0009168.

Posttranslational modifications, localization, and protein interactions of
optineurin, the product of a glaucoma gene.

Ying H(1), Shen X, Park B, Yue BY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Illinois at
Chicago College of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a major blinding disease. The most common form of this
disease, primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), is genetically heterogeneous. One of
the candidate genes, optineurin, is linked principally to normal tension
glaucoma, a subtype of POAG. The present study was undertaken to illustrate the
basic characteristics of optineurin.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Lysates from rat retinal ganglion RGC5 cells were
subjected to N- or O-deglycosylation or membrane protein extraction. The
phosphorylation status was evaluated after immunoprecipitation. It was found that
while phosphorylated, optineurin was neither N- nor O-glycosylated, and was by
itself not a membrane protein. RGC5 and human retinal pigment epithelial cells
were double stained with anti-optineurin and anti-GM130. The endogenous
optineurin exhibited a diffuse, cytoplasmic distribution, but a population of the
protein was associated with the Golgi apparatus. Turnover experiments showed that
the endogenous optineurin was relatively short-lived, with a half-life of
approximately 8 hours. Native blue gel electrophoresis revealed that the
endogenous optineurin formed homohexamers. Optineurin also interacted with
molecules including Rab8, myosin VI, and transferrin receptor to assemble into
supermolecular complexes. When overexpressed, optineurin-green fluorescence
protein (GFP) fusion protein formed punctate structures termed "foci" in the
perinuclear region. Treatment of nocadazole resulted in dispersion of the
optineurin foci. In addition, tetracycline-regulated optineurin-GFPs expressing
RGC5 stable cell lines were established for the first time.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The present study provides new information regarding
basic characteristics of optineurin that are important for future efforts in
defining precisely how optineurin functions normally and how mutations may result
in pathology. The inducible optineurin-GFP-expressing cell lines are also
anticipated to facilitate in-depth studies of optineurin. Furthermore, the
demonstrations that optineurin is an aggregation-prone protein and that the foci 
formation is microtubule-dependent bear similarities to features documented in
neurodegenerative diseases, supporting a neurodegenerative paradigm for glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0009168 
PMCID: PMC2820081
PMID: 20161783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2010 Feb;24(1):23-8. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2010.24.1.23. Epub
2010 Feb 5.

Circadian blood pressure and intraocular pressure patterns in normal tension
glaucoma patients with undisturbed sleep.

Kim YK(1), Oh WH, Park KH, Kim JM, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate and compare the circadian pattern of blood pressure (BP),
intraocular pressure (IOP) and mean ocular perfusion pressure (MOPP) while
experiencing undisturbed sleep in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and non-glaucoma 
control patient groups.
METHODS: Twenty-four eyes from 24 patients diagnosed with NTG and 22 eyes from 22
control group patients were enrolled. Systolic BP, diastolic BP and IOP were
measured every two hours except for the period of time from 1 AM to 7 AM in the
NTG group and from 11 PM to 7 AM in the control group over a one-day period. IOP 
and hemodynamic parameters were then compared between the two groups. NTG
patients were subdivided according to the degree of morning BP dip and IOP, and
hemodynamic parameters and visual field indices (mean deviation and pattern
standard deviation) were also compared among these subgroups.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in mean systolic BP, mean
diastolic BP and mean arterial pressure (MAP) between the NTG and the control
groups. The NTG group showed a significantly large morning BP dip compared to the
control group (7.1+/-4.2% vs. 3.8+/-3.4%, p=0.022). However, there were no
significant differences in mean or fluctuation of MOPP between the two groups.
Morning over-dippers showed significantly large MAP and MOPP fluctuations
compared to non-dippers and dippers, while there were no significant differences 
in visual field indices among the three subgroups.
CONCLUSIONS: NTG patients showed significant morning BP dips compared to the
control group. The marked morning BP dip was associated with significantly large 
MAP or MOPP fluctuations but was not associated with visual field indices.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2010.24.1.23 
PMCID: PMC2817819
PMID: 20157410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2010 Feb;227(2):114-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1245150. Epub 
2010 Feb 12.

[Relationship between oxidatve stress and autoimmunity in glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Grus FH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Experimentelle Ophthalmologie, Mainz.
grus@eye-research.org

Elevated intraocular pressure does not explain glaucoma in all patients, but
there is information that autoimmune mechanisms may be involved in this disorder.
We have demonstrated in several studies that glaucoma patients reveal changes in 
their immune reactivities against ocular antigens. The mechanisms of these
reactivities are still widely unknown, but oxidative pathways could play a major 
role. There is evidence that free radicals are able to alter the ability of glial
cells to be recognized as antigens. Furthermore, one can assume that during the
aging process posttranslational changes, e. g., oxidation of ocular antigens
increase with age. It is feasible that these changed antigens may trigger such
changes. in an autoimmune glaucoma animal model we have shown that immunological 
processes after immunisation can lead to a loss of retinal ganglion cells.
Considering that these changes in natural autoimmunity can be found consistently 
amongst different study populations, it might be a promising new tool for
glaucoma diagnosis and new therapeutic immunomodulating options.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart, New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1245150 
PMID: 20155655  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc. 2009 Dec;107:282-99.

Keratoconus and normal-tension glaucoma: a study of the possible association with
abnormal biomechanical properties as measured by corneal hysteresis (An AOS
Thesis).

Cohen EJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Jefferson Medical College, Thomas Jefferson
University, and the Cornea Service, Wills Eye Institute, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, USA.

PURPOSE: To test the hypothesis that keratoconus and pellucid patients who have
glaucoma or are suspected of having glaucoma have lower corneal hysteresis (CH)
and/or corneal resistance factor (CRF) measurements compared to controls.
METHODS: A prospective study at a tertiary eye center of keratoconus and pellucid
patients with glaucoma or suspected of having glaucoma, and age-matched
keratoconus and pellucid controls, was performed. After informed consent was
obtained, corneal topography, ocular response analyzer measurements, pachymetry, 
intraocular pressure, A-scan measurements, Humphrey visual fields (VFs), and disc
photos were done. Analyses compared cases to controls on primary (CH and CRF) and
secondary variables. Disc photos and VFs were rated in a masked fashion.
RESULTS: The mean CH (8.2, SD=1.6, vs 8.3, SD=1.5) and CRF (7.3, SD=2.0, vs 6.9, 
SD=2.1) were low and did not differ significantly between 20 study patients (29
eyes) and 40 control patients (61 eyes), respectively. CH had a negative,
significant correlation with maximum corneal curvature by topography (P < .002)
and positive, significant correlation with central corneal thickness (P < .003). 
The mean cup-disc ratio was larger among cases than controls (0.54, SD=0.20, vs
0.38, SD=0.20; P = .003). VFs were suggestive of glaucoma more often among the
study eyes than controls (11 of 29, 37.9%, vs 8 of 60, 13.3%; P =.019).
CONCLUSIONS: CH was low in study and control patients and was correlated with
severity of keratoconus/pellucid, but not with glaucoma/suspected glaucoma or
control status. Evidence of glaucoma was more common in study eyes than controls,
but was present in both.


PMCID: PMC2814566
PMID: 20126503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


746. BMC Genet. 2010 Jan 28;11:8. doi: 10.1186/1471-2156-11-8.

Mitochondrial haplogroup U is associated with a reduced risk to develop
exfoliation glaucoma in the German population.

Wolf C(1), Gramer E, Müller-Myhsok B, Pasutto F, Wissinger B, Weisschuh N.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ophthalmology, Institute for Ophthalmic Research, Tuebingen,
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Various lines of evidence demonstrate the involvement of
mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. Therefore,
mitochondrial DNA is a promising candidate for genetic susceptibility studies on 
glaucoma. To test the hypothesis that mitochondrial haplogroups influence the
risk to develop glaucoma, we genotyped 12 single-nucleotide polymorphisms that
define the European mitochondrial DNA haplogroups in healthy controls and two
German patient cohorts with either exfoliation glaucoma or the normal tension
subgroup of primary open angle glaucoma.
RESULTS: Mitochondrial haplogroup U was significantly under-represented in
patients with exfoliation glaucoma (8.3% compared with 18.9% in controls; p =
0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: People with haplogroup U have a lower risk to develop exfoliation
glaucoma. Our results substantiate the suggestion that mitochondrial alterations 
have an impact on the etiology of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2156-11-8 
PMCID: PMC2834599
PMID: 20109175  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Doc Ophthalmol. 2009 Dec;119(3):163-9. doi: 10.1007/s10633-009-9189-2.

Transitions of multifocal electroretinography in patients with age-related
macular degeneration after combination therapy with photodynamic therapy and
intravitreal bevacizumab.

Liu Y(1), Wen F, Li J, Zuo C, Li M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eye and ENT Hospital, Fudan University, 83
Fenyang Road, Shanghai 200031, China.

To compare the differences in color Doppler imaging (CDI) and pattern visual
evoked potential (P-VEP) examinations between normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
hypertension primary open angle glaucoma (HTG) patients, and investigate the
relation between flow velocities measured by CDI and P-VEP examination in NTG and
HTG patients. Sixty NTG patients, 66 HTG patients and 44 control subjects
underwent CDI evaluation of the ophthalmic artery (OA), short posterior ciliary
artery (SPCA) and central retinal arteries (CRA). The peak systolic velocities
(PSV) and end-diastolic velocities (EDV) and resistive index (RI) of all
retrobulbar vessels were measured. The latency and amplitude of P100 in P-VEP
were recorded from the three groups. The differences of CDI and P-VEP parameters 
among NTG group, HTG group and control group were compared by one-way analysis of
variance. The correlations between CDI parameters and visual field indices, P-VEP
and visual field indices, P-VEP and CDI parameters in NTG and HTG patients were
evaluated by Pearson's correlation analysis. NTG and HTG patients had the lower
EDV and higher RI in the OA, CRA and SPCA comparing with that of control
subjects. NTG and HTG patients also had lower PSV in OA and CRA comparing with
that of control subjects. There was no significant difference in the blood flow
velocities and RI of all retrobulbar vessels between NTG and HTG patients. The
latency of P100 in VEP delayed and the amplitude of P100 decreased in the NTG and
HTG patients comparing with that of the control group. There was no significant
difference in the latency and amplitude of P100 between the NTG and HTG patients.
The RI of OA and SPCA were negatively correlated with the mean deviation (MD)
values in the NTG and HTG patients. The RI of OA was positively correlated with
the PSD value in the NTG and HTG patients. The MD values in the NTG and HTG
patients were negatively correlated with the latency time of P100. The RI of OA
was positively correlated with the latency time of P100 in NTG and HTG patients. 
The RI of OA was negatively correlated with the amplitude of P100 in HTG
patients. No significant difference was found in the parameters of CDI and P-VEP 
between NTG and HTG patients. The certain parameters of CDI were correlated with 
P-VEP parameters in NTG and HTG patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10633-009-9189-2 
PMID: 20101800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Eye (Lond). 2010 Jul;24(7):1220-6. doi: 10.1038/eye.2009.317. Epub 2010 Jan 22.

Comparing two tensioning suture sizes for 360 degrees viscocanalostomy
(canaloplasty): a randomised controlled trial.

Grieshaber MC(1), Pienaar A, Olivier J, Stegmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University of Southern Africa, Medunsa,
South Africa. mgrieshaber@uhbs.ch

PURPOSE: To compare the safety and efficacy of two polypropylene (Prolene)
sutures for tensioning of the inner wall of Schlemm's canal (SC) in black African
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) undergoing canaloplasty.
METHODS: In a prospective randomised trial of 90 patients, canaloplasty was
performed with a flexible microcatheter (iTrack-250A) and sodium hyaluronidate
1.4% (Healon GV). After complete circumferential dilatation of the SC, a Prolene 
suture, either 6-0 Prolene (group 1) or 10-0 Prolene (group 2), was retracted
through the SC and tightened leaving tension on the canal and trabecular
meshwork. Nd:YAG laser goniopuncture was not performed postoperatively.
RESULTS: The mean preoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) was 42.7 mm Hg+/-12.5
(SD) in group 1 and 45.0 mm Hg+/-12.1 (SD) in group 2 (P=0.70). The mean
postoperative IOP without medications was 18.4 mm Hg+/-7.1 (SD) in group 1 and
16.4 mm Hg+/-6.6 (SD) in group 2 at 1 month (P=0.10), 19.2 mm Hg+/-6.4 (SD) in
group 1 and 16.4 mm Hg+/-4.9 (SD) at 15 months (P=0.04). Pressures equal or less 
than 21, 18, and 16 mm Hg without medications (complete success) at 12 months
were 51.0% (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.35-0.73), 34.1% (95% CI 0.21-0.56),
and 21.2% (95% CI 0.11-0.42) in group 1, and 76.9% (95% CI 0.62-0.96), 68.8% (95%
CI 0.54-0.89), and 53.6% (95% CI 0.38-0.76) in group 2, respectively. In the Cox 
regression analysis, IOP<18 mm Hg without medications depended significantly on
the type of Prolene (hazard ratio (HR) 2.60, 95% CI 1.24-5.46, P=0.01) and age
(HR 1.3, 95% CI 1.03-1.86, P=0.03), but not on preoperative IOP (HR 1.01, 95% CI 
0.99-1.04, P=0.16) and gender (HR 0.67, 95% CI 0.34-1.33, P=0.26). No filtering
bleb was observed. Intra- and postoperative complications were similarly rare in 
the two groups and included partial 'cheese-wiring' (2), Descemet's rupture (2), 
and hyphaema (3).
CONCLUSIONS: In this clinical trial, IOP reduction was substantial in
canaloplasty and slightly greater in combination with 10-0 Prolene than 6-0
Prolene sutures at an equally low complication rate. Younger age, but not the
level of IOP at surgery, had a positive effect on the amount of IOP reduction,
thus suggesting that an early surgical intervention to re-establish physiological
outflow offers the best prognosis.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2009.317 
PMID: 20094068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2010 Jan;227(1):61-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0028-1109668. Epub
2010 Jan 20.

[Sensitivity of imaging the peripheral nerve fibre layer using a confocal
scanning laser ophthalmoscope to detect glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Plange N(1), Kaup M, Hirsch F, Arend KO, Remky A.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universitätsklinikum Aachen. nplange@ukaachen.de

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the sensitivity to detect glaucoma
by observer-dependent nerve fibre layer imaging and evaluation using a scanning
laser ophthalmoscope.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty-four patients with primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG), 41 patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and 65 eyes of control
subjects were included in a retrospective study. Nerve fibre layer imaging was
performed using a confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO, Rodenstock Instr.,
argon laser 488 nm). Digitised images of the nerve fibre layer were graded
off-line by two masked experienced observers. The nerve fibre layer was graded
for every single degree (defect or no defect) at 1.7 and 3.4 mm distance to the
optic nerve head omitting the nasal 110 degrees. Sensitivity and specificity
levels were calculated using ROC analysis.
RESULTS: Patients with POAG exhibited nerve fibre layer defects of 100 degrees
+/- 94 degrees (1.7 mm and 3.4 mm distance) and patients with NTG of 94 degrees
+/- 94 degrees (1.7 mm distance) and 103 degrees +/- 92 degrees (3.4 mm
distance), significantly larger compared to controls (1 degrees +/- 3 degrees
[1.7 mm, p < 0.0001] and 1 degrees +/- 4 degrees [3.4 mm, p < 0.0001]).
Sensitivity at > 90 % specificity was 80 % (1.7 mm) and 82 % (3.4 mm) for POAG.
In NTG, sensitivity at > 90 % specifity was 81 % (1.7 mm) and 85 % (3.4 mm). In
early glaucoma (MD < -6 dB, n = 39) sensitivity decreased to 75 % (1.7 mm) and 81
% (3.4 mm).
CONCLUSION: Observer-dependent evaluation and grading of the nerve fibre layer
using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope reaches considerably high sensitivity
levels to detect glaucoma with negligible differences between the central and
peripheral regions.

(c) Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1109668 
PMID: 20091453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


750. J Glaucoma. 2010 Jan;19(1):61-5. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31819c486b.

Potential of stratus optical coherence tomography for detecting early glaucoma in
perimetrically normal eyes of open-angle glaucoma patients with unilateral visual
field loss.

Zhang Y(1), Wu LL, Yang YF.

Author information: 
(1)Peking University Third Hospital, Peking University Eye Center, Beijing,
China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the potential of stratus optical coherence tomography (OCT) 
for detecting early glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty-two open-angle glaucoma patients with unilateral
visual field loss detected by standard automatic perimetry were tested using
stratus OCT and frequency doubling technology (FDT) N-30. Fifty-two
perimetrically normal eyes were enrolled and divided into 2 groups: eyes with
normal OCT results and eyes with abnormal OCT results. FDT parameters and scores 
were compared between the 2 groups. We evaluated the topographic relationship of 
the OCT-measured retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defects with the FDT-measured
visual field loss and glaucomatous optic neuropathy.
RESULTS: In eyes with abnormal OCT results, the percentage of eyes with abnormal 
FDT results was significantly higher (P<0.001); FDT mean deviation, pattern
standard deviation, and scores were significantly worse than those with normal
OCT results (P=0.005, P<0.001, P<0.001, respectively); and the OCT-measured RNFL 
defects showed good topographic agreement with the FDT-measured visual field loss
and glaucomatous optic neuropathy.
CONCLUSIONS: RNFL defects detected by stratus OCT were associated with FDT visual
field loss. Stratus OCT can detect early glaucoma sooner than standard automatic 
perimetry.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31819c486b 
PMID: 20075675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Ophthalmic Res. 2010;43(4):197-200. doi: 10.1159/000272024. Epub 2009 Dec 31.

Evaluation of plasma glutamate levels in normal tension glaucoma.

Bunting H(1), Still R, Williams DR, Gravenor M, Austin MW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Singleton Hospital, Sketty, Swansea, UK.
hjbunting11@doctors.org.uk

AIM/BACKGROUND: Abnormal metabolism of the neurotransmitter glutamate is
implicated in a number of neurodegenerative conditions. Patients with migraine
have been shown to have elevated plasma glutamate levels. Migraine is a risk
factor both in terms of prevalence and progression in normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG). The aim of this study was to determine whether or not plasma glutamate
levels are also elevated in NTG.
METHODS: Patients were recruited into 2 groups, NTG and control, according to
inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients with migraine were excluded from both 
groups. Fasting blood samples were collected in lithium heparin tubes,
transported on ice, and centrifuged for storage at -21 degrees C. Plasma
glutamate levels were measured by an amino acid analyser. Data for each group
were compared by applying the Mann-Whitney test. Ethical approval and independent
statistical advice for the study was obtained.
RESULTS: A total of 27 subjects were recruited: 14 to the NTG group and 13 to the
control group. No significant difference was found between the plasma glutamate
levels in the 2 groups (p = 0.67).
CONCLUSION: Although an association between normal tension and migraine is
recognized, unlike studies in migraine sufferers, this study finds no evidence
that patients with NTG have elevated plasma glutamate.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000272024 
PMID: 20068372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Mol Vis. 2009 Dec 26;15:2905-10.

Association of toll-like receptor 2 gene polymorphisms with normal tension
glaucoma.

Nakamura J(1), Meguro A, Ota M, Nomura E, Nishide T, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F,
Iijima H, Kawase K, Yamamoto T, Nakamura M, Negi A, Sagara T, Nishida T, Inatani 
M, Tanihara H, Aihara M, Araie M, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Higashide T, Sugiyama K,
Kanamoto T, Kiuchi Y, Iwase A, Ohno S, Inoko H, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama City University School of Medicine,
Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) is a transmembrane receptor that mediates
immune responses to exogenous and endogenous ligands, and interacts with
heat-shock proteins, which are reportedly involved in normal tension glaucoma
(NTG). We investigated whether TLR2 polymorphisms are associated with NTG.
METHODS: 200 Japanese patients with NTG and 128 healthy Japanese controls were
recruited. We genotyped five single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the TLR2
gene and assessed the allele and haplotype diversities between cases and controls
for all SNPs.
RESULTS: No significant differences in the frequency of TLR2 alleles and
haplotypes in the NTG cases were detected, compared with the controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed no evidence for an association between TLR2
polymorphisms and NTG. TLR2 polymorphisms may not play an important role in NTG
pathogenesis in the Japanese population.


PMCID: PMC2802293
PMID: 20057905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Glaucoma. 2010 Aug;19(6):377-81. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181c4ae58.

Autonomic dysfunction in normal tension glaucoma: the short-term heart rate
variability analysis.

Na KS(1), Lee NY, Park SH, Park CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this study was to investigate the dysfunction of
autonomic control that may be a contributing factor in normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) by showing the short-term heart rate variability in NTG patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Newly diagnosed NTG patients and an age-matched normal
control group were enrolled in this prospective study. Blood pressure was
obtained and the electrocardiogram was monitored for 5 minutes after 30-minute
rest in a supine position. Electrocardiographic signals were transferred to a
heart rate analyzer. The time and frequency domain parameters of heart rate
variability were analyzed between two groups.
RESULT: In all, 77 NTG patients and 30 healthy controls were included in the
study. There were no significant differences between NTG and controls with
respect to age, sex, and a hypertensive history, heart rate, systolic pressure,
and diastolic pressure. NTG patients showed a significant reduction in the
standard deviation of the mean of qualified normal-to-normal intervals in
comparison with controls (27.64+/-10.90 vs. 36.22+/-10.21, P=0.041).
Low-frequency values in NTG patients were statistically lower than in healthy
controls (P=0.001) and the low-frequency/high-frequency ratio was significantly
higher in the NTG group (P=0.000).
DISCUSSION: Our study results showed that the dysfunction of an autonomic control
is associated with NTG patients.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181c4ae58 
PMID: 20051893  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Ophthalmology. 2010 Mar;117(3):471-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.08.016. Epub
2010 Jan 4.

Simvastatin and disease stabilization in normal tension glaucoma: a cohort study.

Leung DY(1), Li FC, Kwong YY, Tham CC, Chi SC, Lam DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong Eye Hospital, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, The
People's Republic of China. dexleung@alumni.cuhk.net

PURPOSE: To investigate whether simvastatin use is associated with visual field
(VF) stabilization in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00321386).
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 256 eyes from 256 Chinese subjects with NTG.
METHODS: Patients were followed up at 4-month intervals for 36 months for VF
progression per Anderson's criteria. Clinical parameters were checked for
association with progression in multivariate analysis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the association between
simvastatin use and VF progression.
RESULTS: Thirty-one patients (12.1%) were taking simvastatin (statin+), and 225
patients (87.9%) were not taking simvastatin (statin-). Baseline age, gender,
untreated intraocular pressure, VF indices, vertical cup-to-disc ratio, and
central corneal thickness (CCT) were comparable between the 2 groups. There were 
significantly more patients with a history of hypercholesterolemia, systemic
hypertension, and ischemic heart disease in the statin+ group. A total of 121
patients (47.3%) showed evidence of VF progression (mean rate of mean deviation
loss was -0.30 decibel per year) during the 36 months of follow-up. Simvastatin
use was among 8 of 121 patients (6.6%) who progressed compared with 23 of 135
patients (17.0%) who did not progress (P = 0.011). Logistic regression revealed
that history of disc hemorrhage (relative risk [RR] 3.26; 95% confidence interval
[CI], 1.21-8.76; P = 0.019), history of cerebrovascular accidents (RR 2.28; 95%
CI, 1.03-5.06; P = 0.043), and baseline age (per 10 years older; RR 1.38; 95% CI,
1.08-1.76; P = 0.009) were significant risk factors for VF progression, whereas
simvastatin use conferred a protective effect (RR 0.36; 95% CI, 0.14-0.91; P =
0.030).
CONCLUSIONS: Simvastatin use may be associated with VF stabilization in patients 
with NTG. A larger scale randomized controlled trial and cost-effectiveness
analyses seem warranted.

Copyright 2010 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.08.016 
PMID: 20045568  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Mar;51(3):1458-63. doi: 10.1167/iovs.09-3806.
Epub 2009 Dec 30.

Visual field progression differences between normal-tension and exfoliative
high-tension glaucoma.

Ahrlich KG(1), De Moraes CG, Teng CC, Prata TS, Tello C, Ritch R, Liebmann JM.

Author information: 
(1)New York University School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare the pattern, location, and rate of visual field (VF) change
in normal-tension (NTG) and exfoliative high-tension glaucoma (XHTG).
METHODS: Records of all patients with glaucoma in the New York Glaucoma
Progression Study with five or more VF tests were reviewed. Patients were divided
into NTG (all known IOP < 21 mm Hg) and XHTG (untreated IOP >or= 21 mm Hg)
groups. Automated pointwise linear regression analysis determined global and
localized rates of change.
RESULTS: There were 139 NTG and 154 XHTG eyes. Patients with XHTG were
significantly older than those with NTG (mean +/- SD: 72.6 +/- 9.4 years vs. 62.7
+/- 12.8 years, P < 0.01), had higher mean IOPs (16.5 +/- 3.2 mm Hg vs. 13.3 +/- 
2.0 mm Hg, P < 0.01) and greater central corneal thickness (CCT, 544.0 +/- 35.7
microm vs. 533.9 +/- 35.9 microm; P = 0.01). During a similar period, XHTG
progressed globally almost twice as rapidly as did NTG (-0.64 +/- 0.7 dB/y vs.
-0.35 +/- 0.3 dB/y, P < 0.01), which became nonsignificant after adjustment for
differences in age, mean IOP, and CCT. In a multivariate model, variables
significantly associated with progression were higher mean IOP (odds ratio [OR]: 
1.09, P = 0.03) and decreased CCT (OR/40 mum thinner: 1.37, P = 0.03).
Progression within the paracentral VF was more common in the NTG group (75% vs.
57.3%, P = 0.04). The most important factor associated with paracentral
progression among eyes that reached a progression outcome was the diagnosis of
NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: XHTG and NTG eyes progress at a similar global rate after adjustment
for differences in IOP, CCT, and age. However, NTG eyes progress more often in
the central VF, independent of other factors. Glaucoma surveillance in eyes with 
open-angle glaucoma and statistically normal IOP should include periodic
assessment of the central field.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.09-3806 
PMID: 20042657  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Oftalmologia. 2010;54(4):3-23.

[Multifactorial molecular genetics in glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Călugăru D.

Diseases with nonmendelian, complex, polygenic or multifactorial heredity are
defined as disorders that do not exhibit a classic mendelian inheritance
attributable to a single gene but are determined by a number of genetic and
environmental factors. Glaucoma forms having a multifactorial heredity encompass 
primary open-angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma,
steroid induced glaucoma and hypertensive uveitis Future directions in molecular 
genetics of glaucoma, admirably synthesized within The European Glaucoma Society 
GlaucoGENE project, comprise reviewing the genotype-phenotype correlations,
identification of the new glaucoma genes, investigating gene-environment
interactions and gene-gene interactions as well as developing a mutation database
that can be used for diagnostic and prognostic testing.


PMID: 21516857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2010 Mar;21(2):106-11. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32833651d8.

Intracranial pressure and glaucoma.

Berdahl JP(1), Allingham RR.

Author information: 
(1)Vance Thompson Vision, 1310 W 22nd Street, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, USA.
johnberdahl@gmail.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Glaucoma remains a disease with an unclear basic
pathophysiology. The optic nerve travels through two pressurized regions: the
intraocular space and the intracranial space. Some authors have suggested that
the relationship between intraocular pressure and intracranial pressure may play 
a fundamental role in the development of glaucoma.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent studies have shown that intracranial pressure is lower in
patients with glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma. Conversely, intracranial
pressure appears to be elevated in patients with ocular hypertension. Early
mathematical modeling studies have suggested that the counterbalance provided by 
intracranial pressure would be an important factor in the development of
glaucoma.
SUMMARY: The relationship between intraocular pressure and intracranial pressure 
may play an important role in the development of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32833651d8 
PMID: 20040876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2009 Nov;53(6):569-73. doi: 10.1007/s10384-009-0740-1. Epub
2009 Dec 18.

Changes in corneal endothelial cell density in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma.

Cho SW(1), Kim JM, Choi CY, Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine,
Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To study the changes in corneal endothelial cell density in eyes with
normal-tension glaucoma compared with those in controls.
METHODS: A total of 227 subjects in three groups, one each of normal-tension
glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma patients and one of normal controls,
were studied from January 2008 to July 2008 in the Ophthalmology Department of
Kangbuk Samsung Hospital. The glaucoma (normal-tension glaucoma and primary
open-angle glaucoma) patients included monocular and binocular glaucoma patients.
Corneal endothelial cells were examined using a noncontact specular microscope.
RESULTS: The mean endothelial cell densities in the three groups were as follows:
normal-tension glaucoma group, 2696.7+/-303.9 cell/mm2; primary open-angle
glaucoma group, 2370.5+/-392.3 cell/mm2; and normal group, 2723.6+/-300.6
cell/mm2. The endothelial cell count was not significantly different between
normal-tension glaucoma and normal groups (P=1.000). Primary open-angle glaucoma 
patients had significantly lower endothelial cell counts (P<0.001) than the
normal group. The endothelial cell count was also significantly lower in eyes
with primary open-angle glaucoma than in normal-tension glaucoma eyes (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: There was a significant decrease in corneal endothelial cell density
in eyes with primary open-angle glaucoma, but not in eyes with normal-tension
glaucoma. Elevated intraocular pressure likely affected the decrease of corneal
endothelial cell density in eyes with glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-009-0740-1 
PMID: 20020233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Glaucoma. 2009 Dec;18(9):689-91. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31819c49f4.

Effect of trabeculectomy on intraocular pressure fluctuation with postural change
in eyes with open-angle glaucoma.

Hirooka K(1), Takenaka H, Baba T, Takagishi M, Mizote M, Shiraga F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, Ikenobe,
Miki, Kagawa, Japan. kazuyk@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate the effect of trabeculectomy on the intraocular pressure 
(IOP) fluctuations caused by the postural change in patients with open-angle
glaucoma.
METHODS: Prospective, nonrandomized study. Ten eyes of 10 patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma and 3 eyes of 3 patients with normal-tension glaucoma who
underwent trabeculectomy were studied. The IOP at the baseline and 3 months after
trabeculectomy was measured in both sitting and supine positions. A
pneumatonometer was used to measure the IOP in both sitting and supine position.
RESULTS: The mean IOP in the sitting position was 19.6+/-5.1 mm Hg at the
baseline and 9.4+/-2.9 mm Hg after trabeculectomy (P<0.01, paired t test). The
mean difference in IOP between the sitting and supine position was 4.1+/-1.6 mm
Hg at the baseline and 2.2+/-1.5 mm Hg after trabeculectomy (P=0.01, paired t
test).
CONCLUSIONS: Trabeculectomy might decrease not only the IOP in the sitting
position but also the magnitude of IOP elevation associated with the postural
change.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31819c49f4 
PMID: 20010249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Folia Med (Plovdiv). 2009 Jul-Sep;51(3):37-41.

Distribution of glaucomas by type, stage of development and therapy.

Konareva-Kostianeva MI(1), Atanasov MA, Gerdzhikov A, Chilova-Atanasova BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.

AIM: To establish the distribution of glaucomas by type and stage of development 
and analyze their treatment on the basis of free examinations of glaucoma
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three hundred and two consecutive glaucoma patients (91
males and 211 females, mean age 66.5+/-11.6 years, mean duration of disease 4.4
years) were investigated. Each patient underwent examination of the intraocular
pressure (IOP), anterior eye segment, fundus oculi, and recommendations about
further treatment were given.
RESULTS: Females were 70% of the investigated subjects (the ratio of men to women
was 1:2.3). Sixty-seven patients (22%) had a family history of glaucoma.
Fifty-one (17%) of the glaucoma patients had diabetes mellitus, and 174
(58%)--arterial hypertension. Pseudoexfoliations on the pupillary margin and on
anterior lens capsule were observed in 51 patients (17%). The distribution of
glaucomas by type was as follows: primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)--209
patients, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEG)--50 patients, normal-tension glaucoma 
(NTG)--15 patients, closed-angle glaucoma (CAG)--9 patients, pigmentary
glaucoma--6 patients, juvenile glaucoma--1 patient, congenital glaucoma--1
patient, secondary glaucoma--11 patients. According to the stage of the disease
the investigated eyes were distributed as follows: early stage of glaucoma--41%, 
evolution stage--20%, progressive stage--19%, terminal stage--8%. Ten percent of 
the eyes presented with ocular hypertension and were suspect for glaucoma, while 
2% were without glaucoma. Prostaglandin analogues were the most frequently used
antiglaucoma topical drugs (45%), followed by beta-blockers (35%). The
therapeutic approach was changed for 104 glaucoma patients (34%).
CONCLUSION: The primary open-angle glaucoma has the highest frequency in our
sample approximately 70% of the cases of glaucomas; pseudoexfoliation glaucoma
has a relatively low frequency--17% and the low pressure glaucoma has a
surprisingly low relative percentage in the sample. Therapy was changed in more
than a third of the examined glaucoma patients--change in the drug therapy or
referring patients for antiglaucoma surgery.


PMID: 19957561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Mol Vis. 2009 Nov 14;15:2339-48.

Vasospastic individuals demonstrate significant similarity to glaucoma patients
as revealed by gene expression profiling in circulating leukocytes.

Yeghiazaryan K(1), Flammer J, Orgül S, Wunderlich K, Golubnitschaja O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Bonn, Germany.

PURPOSE: There is growing evidence that vasospatic individuals could be
predisposed to develop glaucoma. Vasospastic deregulation is ensuing in
activation of circulating leukocytes. In previous studies using "gene-hunting"
strategies, we demonstrated stable alterations in gene expression profiles of
circulating leukocytes isolated from glaucoma patients with vascular deregulation
when compared to healthy individuals with no history of glaucomatous damage. The 
goal of this study was to look for possible similarities in gene expression
profiles of circulating leukocytes in vasospastic individuals and glaucoma
patients.
METHODS: Normal-tension (NTG) and high-tension (HTG) glaucoma patients as well as
individuals with vascular deregulation (VD) and healthy controls were recruited
for the gene expression analysis. The methodology of comparative Expression Array
analysis followed by highly sensitive quantitative real-time PCR has been used.
RESULTS: Compared to the control group the expression of 146, 68, and 60 genes
was found to be altered in NTG, HTG, and VD groups respectively. Thirty-four
genes demonstrated similar expressional alterations in NTG, HTG, and VD groups
versus controls, and only 21 genes demonstrated similar expressional alterations 
in NTG and HTG groups, having no overlap with the VD group.
CONCLUSIONS: This result indicates a potential predisposition of vasospastic
individuals to glaucomatous optic nerve atrophy. The targeted expression profiles
might be further considered for early/predictive glaucoma diagnosis.


PMCID: PMC2779057
PMID: 19936302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Acta Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;89(7):e605-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01795.x.
Epub 2009 Nov 19.

Topical bevacizumab is efficacious in the early bleb failure after
trabeculectomy.

Żarnowski T, Tulidowicz-Bielak M.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01795.x 
PMID: 19925517  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 May;51(5):2313-6. doi: 10.1167/iovs.09-3756. Epub
2009 Nov 11.

Optic disc diameter increases during acute elevations of intraocular pressure.

Poostchi A(1), Wong T, Chan KC, Kedzlie L, Sachdev N, Nicholas S, Garway-Heath
DF, Wells AP.

Author information: 
(1)Capital Eye Specialists, Wellington, New Zealand.

PURPOSE: To evaluate optic nerve diameter changes in glaucomatous and
nonglaucomatous eyes during transient elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP).
METHODS: This prospective experimental study included 100 subjects: 38 with
glaucoma and 62 without glaucoma. Elevation of IOP to an average of 64 mm Hg for 
less than 30 seconds was induced in one eye of all subjects by means of a
modified LASIK suction ring. The optic nerve heads were imaged before and during 
the elevation.
RESULTS: During IOP elevation, optic disc area and linear disc measurements
increased by a small but significant amount (3.89%, P < 0.0001 and 0.96%, P =
0.01, respectively). Distances between retinal landmarks did not change
significantly (P = 0.25). A smaller optic disc at baseline (P = 0.004) and
increased central corneal thickness (CCT; P = 0.011) were associated with a
greater increase in disc area relative to other fundus dimensions during IOP
elevation. Disc area increased less in patients with glaucoma (P = 0.015). In a
multivariate model including age, glaucoma status, CCT, and baseline disc area,
there was a small but significant negative correlation between disc area
enlargement and baseline optic disc diameter (P = 0.017).
CONCLUSIONS: Transient elevation of IOP in adult eyes resulted in increases in
disc area and linear disc dimensions, but not in retinal dimensions. The degree
of enlargement appears to be less in patients with glaucoma than without and
greater with increased corneal thickness. A multivariate model showed that the
amount of disc area increase was inversely proportional to baseline disc area but
was not related to glaucoma status or CCT. (ClinicalTrials.gov number,
NCT00328835).

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.09-3756 
PMID: 19907027  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Oftalmologia. 2009;53(3):34-45.

[Bimatoprost therapy in glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Călugăru D, Călugăru M.

Bimatoprost is a neutral lipid, a fatty acid amide that pharmacologically acts in
both its paternal amide form and through its hydrolysis product (active free
fatty acid of bimatoprost). Hypotensive ocular efficacy of bimatoprost is
significantly superior to that of timolol and latanoprost. Mean ocular pressure
decreases as well as percentages of reaching and sustaining the low targeting
ocular pressures are higher comparing with travoprost. Conjunctival hyperemia
produced by bimatoprost is statistically greater than that caused by timolol,
latanoprost and travoprost; nevertheless it is well tolerated and mild in
severity. Bimatoprost prostamide lowers ocular tension significantly and
clinically relevant in patients uncontrolled with latanoprost; that is why
bimatoprost can be used as additive or replacement therapy in patients who
already receive maximal tolerated dose of latanoprost.


PMID: 19899545  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2009 Oct;113(10):964-71.

[Quality of life evaluation in elderly normal tension glaucoma patients using the
Japanese version of VFQ-25].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamagishio K(1), Keiji Y, Kimura T, Yamabayashi S, Katsushima H.

Author information: 
(1)Hirakata Yamagishi Eye Center, Urbun-Ace Hirakata Bild, 3 F, 5-23
Okahigashi-machi, Hirakata-shi, Osaka 630-0032, Japan.
yamagishi-eye-c@msd.biglobe.ne.jp

PURPOSE: To evaluate the quality of life (QOL) related to the visual functioning 
of elderly normal-tension glaucoma(NTG) patients quantitatively.
SUBJECTS & METHODS: 231 NTG patients 65 years or older with visual field loss in 
Humphrey visual field analysis were studied. The correlation of the subjects'
VFQ-25 scores were studied with their patient background information, as well as 
with their eye test values for intraocular pressure, corrected visual acuity,
refraction, mean deviation (MD), and pattern standard deviation (PSD) in the
worst seeing eye.
RESULTS: No correlation with the VFQ-25 scores (VFQ-S) was found in any of the 12
sub-scales for gender, age, or duration of the disease. However, the number of
glaucoma eye-drop solutions showed a negative correlation with 2 sub-scales.
Driving was the only sub-scale in which a correlation was found between the VFQ-S
and the subjects' intraocular pressure. Corrected visual acuity demonstrated
correlations in many of the sub-scales. MD measurements showed a high correlation
with the VFQ-S in all items except general health and ocular pain. On the other
hand, no correlation with the VFQ-S was observed in any of the sub-scales for the
PSD measurements.
CONCLUSION: The VFQ-S of elderly NTG patients showed a high degree of
reliability. The VFQ-25 scores were useful and suitable tools for evaluating the 
QOL of glaucoma patients with visual field and acuity impairment.


PMID: 19882932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2009 Nov-Dec;19(6):1082-3.

Pseudophakic pseudoexfoliation of an AkreosFit intraocular lens.

Roberts MA(1), Hawksworth NR.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Royal Glamorgan Hospital, Llantrisant, Wales - UK.
andy_robertsuk@yahoo.com

PURPOSE: To describe a case of intraocular lens opacification resembling
pseudophakic pseudoexfoliation affecting an AkreosFit intraocular lens (IOL).
METHODS: Single case analysis.
RESULTS: A patient had IOL opacification resembling pseudophakic
pseudoexfoliation.
CONCLUSIONS: An 83-year-old woman with normal tension glaucoma was noted to have 
pseudophakic pseudoexfoliation of an AkreosFit IOL 5 years after uncomplicated
phacoemulsification with IOL.


PMID: 19882560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jan-Feb;20(1):131-5.

The effect of oral magnesium therapy on visual field and ocular blood flow in
normotensive glaucoma.

Aydin B(1), Onol M, Hondur A, Kaya MG, Ozdemir H, Cengel A, Hasanreisoglu B.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Fatih University, Turkey. baydunus@yahoo.com

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of oral magnesium therapy on ocular blood flow
and visual field perimetry indices in patients with normotensive glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Fifteen patients with NTG (study group) received 300 mg oral magnesium
citrate for 1 month, while 15 patients with NTG (control group) received no
treatment. Blood magnesium level measurement, visual field analysis, and color
Doppler imaging of the orbital vessels were done before treatment and at 1 month.
RESULTS: In the study group, mean deviation improved from -3.7+/-1.9 (mean +/-
standard deviation) at baseline to -2.5+/-1.8 at 1 month (p<0.05), and pattern
standard deviation improved from 3.6+/-2.3 at baseline to 2.8+/-2.6 at 1 month
(p<0.05). Color Doppler imaging indices did not change after magnesium therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral magnesium therapy may provide improvement in the visual field, 
but does not seem to affect ocular blood flow in patients with NTG. Other
mechanism than increased ocular blood flow may be responsible for the improvement
in the visual field with oral magnesium therapy.


PMID: 19882529  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Optometry. 2009 Nov;80(11):635-8. doi: 10.1016/j.optm.2008.09.014.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Ghaffariyeh A(1), Honarpisheh N, Shakiba Y, Puyan S, Chamacham T, Zahedi F,
Zarrineghbal M.

Author information: 
(1)Dr. Khodadoust Eye Hospital, Shiraz, Fars, Iran.
alirezaghaffariyeh@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to detect and measure brain-derived
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the tears of normal subjects and patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty patients with NTG as the case group and 20 normal
subjects with the same age range as the control group were tested. The control
group consisted of 16 men and 4 women, ranging in age from 40 to 75, without any 
apparent ocular or systemic disease. The case group consisted of 15 men and 5
women, ranging in age from 45 to 74. BDNF levels in tears were determined by
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using monoclonal antibodies specific for BDNF
(R&D Systems, Minneapolis, Minnesota).
RESULTS: The mean level of BDNF detected in the tears of the normal subjects was 
77.09 +/- 4.84 ng/mL and the BDNF levels in the tears of case group were 24.33
+/- 1.48 ng/mL (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: We suggest that BDNF in the tears might be a useful biochemical
marker for early detection of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).

DOI: 10.1016/j.optm.2008.09.014 
PMID: 19861219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2009 Oct;25(5):441-5. doi: 10.1089/jop.2008.0097.

Intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction by latanoprost in Japanese normal tension
glaucoma patients over a five-year period stratified by presenting IOP.

Tsuda M(1), Ando A, Matsuyama K, Otsuji T, Fukui C, Maenishi N, Kuwahara A,
Nishimura T, Jo N, Nambu H, Matsumura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kansai Medical University, Moriguchi, Osaka,
Japan.

PURPOSE: We examined the effectiveness of latanoprost for reducing intraocular
pressure (IOP) in Japanese patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) over a
5-year period.
DESIGN: Prospective interventional case series. The patients were classified into
2 groups based on mean IOP.
METHODS: A total of 38 patients with NTG were studied after being classified into
the high-tension (mean IOP 16 mmHg or greater, n = 27) and low-tension (mean IOP 
lower than 15 mmHg, n = 11) groups. IOP was measured and Humphrey Field Analyzer 
(HFA) examinations were conducted at 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months after
beginning a daily administration of latanoprost.
RESULTS: Mean IOP before administration was 17.6 mmHg in the high-tension group, 
which was reduced to 13.9, 14.6, 14.4, 14.1, 13.6, and 14.6 mmHg at 6, 12, 24,
36, 48, and 60 months, respectively, after beginning administration. That in the 
low-tension group was 13.6 mmHg before administration, and then was reduced to
12.2, 11.4, 11.5, 12.5, 10.5, and 11.5 mmHg, respectively, after beginning
administration was noted. Mean deviation (MD) values in the HFA examinations were
reduced by -4.27 and -1.49 dB after 5 years in the high- and low-tension groups, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost administration was effective in reducing IOP over a
5-year period in a range of 3.1-4.1 and 1.3-3.6 mmHg in NTG patients with high-
and low-tension levels, respectively. In addition, our results indicate that
latanoprost helped to prevent a decrease in MD values in both groups, as shown by
the results of HFA examinations.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2008.0097 
PMID: 19857106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Glaucoma. 2010 Sep;19(7):483-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181b6e5ea.

Clinical characteristics and prognostic significance of disc hemorrhage in
open-angle and angle-closure glaucoma.

Hsieh JW(1), Lan YW, Wang IJ, Sun FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology, Mackay Memorial Hospital, National Taiwan
University, Taipei, Taiwan. yu_wen_66@yahoo.com

PURPOSE: To analyze the clinical characteristics and prognostic significance of
disc hemorrhage in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), and primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG).
METHODS: Records of patients with POAG, NTG, or PACG and a history of disc
hemorrhage were collected for this retrospective, observational cohort study.
RESULTS: Of 1134 patients with POAG, 513 with NTG and 770 with PACG, 63 (5.6%),
36 (7.0%), and 44 (5.7%), respectively, had disc hemorrhage over a mean of 9
years of follow-up. There were no significant differences in the laterality,
episodes, duration of hemorrhage, and frequency of recurrent hemorrhage among the
3 types. The intraocular pressure and cup-to-disc ratio did not differ
significantly between eyes with and fellow eyes without hemorrhage. There was a
significant association between disc hemorrhage and visual field progression
[odds ratio: 2.78 (P = 0.004), 3.75 (P = 0.040), and 4.50 (P = 0.011) for POAG,
NTG, and PACG, respectively].
CONCLUSIONS: Normal tension glaucoma has the highest incidence of disc
hemorrhage, followed by PACG and POAG, which have similar incidence. The clinical
characteristics of hemorrhage are not different among 3 types of glaucoma. The
presence of disc hemorrhage is associated with the progression of glaucomatous
optic neuropathy and visual field defects in POAG, NTG, and PACG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181b6e5ea 
PMID: 19855298  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Ophthalmology. 2009 Dec;116(12):2271-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.06.042. Epub
2009 Oct 24.

Natural history of open-angle glaucoma.

Heijl A(1), Bengtsson B, Hyman L, Leske MC; Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Lund University, Malmö University Hospital,
Malmö, Sweden. anders.heijl@med.lu.se

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2009 Dec;116(12):2269-70.

OBJECTIVE: This article, based on the Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial (EMGT),
provides prospective natural history data on progression of glaucomatous field
defects in 3 of the most common glaucoma types.
DESIGN: Cohort of EMGT patients randomized to the untreated control group and
followed up to the time of progression, when treatment could be initiated.
PARTICIPANTS: We evaluated 118 control patients: 46 with high-tension glaucoma
(HTG), 57 with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), and 15 with pseudoexfoliation
glaucoma (PEXG).
METHODS: Visual fields were tested every 3 months with the Humphrey 30-2 Full
Threshold test program.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Linear regression analyses of the perimetric mean
deviation (MD) values were performed, and the rate of progression was defined as 
the regression coefficient in decibels per year. Percentages of progressed eyes
and time to progression were determined using EMGT event-based predetermined
progression criteria derived from Glaucoma Change Probability Maps.
RESULTS: The median and interquartile rates of visual function loss were -0.40
(1.05) dB/year overall and -0.46 (1.61) in HTG, -0.22 (0.65) in NTG, and -1.13
(6.13) in PEXG. Thus, interpatient variability was large. Mean rates were
considerably higher than medians: -1.08 dB/year overall, -1.31 in HTG, -0.36 in
NTG, and -3.13 in PEXG. Differences in median visual function progression rates
among groups were statistically significant (NTG vs. HTG, P = 0.003; PEXG vs.
non-PEXG, P<0.001). Progression was considerably and significantly faster in
older than in younger patients (P = 0.002). By 6 years, 68% of patients had
progressed overall, 74% of those with HTG, 56% of those with NTG, and 93% of
those with PEXG (P = 0.012). Median time to progression also differed
considerably among groups: 19.5 months in PEXG, 44.8 months in HTG, and
particularly 61.1 months in NTG (P<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: In this 6-year follow-up study, the median untreated rate of
progression corresponded to advancing from normal visual function to blindness in
approximately 70 years, whereas on the basis of the mean rate, visual function
would show the same deterioration in approximately 25 years. Large differences
existed among patients and different glaucoma types, with PEXG progressing
considerably faster than HTG, and NTG progressing at the lowest rate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.06.042 
PMID: 19854514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2009 Sep;53(5):482-5. doi: 10.1007/s10384-009-0717-0. Epub 2009
Oct 22.

Glaucoma diagnostic performance of humphrey matrix and standard automated
perimetry.

Nam YP(1), Park SB, Kang SY, Sung KR, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan, College
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate and compare the performance of Humphrey Matrix perimetry
(Matrix) and standard automated perimetry (SAP) for glaucoma discrimination.
METHODS: Forty-seven healthy and 68 glaucomatous subjects were included in this
study. Glaucoma was defined as having a glaucomatous optic disc and a nerve fiber
indicator (NFI) GDx VCC scanning laser polarimetry score of >40. Glaucomatous
subjects were classified into two groups, early (40 < NFI < or = 50) and moderate
to advanced (NFI > 50). The number of clusters on Matrix and SAP pattern
deviation maps were estimated and scored. Areas under the receiver operating
characteristic curves (AUCs) of the cluster scores were calculated for early and 
moderate to advanced stages of glaucoma and compared between Matrix and SAP.
RESULTS: Among 68 glaucomatous subjects, 24 eyes were classified as having early 
and 44 eyes as having moderate to advanced glaucoma. The overall AUC of the
Matrix cluster score was comparable to that of SAP (0.857, 0.881, P = 0.538). The
AUC of the cluster score did not reveal statistically significant differences
between Matrix and SAP for either early or moderate to advanced stages of
glaucoma (P = 0.831, 0.237).
CONCLUSION: Both Matrix and SAP showed good diagnostic performance with glaucoma 
defined as structural loss. Matrix and SAP data showed similar discrimination
capability for different stages of glaucoma determined by cluster analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-009-0717-0 
PMID: 19847602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2009 Sep;53(5):477-81. doi: 10.1007/s10384-009-0702-7. Epub
2009 Oct 22.

Relationship between central corneal thickness and visual field defect in
open-angle glaucoma.

Lin W(1), Aoyama Y, Kawase K, Yamamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine,
Gifu, Japan.

PURPOSE: To explore the relationship between central corneal thickness (CCT) and 
visual field defect in open-angle glaucoma (OAG).
METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, we tested 344 eyes in 344 eligible
patients, including 233 with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and 111 with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The association among variables, especially that
between visual field defect and CCT, was probed by multivariate regression in
eyes with NTG or POAG, and in all eyes. All eyes were divided into early,
moderate, or severe visual field defect groups according to Anderson's
classification. Statistical analysis was performed for all cases, and for the
three CCT groups.
RESULTS: Multivariate regression analysis revealed an association between CCT and
visual field defect in eyes with NTG but not in eyes with POAG or in all eyes.
The eyes with early visual field defect had greater CCT than did those with
severe visual field defect (533.2 versus 519.0 microm). The eyes with greater CCT
had better visual field indices than did those with thinner CCT (-6.91 versus
-9.17 dB).
CONCLUSIONS: Central corneal thickness is a factor associated with the status of 
the visual field defect: a greater CCT is associated with a better visual field
index. Other factors such as the glaucoma subtype play a role in the effect of
CCT on visual field defect.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-009-0702-7 
PMID: 19847601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Mar;51(3):1446-52. doi: 10.1167/iovs.09-4258.
Epub 2009 Oct 15.

Macular and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer measurements by spectral
domain optical coherence tomography in normal-tension glaucoma.

Seong M(1), Sung KR, Choi EH, Kang SY, Cho JW, Um TW, Kim YJ, Park SB, Hong HE,
Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hanyang University College of Medicine, Guri
Hospital, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate and compare the glaucoma discrimination ability of macular
inner retinal layer (MIRL) thickness with that of peripapillary retinal nerve
fiber layer (pRNFL) thickness measured by spectral-domain optical coherence
tomography (RTVue-100; Optovue Inc, Fremont, CA) in patients with normal-tension 
glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Sixty-five healthy subjects and 102 with NTG were enrolled. MIRL
thickness provided by a ganglion cell complex (GCC) scan and two RNFL thicknesses
measured by the NHM4 (RNFL1) and RNFL 3.45 (RNFL2) modes of the RTVue-100 system 
were analyzed. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves
(AUCs) of MIRL and pRNFL thicknesses for discriminating patients with NTG from
control subjects were determined. The AUCs were compared between patients with
central visual field (VF) defects (VF; <or=10 degrees of fixation) and peripheral
VF defects (>10 degrees from fixation).
RESULTS: The average MIRL thickness showed a strong correlation with both RNFL1
and -2 thicknesses (R(2) = 0.773, 0.774, both P < 0.0001). The AUCs for average
MIRL, RNFL1, and RNFL2 thicknesses were not significantly different at 0.945,
0.973, and 0.976, respectively. However, the AUCs of the average and superior
MIRL thicknesses were significantly less than that of the pRNFL thickness in eyes
with moderate-to-advanced glaucoma and eyes with peripheral VF defects.
CONCLUSIONS: The average MIRL thickness showed a strong correlation with pRNFL
thickness, because patients with NTG at an early stage showed paracentral VF
defects near the fixation point. MIRL thickness showed glaucoma discrimination
ability comparable to that of pRNFL thickness in patients with NTG with early VF 
defects. In eyes with advanced or peripheral VF defect, pRNFL measurement showed 
a better glaucoma diagnostic ability than did MIRL measurement.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.09-4258 
PMID: 19834029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 Oct;127(10):1275-83. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2009.247.

Risk factors for normal-tension glaucoma among subgroups of patients.

Park SC(1), Lee DH, Lee HJ, Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To identify risk factors for normal-tension glaucoma among subgroups
of patients.
METHODS: In 93 patients with unilateral normal-tension glaucoma, intereye
comparison of baseline spherical equivalent, central corneal thickness, untreated
intraocular pressure, disc area, and zone beta variables was performed among the 
following 4 subgroups classified according to age and visual field pattern
standard deviation of the eye with glaucoma: subgroup 1 (age < or = 50 years and 
visual field pattern standard deviation < or = 8 dB), subgroup 2 (< or = 50 years
and >8 dB), subgroup 3 (>50 years and < or = 8 dB), and subgroup 4 (>50 years and
>8 dB).
RESULTS: Fourteen, 27, 30, and 22 patients were included in subgroups 1, 2, 3,
and 4, respectively. The untreated intraocular pressure in subgroup 1 (P = .005),
the zone beta variables in subgroup 2 (P < .001), and both the untreated
intraocular pressure (P = .010 and P = .034, respectively) and the zone beta
variables (P < or = .008 and P < or = .006, respectively) in subgroups 3 and 4
were significantly greater in the eyes with glaucoma than in the normal
contralateral eyes (by paired t test or Wilcoxon signed rank test). The other
variables showed no significant difference between the eyes in any subgroup.
CONCLUSION: The zone beta variables (and not the untreated intraocular pressure) 
may represent significant risk factors in young patients having normal-tension
glaucoma with moderate to severe visual field loss.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2009.247 
PMID: 19822842  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Med Hypotheses. 2010 Jan;74(1):31-4. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2009.08.024. Epub 2009
Oct 9.

Role of cerebrospinal fluid in glaucoma: pressure and beyond.

Yang Y(1), Yu M, Zhu J, Chen X, Liu X.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Laboratories and Department of Ophthalmology, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, PR China.

Glaucoma is the second leading cause of blindness worldwide. Primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) is characterized by optic disc cupping and visual field
impairment. Though the elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is thought to be the
major risk factor for POAG, about 50% of the POAG patients have normal IOP,
called 'normal-tension' glaucoma. Besides, many POAG patients still experience
visual field loss and/or optic disc cupping even though the IOP has been well
controlled. The mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of POAG remain unclear.
Extensive studies have shed lights on the mechanisms that may be involved in the 
etiopathology and/or the optic neuropathic manifestations of POAG. In this
article, we noticed that the changes in the cerebrospinal fluid, particularly
that existing in the subarachnoid space of the optic nerve, appear to be actively
involved in the pathogenesis of POAG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2009.08.024 
PMID: 19819083  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2009 Sep;23(3):193-7. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2009.23.3.193. Epub
2009 Sep 8.

C-reactive protein and lipid profiles in Korean patients with normal tension
glaucoma.

Choi J(1), Joe SG, Seong M, Choi JY, Sung KR, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)HanGil Eye Hospital, Incheon, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels and lipid 
profiles between Korean normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and healthy
controls.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study included 38 Korean patients with NTG and 38
age- and sex-matched healthy control subjects. We excluded the patients with
cardiovascular risk factors and other systemic diseases that might affect CRP
levels and lipid profiles. Each patient underwent a Humphrey visual field
examination and blood sampling for hsCRP and lipid profile analyses.
Subsequently, the NTG patients were classified into two groups based on their
untreated intraocular pressure (IOP) level: low NTG (LNTG) with IOP < or = 13
mmHg (13 subjects) and high NTG (HNTG) with relatively high IOP (>13 and < or =
21 mmHg, 25 subjects). The hsCRP levels and lipid profiles were compared between 
NTG patients and healthy controls, and between LNTG, HNTG, and healthy controls.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in hsCRP and lipid profiles
between either the NTG patients and healthy controls, or between the LNTG, HNTG, 
and controls (p>0.05) after exclusion of Korean patients with cardiovascular risk
factors. There was no significant association between hsCRP and visual field
indices (p>0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: High-sensitivity C-reactive protein-related vascular inflammatory
conditions may not be directly associated with the development of NTG, regardless
of the untreated IOP level.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2009.23.3.193 
PMCID: PMC2739962
PMID: 19794947  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2009 Sep;37(7):692-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2009.02120.x.

Endoscopic cyclophotocoagulation for the treatment of glaucoma: an Asian
experience.

Yip LW(1), Yong SO, Earnest A, Ji J, Lim BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, 11 Jalan Tan Tock Seng,
Singapore. leonard_yip@ttsh.com.sg

BACKGROUND: To describe the efficacy and safety of endoscopic
cyclophotocoagulation in Asian patients with glaucoma.
METHODS: Retrospective case series. Consecutive cases of endoscopic
cyclophotocoagulation performed by one surgeon during the study period were
included. Patients' records were reviewed for clinical and demographic factors,
treatments, intraocular pressure (IOP), visual acuity and any complications.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine eyes of 29 patients were treated. Their mean age was 73.6
+/- 9.4 years. The mean follow-up duration was 15.9 +/- 8.9 months. Eleven
patients had primary open-angle glaucoma, two normal tension glaucoma, six
chronic angle-closure glaucoma, five neovascular glaucoma, four secondary
open-angle glaucoma and one secondary angle-closure glaucoma. Twenty patients had
endoscopic cyclophotocoagulation combined with cataract surgery. Mean
pretreatment IOP was 21.8 +/- 6.6 mmHg. Mean post-treatment IOP at 18 months (n =
17) was 16.2 +/- 4.1 mmHg (P = 0.02) and 17.9 +/- 4.9 mmHg (P = 0.18) at 24
months (n = 10). The mean number of anti-glaucoma medications pretreatment was
reduced from 2.0 +/- 1.0 to 0.9 +/- 0.9 at 18 months post-treatment (P = 0.04)
and 1.2 +/- 0.8 at 24 months (P = 0.13). The overall success rate based on IOP
reduction of 20% or greater at last follow-up was 48.3%. Visual acuity was
reduced in five eyes. Complications included one case each of hyphaema, bullous
keratopathy, transient pigment dispersion and iris burn.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic cyclophotocoagulation may have a treatment role in Asian
patients with glaucoma. The success rate appears poorer than previously reported 
in Caucasian populations. The treatment effect appeared to wane between 18 and 24
months post-treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2009.02120.x 
PMID: 19788666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Mol Vis. 2009 Sep 22;15:1939-44.

Primary open angle glaucoma in a Caucasian population is associated with the p53 
codon 72 polymorphism.

Daugherty CL(1), Curtis H, Realini T, Charlton JF, Zareparsi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV 26506,
USA.

PURPOSE: Apoptosis has been implicated as the mechanism for retinal ganglion cell
death in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), a complex neurodegenerative disease.
There have been inconsistent reports regarding increased risk of POAG and a
polymorphism (Arg72Pro) within the tumor suppressor gene, p53. The goal of this
study was to examine the role of this polymorphism in susceptibility to POAG in a
Caucasian population from the United States.
METHODS: We generated genotypes in 191 unrelated Caucasian POAG patients and 167 
unrelated Caucasian controls for the following polymorphisms within p53:
rs1042522 (Arg72Pro), rs17878362 (16 bp Ins/Del), and rs1800371 (Pro47Ser) by PCR
amplification followed by restriction digestion and sequence analysis.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference in genotypic frequencies for
rs1042522 (Arg72Pro) between POAG patients and controls (chi(2)= 9.56, p=0.008). 
Individuals who were homozygous for the arginine allele have a 1.9 fold
significantly increased risk of developing glaucoma (95%CI: 1.16-2.82, p=0.01).
Interestingly, we found that the frequency of the arginine allele was even higher
in the normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) subtype compared to high-tension POAG (0.81 
versus 0.76).
CONCLUSIONS: Our preliminary results indicate that the arginine variant of
rs1042522 within p53 is associated with increased risk of POAG. This variant has 
increased apoptotic potential, thus the retinal ganglion cells in carriers of the
arginine allele may have greater susceptibility to apoptosis.


PMCID: PMC2751801
PMID: 19784392  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Neurol Sci. 2009 Dec;30(6):447-52. doi: 10.1007/s10072-009-0137-4. Epub 2009 Sep 
25.

Perceptive aspects of visual aura.

Aleci C(1), Liboni W.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Gradenigo Hospital, Cso R Margherita 8, 10153 Turin,
Italy. carlo.aleci@gradenigo.it

Visual aura is the most common feature associated with migraine, though it can
occur separately. In both cases it often represents a dramatic event, especially 
for patients who experience it for the first time. Besides, its subjective
characteristics may illuminate on the functional architecture of the visual
cortex. Repetitive events of migraine and visual aura have been suggested to
affect the visual system in the long run, both on the cortical and precortical
level. In effect, objective investigation of visual functions in patients support
the idea that a selective damage does occur, so that more attention to visual
examination seems to be justified. In this paper, subjective and psychophysical
aspects of visual aura are examined, lastly highlighting and discussing the
interesting correlations found between this condition and normal-tension
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-009-0137-4 
PMID: 19779857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Acta Ophthalmol. 2010 Feb;88(1):27-32. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01623.x.
Epub 2009 Sep 23.

The effect of deep sclerectomy on intraocular pressure of normal-tension glaucoma
patients: 1-year results.

Suominen S(1), Harju M, Ihanamäki T, Vesti E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.
sakari.suominen@hus.fi

PURPOSE: To study the intraocular pressure (IOP)-reducing effect of deep
sclerectomy on normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively analysed 21 eyes of 18 consecutive NTG patients who
had undergone deep sclerectomy with mitomycin-C and a collagen implant.
RESULTS: Median (range) preoperative IOP was 15.1 mmHg (9.3-20.8) and median
follow-up time 13 months (12-18). At the 1-year follow-up visit, median IOP was
significantly (P < 0.001) reduced to 10.5 mmHg (4-15) with median IOP reduction
from preoperative values of 37% (12-78). Laser goniopuncture was performed in 10 
eyes (48%) 1-16 months postoperatively. After 13 months' follow-up, a complete
success at 20%, 25% and 30% IOP reduction levels was achieved in 67%, 62% and 52%
of eyes, respectively. Few complications were encountered, but these included
reduced visual acuity, problems with conjunctiva, microperforation, hyphaema,
Dellen formation and encapsulated bleb. We encountered no complications related
to postoperative hypotony.
CONCLUSION: Deep sclerectomy with a collagen implant and mitomycin-C was a safe
and effective method for reducing IOP in NTG patients during 1-year follow-up.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01623.x 
PMID: 19775310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Neurosci Lett. 2009 Nov 13;465(2):160-4. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2009.09.029. Epub 
2009 Sep 17.

Interleukin-1 attenuates normal tension glaucoma-like retinal degeneration in
EAAC1-deficient mice.

Namekata K(1), Harada C, Guo X, Kikushima K, Kimura A, Fuse N, Mitamura Y,
Kohyama K, Matsumoto Y, Tanaka K, Harada T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Neurobiology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for
Neuroscience, 2-6 Musashidai, Fuchu, Tokyo 183-8526, Japan.

Glaucoma, one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness, is characterized
by progressive degeneration of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and optic nerves.
Although glaucoma is often associated with elevated intraocular pressure, recent 
studies have shown a relatively high prevalence of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) 
in glaucoma patient populations. In the mammalian retina, glutamate/aspartate
transporter (GLAST) is localized to Müller glial cells, whereas excitatory amino 
acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) is expressed in neural cells, including RGCs. Since the
loss of GLAST or EAAC1 leads to retinal degeneration similar to that seen in NTG,
we examined the effects of interleukin-1 (IL-1) on RGC death in GLAST- and
EAAC1-deficient mice. IL-1 promoted increased glutamate uptake in Müller cells by
suppressing intracellular Na(+) accumulation, which is necessary to counteract
Na(+)-glutamate cotransport. The observed trends for the glutamate uptake
increase in the wild-type (WT), GLAST- and EAAC1-deficient mice were similar;
however, the baseline glutamate uptake and intracellular Na(+) concentration in
the GLAST-deficient mice were significantly lower than those in the wild-type
mice. Consistently, pretreatment with IL-1 exhibited no beneficial effects on
glutamate-induced RGC degeneration in the GLAST-deficient mice. In contrast, IL-1
significantly increased glutamate uptake by Müller cells and the number of
surviving RGCs in the wild-type and EAAC1-deficient mice. Our findings suggest
that the use of IL-1 for enhancing the function of glutamate transporters may be 
useful for neuroprotection in retinal degenerative disorders including NTG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2009.09.029 
PMID: 19766171  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Feb;248(2):243-8. doi:
10.1007/s00417-009-1183-6. Epub 2009 Sep 8.

Reduced-serum vitamin C and increased uric acid levels in normal-tension
glaucoma.

Yuki K(1), Murat D, Kimura I, Ohtake Y, Tsubota K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinanomachi 
35 Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan. glaucoma.keio@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Vitamin A, B(9), C, E, and uric acid are well-known antioxidants and 
may prevent age-related eye disorders. The aim of the present study was to
investigate the levels of antioxidant vitamins, A, B(9), C, E, and antioxidative 
substance, uric acid in the serum of Japanese patients with normal-tension
glaucoma and compare the results with normal controls.
METHODS: All subjects with suspicion of primary open-angle glaucoma who came to
the glaucoma subspeciality clinic of Keio University Hospital were enrolled in
this study. Sixty patients (28 males, 32 females; mean age +/- standard
deviation: 59.9 +/- 9.8 years) with newly diagnosed primary open-angle glaucoma
patients were consecutively enrolled in this study. After the diagnosis of
primary open-angle glaucoma, the patients underwent 24-h IOP measurements.
Forty-seven newly diagnosed consecutive normal-tension glaucoma patients (18
males, 29 females; mean age +/- standard deviation: 59.5 +/- 10.2 years) were
enrolled in this study. The control subjects were recruited from subjects who
came to the clinic for annual refractive check-up. The 44 consecutive control
subjects of the current study, (16 males, 28 females; 62.7 +/- 14.8 years) did
not have any ocular diseases. The serum levels of vitamins A, B(9), C, E, and
uric acid were measured. The values were compared between the normal-tension
glaucoma and control groups by the Mann-Whitney U test.
RESULTS: Serum levels of vitamin C were significantly lower in normal-tension
glaucoma patients than in normal healthy controls (P = 0.04; normal-tension
glaucoma; 4.6 +/- 4.0 microg/ml control; 6.3 +/- 3.9 microg/ml). Uric acid level 
was significantly higher in normal-tension glaucoma patients than in controls (P 
= 0.01; normal-tension glaucoma; 5.8 +/- 1.5 mg/dl control; 4.9 +/- 1.4 mg/dl).
No statistically significant difference was seen in vitamin A (P = 0.41;
normal-tension glaucoma; 82.1 +/- 26.7 microg/dl control; 77.1 +/- 30.1
microg/dl), B(9) (P = 0.37; normal-tension glaucoma; 8.7 +/- 4.3 ng/ml control;
8.0 +/- 3.1 ng/ml)and E (P = 0.83; normal-tension glaucoma; 1.5 +/- 0.6 control; 
1.5 +/- 0.6) levels between normal-tension glaucoma and control groups.
CONCLUSION: Normal-tension glaucoma patients had lower serum levels of vitamin C 
and increased levels of uric acid. These observations may pave the way for
possible alternative treatment for normal-tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-009-1183-6 
PMID: 19763599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2009 Nov;247(11):1531-8. doi:
10.1007/s00417-009-1178-3.

Reproducibility of color Doppler imaging.

Stalmans I(1), Siesky B, Zeyen T, Fieuws S, Harris A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Campus St Raphaël,
Leuven, Belgium. ingeborg.stalmans@uzleuven.be

PURPOSE: The aims of this study were: (1) to determine the intra-subject and
inter-observer variability of color Doppler imaging (CDI) measurements and
readings of the retrobulbar blood vessels, (2) to compare the difference
invariability of CDI parameters in non-glaucomatous controls versus glaucoma
patients, and (3) to provide calculations of minimum sample sizes for future CDI 
studies.
METHODS: Patients with normal tension glaucoma (n=28), primary open-angle
glaucoma (n=19) and non-glaucomatous controls of comparable age (n=22) underwent 
CDI on two occasions 1 month apart. Variability in CDI parameters was quantified 
using (within-subject) coefficients of variation. Based on this variability,
minimum sample sizes were calculated to guide the design of future studies
comparing CDI between and within groups.
RESULTS: In general, within-subject coefficients of variation for measurements 1 
month apart were comparable to previously reported short-term variations.
Variability was higher in glaucoma patients than in non-glaucomatous controls.
The minimum sample size required for glaucomatous study populations is larger
than for non-glaucomatous controls. Smaller patient groups are required to detect
change using the peak systolic blood flow velocities than using end diastolic
velocities. Studies using a cross-over design require smaller sample sizes than
studies with a prepost or particularly parallel design.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides extensive information on long-term intra-subject
variability of CDI measurements in non-glaucomatous controls as well as glaucoma 
patients. Moreover, sample size calculations are provided for studies involving
glaucoma patients as well as non-glaucomatous individuals, using three different 
commonly used study designs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-009-1178-3 
PMID: 19760224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Doc Ophthalmol. 2009 Dec;119(3):171-80. doi: 10.1007/s10633-009-9192-7. Epub 2009
Sep 12.

Color Doppler imaging and pattern visual evoked potential in normal tension
glaucoma and hypertension glaucoma.

Zhong Y(1), Min Y, Jiang Y, Cheng Y, Qin J, Shen X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated Medical School,
Shanghai Jiaotong University, Ruijin No.2 Road, 200025, Shanghai, China.
yszhong68@yahoo.com.cn

To compare the differences in color Doppler imaging (CDI) and pattern visual
evoked potential (P-VEP) examinations between normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
hypertension primary open angle glaucoma (HTG) patients, and investigate the
relation between flow velocities measured by CDI and P-VEP examination in NTG and
HTG patients. Sixty NTG patients, 66 HTG patients and 44 control subjects
underwent CDI evaluation of the ophthalmic artery (OA), short posterior ciliary
artery (SPCA) and central retinal arteries (CRA). The peak systolic velocities
(PSV) and end-diastolic velocities (EDV) and resistive index (RI) of all
retrobulbar vessels were measured. The latency and amplitude of P100 in P-VEP
were recorded from the three groups. The differences of CDI and P-VEP parameters 
among NTG group, HTG group and control group were compared by one-way analysis of
variance. The correlations between CDI parameters and visual field indices, P-VEP
and visual field indices, P-VEP and CDI parameters in NTG and HTG patients were
evaluated by Pearson's correlation analysis. NTG and HTG patients had the lower
EDV and higher RI in the OA, CRA and SPCA comparing with that of control
subjects. NTG and HTG patients also had lower PSV in OA and CRA comparing with
that of control subjects. There was no significant difference in the blood flow
velocities and RI of all retrobulbar vessels between NTG and HTG patients. The
latency of P100 in VEP delayed and the amplitude of P100 decreased in the NTG and
HTG patients comparing with that of the control group. There was no significant
difference in the latency and amplitude of P100 between the NTG and HTG patients.
The RI of OA and SPCA were negatively correlated with the mean deviation (MD)
values in the NTG and HTG patients. The RI of OA was positively correlated with
the PSD value in the NTG and HTG patients. The MD values in the NTG and HTG
patients were negatively correlated with the latency time of P100. The RI of OA
was positively correlated with the latency time of P100 in NTG and HTG patients. 
The RI of OA was negatively correlated with the amplitude of P100 in HTG
patients. No significant difference was found in the parameters of CDI and P-VEP 
between NTG and HTG patients. The certain parameters of CDI were correlated with 
P-VEP parameters in NTG and HTG patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10633-009-9192-7 
PMID: 19756801  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


786. BMC Med Genet. 2009 Sep 15;10:91. doi: 10.1186/1471-2350-10-91.

Evaluation of nine candidate genes in patients with normal tension glaucoma: a
case control study.

Wolf C(1), Gramer E, Müller-Myhsok B, Pasutto F, Reinthal E, Wissinger B,
Weisschuh N.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ophthalmology, Institute for Ophthalmic Research, Molecular
Genetics Laboratory, Tuebingen, Germany. cwolf@mpipsykl.mpg.de

BACKGROUND: Normal tension glaucoma is a major subtype of glaucoma, associated
with intraocular pressures that are within the statistically normal range of the 
population. Monogenic forms following classical inheritance patterns are rare in 
this glaucoma subtype. Instead, multigenic inheritance is proposed for the
majority of cases. The present study tested common sequence variants in candidate
genes for association with normal tension glaucoma in the German population.
METHODS: Ninety-eight SNPs were selected to tag the common genetic variation in
nine genes, namely OPTN (optineurin), RDX (radixin), SNX16 (sorting nexin 16),
OPA1 (optic atrophy 1), MFN1 (mitofusin 1), MFN2 (mitofusin 2), PARL (presenilin 
associated, rhomboid-like), SOD2 (superoxide dismutase 2, mitochondrial) and
CYP1B1 (cytochrome P450, family 1, subfamily B, polypeptide 1). These SNPs were
genotyped in 285 cases and 282 fully evaluated matched controls. Statistical
analyses comprised single polymorphism association as well as haplogroup based
association testing.
RESULTS: Results suggested that genetic variation in five of the candidate genes 
(RDX, SNX16, OPA1, SOD2 and CYP1B1) is unlikely to confer major risk to develop
normal tension glaucoma in the German population. In contrast, we observed a
trend towards association of single SNPs in OPTN, MFN1, MFN2 and PARL. The SNPs
of OPTN, MFN2 and PARL were further analysed by multimarker haplotype-based
association testing. We identified a risk haplotype being more frequent in
patients and a vice versa situation for the complementary protective haplotype in
each of the three genes.
CONCLUSION: Common variants of OPTN, PARL, MFN1 and MFN2 should be analysed in
other cohorts to confirm their involvement in normal tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2350-10-91 
PMCID: PMC2751751
PMID: 19754948  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Feb;51(2):903-6. doi: 10.1167/iovs.09-4247. Epub 
2009 Sep 8.

Tumor necrosis factor-alpha concentrations in the aqueous humor of patients with 
glaucoma.

Sawada H(1), Fukuchi T, Tanaka T, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine,
Asahimachi, Niigata, Japan. jedemalgutentag@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To investigate the concentration of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha in
the aqueous humor of patients with glaucoma, including correlations with glaucoma
subtypes and intraocular pressure.
METHODS: The study population comprised 84 patients with open-angle glaucoma who 
were scheduled for filtration or cataract surgery. Glaucoma subgroups included 29
cases of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 28 cases of normal-tension glaucoma 
(NTG), and 27 cases of exfoliation glaucoma (ExG). Seventy-nine patients with
senile cataract were recruited as control subjects. The concentrations of
TNF-alpha in the aqueous humor were measured with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay. The percentages of samples positive for TNF-alpha and the measured
concentrations in the glaucoma and cataract groups were compared. In addition,
the relationships with the glaucoma subtypes, intraocular pressure, and glaucoma 
severity were analyzed.
RESULTS: A significantly higher percentage of subjects in the glaucoma group were
positive for TNF-alpha compared with the cataract group (P = 0.011). The mean
TNF-alpha concentrations among the positive cases were not different between the 
groups (P = 0.689). TNF-alpha-positive samples were higher in the POAG (13.7%)
and NTG (10.7%) subgroups than in the cataract group without significance, but
higher in ExG subgroup (29.6%) with significance (P = 0.001). Relationships
between the TNF-alpha concentration and the intraocular pressure or the clinical 
stage of glaucoma were not observed.
CONCLUSIONS: TNF-alpha levels were significantly higher in the glaucoma group
than in the cataract group, with a particularly large difference observed in
those with ExG. The results suggest that TNF-alpha plays a key role in the
progression of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.09-4247 
PMID: 19737888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Jan;51(1):277-83. doi: 10.1167/iovs.08-3279. Epub
2009 Aug 20.

Involvement of platelet coagulation and inflammation in the endothelium of
Schlemm's canal.

Watanabe Y(1), Hamanaka T, Takemura T, Murakami A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan. yajiya@aol.com

Erratum in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Apr;51(4):2300.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether the endothelial cells of Schlemm's canal (ECSCs) 
are connected to lymphatic vessels or are involved in platelet coagulation and
inflammation, by comparing them to lung tissue cells.
METHODS: Three normal eyes, trabeculectomy specimens of 6 early-onset primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 15 late-onset POAG, and 6 normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG), and lung tissues from 10 normal autopsy cases were used. The specimens
were processed for light microscopy of immunohistochemical staining. The
antibodies used in this study were von Willebrand factor (vWF) and thrombomodulin
for evaluating the platelet coagulation system, CD 34 as a marker for blood
vessels, platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule (PECAM-1) and E-selectin for
evaluating the involvement of inflammation, and D2-40 as a marker for lymphatic
vessels.
RESULTS: Thrombomodulin, CD 34, PECAM-1 and E-selectin were detected in ECSCs,
the endothelial cells of Sondermann's canal, and the endothelial cells of
alveolar capillaries in the lung (EACL), whereas vWF was negative in those cells.
Sondermann's canal was often found in compact juxtacanalicular tissue (JCT) in
eyes with early-onset POAG. D2-40 was positive in the endothelial cells of
lymphatic vessels in the lung (ELVL) and trabecular cells. In early-onset POAG,
trabecular cells in JCT were mostly negative for D2-40.
CONCLUSIONS: ECSCs and EACLs are suggested to have developed specifically for
their functions from the aspects of the anti-platelet coagulation system and may 
be involved in inflammation for leukocyte infiltration. D2-40 and thrombomodulin 
seem to be useful for evaluating morphologic abnormality in POAG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.08-3279 
PMID: 19696181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Jan;248(1):73-7. doi:
10.1007/s00417-009-1169-4. Epub 2009 Aug 20.

Intraocular pressure measured by dynamic contour tonometer and ocular response
analyzer in normal tension glaucoma.

Morita T(1), Shoji N, Kamiya K, Hagishima M, Fujimura F, Shimizu K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kitasato University School of Medicine, 1-15-1
Kitasato, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 228-8555, Japan. tamorin@dj.mbn.or.jp

BACKGROUND: To investigate intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement values in
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes using two different types of tonometer that
are supposed to be little affected by corneal biochemical properties.
METHODS: This study included 30 normal eyes of 16 healthy subjects and 30 eyes of
16 patients with NTG. IOP was measured with a Goldmann applanation tonometer
(GAT), a Pascal dynamic contour tonometer (DCT), and a Reichert ocular response
analyzer (ORA) three times each for normal and NTG eyes. The main measures were
GAT-IOP, DCT-IOP, corneal-compensated IOP (IOPcc), Goldmann-correlated IOP
(IOPg), and central corneal thickness (CCT).
RESULTS: In normal eyes, GAT-IOP was 13.2 +/- 1.4 mmHg; DCT-IOP, 13.0 +/- 1.6
mmHg; IOPcc, 13.6 +/- 2.0 mmHg; and IOPg, 12.4 +/- 2.0 mmHg. Multivariate
analysis revealed no significant differences between the four measurements (p =
0.08). CCT was 524.6 +/- 27.3 microns. In NTG eyes, GAT-IOP was 13.1 +/- 1.3
mmHg; DCT-IOP, 13.7 +/- 1.3 mmHg; IOPcc, 15.2 +/- 2.0 mmHg; and IOPg, 12.7 +/-
2.0 mmHg. Multivariate analysis showed significant differences between the four
measurements (p < 0.01). Sheffé's test showed that IOPcc was significantly higher
than GAT-IOP, DCT-IOP, and IOPg (GAT-IOP vs IOPcc: p < 0.0001; DCT-IOP vs IOPcc: 
p = 0.01; IOPcc vs IOPg: p < 0.0001). CCT was 515.4 +/- 32.9 microns, with no
significant difference between normal and NTG eyes (p = 0.15).
CONCLUSIONS: We investigated the values of IOP in NTG eyes as measured by the DCT
and ORA. IOPcc was significantly greater than GAT-IOP, DCT-IOP and IOPg in NTG
eyes, suggesting the possibility that IOP values may be underestimated.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-009-1169-4 
PMID: 19693527  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Feb;51(2):882-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.09-3668. Epub 
2009 Aug 13.

Twenty-four hour (Nyctohemeral) rhythm of intraocular pressure and ocular
perfusion pressure in normal-tension glaucoma.

Renard E(1), Palombi K, Gronfier C, Pepin JL, Noel C, Chiquet C, Romanet JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Platform of Chronobiology and Flowmetry,
University Hospital of Grenoble, Grenoble, France.

PURPOSE: To characterize the nyctohemeral rhythm of intraocular pressure (IOP)
and ocular perfusion pressure (OPP) in patients with newly diagnosed, untreated
normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Twenty-seven patients with suspected NTG were prospectively included and
underwent 24-hour monitoring of IOP and blood pressure (BP), polysomnography, and
nailfold capillaropathy. The nyctohemeral rhythms of IOP, BP, and OPP were
modeled with a nonlinear least-squares, dual-harmonic regression procedure,
studying the mean value, the acrophase, the nadir and the amplitude of each
rhythm. Nonparametric tests were used to study the relationship between the
rhythm of IOP and vascular, sleep, and visual field parameters.
RESULTS: Five patients were excluded from the analysis after the 24-hour curve of
IOP, (IOP > 21 mm Hg during nighttime [n = 1] or daytime [n = 4]). Twenty-two
(81%) patients received a diagnosis of NTG (IOP < 22 mm Hg over 24 hours). They
exhibited a diurnal acrophase (54.5%), or a nocturnal acrophase (36.4%) of IOP.
The remaining patients (9.1%) with NTG had no nyctohemeral rhythm. A
significantly higher proportion of patients with capillaropathy and a higher
nyctohemeral fluctuation of IOP characterized the IOP group with diurnal
acrophase. A rhythm of OPP was found in all patients, (diurnal [58%] or nocturnal
[42%]) acrophase) equally distributed between the two groups of IOP. Amplitude of
OPP was not significantly associated with the severity or progression of
glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: A nyctohemeral rhythm of IOP exists in most of the patients with
NTG, either with a nocturnal acrophase or a diurnal acrophase. The rhythm of OPP 
did not correlate with the IOP rhythm.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.09-3668 
PMID: 19684006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Eye (Lond). 2010 May;24(5):857-63. doi: 10.1038/eye.2009.209. Epub 2009 Aug 14.

Patterns of progression of localized retinal nerve fibre layer defect on red-free
fundus photographs in normal-tension glaucoma.

Suh MH(1), Kim DM, Kim YK, Kim TW, Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Chongno-Gu,
Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSES: To investigate patterns of progression of localized retinal nerve fibre
layer (RNFL) defect on red-free fundus photographs and to quantify extents of
progression in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: Sixty-five eyes of consecutive 65 NTG patients who had shown progression
of localized RNFL defect on serial red-free fundus photographs were selected for 
this study. Patterns of progression of localized RNFL defect on red-free fundus
photographs were categorized and extents of progression were quantified. Serial
assessments of disc stereophotographs and visual fields were also performed to
detect progression.
RESULTS: The most common pattern of progression was widening of the defect
towards the macula (n=37; 56.9%) followed by deepening of the defect (n=25;
38.5%), appearance of a new defect (n=6; 9.2%), and widening of the defect away
from the macula (n=5; 7.7%). Eight eyes simultaneously showed two patterns of
progression. Mean angular widening of the defect towards the macula and away from
the macula was 6.4+/-4.1 degrees (range: 1.1-17.1 degrees , n=37) and 3.4+/-2.1
degrees (range: 1.1-5.2 degrees , n=5), respectively. No progression was observed
on the disc stereophotographs (n=65) or in the visual fields (n=55) in 64 eyes
(98.5%) and 46 eyes (83.6%), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: There were four patterns of progression of localized RNFL defect. In
most cases, RNFL loss proceeded temporally.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2009.209 
PMID: 19680281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


792. J Glaucoma. 2009 Aug;18(6):460-3. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31818c6f1a.

Optic nerve head morphologic characteristics in chronic angle-closure glaucoma
and normal-tension glaucoma.

Zhao L(1), Wu L, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking University Third Hospital, Peking
University Eye Center, Beijing, China.

PURPOSE: To determine whether the morphometric features of the optic disk in eyes
with chronic angle-closure glaucoma (CACG) are different from those with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This is a retrospective, case-matched study. Patients with 
CACG or NTG in an early or moderate stage were recruited. On the basis of age,
sex, and visual field mean defect, patients with CACG were matched to those with 
NTG on a case-by-case basis. Heidelberg retina tomography was used to evaluate
the optic disk, and parameters were compared between the 2 groups.
RESULTS: Sixty-three patients were recruited for the study. Twenty cases (eyes)
with CACG were matched to 20 cases (eyes) with NTG. The total, temporal/inferior,
nasal/superior, and nasal/inferior rim area of the optic disk were significantly 
larger (P<0.05) in the CACG group. In patients with CACG rather than NTG, the cup
volume in total and in each sector (except temporal) was significantly smaller
(P=0.007 to 0.041). In patients with CACG rather than NTG, the mean cup depth and
cup shape measure of the optic disk in total and in each sector (except temporal 
and temporal/inferior) were smaller (P=0.002 to 0.054).
CONCLUSIONS: The morphometric features of the optic disk in eyes with CACG are
different from those with NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31818c6f1a 
PMID: 19680054  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Ophthalmic Res. 2009;42(4):176-84. doi: 10.1159/000232400. Epub 2009 Aug 7.

Optineurin and its mutants: molecules associated with some forms of glaucoma.

Chalasani ML(1), Swarup G, Balasubramanian D.

Author information: 
(1)Hyderabad Eye Research Foundation, L V Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, India.

AIMS: Optineurin is a gene (OPTN) associated with normal-tension glaucoma and
primary open-angle glaucoma. The aim of our study is to understand the functions 
of the protein optineurin in retinal ganglion cells, and the modifications that
come about in its functions when mutations occur in its sequence.
METHODS: We have worked with the rat retinal ganglion cell line RGC5, as well as 
with some others such as HeLa (human cancer cell line), COS-1 (monkey kidney cell
line), IMR-32 (human neuroblastoma cell line), and D407 (human retinal pigment
epithelial cell line). The cDNAs of wild-type OPTN, and of its mutants H26D,
E50K, R454Q and H486R, were transfected into each of these cell lines and the
effects studied. Localization of the proteins in cells was monitored by confocal 
microscopy and cell imaging, and their interaction with other cellular proteins
by yeast two-hybrid assay and co-immunoprecipitation.
RESULTS: We found optineurin to interact with several proteins, which are
involved in NF-kappaB regulation, vesicular trafficking at recycling endosomes,
immune response and transcription regulation. Some of these proteins showed
altered/reduced interactions with E50K and H486R mutants. E50K, a severe
phenotype-related mutant of optineurin, was found to selectively kill RGC5 cells 
through oxytosis and apoptosis, while none of the other mutants did so.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that several independent mechanisms are likely 
to be involved in the pathogenesis of glaucoma caused by mutations in optineurin.

2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000232400 
PMID: 19672125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Clin Ophthalmol. 2008 Sep;2(3):591-9.

Relationships between central corneal thickness and optic disc topography in eyes
with glaucoma, suspicion of glaucoma, or ocular hypertension.

Gunvant P(1), Porsia L, Watkins RJ, Bayliss-Brown H, Broadway DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Research, Southern College of Optometry, Memphis, TN, USA.
contact@pinakin-gunvant.com

PURPOSE: To identify relationships between central corneal thickness (CCT) and
optic disc topography, as determined by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (SLO), for 
patients seen in a specialist glaucoma service.
METHODS: 272 eyes of 144 patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG; n =
71), normal tension glaucoma (NTG; n = 50), ocular hypertension (OH; n = 48) and 
those considered to be suspicious for glaucoma (GS; n = 103) underwent ultrasonic
pachymetry and optic disc topography by SLO. Correlations between CCT and SLO
parameter values were identified. A Bonferroni correction for multiple
comparisons was performed and a p value of <0.0042 was considered significant.
RESULTS: Mean CCT values were 533 mum (POAG), 530 mum (NTG), 550 mum (GS), and
565 mum (OH). As a group the GS and OH eyes had significantly thicker CCT values 
than eyes with POAG. In addition, the NTG eyes had significantly thinner CCT
values than GS and OH eyes. Overall multiple SLO parameters correlated with CCT
even after accounting for co-variance with age, refraction and inclusion of both 
eyes. Sub-group analysis indicated that 'optic disc rim area' positively
correlated with CCT (r = 0.378) and 'cup to disc area ratio' negatively
correlated with CCT (r = -0.370) in the POAG group. In the GS group the parameter
'area below reference' (a measure of cup volume) and 'mean cup depth' had
negative correlations with CCT (r = -0.297 and -0.323) indicating that eyes with 
thinner than average corneal thickness measurements had larger and deeper cups.
CONCLUSION: Thinner corneas appear to be associated with larger and deeper optic 
disc cups in the eyes of patients seen in a specialist glaucoma service.


PMCID: PMC2694003
PMID: 19668759  [PubMed]


795. Clin Ophthalmol. 2009;3:307-12. Epub 2009 Jun 2.

Association of microsatellite polymorphisms of the GPDS1 locus with normal
tension glaucoma in the Japanese population.

Nakamura K(1), Ota M, Meguro A, Nomura N, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F, Iijima H,
Kawase K, Yamamoto T, Nakamura M, Negi A, Sagara T, Nishida T, Inatani M,
Tanihara H, Aihara M, Araie M, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Higashide T, Sugiyama K,
Kanamoto T, Kiuchi Y, Iwase A, Ohno S, Inoko H, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama City University School of Medicine,
Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.

BACKGROUND: To investigate whether the GPDS1 locus, a potential causative locus
of pigment-dispersion syndrome, is associated with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) 
in Japanese patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used polymerase chain reaction amplification with
sequence-specific primers to analyze 20 polymorphic microsatellite markers in and
around the GPDS1 locus with an automated DNA analyzer and automated fragment
detection by fluorescent-based technology. The DNA samples used for these
analyses were obtained from ethnicity- and gender-matched patients, including 141
Japanese patients with NTG and 101 healthy controls. Patients exhibiting a
comparatively early onset were selected as this suggests that genetic factors may
show stronger involvement.
RESULTS: One allele of D7S2462 exhibited a frequency that was significantly
decreased in NTG cases compared to controls (P = 0.0013, Pc = 0.019, OR = 0.48,
95% CI = 0.30-0.75). Alleles at another six microsatellite loci were positively
or negatively associated with NTG, but these associations did not retain
statistical significance after Bonferroni correction (P < 0.05, Pc > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Our study showed a significant association between the GPDS1 locus
and NTG, suggesting that there may be some genetic risk factor(s) in the
development of NTG.


PMCID: PMC2708999
PMID: 19668583  [PubMed]


796. Clin Ophthalmol. 2009;3:183-8. Epub 2009 Jun 2.

Investigation of the association between the GLC3A locus and normal tension
glaucoma in Japanese patients by microsatellite analysis.

Kamio M(1), Meguro A, Ota M, Nomura N, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F, Iijima H, Kawase
K, Yamamoto T, Nakamura M, Negi A, Sagara T, Nishida T, Inatani M, Tanihara H,
Aihara M, Araie M, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Higashide T, Sugiyama K, Kanamoto T, Kiuchi 
Y, Iwase A, Ohno S, Inoko H, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama City University School of Medicine,
Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether the GLC3A locus harboring the CYP1B1 gene is
associated with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in Japanese patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred forty-two Japanese patients with NTG and 101
Japanese healthy controls were recruited. Patients exhibiting a comparatively
early onset were selected as this suggests that genetic factors may show stronger
involvement. Genotyping and assessment of allelic diversity was performed on 13
highly polymorphic microsatellite markers in and around the GLC3A locus.
RESULTS: There were decreased frequencies of the 444 allele of D2S0416i and the
258 allele of D2S0425i in cases compared to controls (P = 0.022 and P = 0.034,
respectively). However, this statistical significance disappeared when corrected 
(Pc > 0.05). We did not find any significant association between the remaining 11
microsatellite markers, including D2S177, which may be associated with CYP1B1,
and NTG (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed no association between the GLCA3 locus and NTG,
suggesting that the CYP1B1 gene, which is reportedly involved in a range of
glaucoma phenotypes, may not be an associated factor in the pathogenesis of NTG.


PMCID: PMC2708983
PMID: 19668563  [PubMed]


797. Eye (Lond). 2010 Apr;24(4):567-72. doi: 10.1038/eye.2009.163. Epub 2009 Jul 24.

Risk factors associated with optic disc haemorrhage in patients with normal
tension glaucoma.

Kim YD(1), Han SB, Park KH, Kim SH, Kim SJ, Seong M, Kim TW, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma and Cataract Services, HanGil Eye Hospital, Incheon, Republic of
Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the risk factors associated with optic disc haemorrhage in
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred and eighty-one eyes of 281 patients with NTG
(113 eyes with optic disc haemorrhage and 168 eyes without haemorrhage) were
included in this study. Associations between optic disc haemorrhage and various
patient-related variables (diabetes; hypertension; hypotension; cardiac disease; 
stroke; cold hand; migraine; constipation; use of steroids, aspirin,
anticoagulant, or gingko extract; smoking history; and glaucoma family history)
and eye-related variables (baseline intraocular pressure (IOP); maximum, minimum,
and range of IOP; vertical and horizontal cup/disc ratio; mean deviation and
pattern standard deviation of the visual field; corneal thickness; and average
retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) thickness measured by optical coherence
tomography) were investigated by univariate and multivariate logistic regression 
analyses. Differences in risk factors between patients with single optic disc
haemorrhages and recurrent haemorrhages were also analysed.
RESULTS: Optic disc haemorrhage was associated with systemic hypertension (odds
ratio, 1.998; 95% confidence interval, 1.094-3.651; P=0.001). IOP range
(P=0.080), diabetes (P=0.056), and use of aspirin (P=0.079) also tended to be
associated with optic disc haemorrhage. No risk factor was significantly
different between the single haemorrhage group and the recurrent haemorrhage
group.
CONCLUSION: Optic disc haemorrhage was associated with systemic hypertension in
patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2009.163 
PMID: 19648906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2009 Dec;247(12):1659-69. doi:
10.1007/s00417-009-1134-2. Epub 2009 Jul 29.

Specification of progression in glaucomatous visual field loss, applying locally 
condensed stimulus arrangements.

Nevalainen J(1), Paetzold J, Papageorgiou E, Sample PA, Pascual JP, Krapp E,
Selig B, Vonthein R, Schiefer U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.

PURPOSE: The goal of this work was to (i) determine patterns of progression in
glaucomatous visual field loss, (ii) compare the detection rate of progression
between locally condensed stimulus arrangements and conventional 6 degrees x 6
degrees grid, and (iii) assess the individual frequency distribution of test
locations exhibiting a local event (i.e., an abrupt local deterioration of
differential luminance sensitivity (DLS) by more than -10 dB between any two
examinations).
METHODS: The visual function of 41 glaucomatous eyes of 41 patients (16 females, 
25 males, 37 to 75 years old) was examined with automated static perimetry
(Tuebingen Computer Campimeter or Octopus 101-Perimeter). Stimuli were added to
locally enhance the spatial resolution in suspicious regions of the visual field.
The minimum follow-up was four subsequent sessions with a minimum of 2-month
(median 6-month) intervals between each session. Progression was identified using
a modified pointwise linear regression (PLR) method and a modified Katz
criterion. The presence of events was assessed in all progressive visual fields.
RESULTS: Eleven eyes (27%) showed progression over the study period (median 2.5
years, range 1.3-8.6 years). Six (55%) of these had combined progression in depth
and size and five eyes (45%) progressed in depth only. Progression in size
conformed always to the nerve fiber course. Seven out of 11 (64%) of the
progressive scotomata detected by spatially condensed grids would have been
missed by the conventional 6 degrees x 6 degrees grid. At least one event
occurred in 64% of all progressive eyes. Five of 11 (46%) progressive eyes showed
a cluster of events.
CONCLUSIONS: The most common pattern of progression in glaucomatous visual fields
is combined progression in depth and size of an existing scotoma. Applying
individually condensed test grids remarkably enhances the detection rate of
glaucomatous visual field deterioration (at the expense of an increased
examination time) compared to conventional stimulus arrangements.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-009-1134-2 
PMCID: PMC2776145
PMID: 19639334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Br J Ophthalmol. 2009 Dec;93(12):1572-5. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2008.151522. Epub 2009 
Jul 23.

Surveillance of glaucoma medical therapy in a Glasgow teaching hospital: 26
years' experience.

Rahman MQ(1), Montgomery DM, Lazaridou MN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Glasgow Royal Infirmary, 16 Alexandra Parade,
Glasgow G312ER, UK. Donald.Montgomery@ggc.scot.nhs.uk

AIMS: To report the initial findings of a unique database of 956 patients with
ocular hypertension (OHT), normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) attending the Glaucoma Clinic at Glasgow Royal Infirmary,
Glasgow, UK.
METHOD: The database contains retrospective data from 1981 and prospective data
from 1999. Analyses have been carried out using specially written queries to
generate reports relating to prescription trends and reasons for treatment
discontinuation.
RESULTS: The database included the following numbers of patients: POAG 580; OHT
242; NTG 134. Of 2928 treatment-change episodes recorded, failure to reach or
maintain a target intraocular pressure (IOP) accounted for 51.9%, while adverse
effects accounted for 22.1%. Use of latanoprost has increased sharply since 1996,
and that of brimonidine, betaxolol and dorzolamide has declined significantly.
Bimatoprost had a higher rate of discontinuation due to adverse effects (25%)
than travoprost (16.3%) or latanoprost (12.4%), but this was only statistically
significant between latanoprost and bimatoprost (p = 0.0038). In 2000 the
database informed the introduction of a new treatment protocol that resulted in a
fall in discontinuations due to adverse effects by almost two-thirds.
CONCLUSION: A large and unique treatment database has been established at the
Glaucoma Clinic of Glasgow Royal Infirmary. Containing data spanning a 26-year
period, it promises to be an invaluable resource for audit and research. It has
already demonstrated its worth by informing changes in prescribing practice that 
have resulted in direct patient benefit.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2008.151522 
PMID: 19628493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2009 Jun;113(6):664-71.

[Two familial cases of optic nerve hypoplasia including superior segmental optic 
hypoplasia].

[Article in Japanese]

Takata S(1), Nitta K, Tanahashi T, Sugiyama K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Fukuiken Saiseikai Hospital, Japan.
shohei0922@yahoo.co.jp

PURPOSE: To report two familial cases of optic nerve hypoplasia including
superior segmental optic hypoplasia (SSOH).
CASES: In Family 1, case 1 and case 2 were sisters. In Family 2, case 3 was the
mother of case 4 and the younger sister of case 5. The cases in Family 1 had SSOH
in one eye, whereas Family 2 showed various patterns of SSOH, as well as nasal
optic nerve hypoplasia, and a wide range of optic nerve hypoplasia. Case 1 and
case 3 were diagnosed as normal tension glaucoma and treated with eye drops at a 
previous hospital. None of the cases had any systemic illness. The father of
cases 1 and 2, and the father of Cases 3 and 5 were under treatment for type 2
diabetes mellitus.
CONCLUSION: In this study, SSOH seemed to be prevalent among family members. In
addition, as the cases in Family 2 illustrate, hypoplasia of the optic nerve
showed various patterns in the superior segment, nasal segment, and over a wide
range of the optic nerve. Therefore SSOH was just one part of the overall optic
nerve hypoplasia.


PMID: 19606808  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


801. J Mol Neurosci. 2009 Nov;39(3):366-71. doi: 10.1007/s12031-009-9214-7. Epub 2009 
Jul 14.

L-PGDS (betatrace protein) inhibits astrocyte proliferation and mitochondrial ATP
production in vitro.

Xin X(1), Huber A, Meyer P, Flammer J, Neutzner A, Miller NR, Killer HE.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

L-PGDS is the most abundant protein present in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
Although CSF was believed to be homogenous in content, a previous study has
showed that a marked concentration gradient of L-PGDS exists between the spinal
CSF and the CSF in the subarachnoid space of patients with optic nerve disease
(papilledema and normal-tension glaucoma). Astrocytes play a critical role in
maintaining the integrity of axon function in the central nervous system and
specifically in the optic nerve, and we therefore investigated the biochemical
effects of L-PGDS on the proliferation of astrocytes and on the production of
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by astrocyte mitochondria. We found an inhibitory
effect of L-PGDS on both proliferation of astrocytes and production of astrocyte 
ATP. The concentrations that inhibited astrocyte proliferation and ATP production
were in the range measured in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension 
and in patients with normal-tension glaucoma. As the CSF is in contact with axons
and mitochondria of the optic nerve (Bristow et al. Archives of Ophthalmology,
120, 791-796, 2002), we postulate that a change in the concentration of CSF
protein such as L-PGDS could exercise a harmful effect on these structures.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-009-9214-7 
PMID: 19598000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Med Genet. 2010 Feb;47(2):120-5. doi: 10.1136/jmg.2009.067512. Epub 2009 Jul 5.

OPA1 increases the risk of normal but not high tension glaucoma.

Yu-Wai-Man P, Stewart JD, Hudson G, Andrews RM, Griffiths PG, Birch MK, Chinnery 
PF.

BACKGROUND: Primary open angle glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy
characterised by the selective loss of retinal ganglion cells, pathological optic
disc cupping and visual field defects. The OPA1 gene encodes an inner
mitochondrial membrane protein crucial for normal mitochondrial function, and
pathogenic mutations cause autosomal dominant optic atrophy by specifically
targeting retinal ganglion cells. This raises the distinct possibility that more 
subtle genetic variations in OPA1 could alter the risk of developing glaucoma.
METHODS: 137 patients with primary open angle glaucoma (67 patients with
high-tension glaucoma (HTG), 70 patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)) and 
75 controls from the North East of England were studied. Three single-nucleotide 
polymorphisms in intron 8 (IVS8+4c-->t and IVS8+32t-->c) and exon 4 (c.473A-->G) 
of the OPA1 gene were genotyped in the study group. In addition, the entire OPA1 
coding region was sequenced in 24 individuals with the CT/TT compound genotype
using standard BigDye chemistries.
RESULTS: There was no difference in either allele or genotype frequency for the
IVS8+32t-->c single-nucleotide polymorphisms between patients and controls, but
there was a significant association between the T allele at IVS8+4c-->t and the
risk of developing NTG (OR=2.04, 95% CI=1.10 to 3.81, p=0.004), but not HTG.
Logistic regression analysis also confirmed a strong association between the
CT/TT compound genotype at IVS8+4 and IVS8+32 with NTG (OR=29.75, 95% CI=3.83 to 
231.21, p=0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The CT/TT compound genotype at IVS8+4 and IVS8+32 is a strong
genetic risk determinant for NTG but not HTG.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2009.067512 
PMCID: PMC4038487
PMID: 19581274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2009 Jul-Aug;19(4):580-7.

Color Doppler imaging and ocular pulse amplitude in glaucomatous and healthy
eyes.

Stalmans I(1), Harris A, Fieuws S, Zeyen T, Vanbellinghen V, McCranor L, Siesky
B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Campus St Raphaël,
Leuven - Belgium. ingeborg.stalmans@uzleuven.be

PURPOSE: To determine factors influencing color Doppler imaging (CDI)
measurements, to compare retrobulbar flow velocities between patients with
glaucoma and healthy controls, and to describe the correlation between CDI and
ocular pulse amplitude (OPA).
METHODS: Patients with normal tension (n=28) or primary open angle glaucoma
(n=19) and healthy controls (n=22) underwent CDI and OPA measurements.
Intraocular pressure, corneal thickness, blood pressure, and heart rate were also
measured. Spearman correlations were used to explore relations among these
variables. A regression model for repeated measures was applied to compare
between diagnostic groups the flow velocity indices in the retrobulbar vessels.
RESULTS: Retrobulbar diastolic blood flow velocities correlated with diastolic
blood pressure and perfusion pressure (range of Spearman rho [rho]
coefficients=0.25-0.28; p=0.044-0.013 for the different vessels). Corneal
thickness showed a positive correlation with systolic and diastolic flow
velocities in the central retinal artery (rho=0.29 and 0.31; p=0.017 and 0.011
for peak systolic and end diastolic velocity, respectively). Systolic and
diastolic blood flow velocities were reduced in the retrobulbar vessels of
patients with normal tension glaucoma (P=0.0004) as well as primary open angle
glaucoma (P=0.003) compared to healthy controls. A correlation was found between 
OPA and the resistive index in the retrobulbar vessels of the healthy controls
(range rho=0.42-0.53; p=0.059-0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: Retrobulbar blood flow velocities are reduced in patients with
primary open angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma. Blood pressure and
corneal thickness may influence CDI measurements. OPA correlates with the
resistive index in CDI.


PMID: 19551672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


804. J Glaucoma. 2010 Mar;19(3):191-3. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181a98f30.

Postural response of intraocular pressure and visual field damage in patients
with untreated normal-tension glaucoma.

Kiuchi T(1), Motoyama Y, Oshika T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan. kiuchi-t@md.tsukuba.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To evaluate whether postural changes of intraocular pressure (IOP) are
associated with visual field damage by comparing both eyes of patients with
previously untreated normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty eyes of 20 patients newly diagnosed as bilateral NTG 
were studied. IOP was measured in both sitting and supine positions, and the
magnitude of IOP elevation with postural change (ΔIOP) was calculated. Visual
field was examined using Humphrey Field Analyzer, and the mean deviation (MD)
value was obtained. By comparing ΔIOP between the 2 eyes of a patient, eyes were 
classified into either small or large ΔIOP group. The MD was compared between
these 2 groups.
RESULTS: The ΔIOP was 3.2 ± 1.9 mm Hg [mean ± standard deviation (SD)] and 4.5 ± 
2.3 mm Hg in the small and large ΔIOP eyes, respectively. The MD in the large
ΔIOP eyes [-8.9 ± 6.2 dB (mean ± SD)] was significantly worse than that in the
small ΔIOP eyes (-5.9 ± 4.7 dB) (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: More advanced visual field damage was observed in eyes with greater 
magnitude of IOP elevation with postural changes. IOP measurement in the supine
position at the time of first diagnosis of NTG may facilitate the planning of
treatment strategy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181a98f30 
PMID: 19528820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Can J Ophthalmol. 2009 Apr;44(2):198-204. doi: 10.3129/i09-041.

Depressive symptomatology in tertiary-care glaucoma patients.

Lundmark PO(1), Trope GE, Shapiro CM, Flanagan JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ont. per.lundmark@hibu.no

OBJECTIVE: To investigate depressive symptomatology among patients with glaucoma 
and to relate the findings to disease stability.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional postal survey.
PARTICIPANTS: The study sample consisted of 258 patients out of a pool of 884
respondents to a survey on health and sleep sent to 1809 glaucoma patients
registered in a major tertiary glaucoma centre at the Toronto Western Hospital,
Toronto, Ont.
METHODS: The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale questionnaire was 
mailed along with questions related to demographic information, general health,
and sleep quality. Respondents were included if (i) their diagnosis was either
primary open-angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma, or primary angle-closure
glaucoma; (ii) the disease duration was 3 years or more; (iii) clinical
examinations were obtained annually; and (iv) perimetric results were reliable.
Each patient's condition was classified as stable or progressive on the basis of 
pointwise decline in visual fields (VFs).
RESULTS: The unadjusted odds ratio for depressive symptoms was found to be 0.4
times less (95% CI 0.19-0.88) in patients with progressive VFs (n = 79) than in
patients with stable VFs (n = 179). Adjusting for demographic characteristics,
general health, psychiatric comorbidity, and ocular factors did not weaken this
association. However, it was reduced by the increased severity of VF defects
(moderate and severe).
CONCLUSIONS: In this sample of tertiary-care patients, depressive symptoms were
found to be less common in patients with progressive than with stable VFs when
defects were classified as early, but not when they were classified as moderate
or severe.

DOI: 10.3129/i09-041 
PMID: 19491956  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Ophthalmology. 2009 Jul;116(7):1250-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.02.003. Epub
2009 May 30.

Silent cerebral infarct and visual field progression in newly diagnosed
normal-tension glaucoma: a cohort study.

Leung DY(1), Tham CC, Li FC, Kwong YY, Chi SC, Lam DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong Eye Hospital, Hong Kong. dexleung@alumni.cuhk.net

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2010 Mar;117(3):640; author reply 640-1.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether the presence of silent cerebral infarct (SCI) is 
related to field progression in patients with newly diagnosed normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 286 eyes from 286 NTG patients: 64 with SCI (SCI+) and
222 without SCI (SCI-).
METHODS: Patients were assigned to the SCI+ or SCI- group depending on the
presence of SCI as detected by cranial computed tomography scan at baseline.
Patients were followed-up at 4-month intervals for 36 months for visual field
progression as per Anderson's criteria.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the association between SCI and
field progression. Secondary outcomes include the prevalence of SCI in NTG
patients and other risk factors associated with progression.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in the baseline intraocular
pressures (IOPs), fluctuation amplitude of pretreatment IOP, baseline visual
acuity, vertical cup-to-disc ratio, vertical disc diameter, presenting field
indices, and central corneal thickness (CCT) between the 2 groups. Patients with 
SCI were significantly older compared with SCI- patients (72.4+/-10.7 vs.
63.2+/-14.2 years; P<0.001). Univariate analyses revealed age, fluctuation
amplitude of pretreatment IOP, thinner CCT, presence of disc hemorrhage, systemic
hypertension, arrhythmia, and SCI were significant for field progression. Silent 
cerebral infarct was present in 29.6% of field-progressed subjects versus 15.3%
of field-stable subjects (P = 0.004). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed
that 65.6% of SCI+ versus 45.9% of SCI- patients had progressed (P = 0.003). Cox 
proportional hazards regression analysis showed disc hemorrhage (hazard ratio
[HR], 2.28; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.54-3.37; P<0.001), SCI (HR, 1.61; 95%
CI, 1.09-2.36; P = 0.016), systemic hypertension (HR, 1.48; 95% CI, 1.04-2.10; P 
= 0.029), and CCT (per 30 mum of thinning; HR, 1.35; 95% CI, 1.16-1.75; P<0.001) 
were associated with field progression. Other variables significant in the
univariate analysis were not significant in the regression model. The most common
location of SCI was at the basal ganglia.
CONCLUSIONS: Presence of SCI may be an independent risk factor for visual field
progression in patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.02.003 
PMID: 19481813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Tunis Med. 2008 Apr;86(4):355-7.

[Vascular profile of patients with normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Ali El Afrit M(1), Trojet S, Mazlout H, Hamdouni M, Korchene N, Kraiem A.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'ophtalmologie, Hôpital Habib Thameur Tunis.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma can be caused by multiple factors essentially the vascular
factors.
AIM: The aim of this article is to study the vascular profil of patients with
normal tension glaucoma in the purpose to better understanding his pathogenesis
and to making appropriate therapeutic decision.
METHODS: 39 patients with normal tension glaucoma were investigated. Each patient
had complete ophtalmologic examination with visuel field examination, a medical
examination, a biological investigation and a vascular supraaortic doppler.
RESULTS: One or several vascular risk factor are found in the majority of our
patients. 25% of the patients aggravate their visuel fiel. 40% are diabetic, 56% 
are hypertensive, 40% have a lipidic disturbance and 30% have a vasospastic
syndrom.
CONCLUSION: Vascular risk factors play an important role in the physiopathology
of normal tension glaucoma, and the prognosis depend on the treatment of these
factors.


PMID: 19476138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2009 Nov;50(11):5266-74. doi: 10.1167/iovs.09-3716.
Epub 2009 May 27.

Twenty-four hour ocular perfusion pressure fluctuation and risk of normal-tension
glaucoma progression.

Sung KR(1), Lee S, Park SB, Choi J, Kim ST, Yun SC, Kang SY, Cho JW, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Asan Medical Center, College of Medicine,
University of Ulsan, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between clinical factors including
24-hour mean ocular perfusion pressure (MOPP, (2/3) x mean arterial pressure
[MAP] - intraocular pressure [IOP]) and visual field (VF) progression in eyes
with medically treated normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: One hundred one eyes of 101 NTG patients followed up for more than 4
years (mean follow-up, 6.2 years +/- 12.1 months) were included after
retrospective chart review. Several clinical factors including demographic,
systemic, ocular risk factors, and 24-hour MOPP were explored for associations
with decreasing VF. Kaplan-Meier analyses were performed to compare outcomes with
reference to four risk factors (age, myopia, and elevated MAP and MOPP
fluctuation) for VF deterioration. Hazard ratios (HRs) for the association
between potential risk factors and glaucoma progression were obtained using Cox
proportional hazards models.
RESULTS: Overall VF progression was detected in 29 (28.7%) eyes. There were
significant differences between progressors and nonprogressors in nocturnal MAP
and MOPP fluctuations (both P < 0.0001), 24-hour MAP, and MOPP fluctuations (both
P < 0.0001), initial mean deviation (P = 0.0034), and pattern standard deviation 
(PSD) score (P < 0.0001). Both elevated 24-hour MAP and MOPP fluctuations were
associated with greater VF progression probabilities based on Kaplan-Meier
analyses. Among all risk factors investigated, the Cox proportional hazards model
indicated that VF progression was significantly associated with 24-hour MOPP
fluctuation and initial PSD score.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical factors other than IOP were associated with VF progression 
in our series of medically treated NTG eyes. Twenty-four-hour MOPP fluctuation
was the most consistent prognostic factor for glaucoma progression.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.09-3716 
PMID: 19474398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Mol Vis. 2009 May 20;15:1045-9.

Lack of association between p53 gene polymorphisms and primary open angle
glaucoma in the Japanese population.

Mabuchi F(1), Sakurada Y, Kashiwagi K, Yamagata Z, Iijima H, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
1110 Shimokato, Chuo, Yamanashi 409-3898, Japan. fmabuchi@yamanashi.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To assess whether tumor protein p53 gene (p53) polymorphisms are
associated with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) in the Japanese population.
METHODS: Four hundred and twenty-five Japanese patients with POAG, including
normal tension glaucoma (NTG, n=213) and high tension glaucoma (HTG, n=212) and
189 control subjects without glaucoma were analyzed for two p53 polymorphisms
(rs1042522; a G-->C substitution at codon 72 in exon 4 and rs59758982; a 16 base 
pair insertion in intron 3) using allele specific primer PCR and a pyrosequencing
technique respectively. The genotypic and allelic frequencies were compared
between NTG or HTG patients and control subjects.
RESULTS: No significant difference (NTG versus control, p=0.99, and HTG versus
control, p=0.69, chi(2) test) was observed regarding the p53 genotype frequencies
at codon 72 between the NTG (GG: 43.2%, GC: 44.6%, CC: 12.2%) or HTG (GG: 40.1%, 
GC: 48.1%, CC: 11.8%) patients and the control subjects (GG: 43.9%, GC: 43.9%,
CC: 12.2%). In addition, there was no significant difference (NTG versus control,
p=0.94; and HTG versus control, p=0.66, Fisher's exact test) in the p53 allele
frequencies at codon 72 between the NTG (G allele: 65.5%, C allele: 34.5%) or HTG
(G allele: 64.2%, C allele: 35.8%) patients and the control subjects (G allele:
65.9%, C allele: 34.1%). No 16 base pair insertion in intron 3 was found in this 
study.
CONCLUSION: p53 polymorphisms were not associated with POAG in the Japanese
population. Further studies in the other ethnic populations should therefore be
performed to elucidate whether the p53 intron 3 insertion polymorphism is a
genetic risk factor for POAG, because the intron 3 insertion polymorphism occurs 
very rarely in the Japanese population.


PMCID: PMC2684750
PMID: 19471604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Ophthalmology. 2009 Jul;116(7):1243-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.01.036. Epub
2009 May 17.

Meta-analysis of medical intervention for normal tension glaucoma.

Cheng JW(1), Cai JP, Wei RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, China. ruiliwei@gmail.com

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2010 Jul;117(7):1463; author reply 1463-4.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction achieved by the
most frequently prescribed antiglaucoma drugs in patients with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Systematic review and meta-analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: Fifteen randomized clinical trials reported 25 arms for peak IOP
reduction, 16 arms for trough IOP reduction, and 13 arms for diurnal curve IOP
reduction.
METHODS: Pertinent publications were identified through systematic searches of
PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register. The patients had to 
be diagnosed as having NTG. Methodological quality was assessed by the Delphi
list on a scale from 0 to 18. The pooled 1-month IOP-lowering effects were
calculated using the 2-step DerSimonian and Laird estimate method of the random
effects model.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Absolute and relative reductions in IOP from baseline for 
peak and trough moments.
RESULTS: Quality scores of included studies were generally high, with a mean
quality score of 12.7 (range, 9-16). Relative IOP reductions were peak, 15%
(12%-18%), and trough, 18% (8%-27%) for timolol; peak, 14% (8%-19%), and trough, 
12% (-7% to 31%) for dorzolamide; peak, 24% (17%-31%), and trough, 11% (7%-14%)
for brimonidine; peak, 20% (17%-24%), and trough, 20% (18%-23%) for latanoprost; 
peak, 21% (16%-25%), and trough, 18% (14%-22%) for bimatoprost. The differences
in absolute IOP reductions between prostaglandin analogues and timolol varied
from 0.9 to 1.0 mmHg at peak and -0.1 to 0.2 mmHg at trough.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost, bimatoprost, and timolol are the most effective
IOP-lowering agents in patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.01.036 
PMID: 19450880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Eye (Lond). 2010 Feb;24(2):328-33. doi: 10.1038/eye.2009.73. Epub 2009 May 1.

Prevalence of myocilin gene mutations in a novel UK cohort of POAG patients.

Ennis S(1), Gibson J, Griffiths H, Bunyan D, Cree AJ, Robinson D, Self J, MacLeod
A, Lotery A.

Author information: 
(1)Genetic Epidemiology and Bioinformatics Group, Human Genetics Division (Mp
808), Southampton General Hospital SO16 6YD, University of Southampton,
Southampton, UK.

PURPOSE: To identify the prevalence of myocilin gene mutations in a UK glaucoma
cohort.
METHODS: Primary open-angle (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma patients were
recruited from the Southampton University Hospital Trust Eye Clinic and satellite
regional glaucoma clinics. Phenotype data relating to disease history and other
potential risk factors were recorded and blood samples collected for each
consenting participant. Point mutation analysis of the myocilin gene was carried 
out using six overlapping PCR fragments covering the entire coding sequence of
the gene. A total of 316 POAG samples were examined of which 7 (2.2 %) tested
positive for disease-causing mutations in this gene. One of these seven
non-synonymous mutations represented a previously unreported amino-acid
substitution of cysteine for arginine at codon 296 (p.R296C) of the myocilin
protein.
CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies a 2.2% prevalence of myocilin mutations in a
cohort of ethnically homogenous glaucoma patients selected from a UK ophthalmic
clinic. A novel myocilin mutation is also described. This study identifies that
myocilin genetic screening is feasible in NHS glaucoma clinics for genetic
counselling and cascade testing of relatives of patients affected by myocilin
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2009.73 
PMID: 19407846  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2009 Dec;132(1-3):1-8. doi: 10.1007/s12011-009-8376-z.

Lead accumulation as possible risk factor for primary open-angle glaucoma.

Yuki K(1), Dogru M, Imamura Y, Kimura I, Ohtake Y, Tsubota K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinanomachi 
35, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan. glaucoma.keio@gmail.com

We evaluated the association between hair lead concentrations and primary
open-angle glaucoma. Ninety-eight Japanese patients (40 males, 58 females;
average age 57.6 ± 10.8 years) with primary open-angle glaucoma and control
subjects (131 males, 114 females; average age 56.0 ± 12.8 years) were recruited
in this study. Hair lead levels were measured by inductively coupled plasma mass 
spectrometry. Hair lead concentrations between primary open-angle glaucoma and
control groups were compared using Mann-Whitney U test. As a subgroup analysis,
we compared hair lead concentrations between low-tension glaucoma, high-tension
glaucoma, and control groups using one-factor analysis of variance. Lead
accumulation levels were significantly higher in the female subjects with primary
open-angle glaucoma compared to the control group (P=0.03). Lead accumulation
levels were significantly higher in female patients with low intraocular pressure
compared to control group 2 (P=0.02). A higher hair lead level, which reflects
the total body burden of lead, was observed to be associated with primary
open-angle glaucoma in females especially with low-tension glaucoma. Accumulation
of lead may be an unrecognized risk factor of non-pressure-dependent glaucomatous
optic neuropathy.

DOI: 10.1007/s12011-009-8376-z 
PMID: 19390789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


813. J Glaucoma. 2010 Feb;19(2):136-41. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31819f9330.

Lysyl oxidase-like 1 gene polymorphisms in German patients with normal tension
glaucoma, pigmentary glaucoma and exfoliation glaucoma.

Wolf C(1), Gramer E, Müller-Myhsok B, Pasutto F, Gramer G, Wissinger B, Weisschuh
N.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ophthalmology, Institute for Ophthalmic Research, Molecular
Genetics Laboratory, Eberhard-Karls-University, Tuebingen, Germany.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association between lysyl-oxidase-like 1 (LOXL1) gene
polymorphisms and exfoliation glaucoma, pigmentary glaucoma and normal tension
glaucoma in a case-control cohort of German patients.
METHODS: Six single nucleotide polymorphisms in a 22 kb genomic region
encompassing the LOXL1 gene plus an additional "outlier" single nucleotide
polymorphism located approximately 1.1 Mb upstream of LOXL1 were genotyped in 128
exfoliation glaucoma patients, 88 pigmentary glaucoma patients, 273 normal
tension glaucoma patients, and 280 healthy control subjects either with TaqMan
allelic discrimination assays or by direct sequencing, and a genetic association 
study was performed.
RESULTS: For the exfoliation glaucoma cases, case-control allelic association for
6 single nucleotide polymorphisms were highly significant. In contrast, there
were no genotypic differences between pigmentary glaucoma cases, normal tension
glaucoma cases and controls. However, an association between rs1048661 genotype
and age at disease onset was suggested for pigmentary glaucoma patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study reveals that in the German population the LOXL1 genetic
predisposition is limited to exfoliation glaucoma and does not include normal
tension glaucoma. In addition, our study implicates that LOXL1 polymorphisms are 
not likely to have a major influence on the pathophysiology of pigmentary
glaucoma. However, 1 nonsynonymous polymorphism may serve as a predictor of age
at disease onset in pigmentary glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31819f9330 
PMID: 19373106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


814. J Glaucoma. 2010 Jan;19(1):58-60. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181a2fc47.

Corneal thickness measurements in normal-tension glaucoma workups: is it worth
the effort?

Kurtz S(1), Haber I, Kesler A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tel Aviv Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of
Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. kurtzs@zahav.net.il

PURPOSE: To correlate central corneal thickness (CCT) and intraocular pressure
(IOP) with disease severity in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of all patients diagnosed with NTG
in our institution between 2002 and 2006. NTG was diagnosed according to the
glaucomatous visual fields loss, glaucomatous optic disc cupping, and an IOP <22 
mm Hg on diurnal curve measurements. Mean CCT and IOP values before and after
treatment were also evaluated. Patients were divided into 3 groups according to
advanced glaucoma intervention score (mild, moderate, and severe visual field
defects).
RESULTS: A total of 33 females and 35 males with bilateral NTG were enrolled. The
mean follow-up was 4.6 years. CCT was inversely correlated with glaucoma
severity. CCT was normal in both eyes in mild disease, thin in the right eye (RE)
and normal in the left eye (LE) in moderate disease, and low in both eyes in
severe disease. Initial bilateral mean maximal IOP was similar at all disease
stages and became lower after treatment in parallel to disease severity: 13.44,
12.22, and 11.63 mm Hg in the RE and 13.29, 12.60, and 12.32 mm Hg in the LE,
respectively. There was no statistical difference in disease severity between the
RE and LE.
CONCLUSIONS: CCT correlated with disease severity: the more advanced the disease,
the thinner the cornea. Initial maximal IOP did not predict disease severity, but
it was lower in the more severe cases after treatment, possibly representing a
more aggressive treatment protocol.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181a2fc47 
PMID: 19373098  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Int Ophthalmol. 2010 Apr;30(2):215-9. doi: 10.1007/s10792-009-9308-9. Epub 2009
Apr 8.

Chiasmal compression misdiagnosed as normal-tension glaucoma: can we avoid the
pitfalls?

Drummond SR(1), Weir C.

Author information: 
(1)Tennent Institute of Ophthalmology, Gartnavel General Hospital, Great Western 
Road, Glasgow, G21 0YN, UK. suzy.drummond@ggc.scot.nhs.uk

Routine neuroimaging for patients with presumed normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is 
a contentious issue and it has been suggested that it may be unnecessary due to
the low yield for detecting intracranial pathology. However, it has also been
reported that 8% of patients diagnosed with NTG have associated compressive
lesions of the anterior visual pathways. We present three patients in whom the
initial diagnosis of NTG was eventually revealed to be chiasmal compression
secondary to a pituitary tumour. Case 1: a 79-year-old woman was treated for NTG 
for several months before a bitemporal haemianopia developed and imaging showed a
pituitary tumour. Case 2: an 83-year-old man was treated for NTG while a magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) scan was requested routinely. This subsequently revealed 
a pituitary tumour. Case 3: a 52-year-old man with left inferior arcuate visual
field loss plus disc pallor was treated for NTG. His visual field deteriorated
over 8 years, despite his intraocular pressure (IOP) being well controlled. An
MRI was eventually requested, which revealed a pituitary tumour. All of our
patients had signs that, with hindsight, should have raised suspicions about the 
presumptive diagnosis of NTG and initiated neuroimaging at an earlier stage.
Whilst compression of the anterior visual pathways is an uncommon finding in
patients thought to have NTG, features such as bitemporal field loss, optic disc 
pallor, poor colour vision and, particularly, poor disc/field correlation should 
alert the clinician to the possibility of an intracranial mass lesion.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-009-9308-9 
PMID: 19352595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Mol Vis. 2009;15:646-53. Epub 2009 Apr 3.

Different WDR36 mutation pattern in Chinese patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Fan BJ(1), Wang DY, Cheng CY, Ko WC, Lam SC, Pang CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, the Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.

PURPOSE: To determine the distribution of WD repeat domain 36 (WDR36) sequence
variants in Chinese patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: One hundred and thirty-five unrelated POAG patients (82 high tension
glaucoma [HTG], 42 normal tension glaucoma [NTG], and 11 juvenile-onset POAG
[JOAG] patients) and 77 unrelated controls were recruited. All 23 coding exons
and splicing junctions of WDR36 were sequenced using BigDye Terminator v3.1 cycle
sequencing kit. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and haplotype associations
were analyzed using PLINK (version 1.04).
RESULTS: Nineteen sequence alterations were identified, and eight of them were
novel including two novel nonsynonymous SNPs (L240V and I713V). Except the common
I264V polymorphism, no other previously reported disease-causing or
disease-susceptibility mutations were found. The novel I713V mutation was
observed in three (3.7%) patients with HTG. One intronic SNP, IVS5+30C>T
(rs10038177), showed significantly higher frequency of minor allele T in HTG
patients (16.5%) than in controls (1.3%; Odds ratio [OR]=15.0, p=7.9 x 10(-7),
Bonferroni corrected p=1.5 x 10(-5)). Haplotype GTA, which is composed of
rs13153937, rs10038177, and rs11241095, was significantly associated with HTG
(OR=22.5, p=0.002, Bonferroni corrected p=0.013). Neither the individual SNPs nor
haplotypes of WDR36 were associated with NTG or JOAG (Bonferroni corrected
p>0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Findings in this study suggest WDR36 to be associated with sporadic 
HTG but not with NTG or JOAG. Our results also suggest a different mutation
pattern of WDR36 in the Chinese population from other ethnic populations.


PMCID: PMC2664842
PMID: 19347049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2009 Mar;23(1):32-9. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2009.23.1.32. Epub
2009 Mar 9.

Twenty-four hour blood pressure pattern in patients with normal tension glaucoma 
in the habitual position.

Joe SG(1), Choi J, Sung KR, Park SB, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Asan
Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between blood pressure (BP) parameters
in the habitual position and glaucomatous damage at initial presentation in
patients with untreated normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Fifty-four eyes from 54 subjects diagnosed with NTG were consecutively
enrolled. BP was measured with an automated ambulatory monitoring device in the
habitual position during 24-hour in-hospitalization. Patients were classified
into three groups: non-dippers, dippers, and over-dippers. corresponded to the
degree of reduction in their nocturnal mean arterial pressure (MAP) compared with
their diurnal MAP. Regression models were used to evaluate potential risk
factors, including: age, pre-admission office intraocular pressure (IOP), central
corneal thickness (CCT), and BP parameters. Functional outcome variables for
glaucomatous damage included mean deviation (MD) and pattern standard deviation
(PSD) on a Humphrey field analyzer (HFA). Anatomic outcome variables were TSNIT
score (temporal, superior, nasal, inferior, and temporal) average, superior
average, inferior average, and nerve fiber indicator (NFI) score on scanning
laser polarimetry with variable corneal compensation (SLP-VCC; GDx-VCC).
RESULTS: Marked systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP),
and MAP fluctuation were noted in the over-dipper group (p<0.05). A linear
regression analysis model revealed that nocturnal trough DBP and MAP, average
nocturnal SBP, and MAP were all significantly associated with a decreased average
TSNIT score and an increased NFI score.
CONCLUSIONS: Nocturnal BP reduction estimated in the habitual position was
associated with structural damage in eyes with NTG. This finding may suggest
systemic vascular etiology of NTG development associated with nocturnal BP
reduction.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2009.23.1.32 
PMCID: PMC2655738
PMID: 19337477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2009 Mar;53(2):176-9. doi: 10.1007/s10384-008-0623-x. Epub 2009
Mar 31.

Deepening of eyelid superior sulcus during topical travoprost treatment.

Yang HK(1), Park KH, Kim TW, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Topical travoprost, a prostaglandin F(2alpha) (PGF(2alpha)) analog,
has several well-known side effects, including a darkening of the eyelid and
eyelash hypertrichosis, but there are no reports of a deepening of the eyelid
superior sulcus associated with its use.
CASES: We examined one patient with unilateral normal-tension glaucoma and
another with unilateral primary open-angle glaucoma, both of whom were treated
with travoprost monotherapy unilaterally for 2 years.
COMMENTS: Both patients gradually developed a deepening of the eyelid superior
sulcus with hyperpigmentation in the eyelid skin of the treated eye. The
disparity between the treated eye and the fellow eye was quite visible. However, 
the disparity returned to normal after discontinuation of travoprost for 15
months. A deepening of the eyelid superior sulcus is more significant in Asians, 
who seldom have an eyelid crease or deep sulcus. One proposed mechanism is a
mechanical insult to the eyelid causing levator dehiscence. A second possible
mechanism is fatty degeneration and reduced collagen fibers in the levator
complex caused by the PGF(2alpha) analog. However, the exact mechanism remains to
be determined.
CONCLUSION: A deepening of the eyelid superior sulcus should be considered a
possible complication of topical travoprost that can be reversed by
discontinuation of the medication.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-008-0623-x 
PMID: 19333704  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


819. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2009 Feb;25(1):91-6. doi: 10.1089/jop.2008.0056.

Potential benefit of intraocular pressure reduction in normal-tension glaucoma in
South Korea.

Seong GJ(1), Rho SH, Kim CS, Moon JI, Kook MS, Kim YY, Ma KT, Hong YJ, Nelson LA,
Kruft B, Stewart JA, Stewart WC.

Author information: 
(1)Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the potential benefit of
intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) Asian adult
patients in South Korea.
METHODS: This was a retrospective, multicenter analysis of 166 NTG Asian adult
patients in South Korea. The patient population consisted of Korean patients with
NTG with at least 5 years of records available for evaluation. Patients all had
typical glaucomatous optic-disc and/or visual-field changes but had never had a
recorded IOP >21 mmHg.
RESULTS: Overall, 48 (29%) patients were progressed and 116 (71%) were stable
over the follow-up period. Of patients with IOPs <or=14 mmHg (21/93), 23%
progressed and >or=15 mmHg (27/73) 37% progressed (P = 0.041). The mean IOP for
the stable group was 14.0 +/- 1.8 mmHg, whereas with the progressed group the
average mean IOP was 14.4 +/- 1.6 mmHg (P = 0.20). The mean peak IOP was 17.4 +/-
2.2 mmHg in the stable group and 17.8 +/- 2.0 mmHg in the progressed group (P =
0.26). Multivariate linear regression analysis did not any identify independent
risk factors for progression, including age, gender, or mean and peak IOP.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides initial evidence that Korean patients with
normal-tension glaucoma, treated to lower IOPs, may have a decreased incidence of
progression over 5 years than those patients with higher IOPs. More research is
required to confirm this finding.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2008.0056 
PMID: 19232005  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Ann Ophthalmol (Skokie). 2008 Fall-Winter;40(3-4):177-9.

Colloid cyst of third ventricle mimicking normal tension glaucoma.

Patel DK(1), Ali NA, Iqbal T, Subrayan V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia.

Colloid cysts are rare intracranial tumors most commonly found in the third
ventricle. We present a case of colloid cyst of the third ventricle that
manifested as bilateral advance optic disc cupping, superior hemifield defects in
the visual fields and normal intraocular pressure.


PMID: 19230359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


821. J Glaucoma. 2010 Mar;19(3):151-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318193c45c.

Normal versus high tension glaucoma: a comparison of functional and structural
defects.

Thonginnetra O(1), Greenstein VC, Chu D, Liebmann JM, Ritch R, Hood DC.

Author information: 
(1)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York,
NY, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare visual field defects obtained with both multifocal visual
evoked potential (mfVEP) and Humphrey visual field (HVF) techniques to
topographic optic disc measurements in patients with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) and high tension glaucoma (HTG).
METHODS: We studied 32 patients with NTG and 32 with HTG. All patients had
reliable 24-2 HVFs with a mean deviation of -10 dB or better, a glaucomatous
optic disc and an abnormal HVF in at least 1 eye. Multifocal VEPs were obtained
from each eye and probability plots created. The mfVEP and HVF probability plots 
were divided into a central 10-degree radius and an outer arcuate subfield in
both superior and inferior hemifields. Cluster analyses and counts of abnormal
points were performed in each subfield. Optic disc images were obtained with the 
Heidelberg Retina Tomograph III. Eleven stereometric parameters were calculated. 
Moorfields regression analysis and the glaucoma probability score were performed.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in mean deviation and pattern
standard deviation values between NTG and HTG eyes. However, NTG eyes had a
higher percentage of abnormal test points and clusters of abnormal points in the 
central subfields on both mfVEP and HVF than HTG eyes. For Heidelberg Retina
Tomograph III, there were no significant differences in the 11 stereometric
parameters or in the Moorfields regression analysis and glaucoma probability
score analyses of the optic disc images.
CONCLUSIONS: The visual field data suggest more localized and central defects for
NTG than HTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318193c45c 
PMCID: PMC2891909
PMID: 19223786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 Feb;127(2):167-71. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2008.593.

The characteristics of glaucoma in Japanese Americans.

Pekmezci M(1), Vo B, Lim AK, Hirabayashi DR, Tanaka GH, Weinreb RN, Lin SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the proportions of glaucoma subtypes and risk factors for
glaucoma in a large Japanese American clinic population.
METHODS: Medical records of patients of Japanese descent who visited 2 private
ophthalmology clinics within the last 10 years were retrospectively reviewed.
Glaucoma was diagnosed based on optic nerve findings and presence of visual field
defects. Main outcome measures were distribution of glaucoma subtypes,
characteristics of different glaucoma subtypes, and comparative results with
Japanese American patients without glaucoma.
RESULTS: Of 1732 patients, 112 had glaucoma (6.4%). Of these, 17% had
high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and 70% had normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). There were
2 patients with primary angle-closure, 3 with mixed-mechanism, and 10 with
secondary glaucoma. The presence of glaucoma was positively correlated with age, 
refractive error, visual acuity in logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution, 
and intraocular pressure, while there was a negative correlation between central 
corneal thickness and glaucoma. Controlling for age, intraocular pressure and
visual acuity remained significantly correlated with glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: In this large Japanese American clinic population, the proportion of
patients with glaucoma who had NTG was 4-fold higher than those with HTG. A
prospective population-based study may be warranted to further define the
spectrum of glaucoma and the reason for the high proportion of NTG in this
population.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2008.593 
PMID: 19204234  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2009 Jun;247(6):781-7. doi:
10.1007/s00417-009-1045-2. Epub 2009 Feb 5.

Long axial length as risk factor for normal tension glaucoma.

Oku Y(1), Oku H, Park M, Hayashi K, Takahashi H, Shouji T, Chihara E.

Author information: 
(1)Sensho-kai Eye Institute, Iseda-cho, Uji, Kyoto, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The high prevalence of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in the Japanese 
requires special screening tests other than measurements of only the intraocular 
pressure (IOP). This study was carried out to determine whether there is a
significant association between the axial length of the eye and the presence of
NTG.
METHODS: We reviewed the medical records of all patients who were scheduled to
undergo cataract surgery alone or combined with glaucoma surgery at the same
time. There were 87 patients with NTG, 137 with POAG, and 978 non-glaucomatous
control cases. The axial length, IOP, curvature of the anterior corneal surface, 
age, and gender were determined at the time of the operation. If both eyes had
surgery, data from only the right eyes were analyzed. An association of these
parameters with NTG and POAG was analyzed by logistic regression analysis. The
three groups were analyzed for differences in the axial length using the
Kruskal-Wallis test followed by the Mann-Whitney U test.
RESULTS: The axial length was significantly associated with NTG (odds = 1.24, P =
0.002) and POAG (odds = 1.28, P = 0.001). The incidence of either POAG or NTG was
significantly higher in patients with axial lengths >or=25.0 mm (odds = 2.29, P <
0.001, Fisher's exact test). The age at the time of cataract surgery was weakly
but significantly correlated negatively with the axial length (r = -0.24, P <
0.001, Pearson's correlation coefficient test). Men had significantly longer
axial lengths than women.
CONCLUSIONS: Long axial lengths can be considered a risk factor for NTG and POAG,
and patients with long axial lengths need to be carefully examined for glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-009-1045-2 
PMID: 19194720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2009 Jan;53(1):18-23. doi: 10.1007/s10384-008-0617-8. Epub 2009
Jan 30.

Effect of travoprost on intraocular pressure during 12 months of treatment for
normal-tension glaucoma.

Suh MH(1), Park KH, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering effect of travoprost
in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) over a 12-month follow-up.
METHODS: Forty-five eyes of 45 patients with unilateral NTG were treated with
travoprost (0.004%) once a day for 12 months. Mean IOP and the IOP reduction from
baseline were assessed at 0.5, 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the initiation of 
the treatment. Adverse ocular event frequency and the frequency of
discontinuation of treatment due to adverse events were evaluated.
RESULTS: Mean IOP during 12 months of travoprost treatment ranged from 11.17 to
11.82 mmHg, and the mean IOP reduction in relation to baseline IOP from -2.71 to 
-3.71 mmHg (-18.3% to -25.1%). Mean IOP and IOP changes in the travoprost-treated
and control groups were significantly different at every follow-up (P < 0.05 in
each case). Both the magnitude (r = 0.6992) and percentage (r = 0.5464) of IOP
reductions correlated positively with baseline IOP values. Ocular adverse events 
were usually mild to moderate and resolved without treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Travoprost was well tolerated and significantly reduced IOP in NTG
patients. In addition, initial IOP reductions were maintained throughout
follow-up. Travoprost was found to be more effective in patients with greater
baseline IOP.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-008-0617-8 
PMID: 19184304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2008 Dec;112(12):1035-7.

[Significance of epidemiological glaucoma survey --awareness of normal-tension
glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugiyama K.


PMID: 19157024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


826. J Glaucoma. 2009 Jan;18(1):73-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31816f7631.

Plasma homocysteine, MTHFR gene mutation, and open-angle glaucoma.

Clement CI(1), Goldberg I, Healey PR, Graham SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sydney Eye Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
colinc1@gmp.usyd.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: Elevated plasma homocysteine has been associated with an increased
risk of cardiovascular disease. The association between open-angle glaucoma and
cardiovascular disease has recently stimulated interest in the role of
homocysteine in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. Some studies report elevated plasma
homocysteine in patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome and pseudoexfoliation
glaucoma (PXFG), but have not found this association consistently in other types 
of open-angle glaucoma. In this study, we have measured plasma homocysteine and
C677T methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) mutation, the commonest genetic
cause of elevated plasma homocysteine, in patients with PXFG, primary open-angle 
glaucoma (POAG), and normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Prospective cross-sectional cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: Forty-eight patients with PXFG, 36 patients with POAG, 34 patients 
with NTG, and 42 controls without glaucoma.
METHODS: Fasting venous blood samples from each participant were analyzed for
plasma homocysteine and the C677T MTHFR gene mutation. MAIN OUTCOME OF INTEREST: 
Mean plasma homocysteine levels, number of individuals with homocysteine above
the reference range, and percentage of individuals with heterozygous or
homozygous C677T MTHFR gene mutations.
RESULTS: Mean plasma homocysteine was significantly higher in PXFG (11.77+/-4.18 
micromol/L), POAG (11.21+/-2.84 micromol/L), and NTG (11.74+/-3.79 micromol/L)
compared with control (9.82+/-1.75 micromol/L). Hyperhomocysteinemia was found in
27.1% of PXFG patients, 30.6% of POAG patients, and 29.4% of NTG patients. There 
was no significant difference in frequency of MTHFR C677T gene mutation between
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Plasma homocysteine was elevated in PXFG, POAG, and NTG. Elevated
plasma homocysteine seems to be associated with glaucoma in these patients.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31816f7631 
PMID: 19142139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Glaucoma. 2009 Jan;18(1):32-6. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31816b2fd1.

Correlation between corneal and scleral thickness in glaucoma.

Mohamed-Noor J(1), Bochmann F, Siddiqui MA, Atta HR, Leslie T, Maharajan P, Wong 
YM, Azuara-Blanco A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary and University of
Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. JelinarMNoor@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To assess the correlation between central corneal thickness (CCT) and
anterior scleral thickness (ST) in patients of primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and ocular hypertension (OHT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Consecutive patients with OHT, POAG, NTG, and normal
individuals were recruited. CCT was measured by ultrasonic pachymetry, whereas ST
was measured using ultrasonic biomicroscopy at the temporal quadrant, 2 mm
posterior to the scleral spur. Investigators were masked to the diagnosis and
CCT/ ultrasonic biomicroscopy data. Correlation between mean CCT and ST was
analyzed.
RESULTS: One hundred and twenty-four subjects (31 with OHT, 31 with POAG, 31 with
NTG, and 31 normal individuals) were enrolled. The CCT (OHT 548.06+/-30.45
microm; POAG 519.39+/-42.95 microm; NTG 505.81+/-27.23 microm; controls
529.90+/-43.40 microm) was found to be thicker in patients with OHT than POAG
(P=0.004) or NTG (P<0.01). There was also a difference in CCT between NTG and
control eyes (P=0.012). The ST (OHT 755.03+/-69.58 microm; POAG 738.45+/-66.83
microm; NTG 708.74+/-71.58 microm; controls 724.45+/-73.27 microm) was thicker in
the OHT group than in NTG patients (P=0.012). No significant difference in ST was
found among other groups. Among subgroups, the correlation between CCT and ST was
found only among the patients with NTG (r=0.440, P=0.013). However, no
correlation was seen between CCT and ST in patients with OHT, POAG, and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a correlation between CCT and ST among the NTG group but no
correlation was seen among OHT, POAG, and controls.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31816b2fd1 
PMID: 19142132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2008 Dec;31(10):981-6.

[Two-year outcomes of selective laser trabeculoplasty in open-angle glaucoma and 
ocular hypertension].

[Article in French]

Zaninetti M(1), Ravinet E.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital ophtalmique Jules-Gonin, Lausanne, Suisse. marc.zaninetti@bluewin.ch

BACKGROUND: Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) is a relatively new treatment
strategy for the treatment of glaucoma. Its principle is similar to that of argon
laser trabeculoplasty (ALT), but may lead to less damage to the trabecular
meshwork.
METHODS: We assessed the 2-year efficacy of SLT in a noncomparative consecutive
case series. Any adult patient either suspected of having glaucoma or with
open-angle glaucoma, whose treatment was judged insufficient to reach target
intraocular pressure (IOP), could be recruited. IOP and number of glaucoma
treatments were recorded over 2 years after the procedure.
RESULTS: Our sample consisted of 44 consecutive eyes of 26 patients, aged 69+/-8 
years. Eyes were treated initially on the lower 180 degrees . Three of them were 
retreated after 15 days on the upper 180. Fourteen eyes had ocular hypertension, 
17 primary open-angle/normal-tension glaucoma, 11 pseudoexfoliation (PEX)
glaucoma, and two pigmentary glaucoma. Thirty-six eyes had previously been
treated and continued to be treated with topical anti-glaucoma medication, ten
had had prior ALT, nine iridotomy, and 12 filtering surgery. The 2-year-follow up
could not be completed for eight eyes because they needed filtering surgery. In
the remaining 36 eyes, IOP decreased by a mean of 17.2%, 3.3 mmHg, (19.2+/-4.7 to
15+/-3.6 mmHg) after 2 years (p<0.001). As a secondary outcome, the number of
glaucoma treatments decreased from 1.44 to 1.36 drops/patient. Other results
according to subgroups of patients are analyzed: the greatest IOP decrease
occurred in eyes that had never been treated with anti-glaucoma medication or
with PEX glaucoma. SLT was probably valuable in a few eyes after filtering
surgery; however, the statistical power of the study was not strong enough to
draw a firm conclusion. When expressed in survival curves after 2 years, however,
only 48% and 41% of eyes experienced a decrease of more than 3 mmHg or more than 
20% of preoperative intraocular pressure, respectively.
CONCLUSION: SLT decreases IOP somewhat for at least 2 years without an increase
in topical glaucoma treatment. However, it cannot totally replace topical
glaucoma treatment. In the future, patient selection should be improved to
decrease the cost/effectiveness ratio.


PMID: 19107074  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2008 Dec;22(4):236-41. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2008.22.4.236.

Comparison of OCT and HRT findings among normal, normal tension glaucoma, and
high tension glaucoma.

Shin IH(1), Kang SY, Hong S, Kim SK, Seong GJ, Tak MK, Kim CY.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the relationship between optic disc and retinal nerve fiber 
layer (RNFL) measurements obtained with the optical coherence tomography (OCT)
and the Heidelberg retina topography (HRT) in normal, normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), and high tension glaucoma (HTG).
METHODS: Normal, NTG and HTG subjects who met inclusion and exclusion criteria
were evaluated retrospectively. One hundred seventy eyes of 170 patients (30
normal, 40 NTG, and 100 HTG) were enrolled. Complete ophthalmologic examination, 
HRT, OCT, and automated perimetry were evaluated.
RESULTS: Disc area, cup area and cup/disc area ratio measured with HRT were
significantly different between NTG and HTG (all p < 0.05). Mean RNFL thickness
measured by OCT with ascanning diameter of 3.4 mm was larger in NTG than HTG
(84.97+/-24.20 micrometer vs. 73.53+/-27.17 micrometer, p = 0.037). Four quadrant
RNFL thickness measurements were not significantly different between NTG and HTG 
(all p > 0.05). Mean deviation and corrected pattern standard deviation measured 
by automated perimetry was significantly correlated with mean and inferior RNFL
thickness in both NTG and HTG (Pearson's r, p < 0.05). Mean RNFL thickness/disc
area ratio was significantly larger in HTG than NTG (35.21+/-18.92 vs.
31.30+/-10.91, p = 0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that optic disc and RNFL damage pattern in
NTG may be different from those of HTG.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2008.22.4.236 
PMCID: PMC2629909
PMID: 19096240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


830. J Glaucoma. 2008 Dec;17(8):699-701. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318168f050.

Asymmetric progressive glaucomatous optic neuropathy in a patient with a rare
developmental variant of the ophthalmic artery.

Sbeity Z(1), Palmiero PM, Saint-Louis LA, Dorairaj S, Liebmann J, Ritch R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, NY 
10003, USA.

PURPOSE: To report a case of a developmental anatomic finding of the ophthalmic
artery (OA) in a patient with ipsilateral progressive advanced glaucomatous optic
neuropathy and visual field loss.
METHODS: A 59-year-old Asian man with normal tension glaucoma had progressive
asymmetric visual field loss OD. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography of
the orbit were performed because of continued progression despite medical and
surgical intervention.
RESULTS: Magnetic resonance angiography revealed an anomalous OA, lateral to the 
carotid artery and emanating from a branch of the middle meningeal artery.
CONCLUSION: OA anomalies should be added to the differential diagnosis of risk
factors for unilateral progressive glaucomatous optic neuropathy, and
neuroradiologic imaging should be considered to detect such anatomic variants.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318168f050 
PMID: 19092469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


831. J Glaucoma. 2008 Dec;17(8):662-6. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318166656d.

Long-term effects of latanoprost monotherapy on intraocular pressure in Japanese 
glaucoma patients.

Kashiwagi K(1), Tsumura T, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Yamanashi Faculty of Medicine,
Chuo, Yamanashi, Japan. kenjik@yamanashi.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To assess the long-term effects of latanoprost monotherapy on
intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction in Japanese patients with glaucoma.
METHODS: Those enrolled were patients with glaucoma who had been treated on an
outpatient basis for more than 5 years at the Glaucoma Outpatient Clinic of the
University of Yamanashi Hospital, with only latanoprost ophthalmic solution as
the first drug of choice. Subjects who underwent treatment with a drug other than
latanoprost, laser therapy, or surgery were eliminated from the study, and IOP
reduction by latanoprost, the dropout rate and causative reasons, and the types
of additional therapy were assessed in a retrospective manner.
RESULTS: Seventy-two patients (age: 68.3+/-13.0 y) were enrolled, including 40
men and 32 women for the checking of 72 eyes. There were 47 eyes with normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) and 25 with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG). The mean
duration of latanoprost monotherapy was 4.1+/-2.0 years (range: 5 mo to 7 y,
median: 4.0 y). IOP reduction rates (cumulative dropout rates) relative to the
mean IOP before the start of latanoprost monotherapy (17.8+/-3.4 mm Hg) were
11.5% (8.3%), 15.5% (8.3%), 13.0% (9.7%), 13.4% (13.9%), 13.5% (19.4%), and 10.6%
(30.6%) at 6 months, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, and 5 years after the
start of monotherapy, respectively. Although latanoprost demonstrated significant
IOP reduction in POAG and NTG, eyes with POAG showed significant IOP reduction
than those with NTG. Two eyes presented with local adverse events resulting from 
the discontinuation of use of latanoprost, and 4 eyes required filtering surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost stably reduced IOP over a long term and maintained
visual field in approximately 70% of eyes with glaucoma after treatment for 5
years.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318166656d 
PMID: 19092463  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 2008 Nov;28(6):558-67. doi:
10.1111/j.1475-1313.2008.00596.x.

Goldmann tonometry and pachymetry measures in patients with and without topical
medical treatment at a glaucoma clinic.

Doughty MJ(1), Gillis N, MacGill J, Montgomery DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vision Sciences, Glasgow-Caledonian University, Cowcaddens Road,
Glasgow G4 OBA, UK. m.doughty@gcal.ac.uk

PURPOSE: To investigate, by audit, the intraocular pressure (IOP) and central
corneal thickness (CCT) of patients attending a routine glaucoma clinic, in order
to assess the potential effect of CCT on IOP measures.
METHODS: Data on current IOP (Goldmann), CCT (ultrasound) and glaucoma
medications use were collected from 140 patients who presented for a follow-up
visit over a 3-month period. Baseline IOP was retrieved from patient records.
RESULTS: The IOP was lower at follow-up, an expected effect of the use of
IOP-lowering medications. However, the CCT was lower in medicated patients
indicating, but not proving, that it changed in response to the lowering of IOP. 
Overall, the measured IOP was higher in patients with greater CCT values (p <
0.001) but this IOP-CCT relationship was most noticeable in patients with normal 
tension glaucoma and not obvious in those diagnosed with ocular hypertension.
Overall, the slope of the IOP-CCT relationship was slightly steeper for those
patients prescribed glaucoma medications.
CONCLUSIONS: In the routine assessment of glaucoma patients, corneal thickness
can be shown to have an impact on applanation tonometry data. However, this
effect may not be uniformly evident in patients with different types of glaucoma 
and may be different for patients under topical medical treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-1313.2008.00596.x 
PMID: 19076558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2008 Nov;112(11):994-8.

[Long-term study of nipradilol ophthalmic solution in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yukawa E(1), Nitta N, Taketani F, Matsuura T, Morishita K, Hara Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nara Medical University, 840 Shijo-cho,
Kashihara-shi, Nara-ken 634-8522, Japan. y-eiichi@mrh.biglobe.ne.jp

PURPOSE: We investigated the long-term clinical effects of a nipradilol
ophthalmic solution on normal-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Among normal tension glaucoma patients who consulted the Nara Medical
University Hospital or 2 affiliated hospitals between November 2001 and August
2002, we prospectively examined intraocular pressure-decreasing effects, the
deterioration of visual field defects, and the appearance of side effects in 46
patients who underwent single therapy with a nipradilol ophthalmic solution. We
evaluated intraocular pressure at 6-month intervals. The deterioration of visual 
field defects was assessed based on a 3-dB or more decrease in the mean deviation
measured using the Humphrey Field Analyzer 30-2 program.
RESULTS: The 60 months intraocular pressure value after administration of
nipradilol ophthalmic solution was significantly lower than the pretreatment
value. The deterioration of visual field defects was examined using the
Kaplan-Meier life table. The survival rate after 60 months was 82.4%. In 4 of the
46 patients, administration of the nipradilol ophthalmic solution was
discontinued due to side effects.
CONCLUSION: Long-term therapy with a nipradilol ophthalmic solution may be useful
for treating normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 19069382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Acta Ophthalmol. 2009 Nov;87(7):797-800. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01460.x.
Epub 2008 Dec 2.

Changes in optic nerve head blood flow induced by the combined therapy of
latanoprost and beta blockers.

Sugiyama T(1), Kojima S, Ishida O, Ikeda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, Japan.
tsugiyama@poh.osaka-med.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To assess the effects of combined therapy with latanoprost and beta
blockers on optic nerve head (ONH) blood flow in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
patients.
METHODS: Intraocular pressure (IOP), ONH blood flow (laser speckle flowgraphy)
and blood pressure were measured in 15 eyes of 15 NTG patients (41-76 years old) 
before treatment or after a 1-month washout period. Similar measurements were
performed at 2 months after the commencement of treatment with latanoprost and at
3 months after the start of combined therapy of latanoprost with 0.5% timolol or 
2% carteolol in a crossover study using the envelope method. Measurement was
carried out 2-3 hr after the morning application of eyedrops.
RESULTS: Latanoprost decreased IOP with no significant change in ONH blood flow. 
Concomitant use of timolol or carteolol further decreased IOP with no significant
difference between these two drugs. Only the combined therapy of latanoprost with
carteolol significantly (p < 0.01) increased ONH blood flow by approximately 10%,
compared to initial levels. There was no significant change in mean blood
pressure, ocular perfusion pressure or pulse rate as a result of these therapies.
CONCLUSION: Topical latanoprost-carteolol combined therapy increased ONH blood
flow in NTG patients, unlike latanoprost-timolol therapy. Because ocular
perfusion pressure was unchanged, direct vasodilative effects were suspected as
the mechanism.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01460.x 
PMID: 19053956  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Harefuah. 2008 Oct;147(10):812-7, 836.

[An updated review of methods for human retinal oximetry measurements and current
applications].

[Article in Hebrew]

Ben-Zion I(1), Harris A, Weizman Y, Ehrlich R, Rechtman E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

The concept of retinal oximetry is based on physical properties that have been
recognized since the 18th century. Attempts to non-invasively quantify the oxygen
saturation of blood within the retinal vasculature date back to the 1950's. There
are different techniques in existence for the measurement of retinal oxygenation,
the leading ones are: photographic, digital, spectroscopy and the pulse methods. 
Each method has its advantages and disadvantages. Current data from studies on
retinal oximetry is presented, for both the healthy retina and in diseases such
as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration. It is
clear that a thorough understanding of retinal oxygen tension is vital to our
understanding of normal retinal physiology and the pathophysiology of
degenerative eye diseases.


PMID: 19039914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Acta Ophthalmol. 2010 Feb;88(1):60-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01401.x. Epub
2009 Nov 18.

Stratus optical coherence tomography study of filtering blebs after primary
trabeculectomy with a fornix-based conjunctival flap.

Hirooka K(1), Takagishi M, Baba T, Takenaka H, Shiraga F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa,
Japan. kazuyk@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between filtering bleb function and
Stratus optical coherence tomography (OCT) images.
METHODS: We studied 72 eyes of 65 consecutive patients who had a fornix-based
conjunctival flap in primary trabeculectomy with mitomycin C (MMC). Filtering
blebs with various types of glaucoma were examined using Stratus OCT. Success
rates were defined as intraocular pressure (IOP) < or = 15 mmHg and IOP reduction
> or = 25% without medication or additional surgery. Success rates among
classified groups were compared using Kaplan-Meier survival curves and the
log-rank test.
RESULTS: Blebs were classified into three different categories on the basis of
the following Stratus OCT patterns: cystoid type (multiple cysts inside the bleb;
17 eyes), diffuse type (low to high reflective areas that were mixed inside the
bleb; 31 eyes) and layer type (medium to high reflective layer inside the bleb;
24 eyes). Success rates in the cystoid-, diffuse- and layer-type blebs were 94%, 
97% and 75% (P = 0.02), respectively.
CONCLUSION: In trabeculectomy with MMC and a fornix-based conjunctival flap,
there is a significant association between the success rates and the
postoperative Stratus OCT findings of filtering blebs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01401.x 
PMID: 19021595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Can J Ophthalmol. 2008 Oct;43(5):563-6. doi: 10.3129/i08-092.

Influence of topical bimatoprost on macular thickness and volume in glaucoma
patients with phakic eyes.

Yeom HY(1), Hong S, Kim SS, Kim CY, Seong GJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Siloam Eye Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

Comment in
    Can J Ophthalmol. 2009 Apr;44(2):209; author reply 209.

BACKGROUND: In light of concern about the possible relation between the extensive
clinical use of prostaglandin analogues and the development of retinal disorders 
such as cystoid macular edema, this study investigated the influence of topical
application of bimatoprost 0.03% on macular thickness and volume in glaucoma
patients with phakic eyes.
METHODS: A total of 40 eyes in 22 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or
normal-tension glaucoma were evaluated in this study. Optical coherence
tomography images were taken before initiation of bimatoprost application and
after 1, 2, and 3 months of treatment. In addition, best-corrected visual acuity 
(BCVA) and intraocular pressure (IOP) were measured, and contrast sensitivity
tests and fundus examinations were performed. Changes in various parameters,
including macular thickness and volume, were analyzed.
RESULTS: BCVA and contrast sensitivity did not change from baseline over the
treatment period. IOP declined by 20% to 25% from baseline for 1 month before
stabilizing. Macular thickness and volume did not increase significantly during
the 3 months.
INTERPRETATION: Topical application of bimatoprost does not induce clinical or
structural changes in the macula, at least in glaucoma patients with phakic eyes.
Moreover, bimatoprost effectively lowered IOP without causing macular disorders
such as cystoid macular edema.

DOI: 10.3129/i08-092 
PMID: 18982033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Mol Vis. 2008;14:1898-905. Epub 2008 Oct 27.

LOXL1 variants in elderly Japanese patients with exfoliation syndrome/glaucoma,
primary open-angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma, and cataract.

Tanito M(1), Minami M, Akahori M, Kaidzu S, Takai Y, Ohira A, Iwata T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, Izumo,
Shimane, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association of lysyl oxidase like 1 (LOXL1) gene
variants in Japanese patients with open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: We evaluated the association of three LOXL1 variants (rs1048661,
rs3825942, and rs2165241) in 142 Japanese patients with exfoliation syndrome (EX;
n=59) and exfoliation glaucoma (EG; n=83) as well as in 251 control patients aged
70 years or older with primary open-angle glaucoma (PG; n=40), normal tension
glaucoma (NG; n=54), and cataract (CT; n=157).
RESULTS: In comparison with the CT group, the single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs) showed significant association with EX, EG, and EX+EG. The odds ratio
(OR)=19.71-28.23 and p=1.69 x 10(-23) - 3.00 x 10(-45) for allele T of rs1048661;
OR=28.21-39.78 and p=1.77 x 10(-8) - 2.42 x 10(-22) for allele G of rs3825942;
and OR=16.59-23.40 and p=4.79 x 10(-5) - 1.08 x 10(-9) for allele C of rs2165241.
In comparison with the controls (CT+PG+NG), the haplotype rs1048661/rs3825942
(T/G) was significantly associated with EX+EG (p=8.27 x 10(-44)), and haplotype
G/A had a significant protective effect (p=2.25 x 10(-14)). None of the three
SNPs showed significant differences between the EX and EG groups or between the
PG and NG groups.
CONCLUSIONS: These SNPs are associated with exfoliation syndrome/glaucoma in the 
Japanese population. The risk alleles in rs1048661 and rs2165241 are different
from other populations. Additional genetic or environmental risk factors other
than these LOXL1 SNPs could be associated with the development of exfoliation
syndrome as well as exfoliation glaucoma among exfoliation syndrome patients.


PMCID: PMC2573732
PMID: 18958304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Aug;36(6):508-13. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01828.x.

Ocular response analyser to assess hysteresis and corneal resistance factor in
low tension, open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Shah S(1), Laiquzzaman M, Mantry S, Cunliffe I.

Author information: 
(1)Heart of England Foundation Trust, Solihull, UK.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Aug;36(6):499-500.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to compare the hysteresis and corneal
resistance factor (CRF) in normal tension glaucoma (NTG), primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) and ocular hypertension (OHT) eyes measured by the ocular
response analyser (ORA).
METHODS: This is a prospective, cross-sectional and comparative clinical trial.
The setting was a teaching hospital in Birmingham, England.
PATIENTS: 216 eyes with POAG, 68 eyes with NTG and 199 eyes with OHT.
Observational procedures: Goldmann applanation tonometry and intraocular pressure
(IOP), hysteresis and CRF measured by ORA and central corneal thickness (CCT) by 
ultrasonic pachymetery. The main outcome measures were IOP, CCT, hysteresis and
CRF.
RESULTS: The hysteresis in NTG, POAG and OHT eyes was 9.0 +/- 1.9, 9.9 +/- 2.1
and 10.2 +/- 2.0 mmHg; CRF was 9.1 +/- 2.2, 10.6 +/- 2.0 and 12.0 +/- 2.0 mmHg;
IOP by Goldmann applanation tonometry and ORA was 14.7 +/- 2.8 and 15.3 +/- 4.2
mmHg, 16.7 +/- 4.0 and 16.9 +/- 4.6 mmHg and 20.5 +/- 4.1 and 20.0 +/- 4.5 mmHg; 
CCT was 526.5 +/- 42.2, 537.0 +/- 36.0 and 563.4 +/- 35.9 microm, respectively.
The difference for CRF, IOP and CCT for NTG, POAG and OHT eyes was statistically 
significant.
CONCLUSION: Hysteresis and CRF were highest in OHT eyes. These factors may prove 
to be useful measurements of ocular rigidity and may help to understand role of
the corneal rigidity in monitoring the progress of conditions such as NTG, POAG
and OHT.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01828.x 
PMID: 18954311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2008 May;44(5):408-12.

[Clinical assessment of dynamic contour tonometer].

[Article in Chinese]

Shi W(1), Zhong Y, Dong FT, Xu P, Wang RY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese
Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100730, China.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the applicability and reliability of Dynamic Contour
Tonometry (DCT) in the measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) and ocular pulse
amplitude (OPA) in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), ocular
hypertension (OHT), normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and normal controls.
METHODS: 120 subjects were included in the present study as follows: 30 patients 
in each group, total four groups, i. e. , POAG, OHT, NTG and normal control. IOP 
measured by DCT was compared to that by Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT).
OPA, central cornea thickness (CCT), central cornea curve (CCV), heart rate (HR),
systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), other
associated parameters, were also determined for the subjects of each group.
RESULTS: The IOP of all groups measured by DCT was (21.68 +/- 2.02), (23.37 +/-
2.65), (18.43 +/- 3.08), (17.04 +/- 2.07) mm Hg (1 mm Hg = 0.133 kPa); and the
IOP measured by GAT was (21.18 +/- 2.95), (23.28 +/- 5.95), (16.39 +/- 3.60),
(14.66 +/- 2.27) mm Hg, there was no significant differences between the IOP
measured by these two methods (t = 1.338, 1.445, 1.682, 1.803; P = 0.197, 0.151, 
0.136, 0.081). Significant differences of OPA levels in different groups were
observed (F = 21.311, P = 0.000). OPA reading was affected by HR, SBP, DBP, IOP
and CCT, while there was no correlation with patients' age.
CONCLUSIONS: Regarding to the IOP measurement, DCT was in concord with GAT
readings. The differences in OPA among POAG, OHT and the normal groups and the
lowest OPA reading in NTG patients indicate different intraocular hemodynamic
status among these groups. OPA measurement may be useful to early detection and
progression follow-up of glaucoma patients.


PMID: 18953894  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2009 Apr;50(4):1522-30. doi: 10.1167/iovs.08-2483.
Epub 2008 Oct 24.

Genetic risk for primary open-angle glaucoma determined by LMX1B haplotypes.

Park S(1), Jamshidi Y, Vaideanu D, Bitner-Glindzicz M, Fraser S, Sowden JC.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Unit, University College London Institute of Child
Health and Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS Trust, London, United
Kingdom.

PURPOSE: Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a common disease requiring early
diagnosis and treatment to avoid asymptomatic visual field loss and eventual
blindness. LMX1B mutations cause dominantly-inherited Nail-Patella syndrome in
which approximately 33% of patients develop glaucoma. This study investigated the
wider role of LMX1B in POAG.
METHODS: The contribution of variation at the LMXIB locus to risk of glaucoma was
investigated in a case-control genetic association study in 272 patients with
high-tension glaucoma (HTG), 37 patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), 58
patients with ocular hypertension (OHT), and 276 controls.
RESULTS: Significant SNP associations were found for each patient group:
rs7859156 was associated with HTG (P=0.0015; odds ratio [OR], 0.64) and OHT
(P=0.0482; OR, 0.59); rs7854658 was associated with NTG (P=0.0041; OR, 0.30). A
protective ATG haplotype (including rs7859156) was less prevalent in patients
with raised intraocular pressure (22.7% in combined HTG+OHT group vs. 31.7% in
controls; P=0.0005), and in patients with glaucoma (22.9% in combined HTG+NTG
group vs. 31.7% in controls; P=0.0008). ATG carriers in these combined groups had
a decreased risk of developing glaucoma (OR, 0.72 and OR, 0.73, respectively). A 
GCAGAC haplotype (including rs7854658) was also less prevalent in glaucoma
patients (16.5% vs. 24.7%; P=0.0005) and carriers had a decreased risk of
developing glaucoma (OR, 0.70).
CONCLUSIONS: LMX1B haplotypes influence susceptibility to glaucoma in the general
population, suggesting altered LMX1B function predisposes to glaucomatous damage 
and that this role may be independent of raised intraocular pressure.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.08-2483 
PMID: 18952915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Acta Ophthalmol. 2010 Feb;88(1):156-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01359.x.
Epub 2008 Oct 7.

Progressive hydroxychloroquine toxicity mimicking low-tension glaucoma after
discontinuation of the drug.

Vavvas D(1), Huynh N, Pasquale L, Berson EL.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. demetrios_vavvas@meei.harvard.edu

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01359.x 
PMID: 18937815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Prog Brain Res. 2008;173:195-210. doi: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01114-X.

The treatment of normal-tension glaucoma.

Desai PV(1), Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, UCLA, 100 Stein Plaza, Suite 2-118, Los Angeles, CA
90095, USA. Desai@jsei.ucla.edu

Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is generally defined as visual field loss and optic
nerve defects consistent with glaucoma and an intraocular pressure (IOP) that
does not exceed 21 mmHg (Allingham, R.R., Damji, K., Freedman, S., Moroi, S.,
Shafranov, G., Shields, M.B. (2005). In: Pine J. and Murphy J. (Eds.), Shields'
Textbook of Glaucoma, 5th edn., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA, 
pp. 197-207, Chapter 11). If a patient has an atypical presentation (unilateral
disease, decreased central visual acuity or visual field loss not consistent with
optic disk appearance) then the clinician should rule out medical or neurologic
etiologies. IOP-dependent and IOP-independent mechanisms play a role in NTG nerve
damage. The exact mechanisms of IOP-independent damage are not currently known.
Research has shown that vascular etiologies, such as vascular insufficiency and
vasospasm, may be possible mechanisms for IOP-independent damage. The mainstay of
glaucoma treatment remains robust IOP reduction. The chief goal of ongoing
glaucoma research is to more clearly identify IOP-independent mechanisms of
damage and to find neuroprotective treatment strategies to prevent retinal
ganglion cell death and consequent visual loss.

DOI: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01114-X 
PMID: 18929110  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Prog Brain Res. 2008;173:3-14. doi: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01101-1.

Epidemiology of primary glaucoma: prevalence, incidence, and blinding effects.

Cedrone C(1), Mancino R, Cerulli A, Cesareo M, Nucci C.

Author information: 
(1)Physiopathological Optics, Department of Biopathology and Diagnostic Imaging, 
University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. cedrone@uniroma2.it

Certain general conclusions can be drawn from a series of 56 studies on glaucoma 
prevalence. Even in the most recently published studies the rate of undiagnosed
glaucoma is particularly high. Another fairly constant finding is the discrepancy
between the clinical and epidemiologic diagnoses of glaucoma. The prevalence of
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) has been increasing, and this trend is
undoubtedly due at least in part to advances in diagnostic technology. The
decreasing prevalence of primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) is due to the
adoption of more stringent criteria for the diagnosis of this form of glaucoma.
Prevalence increases proportionately with age for each racial group. African or
African origin populations had the highest POAG prevalence at all ages but the
increase in prevalence of POAG is steeper for white populations. PACG is
commonest in Asian ethnic groups, with the exception of the Japanese. Low-tension
glaucoma (LTG) is quite common in the Japanese population. Over 80% of those with
PACG live in Asia, while POAG disproportionately affects those of African
derivation. Women are more affected by glaucoma. Very few incidence studies have 
been completed, because the cost of examining large samples is high. There are
only two recent studies conducted on persons of African descent in Barbados (West
Indies) and on white inhabitants of Rotterdam (Netherlands). Risk of incident
glaucoma was highest among persons classified as having suspect POAG at baseline,
followed by those with ocular hypertension. No difference in incidence of POAG
between men and women was found. The more recent studies which included routine
visual-field testing reveal rates of blinding glaucoma <10% in many countries,
including those that are developing.

DOI: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01101-1 
PMID: 18929097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


845. J Glaucoma. 2008 Oct-Nov;17(7):591-3. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31817efbd7.

Progressive normal-tension Glaucoma.

Girkin CA(1), Chauhan BC, Medeiros FA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Alabama at Birmingham School of
Medicine, Birmingham, AL, USA. cgirkin@uab.edu

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31817efbd7 
PMID: 18854739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2009 Mar;50(3):1215-20. doi: 10.1167/iovs.08-1886.
Epub 2008 Oct 3.

Comparison of risk factors for bilateral and unilateral eye involvement in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Kim C(1), Kim TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seoul
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare the risk factors for bilateral and unilateral disease in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: The study analyzed data from consecutive NTG patients with either
bilateral (n = 194) or unilateral (n = 193) disease. Multivariate regression
models were used to evaluate the following potential risk factors for bilateral
eye involvement: age, sex, central corneal thickness, mean deviation in standard 
automated perimetry, mean and fluctuation of diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP)
without glaucoma medication, spherical equivalent, family history of glaucoma,
and underlying systemic disease such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, ischemic heart disease, previous cerebrovascular accident, 
migraine, and cold extremities.
RESULTS: Multivariate analysis showed that worse mean deviation in the first
affected eye (odds ratio [OR], 1.19/1 dB decrease; P < 0.001), diabetes mellitus 
(OR, 2.31; P = 0.004), previous cerebrovascular accident (OR, 4.27; P = 0.039),
and mean IOP greater than 14 mm Hg in the less affected eye (OR, 1.66; P = 0.030)
were significantly associated with bilateral eye involvement in NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: Besides being an indicator of disease severity (worse mean
deviation), diabetes mellitus, previous cerebrovascular accident, and IOP were
associated with bilateral eye involvement. These data suggest that systemic
vascular factors and IOP play significant roles in the pathogenesis of NTG. It
appears that although systemic vascular factors increase the susceptibility of
the optic nerve, a certain level of pressure-induced stress is also required to
cause glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.08-1886 
PMID: 18836170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2009 Feb;50(2):760-4. doi: 10.1167/iovs.08-2508. Epub 
2008 Oct 3.

Intraocular pressure increases in parallel with systemic blood pressure during
isometric exercise.

Bakke EF(1), Hisdal J, Semb SO.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Eye Research, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

PURPOSE: Normal-tension glaucoma has been found to be related to transient
increases in intraocular pressure (IOP). Isometric exercise induces a pressor
response with a characteristic increase in blood pressure. The purpose of the
present study was to investigate how transient changes in systemic blood
pressure, induced by isometric exercise, affect IOP.
METHODS: Nine healthy volunteers participated in the study. Systemic blood
pressure, heart rate (ECG) and IOP (electronic continuous-indentation tonometer) 
were recorded continuously before, during, and after a 2-minute period of
isometric exercise (40% maximum voluntary contraction of the forearm).
RESULTS: During the 2-minute isometric exercise, heart rate increased from 74+/-6
beats/min (mean +/- SEM) to 93+/-6 beats/min (P<0.005) and systolic and diastolic
arterial blood pressure increased from 125+/-6 to 169+/-8 mm Hg (P<0.005) and
from 65+/-3 to 96+/-5 mm Hg (P<0.005), respectively. IOP increased from 15+/-1 mm
Hg at rest to 19+/-2 mm Hg at the end of the isometric exercise (P<0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: During isometric exercise, IOP increased continuously, as long as
the isometric exercise persisted, in parallel to the increase in systemic blood
pressure.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.08-2508 
PMID: 18836162  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2008 Jul-Aug;71(4):559-63.

[Association between optic disc hemorrhages and the position of central retinal
vessels].

[Article in Portuguese]

Teixeira SH(1), Mello PA, Paranhos Júnior A.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Oftalmologia, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo,
SP, Brasil. sergio@oftalmo.epm.br

PURPOSE: To investigate the correlation between optic disc hemorrhages (ODHs) and
the position of the central retinal vessel trunk (RVT) in patients with glaucoma.
METHODS: Fundus photographs of 1,830 participants were reviewed. The exit
position of the central retinal vessel trunk was classified as being in the
superior or inferior hemisphere of the optic disc and the relative vertical
position was expressed as a fraction of the disc diameter (ratio between the
position of the trunk and the diameter of the disk). A group of patients from the
same population, but without ODHs, was randomly selected and compared with the
patients with ODHs.
RESULTS: Among the 1,830 patients, 53 hemorrhages were detected in 41 patients
with glaucoma or suspected glaucoma. We found an inverse relationship between the
inferior/superior position of the central RVT and the inferior/superior position 
of the hemorrhages (Kappa=-0.34). Using the trunk/disc ratio, we found that
superior ODHs correlated with inferior RVTs (trunk/disc ratio, 0.450; SD=0.070)
and inferior ODHs correlated with superior RVTs (trunk/disc ratio, 0.510;
SD=0.054) (p=0.027). The number of patients with normal tension glaucoma was
significantly higher among patients with ODHs than among those without ODHs
(p=0.009).
CONCLUSION: Our patients had a negative correlation between the position of
central RVT and the location of the ODHs. Normal tension glaucoma was more
prevalent among patients with ODHs than among those without it.


PMID: 18797668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Glaucoma. 2008 Sep;17(6):449-54. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815f52cb.

Development of a prediction rule to estimate the probability of acceptable
intraocular pressure reduction after selective laser trabeculoplasty in
open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Mao AJ(1), Pan XJ, McIlraith I, Strasfeld M, Colev G, Hutnik C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ivey Eye Institute, St Joseph's Hospital, Lawson 
Health Research Institute, University of Western Ontario. alex.mao@lhsc.on.ca

PURPOSE: To develop and validate a prediction rule to estimate the probability of
acceptable intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction after selective laser
trabeculoplasty (SLT) in ocular hypertension and open-angle glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study population was derived from a cohort of 220
patients with ocular hypertension, open-angle glaucoma, or normal tension
glaucoma. A > or =20% reduction in IOP (mm Hg) from the baseline IOP at 6 months 
after SLT was considered treatment success. Logistic multivariate regression
modeling was performed to develop a prediction rule.
RESULTS: In multivariate logistic regression analyses, pre-SLT IOP and maximum
IOP were identified as independent predictors for > or =20% IOP reduction at 6
months with adjusted odds ratios of 1.3 and 0.9, respectively, controlling for
sex, diagnosis, pigment of anterior chamber, and washout of eye drops. The area
under receiver operator characteristic curve was 0.716. Calibration of this
prediction rule showed good agreement between predicted and observed
probabilities of acceptable IOP reduction. If a probability of acceptable IOP
reduction of 50% or greater is used as the minimal clinical threshold for
treatment, the prediction rule had a sensitivity and specificity of 91.3% and
30.4%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: SLT efficacy is positively associated with IOP elevation before SLT 
treatment and adversely associated with the maximum IOP ever recorded in history.
Pigmentation of the anterior chamber angle, diagnosis, washout of eye drops, and 
sex are not associated with SLT treatment efficacy. This prediction rule should
be further validated with a comparable prospective clinical study cohort.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815f52cb 
PMID: 18794678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Acta Ophthalmol. 2008 Nov;86(7):747-54. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01244.x.
Epub 2008 Sep 10.

Incidence of open-angle glaucoma in central Sweden.

Ekström C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Ophthalmology, Uppsala University Hospital,
Uppsala, Sweden. curt.ekstrom@akademiska.se

Comment in
    Acta Ophthalmol. 2008 Nov;86(7):706-7.

PURPOSE: To estimate the incidence rate of open-angle glaucoma (OAG) in a
population in which pseudoexfoliation is a common finding.
METHODS: A population-based survey of 760 people aged 65-74 years was conducted
in the municipality of Tierp, in central Sweden, during 1984-86. Visual fields
(VFs) were tested with the Competer 350 automated perimeter. The present report
concerns 711 people, all of whom participated in the survey and were not
diagnosed with glaucoma. Since 1988, a follow-up study of the 530 individuals in 
this cohort with normal and reliable VFs has been in progress. Incident cases of 
OAG were identified among study participants and patients seeking medical
attention at the Eye Department in Tierp. Records of prescriptions for
anti-glaucoma drugs were used to search for unidentified patients. A
time-weighted mean intraocular pressure (IOP) for all visits was calculated.
RESULTS: By the end of the study in May 2006, 51 new cases of definite OAG had
been identified, 31 with capsular and 20 with chronic simple glaucoma. Of these, 
46 cases were detected in the follow-up study, corresponding to an incidence of
7.11 (95% confidence interval 5.06-9.17) per 1000 person-years. Twelve of the 51 
cases were classified as normal-tension glaucoma, all of which were found in the 
follow-up study. Open-angle glaucoma with a mean IOP > or = 23 mmHg tended to
emerge closer to the baseline examination than OAG with a mean IOP < 23 mmHg.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of OAG was high compared with that reported for other 
studies conducted in White populations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01244.x 
PMID: 18785965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2008 Jul-Aug;52(4):255-64. doi: 10.1007/s10384-008-0540-z. Epub
2008 Sep 5.

Clinical efficacy of topical nipradilol and timolol on visual field performance
in normal-tension glaucoma: a multicenter, randomized, double-masked comparative 
study.

Araie M(1), Shirato S, Yamazaki Y, Kitazawa Y, Ohashi Y; Nipradilol-Timolol Study
Group.

Collaborators: Shirato S, Yamazaki Y, Araie M, Matsumoto C, Shirato S, Yamazaki
Y, Araie M, Ohashi Y, Hamada C, Kitazawa Y, Ohashi Y, Hara T, Hashimoto T, Tsuru 
T, Kojima T, Tomidokoro A, Nakajima F, Obata R, Yamazaki Y, Nakagami T, Hayamizu 
F, Yamagami J, Suzuki J, Kishimoto S, Oshima Y, Nakayama K, Otake Y, Kimura I,
Tanino T, Shirato S, Haneda M, Kimura T, Kawabata K, Yasuda N, Nakamoto K,
Matsumoto S, Yoshimoto M, Suzumura H, Tomita G, Suzuki Y, Tomidokoro A, Kunimatsu
S, Nakano T, Shirato S, Maruyama K, Inoue T, Kouzaki A, Inoue Y, Suzumura H,
Yoshikawa K, Miyata H, Shirakashi M, Kashiwagi K, Iwase A, Shono Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. araie-tky@umin.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To compare the effects of topical nipradilol and timolol on the visual
field in Japanese normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: We enrolled 146 NTG patients. At baseline, age, intraocular pressure
(IOP), and mean deviation (MD) by the Humphrey field analyzer were 47.6 (SD 8.5),
14.2 (1.7) mmHg, and -4.5 (3.0) dB. Seventy-two patients were randomly assigned
to the 0.25% nipradilol group and 74 patients to the 0.5% timolol ophthalmic
solution group twice daily for the 3-year study period. The Humphrey
full-threshold 30-2 visual field test was performed every 6 months. The primary
end point was the nonparametric O'Brien summary score (sum of the ranks of six
slopes calculated from the average of the total deviation in each cluster) in
each patient. The secondary analyses were differences in the MD slope, average of
the total deviation in each cluster, the corrected pattern standard deviation
(CPSD), and the time course of IOP.
RESULTS: No significant intergroup differences were found in baseline
characteristics, or in the parameters of the primary and secondary analyses. In
both groups, central superior clusters showed negative slopes and IOP decreased
by about 1 mmHg from baseline.
CONCLUSION: No significant difference in visual field performance or IOP
reduction was seen between the nipradilol and timolol groups.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-008-0540-z 
PMID: 18773262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Br J Ophthalmol. 2008 Sep;92(9):1293-6. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2008.139980.

Microsatellite analysis of the GLC1B locus on chromosome 2 points to NCK2 as a
new candidate gene for normal tension glaucoma.

Akiyama M(1), Yatsu K, Ota M, Katsuyama Y, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F, Iijima H,
Kawase K, Yamamoto T, Nakamura M, Negi A, Sagara T, Kumagai N, Nishida T, Inatani
M, Tanihara H, Ohno S, Inoko H, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama City University School of Medicine,
Yokohama, Japan.

AIMS: The aim of this study was to investigate the association between normal
tension glaucoma and the candidate disease locus glaucoma 1, open angle, B
(GLC1B) on chromosome 2. There are many reports describing the results of
association or linkage studies for primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), with GLC1B
as one of the loci associated with normal or moderately elevated intraocular
pressure. However, there are few reports about the association of genes or
defined genomic regions with normal tension glaucoma, which is the leading type
of glaucoma in Japan. The GLC1B locus is hypothesized to be a causative region
for normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Genomic DNA was extracted from whole blood of normal tension glaucoma (n
= 143) and healthy controls (n = 103) of Japanese origin.
RESULTS: Fifteen microsatellite markers within and/or near to the GLC1B locus
were genotyped, and their association with normal tension glaucoma was analysed. 
Two markers D2S2264 and D2S176 had significant positive associations.
CONCLUSION: The D2S176 marker had the strongest significant association and it is
located 24 kb from the nearest gene NCK2, which now becomes an important new
candidate gene for future studies of its association with normal tension
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2008.139980 
PMID: 18723748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2008 Dec;49(12):5412-8. doi: 10.1167/iovs.08-2228.
Epub 2008 Aug 21.

Intracranial pressure in primary open angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma,
and ocular hypertension: a case-control study.

Berdahl JP(1), Fautsch MP, Stinnett SS, Allingham RR.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Eye Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
johnberdahl@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To compare intracranial pressure (ICP) in subjects with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension glaucoma (NTG; subset of POAG), and
ocular hypertension (OHT) with that in subjects with no glaucoma.
METHODS: The study was a retrospective review of medical records of 62,468
subjects who had lumbar puncture between 1985 and 2007 at the Mayo Clinic. Of
these, 57 POAG subjects, 11 NTG subjects (subset of POAG), 27 OHT subjects, and
105 control subjects met the criteria and were analyzed. A masked comparison of
the relationship between ICP and other ocular and nonocular variables was
performed by using univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: ICP was significantly lower in POAG compared with age-matched control
subjects with no glaucoma (9.1 +/- 0.77 mm Hg vs. 11.8 +/- 0.71 mm Hg; P <
0.0001). Subjects with NTG also had reduced ICP compared with the control
subjects (8.7 +/- 1.16 mm Hg vs. 11.8 +/- 0.71 mm Hg; P < 0.01). ICP was higher
in OHT than in age-matched control subjects (12.6 +/- 0.85 mm Hg vs. 10.6 +/-
0.81 mm Hg; P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: ICP is lower in POAG and NTG and elevated in OHT. ICP may play an
important role in the development of POAG and NTG and in preventing the
progression of OHT to POAG. Further prospective and experimental studies are
warranted to determine whether ICP has a fundamental role in the pathogenesis of 
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.08-2228 
PMCID: PMC2745832
PMID: 18719086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Oftalmologia. 2008;52(1):31-5.

[Normotensive glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Dumitrica DM(1), Stefan C.

Author information: 
(1)Spitalul Clinic De Urgenta Militar Central Carol Davila Bucuresti Clinica De
Oftalmologie. dianamelinte2004@yahoo.com

Normal tension glaucoma is a form of primary open angle glaucoma where the
intraocular pressure remains within the normal range. In this case the main
challenge is to establish the correct diagnosis. The clinical evaluation of a
patient suspected of a normal tension glaucoma must answer two questions: 1) is
the intraocular pressure normal and 2) is it a glaucomatous optic neuropathy or
another type of optic neuropathy?


PMID: 18714487  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J Glaucoma. 2008 Aug;17(5):403-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815c5f2c.

Ocular pulse amplitude in normal tension and primary open angle glaucoma.

Stalmans I(1), Harris A, Vanbellinghen V, Zeyen T, Siesky B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
ingeborg.stalmans@uzleuven.be

PURPOSE: (1) To investigate the relationship of ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) with
intraocular pressure (IOP) and corneal thickness. (2) To evaluate OPA in patients
with primary open angle and normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Patients with NTG (n=28), primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) (n=19), and
age-matched healthy controls (n=22) underwent 2 consecutive Goldmann and dynamic 
contour tonometry measurements within 1 month. Central corneal thickness was also
measured. A regression model was applied to compare OPA between the diagnostic
groups.
RESULTS: OPA increased with rising IOP (slope 0.026/0.033 and P=0.002/<0.0001 for
Goldmann/Dynamic tonometry), whereas corneal thickness did not influence pulse
amplitude measurements (slope-0.0017/-0.0013 and P=0.11/0.21 after correction for
Goldmann/Dynamic tonometry). In a multivariate model correcting for IOP and
corneal thickness, OPA was reduced in patients with NTG (P=0.014/0.017 corrected 
for Goldmann/Dynamic tonometry) or POAG (P=0.015/0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: OPA is reduced in normal tension and POAG patients compared with
healthy controls. OPA is influenced by IOP, but not by corneal thickness.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815c5f2c 
PMID: 18703952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 May;36(4):308-11. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01735.x.

Is open-angle glaucoma caused by impaired cerebrospinal fluid circulation: around
the optic nerve?

Killer HE(1), Jaggi GP, Flammer J, Miller NR.

Author information: 
(1)University of Basel, Eye Institute, Switzerland. Killer@ksa.ch

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Nov;36(8):802-3; author reply 803.

Chronic open-angle glaucoma is the most frequent type of glaucoma and a leading
cause for blindness. The role of intraocular pressure (IOP) in the pathogenesis
of open-angle glaucoma has been challenged by patients with typical glaucomatous 
optic disc changes and visual field loss in whom the IOP never exceeded normal
values (normal-tension glaucoma), as well as by patients with persistently
elevated IOP who do not develop glaucomatous disc or field changes. Recent
research has demonstrated that the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is not evenly
distributed in all CSF spaces and that the subarachnoid space of the optic nerve 
can turn into a CSF compartment on its own. The biochemical components in this
optic nerve compartment can differ markedly from normal CSF and some of its
components (such as L-PGDS) may produce a toxic effect on the optic nerve and may
therefore play an important role in the pathophysiology of open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01735.x 
PMID: 18700915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


857. J Med Assoc Thai. 2008;91 Suppl 1:S111-8.

Glaucoma care and clinical profile in Priest Hospital, Thailand.

Sothornwit N(1), Jenchitr W, Pongprayoon C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Priest Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.
nisa.sothornwit@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the prevalence, mechanism and status of glaucoma, and to
investigate the magnitude of visual impairment from glaucoma and its relating
factors in Buddhist priest and novices.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Cross-sectional study of 190 patients treated in Glaucoma
service, Priest hospital was performed. One hundred thirty seven patients with
glaucoma and suspected glaucoma had comprehensive ophthalmic examination included
interview on medical and ocular history, visual acuity, applanation tonometry,
gonioscopy, optic disc, visual field evaluation, and retinal nerve fiber layer
thickness measurement (Stratus Optical Coherence Tomography; Stratus OCT).
RESULTS: Glaucoma was diagnosed in 106 (77%) patients (181 eyes); 31 patients
(23%) were glaucoma suspects. Open angle glaucoma (OAG) was found in 53 (50%)
cases and classified into 36 (33%) primary open angle glaucoma and 17 (16%)
normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Five (4.6%) patients had pseudoexfoliative
glaucoma, 24 (23%) had primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG), 10 (9.4%) had
angle-closure glaucoma secondary to other causes (SACG), seven (6.6%) had
secondary open angle glaucoma and seven (6.6%) were diagnosed of juvenile
glaucoma. Among 31 glaucoma suspects, 18 cases were diagnosed based on disc
appearance, eight based on intraocular pressure (IOP), two based on visual field 
and three cases had primary angle closure (PAC). The prevalence of glaucoma
increased with age, with the highest prevalence (33%) in the age range 71 to 80
years. The Glaucoma service of Priest hospital diagnosed glaucoma in 53% of the
priest. Rate of glaucoma was higher in priest from rural area than those from
Bangkok and urban area. The mean baseline IOP was 26.5 +/- 14.7 mmHg. The mean
treated IOP was 14.5 +/- 7.9 mmHg. The average mean deviation (MD) was -14.45 +/-
11.11. OCT showed average RNFL thickness of 70.8 +/- 35.6 microm. Glaucoma
medications was received by 72% of the priest, 18% had laser treatment, and 22 % 
had glaucoma surgery. At diagnosis, two patients were blind according to WHO
criteria, 29 (28%) patients were unilaterally blind, and seven (6.5%) had low
vision. After treatment, 31 (29%) patients had unilateral blindness and none had 
bilateral blindness. The main associated diseases were hypertension,
dyslipidemia, and diabetes. Transportation and financial condition were the major
barriers in receiving eye care.
CONCLUSIONS: OAG comprised 50% of all glaucoma, 23% of PACG, and 16% of all
subtypes of secondary glaucoma. The prevalence of glaucoma in priest rose
significantly with age. In the treated glaucoma patients, 47% retained good
visual outcome. Delayed diagnosis was a major factor for unsatisfactory outcome
as 28% of patients had monocular blindness at diagnosis and 53% were previously
unaware of their disease.


PMID: 18672602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Br J Ophthalmol. 2008 Sep;92(9):1175-9. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2007.128819. Epub 2008
Jul 31.

Ocular and systemic factors related to intraocular pressure in Japanese adults:
the Tajimi study.

Kawase K(1), Tomidokoro A, Araie M, Iwase A, Yamamoto T; Tajimi Study Group;
Japan Glaucoma Society.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine,
Gifu, Japan. mekawase@gifu-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: As intraocular pressure (IOP) and age are consistent risk factors of 
glaucoma, it is of special interest to know the association between IOP and
possibly relating factors including age in Japan where a high prevalence of
normal-tension glaucoma has been reported. The aim of this report was to evaluate
the distribution of and factors related to applanation IOP in a population-based 
study in Japan.
METHODS: A randomly sampled group of 3021 residents (response rate 78.1%) of
Tajimi City, aged 40 years or older, underwent screening examinations including
measurements of IOP with Goldmann applanation tonometry and central corneal
thickness.
RESULTS: Among right eyes without glaucoma, suspected glaucoma or other disorders
which could affect correct IOP measurements, IOP averaged 14.6 (SD 2.7) and 14.5 
(2.5) mm Hg in men and women, respectively, with no significant intergender
difference (p = 0.342). Multiple regression analyses revealed that age was
significantly negatively correlated with IOP (non-standardised beta (B) =
-0.020/year, p = 0.0001). Higher body mass index (B = 0.14/BMI, p<0.0001), higher
mean blood pressure (B = 0.022/mm Hg, p<0.0001), history of diabetes (p =
0.0019), thicker cornea (B = 0.014/microm, p<0.0001), higher myopia (B =
0.055/dioptres, p = 0.0043) and steeper corneal curvature (B = -0.72/mm, p =
0.0002) were also significantly correlated with higher IOP.
CONCLUSIONS: In an adult Japanese population, applanation IOP averaged 14.5 mm Hg
and was negatively correlated with age after adjusting for other related factors.
A positive correlation between IOP and myopia was found.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2007.128819 
PMID: 18669541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Optom Vis Sci. 2008 Jul;85(7):538-42. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e31817dad6a.

Retinal nerve fiber layer measures in high- and normal-tension glaucoma.

Konstantakopoulou E(1), Reeves BC, Fenerty C, Harper RA.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, Manchester, United Kingdom.
evgeniakonst@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To use optical coherence tomography (OCT) to investigate the qualitative
and quantitative differences in the defects of the retinal nerve fiber layer
(RNFL) in subjects with high tension primary open angle glaucoma and subjects
with normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: RNFL was assessed with OCT in 21 eyes with high-tension glaucoma (HTG)
and 20 eyes with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Regression analyses were
performed to investigate the interaction of disease group and location for
localized RNFL loss, and to predict diffuse and localized RNFL loss as a function
of age, mean defect, spherical equivalent, disease group, and location. Local
RNFL thicknesses for superior clock-hour regions were estimated after adjustment 
for the thicknesses of symmetrically opposed locations.
RESULTS: There were no differences in mean age, visual field defect mean
deviation, and refractive error between subjects in HTG and NTG groups. Diffuse
RNFL thickness was not significantly different between the two groups [mean RNFL 
for NTG > HTG by 3.48 mum, 95% confidence interval (CI) -3.9 to 10.9 microm, p = 
0.092]. There was no significant interaction of group and location for localized 
RNFL loss (p = 0.916). Local RNFL thickness at superior regions was not
significantly different in the two groups, after adjustment for RNFL thickness at
corresponding inferior locations (mean RNFL for NTG > HTG by 6.30 microm, 95% CI 
-1.08 to 13.7 microm, p = 0.34). RNFL thickness decreased, on average (1.88
microm/dB mean deviation, 95% CI 1.21 to 2.55 microm, p < 0.0001) and locally
(1.37 microm/dB mean deviation, 95% CI 0.79 to 1.96 microm, p < 0.0001), with
increasing severity of glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: There is no difference in the spatial pattern of RNFL defects, as
assessed by the OCT, between HTG and NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e31817dad6a 
PMID: 18594346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Br J Ophthalmol. 2008 Sep;92(9):1227-31. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2008.138024. Epub 2008 
Jun 27.

Twenty-four-hour intraocular pressure and blood pressure levels with bimatoprost 
versus latanoprost in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Quaranta L(1), Pizzolante T, Riva I, Haidich AB, Konstas AG, Stewart WC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

AIM: To evaluate 24 h intraocular pressure (IOP) and blood pressure (BP) with
bimatoprost or latanoprost in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
DESIGN: Prospective, randomised, crossover, active-controlled, observer-masked
study.
METHODS: After a 6-week medicine-free period, we randomised patients to either
latanoprost or bimatoprost for 8 weeks and then to the opposite medicine for 8
weeks. At baseline, and at the end of each treatment period, we evaluated IOP and
BP at 08:00 and then every 2 h over the 24 h day. Diastolic ocular perfusion
pressure (DOPP) was calculated from the above parameters.
RESULTS: Forty completed patients had a 24 h untreated baseline IOP of 15.5 (2.3)
mm Hg, and a DOPP of 59.2 (6.1) mm Hg. Both treatments lowered IOP at each time
point (p<0.006), and over the 24 h curve (p<0.001, both medicines 13.1 mm Hg, 16%
decrease). No difference existed between treatments in absolute IOP, at each time
point, and over the 24 h curve (p>or=0.26). Additionally, no differences were
found between treated 24 h systolic (p>or=0.29) and diastolic BP (p>or=0.12). The
mean 24 h DOPP for latanoprost was increased from baseline (3%, p = 0.031) but
not for bimatoprost (2%, p = 0.21). However, no difference in DOPP existed
between treatments at any time point or over the 24 h curve (p>or=0.17). No
difference was observed between treatments for any adverse event (p>0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with normal-tension glaucoma, both bimatoprost and
latanoprost reduce the 24 h intraocular pressure from untreated baseline to a
similar extent. Latanoprost is associated with slightly improved ocular diastolic
perfusion pressure over 24 h but similar absolute perfusion levels to that of
bimatoprost.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2008.138024 
PMID: 18586898  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2008 Oct;49(10):4453-7. doi: 10.1167/iovs.07-1575.
Epub 2008 Jun 27.

Association of Toll-like receptor 4 gene polymorphisms with normal tension
glaucoma.

Shibuya E(1), Meguro A, Ota M, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F, Iijima H, Kawase K,
Yamamoto T, Nakamura M, Negi A, Sagara T, Nishida T, Inatani M, Tanihara H,
Aihara M, Araie M, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Higashide T, Sugiyama K, Kanamoto T, Kiuchi 
Y, Iwase A, Ohno S, Inoko H, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama City University School of Medicine,
Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is a transmembrane receptor that mediates
immune responses to exogenous and endogenous ligands and interacts with heat
shock proteins, which are reportedly involved in normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
This study was undertaken to investigate whether TLR4 polymorphisms are
associated with NTG.
METHODS: Two hundred fifty Japanese patients with NTG and 318 Japanese healthy
control subjects were recruited. Eight single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 
the TLR4 gene were genotyped, and allelic and phenotypic diversity was assessed
between cases and control subjects.
RESULTS: Strong linkage disequilibrium was observed among all SNPs (D' >or=
0.85), which were located in one haplotype block. With respect to allelic
diversity, the minor allele of three SNPs (rs10759930, rs1927914, and rs7037117) 
carried a significantly increased risk of NTG. With regard to genotypic
diversity, individuals with the minor allele of six SNPs (rs10759930, rs1927914, 
rs1927911, rs12377632, rs2149356, and rs7037117) had a 1.47- to 1.65-fold
increased risk of NTG. rs7037117, located in the 3'-untranslated region of TLR4, 
was most strongly associated with NTG, and when incorporated into a haplotype
with rs10759930, the strongest association was detected (P = 0.0038, P(c) =
0.0095).
CONCLUSIONS: Multiple SNPs in the TLR4 gene are associated with the risk of NTG. 
This finding suggests that the ligands and/or cytokines involved in the TLR4
signaling network may be risk factors for the development of NTG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.07-1575 
PMID: 18586872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


862. J Glaucoma. 2008 Jun-Jul;17(4):259-62. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815c3a93.

Corneal biomechanical properties in primary open angle glaucoma and normal
tension glaucoma.

Ang GS(1), Bochmann F, Townend J, Azuara-Blanco A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, NHS Grampian Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen, 
UK. gsang1@doctors.org.uk

PURPOSE: To determine and compare the corneal biomechanical properties between
eyes with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and eyes with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Prospective cross-sectional study. Consecutive eligible
POAG and NTG patients attending the Glaucoma Clinic had assessment of their
corneal biomechanical properties-corneal hysteresis (CH) and corneal resistance
factor (CRF)-using the Ocular Response Analyzer by an observer masked to the
diagnosis. Exclusion criteria included previous intraocular surgery, corneal
pathology, inflammatory connective tissue disease, and refraction of
5-dimensional or over. If both eyes were eligible, then the right eye was used
for analysis. The main outcome measures were corneal hysteresis and CRF
measurements. Data analysis was performed using the t test and general linear
model.
RESULTS: Eighty-one patients (80 whites) were analyzed. Forty had NTG, whereas 41
had POAG. Thirty-five were females. There was a statistically significant
difference in mean CH (NTG 9.6+/-1.3 mm Hg; POAG 9.0+/-1.4 mm Hg; P=0.01), but
not in mean CRF (NTG 9.9+/-1.4; POAG 10.8+/-1.7; P=0.06). The highest recorded
Goldmann applanation intraocular pressure (IOP) was statistically significantly
associated with lower CH (P=0.01) and higher CRF (P=0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: There was a small but statistically significant difference in the
mean CH between POAG and NTG (CH was higher in NTG). The highest recorded
Goldmann applanation IOP was also statistically significantly correlated with
lower CH and higher CRF, suggesting that alterations to the corneal biomechanical
properties may occur as a result of chronic raised IOP in POAG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815c3a93 
PMID: 18552609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Br J Ophthalmol. 2008 Aug;92(8):1129-33. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2007.135269. Epub 2008 
May 29.

The effect of travoprost on daytime intraocular pressure in normal tension
glaucoma: a randomised controlled trial.

Ang GS(1), Kersey JP, Shepstone L, Broadway DC.

Author information: 
(1)Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, Colney Lane, Norwich, UK.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To determine the medium-term effect of travoprost on the daytime
intraocular pressure (IOP) of patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
METHODS: Newly diagnosed NTG patients underwent baseline, daytime, hourly IOP
phasing. Patients were randomised to either treatment or no treatment (control). 
Treatment comprised once daily topical travoprost 0.004%. After 6 months, the
participants underwent their second IOP phasing.
RESULTS: Data from 88 participants were analysed-54 were randomised to treatment 
and 34 to the control group. The mean duration of treatment was 6 months. The
average, maximum and minimum diurnal IOPs for treated patients were statistically
significantly lower than for control patients at follow-up (p<0.001). When
compared with baseline IOP, the travoprost treated group demonstrated a decrease 
of 16.1%, 13.5% and 16.7% in the average IOP, maximum IOP, and minimum IOP
respectively. Of those treated, about one-third achieved a decrease in average
IOP of at least 20%; only about one-tenth achieved a reduction of at least 30%.
CONCLUSION: Travoprost monotherapy had a sustained hypotensive effect in NTG and 
achieved a reasonable or good response (>20% reduction in average IOP) in 32.9%
of treated eyes. However, in the majority of eyes with NTG, travoprost
monotherapy appeared unable to produce the desirable 30% reduction in average
IOP.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2007.135269 
PMID: 18511540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Folia Med (Plovdiv). 2007;49(3-4):36-41.

Central corneal thickness in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Konareva-Kostianeva MI(1), Atanassov MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.

PURPOSE: To compare the central corneal thickness of eyes with proved
normal-tension glaucoma with that of eyes without glaucoma.
DESIGN: A prospective study.
METHODS: The study included 30 consecutive patients with normal-tension glaucoma 
(60 eyes, group I), and 30 age- and gender-matched non-glaucoma patients (60
eyes, group II). Central corneal thickness was measured using an ultrasonic
pachymeter (Pach IV, Accutome). The mean central corneal thickness of
normal-tension glaucoma patients and controls were compared using independent
samples t-test.
RESULTS: The mean (+/- SD) central corneal thickness of normal-tension glaucoma
and non-glaucoma patients was 517.4 +/- 19.2 microm and 549.0 +/- 39.4 microm,
respectively. There was a significant difference in this parameter between the
groups (P < 0.001). The mean intraocular pressure was higher in glaucomatous eyes
(17.1 +/- 2.3 vs. 16.3 +/- 1.4 mm Hg, P = 0.028). The visual acuity in
normal-tension glaucoma eyes was lower than that in controls, but the difference 
failed to reach statistical significance (P = 0.069).
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that corneas of patients with normal-tension
glaucoma are thinner than those of non-glaucoma patients.


PMID: 18504932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2008 May;225(5):361-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1027262.

Resting energy expenditure in vasospastic subjects and its potential relevance in
glaucoma.

Leuenberger S(1), Gugleta K, Kochkorov A, Reinhard G, Kräuchi K, Keller U,
Flammer J, Orgül S.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Peripheral vasospastic syndrome is frequently encountered in normal
tension glaucoma patients. We tested the hypothesis as to whether peripheral
vascular spastic tendency is due to an attempt to preserve body heat in subjects 
with reduced resting energy expenditure.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty healthy non-smoking female individuals were enrolled
into the study. Subjects were classified as having vasospasm (10 subjects) if
they related a clear history of frequent cold hands, and as normal subjects (10
subjects) if they denied such a history. Sample size calculation was based on a
power of 80 % to find a difference of 20 %. Resting energy expenditure (REE) was 
assessed by indirect calorimetry and corrected for fat-free mass (FFM), which was
assessed by bioelectric impedance analysis.
RESULTS: REE was 1198 +/- 155 kilocalories (kcal) in vasospastics and 1169 +/-
122 in controls (Mann-Whitney U-test: p = 0.62). FFM was 39.6 +/- 3.3 kg in
vasospastics and 41.1 +/- 2.3 kg in controls (Mann-Whitney U-test: p = 0.16). REE
adjusted for FFM was 30.2 +/- 2.5 kcal/kg in vasospastics and 28.4 +/- 2.3
kcal/kg in controls (Mann-Whitney U-test: p = 0.08).
CONCLUSIONS: Peripheral vasospastic syndrome seems not to be a secondary response
to insufficient resting energy expenditure. The results of the present study
rather indicate an opposite tendency which deserves further investigation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1027262 
PMID: 18454373  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2008 May;225(5):346-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1027274.

[Central corneal thickness and retrobulbar blood flow in glaucoma patients].

[Article in German]

Katamay R(1), Grieshaber MC, Weich C, Flammer J, Orgül S.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Basel, Schweiz.

BACKGROUND: A correlation between a thin cornea and the presence of vascular risk
factors has recently been reported in normal-tension glaucoma patients. The
present study intended to investigate the correlation between central corneal
thickness and basal retrobulbar blood flow in glaucoma patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Corneal pachymetry and colour Doppler imaging (CDI) of the 
retrobulbar arteries (ophthalmic, central retinal and cilliary) were performed in
63 glaucoma patients. Linear mixed effect models were used to evaluate the
association of central corneal thickness and retrobulbar blood flow.
RESULTS: There was no significant correlation between central corneal thickness
and blood flow in any of the assessed arteries (p = 0.13-0.88).
CONCLUSIONS: A statistical relationship between central corneal thickness and
retrobulbar blood flow could not be found in the examined sample of glaucoma
patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1027274 
PMID: 18454369  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2008 May;225(5):342-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1027289.

Detection of visual field progression in glaucoma.

Kovalska M(1), Grieshaber MC, Schötzau A, Katamay R, Hauenstein D, Flammer J,
Orgül S.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to compare an event analysis and a trend
analysis for the detection of progression in glaucomatous visual field loss.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Excluding initial fields (Octopus, Haag-Streit AG, Köniz,
Switzerland), baseline was defined as the average result of the second and third 
examinations. Eyes with at least 6 additional fields entered the study. The event
analysis used the method of the Collaborative Normal Tension Glaucoma Study, and 
the trend analysis was based on a point-wise linear regression analysis.
RESULTS: Of 251 glaucoma patients, 235 left eyes and 225 right eyes qualified for
the study. Using the event analysis, 44 series suggested a progressive damage,
while the point-wise regression approach disclosed only 14 progressing series. In
9 eyes, the two approaches were concordant. Among the latter, 1 - 5 additional
fields were necessary in 7 series to disclose progression using the trend
analysis. In one series, the event analysis showed progression 7 examinations
later.
CONCLUSIONS: The point-wise linear regression analysis classified fewer cases as 
progressing than the event analysis and determined progression later.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1027289 
PMID: 18454368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2008 Apr;112(4):371-5.

[Correlation of age and intraocular pressure with visual field damage in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakamoto K(1), Yasuda N, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Metropolitan Police Hospital, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: We investigated the correlation of age and intraocular pressure (IOP) 
with visual field damage in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and
asymmetric visual field defects.
METHODS: A total of 88 NTG patients (176 eyes) were investigated. Patients in
whom visual field defects were more severe in the eye with higher IOP than in the
fellow eye were grouped as IOP-visual field-concordant patients, and the others
as IOP-visual field-discordant patients. Mean 24-hour IOP was used as an
indicator of IOP, and mean deviation (MD) as an indicator of visual field
defects. Patients were also compared by age tertile.
RESULTS: The IOP-visual field-concordant group comprised 53 of the 88 patients
(60.2%), among whom the >70-years tertile had significantly greater absolute
values for MD asymmetry. In contrast, no significant differences in asymmetry by 
age tertile were seen in the IOP-visual field-discordant group.
CONCLUSION: Elevated IOP is a cause of visual field defects in many NTG patients.
Among IOP-visual field-concordant patients, particular attention is required to
visual field changes in the eyes of patients with higher IOP.


PMID: 18444416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Can J Ophthalmol. 2008 Jun;43(3):322-7. doi: 10.3129/i08-039.

What can we learn from the disc appearance about the risk factors in glaucoma?

Drance SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, 1561 Wesbrook
Crescent, Vancouver, BC, Canada. smd@interchange.ubc.ca

The author has been involved in 3 studies, the multicentre collaborative
normal-tension glaucoma study, a study of 4 phenotypes of glaucomatous disc
appearances and their associations, and a study reporting on biostatistical
evidence for 2 distinct chronic open-angle glaucoma populations. These studies
have some common threads whose clinical implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.3129/i08-039 
PMID: 18443610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Vis Neurosci. 2008 Mar-Apr;25(2):197-208. doi: 10.1017/S095252380808053X.

Effects of unoprostone on phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase
expression in endothelin-1-induced retinal and optic nerve damage.

Munemasa Y(1), Kitaoka Y, Hayashi Y, Takeda H, Fujino H, Ohtani-Kaneko R, Hirata 
K, Ueno S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, St. Marianna University School of Medicine,
2-16-1 Sugao, Miyamae-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 216-8511, Japan.

Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a potent vasoconstrictor peptide, has been implicated in the
development of normal- and high-tension glaucoma. We investigated the effects of 
unoprostone on extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in ET-1-induced
retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death and optic nerve injury. Our morphometric study 
showed that intravitreal injection of ET-1 led to cell loss in the RGC layer
(RGCL) in 28 days. Western blot analysis showed decreased neurofilament (NF)
protein in the optic nerve 28 days after ET-1 injection. In this in vivo model,
increased phosphorylated ERK (p-ERK) was observed in the retina on 1 day and
subsequently in the optic nerve from 7 days after ET-1 injection. Simultaneous
injection of M1, as a metabolite of unoprostone, showed further increased p-ERK
levels compared with ET-1 injection alone. Our morphometric study of flat-mount
preparations stained with cresyl violet or retrograde labeling with a
neuro-tracer and Western blot analysis of NF showed that inhibition of ERK
phosphorylation led to acceleration of ET-1-induced RGC death and optic nerve
damage. In addition, M1 significantly attenuated both RGC loss and the decrease
in NF protein induced by ET-1. The protective effects of M1 were significantly
inhibited by U0126, an ERK inhibitor. These results suggest that unoprostone has 
neuroprotective effects against ET-1-induced neuronal injury through ERK
phosphorylation.

DOI: 10.1017/S095252380808053X 
PMID: 18442442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


871. J Glaucoma. 2008 Apr-May;17(3):233-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815072fe.

Comparison of ocular hypotensive effect and safety of brinzolamide and timolol
added to latanoprost.

Miura K(1), Ito K, Okawa C, Sugimoto K, Matsunaga K, Uji Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mie University School of Medicine, Tsu, Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare the ocular hypotensive effect and safety of brinzolamide and 
timolol added to latanoprost monotherapy.
METHODS: In prospective randomized fashion, we evaluated the ocular hypotensive
effect and safety of brinzolamide or timolol in 1 eye of 32 patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma, normal-tension glaucoma, or ocular hypertension who had been
treated with latanoprost for more than 1 month. Intraocular pressure (IOP), blood
pressure, and pulse were measured before and at 4, 8, and 12 weeks. Corneal
endothelial cell density was measured at baseline and at 12 weeks.
RESULTS: The IOP was 17.8+/-1.7 mm Hg (mean+/-SD) before the addition of
brinzolamide (n=15) and 15.7+/-2.1 mm Hg at 12 weeks (P<0.01). In comparison, the
IOP was 18.5+/-3.7 mm Hg before the addition of timolol (n=15) and 15.8+/-3.2 mm 
Hg at 12 weeks (P<0.01). Both brinzolamide and timolol significantly decreased
IOP at 12 weeks, by a mean of 2.0 mm Hg and mean 2.7 mm Hg, respectively, and
were more effective than latanoprost alone (P<0.01), but there were no
significant differences between the drugs and no significant differences in
corneal endothelial cell density and blood pressure before and after addition of 
either drug. At 12 weeks, pulse was decreased in patients receiving timolol
(P<0.01). As systemic adverse events, there was one instance of malar flushing
after brinzolamide addition and episodes of chest discomfort after timolol
addition in 1 patient. Ocular adverse events were slight.
CONCLUSIONS: Brinzolamide and timolol added to latanoprost have similar ocular
hypotensive effects and safety in primary open-angle glaucoma, normal-tension
glaucoma, or ocular hypertension.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815072fe 
PMID: 18414111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2008 Mar;31(3):303-6.

[Hypophysial macroadenoma revealed by clinical symptoms simulating chronic
glaucoma].

[Article in French]

El Fekih L(1), Hmaied W, Moalla S, El Hif S, Kchaou I, Abid M, Sakka S, Darmoul
M, Bouhaouala M.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'ophtalmologie, Hôpital des Forces de Sécurité Interne, La Marsa,
Tunis, Tunisie.

INTRODUCTION: A large optic cup is a sign of glaucoma, although it has been
reported in other optic neuropathies, particularly in compressive neuropathies.
CASE REPORT: A 37-year-old man presented with a decrease in visual acuity for 2
months. Fundus biomicroscopic examination revealed a glaucoma-like bilateral and 
asymmetric large optic cup. Neuroradiological examination revealed an expansive
mass in the sella turcica that was compressing the optic tract.
CONCLUSIONS: Optic nerve compression can lead to perimetric alterations and optic
disc anomalies such as those seen in normal-tension glaucoma. Age under 50 years,
visual loss, and neuroretinal rim pallor may lead to a suspicion of compressive
neuropathy.


PMID: 18404126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Aug;246(8):1147-52. doi:
10.1007/s00417-008-0807-6. Epub 2008 Apr 2.

Prolonged retinal arteriovenous passage time is correlated to ocular perfusion
pressure in normal tension glaucoma.

Plange N(1), Kaup M, Remky A, Arend KO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, RWTH Aachen University, Pauwelsstr. 30, 52057,
Aachen, Germany. nplange@ukaachen.de

BACKGROUND: The pathogenesis of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) might be related to
impaired autoregulation of ocular blood flow. The purpose of the study is to
evaluate retinal haemodynamics by fluorescein angiography and to correlate
arteriovenous passage times (AVP) with ocular perfusion pressure in patients with
NTG and controls.
METHODS: Thirty-five patients with NTG without any topical treatment (mean age 53
+/- 11 years) and 35 age-matched controls (mean age 53 +/- 11 years) were
included in this study. Retinal AVP was assessed by video fluorescein angiography
using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope (Rodenstock, Germany). Dye dilution curves 
of temporal superior and inferior arterioles and venules were evaluated by
digital image analysis. AVP was correlated to mean arterial blood pressure and
ocular perfusion pressure.
RESULTS: The AVP was significantly prolonged in patients with NTG compared to
controls (1.82 +/- 0.57 versus 1.42 +/- 0.46, p = 0.002). Patients with NTG and
controls showed no significant differences in intraocular pressure, mean arterial
pressure and mean and diastolic ocular perfusion pressure. The AVP was
significantly correlated to mean arterial pressure and mean and diastolic ocular 
perfusion pressure in patients with NTG (r = -0.54; p = 0.0006, r = -0.51; p =
0.002, r = -0.49, p = 0.002), but not in controls (r = -0.21; p = 0.23, r =
-0.19; p = 0.27, r = 0.02, p = 0.93).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with NTG exhibit prolonged retinal AVP compared to
controls. A significant correlation of retinal haemodynamics to mean arterial
blood pressure and ocular perfusion pressure might reflect impaired
autoregulation in NTG.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-008-0807-6 
PMID: 18386036  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 May;24(5):1295-301. doi: 10.1185/030079908X291976 . Epub 
2008 Mar 25.

Treatment of glaucoma patients with insufficient intraocular pressure control: a 
survey of German ophthalmologists in private practice.

Vorwerk C(1), Thelen U, Buchholz P, Kimmich F.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik der Otto von Guericke Universität Magdeburg, Magdeburg, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the degree to which glaucoma treatment guidelines have been 
incorporated into daily practices and to describe the therapeutic practices
chosen for patients with insufficient intraocular pressure (IOP) control.
METHODS: Ophthalmologists in private practice in Germany were surveyed to obtain 
information about patients who exhibited unsatisfactory progress with
IOP-lowering pharmacotherapy. Using a questionnaire, physicians provided data
concerning treatment difficulty, target IOP, number and type of medications used,
two most recent IOP readings, and optic nerve head and visual field observations.
RESULTS: Of the 853 patients analyzed, primary open-angle glaucoma was the
diagnosis for 67.1%, and other diagnoses included ocular hypertension, normal
tension glaucoma, and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma. Target IOP levels had been
determined for 95.5% of patients, and not achieving the target pressure was
identified as a treatment difficulty for 81.0% of patients. Of patients on
monotherapy, beta-blockers were prescribed most often (42.3%). Of all patients,
53.3% were treated with two or more agents as either fixed or non-fixed
combinations. The non-fixed combination of a prostaglandin and carbonic anhydrase
inhibitor was the most frequently prescribed dual therapy (19.2%). Non-fixed
prostaglandin plus beta-blocker was used by 18.0% of dual therapy patients,
whereas the available fixed combination was used by 10.5%. Non-compliance was
identified as a cause of unsatisfactory IOP-lowering in 26.8% of all patients.
This study is limited by its descriptive, non-interventional design.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment alterations are necessary to achieve sufficient IOP
control in some patients. If these patients were to take advantage of more
aggressive therapies as outlined by treatment guidelines, including newer
formulations and fixed combination preparations, both efficacy and compliance may
be improved.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908X291976	 
PMID: 18366862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Mar;36(2):136-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01698.x.

The one-eye trial and fellow eye response to prostaglandin analogues.

Dayanir V(1), Cakmak H, Berkit I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Adnan Menderes University,
Aydin, Turkey. vdayanir@adu.edu.tr

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Jul;36(5):492-3; author reply 493.

BACKGROUND: To determine if the intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction in one-eye
trial correlates with the IOP reduction in the fellow eye when IOP variability
during office hours is taken into account.
METHODS: This retrospective observational case series includes 50 high tension
(primary open-angle glaucoma, exfoliative glaucoma and ocular hypertension; Group
1) and 21 normal tension (Group 2) glaucoma patients. Charts of bilateral
open-angle glaucoma patients at Glaucoma Unit, School of Medicine, Adnan Menderes
University who had pretreatment baseline office IOP measurements at 9:30, 11:30
and 15:30; were put on a one-eye trial with prostaglandin analogues, and then
subsequently received the same medication in the fellow eye were reviewed.
Pretreatment baseline office IOP measurements and reductions in the first and
second eyes were compared to determine variability and correlation, respectively.
RESULTS: Both groups showed significant variability in pretreatment baseline
office IOP measurements. Peak IOP level was before noon in at least 70% of eyes
in Group 1, 50% in Group 2. IOP dropped a mean of 8.8 +/- 4.8 mmHg (34%, P = <
0.0001) in Group 1 and 4.9 +/- 2.4 mmHg (30%, P = < 0.0001) in Group 2 during the
one-eye trial. Following bilateral use of the medication a mean drop of 7.5 +/-
4.0 mmHg (31%, P = < 0.0001) in Group 1 and 2.9 +/- 1.9 mmHg (18%, P = < 0.0001) 
in Group 2 were obtained. The IOP reduction between fellow-eye pairs were
significantly correlated in Group 1 (r = 0.541, P = < 0.0001) but not Group 2 (r 
=-0.310, P = 0.171).
CONCLUSIONS: One-eye trial is a feasible method to determine the effectiveness of
prostaglandin analogues and to predict the amount of IOP reduction in the fellow 
eye in patients with high tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01698.x 
PMID: 18352869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Curr Eye Res. 2008 Mar;33(3):253-61. doi: 10.1080/02713680701871157.

Analysis of autoantibodies against human retinal antigens in sera of patients
with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Reichelt J(1), Joachim SC, Pfeiffer N, Grus FH.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Ophthalmology, Department of Ophthalmology, Johannes Gutenberg
University, Mainz, Germany.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to show that complex antibody patterns against
retinal antigens in sera of patients with glaucoma, found in previous studies,
are autoantibodies against human antigens.
METHODS: Sera of 179 patients were collected at the Department of Ophthalmology
(University of Mainz, Germany): non-glaucomatous control patients (n=45), primary
open-angle glaucoma (n=45), ocular hypertension (n=44), and normal tension
glaucoma patients (n=45). The sera were tested against Western blots of human
retinal antigens. IgG antibody patterns were analyzed by multivariate statistical
techniques, and some significant antigens were identified by mass spectrometry.
RESULTS: All subjects, even healthy ones, showed different and complex banding
patterns. Glaucoma groups showed up- and down-regulations of antibody
reactivities compared to the control group. The multivariate analysis of
discriminance found significant differences (p<0.05) in IgG antibody profiles
between glaucoma groups, ocular hypertension, and healthy subjects against human 
retinal antigens. The antigen band at 12 kDa was identified as Histone H4 via
mass spectrometry, the 29 kDa band as cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein, and
one at 49 kDa as retinal S-antigen.
CONCLUSIONS: Using human retinal antigen, we demonstrated that complex
autoantibody patterns exist in sera of patients with glaucoma. Large correlations
with previous studies using bovine retinal antigens could be seen.

DOI: 10.1080/02713680701871157 
PMID: 18350436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


877. J Glaucoma. 2008 Mar;17(2):105-10. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31814b9971.

Comparing glaucomatous optic neuropathy in primary open angle and primary angle
closure glaucoma eyes by scanning laser polarimetry-variable corneal
compensation.

Chen HY(1), Huang ML, Tsai YY, Hung PT, Lin EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, China Medical University Hospital, Taiwan.
hsin7850@url.com.tw

PURPOSE: To study the retinal nerve fiber layer thickness difference between
high-tension primary open angle glaucoma (HT-POAG) and primary angle closure
glaucoma (PACG) eyes using scanning laser polarimetry-variable corneal
compensation (GDx VCC) in Taiwan-Chinese population; to evaluate the usefulness
of the GDx VCC for detecting POAG and PACG eyes in Taiwan-Chinese population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study comprised 88 early to moderate glaucomatous eyes 
(one randomly selected eye from 47 HT-POAG patients and 41 PACG patients) and the
control group consisted of 45 age-matched eyes from 45 normal individuals. Each
subject underwent retinal nerve fiber layer thickness measurement by GDx VCC and 
Humphrey Field Analyzer visual field testing. Measured GDx VCC parameters were
compared among groups. We also calculated the area under the receive operator
characteristic (AROC) curve, corresponding sensitivity/specificity and best cut
off value for each parameter in differentiating normal from POAG and PACG eyes.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between HT-POAG and PACG eyes in
each parameter. The parameter with the best AROC curve for differentiating normal
from POAG eye was nerve fiber indicator (AROC, 0.779; sensitivity=57.4%,
specificity=100%; best cut off value >27). The parameter with the best AROC
curves for differentiating normal from PACG eyes was
temporal-superior-nasal-inferior-temporal average (AROC, 0.829;
sensitivity=46.3%, specificity=100%, best cut off value <51.7).
CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference between the HT-POAG and PACG
eyes as far as the various parameters were concerned. GDx VCC shows fair
discriminating ability in distinguishing normal from POAG and PACG eyes in Taiwan
Chinese population.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31814b9971 
PMID: 18344755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


878. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2008 Apr;24(2):230-4. doi: 10.1089/jop.2007.0016.

Effects of switching from topical beta-blockers to latanoprost on intraocular
pressure in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Ikeda Y(1), Mori K, Ishibashi T, Naruse S, Nakajima N, Kinoshita S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, 
Japan. yikeda@ophth.kpu-m.ac.jp

AIMS: The effects of switching from topical beta-blockers (beta) to latanoprost
(LA) on intraocular pressure (IOP) and IOP-reduction rate (IOP-RR) in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) were investigated.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Sixty (60) NTG patients (60 eyes) were divided into three
equal groups receiving carteolol hydrochloride (group A), nipradilol (group B),
and betaxolol hydrochloride (group C) twice-daily for 3 months. The drugs were
changed to topical LA administered once-daily for the next 3 months.
RESULTS: Baseline IOP was 14.4 +/- 0.9, 14.6 +/- 0.6, and 14.6 +/- 0.9 mmHg in
groups A, B, and C, respectively. At 3 months, IOP was 12.4 +/- 0.6, 13.4 +/-
0.6, and 12.9 +/- 0.8 mmHg and 10.5 +/- 0.5, 11.1 +/- 0.8, and 11.7 +/- 0.8 mmHg 
at 6 months in groups A, B, and C, respectively. At 3 months, IOP-RR was 10.4 +/-
5.5, 9.5 +/- 2.6, and 10.8 +/- 4.7% and 24.1 +/- 4.3, 22.9 +/- 5.9, and 19.4 +/- 
3.8% at 6 months in groups A, B, and C, respectively. The groups did not
significantly differ in the first 3 months regarding IOP and IOP-RR. Switching to
LA significantly decreased IOP and increased IOP-RR in all groups.
CONCLUSION: In NTG patients, LA reduced IOP more effectively than the beta
tested.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2007.0016 
PMID: 18341431  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Mol Vis. 2008 Jan 31;14:224-33.

Oxygen and blood flow: players in the pathogenesis of glaucoma.

Mozaffarieh M(1), Grieshaber MC, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

The increase of IOP in POAG is due an increased resistance of aqueous outflow
through the trabecular meshwork (TM). The exact mechanisms leading to the
corresponding changes in the TM are not yet known. We know, however, that all
risk factors for arteriosclerosis are also risk factors for an increase in
IOP.RESULTS: The association between IOP increase and these factors is relatively
weak but nevertheless significant. Similar to the pathogenesis of
arteriosclerosis, oxidative stress plays a role in the development of TM damage. 
Even less is known about the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic neuropathy (GON).
Obviously the risk factors for arteriosclerosis play a role via increasing the
IOP. When corrected for IOP, however, these factors only play a minor role. In
contrast, factors associated with disturbed autoregulation, in particular a
systemic primary vascular dysregulation (PVD), increase the risk for GON. This is
best observed in normal tension glaucoma patients. An insufficient autoregulation
increases the chance for an unstable ocular perfusion and thereby an unstable
oxygen supply. This, in turn, leads to oxidative stress. The concentration of
superoxide (O(2)(-)) within the axons of the optic nerve head increases. If
neighboring astrocytes are activated, either by mechanical or by ischemic stress,
in excess produced nitric oxide (NO) molecules diffuse also into the axons and
fuse with oxygen. The resulting peroxynitrat (ONOO(-)) diffuses within the axons 
towards the retina and the lateral geniculate nucleus and induces apoptosis.


PMCID: PMC2267728
PMID: 18334938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Retina. 2008 Mar;28(3):493-7. doi: 10.1097/IAE.0b013e318154ba21.

Reduced choroidal blood flow can induce visual field defect in open angle
glaucoma patients without intraocular pressure elevation following encircling
scleral buckling.

Sato EA(1), Shinoda K, Inoue M, Ohtake Y, Kimura I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku, 
Tokyo, Japan.

Comment in
    Retina. 2008 Oct;28(9):1366-7; author reply 1367-8.

PURPOSE: To determine the cause of the progressive glaucomatous visual field
defects in three patients after an encircling scleral buckle for a rhegmatogenous
retinal detachment (RRD).
METHODS: Scanning laser Doppler flowmetry and visual field tests were performed
on three cases with unilateral progressive visual field defect after an
encircling scleral buckling for a RRD. Similar measurements were made after the
buckle was removed.
RESULTS: After implanting the scleral buckle, the intraocular pressure was normal
and chamber angle was open. The blood flow in the neuroretinal rim of the optic
disk was lower than that in the healthy fellow eye. After removing the buckle,
the blood flow improved to normal levels and a further worsening of the visual
field was not detected.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that an encircling scleral buckle may impair
choroidal circulation and lead to visual field defects similar to eyes with
normal tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/IAE.0b013e318154ba21 
PMID: 18327144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Ophthalmology. 2008 Mar;115(3):590-1; author reply 591-2. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.08.017.

Normal-tension glaucoma.

Anderson DR, Feuer W, Schiffman J.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2007 Mar;114(3):460-5.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.08.017 
PMID: 18319115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


882. J Glaucoma. 2008 Jan-Feb;17(1):15-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318098737a.

Systemic arterial stiffness in glaucoma patients.

Chiba T(1), Chiba N, Kashiwagi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Yamanashi, Faculty of Medicine,
Chuo Yamanashi, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate systemic arterial stiffness in glaucoma patients.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: One hundred and forty glaucoma patients and 121 control
subjects were enrolled in the study. Among these subjects, 51 glaucoma patients
[normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), 31; primary open angle glaucoma or ocular
hypertension (POAG/OH): 20] and 61 control subjects without glaucoma, who
presented with no risk factors for arteriosclerosis, were extracted for further
analysis of systemic arterial stiffness by glaucoma type. Subjects presenting
with risk factors for arteriosclerosis were classified into group A, and those
presenting with no risk factors were classified into group B. Brachial-ankle
pulse wave velocity (baPWV), a marker of systemic arterial stiffness, was
determined with a volume-plethysmographic apparatus. The correlation between
baPWV and mean deviation obtained from Humphrey Field Analyzer program 30-2 test 
was compared between 13 each of age-matched and sex-matched NTG and POAG/OH
patients.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference in baPWV between groups A and B
[P<0.0001; 1748+/-393 cm/s (group A) and 1467+/-282 cm/s (group B)]. The baPWVs
of control, NTG patients, and POAG/OH patients with no risk factors showed no
significant difference. baPWV was positively correlated with age in all the 3
groups, but there were no significant differences among the 3 groups. baPWV
tended to be negatively correlated with mean deviation in NTG patients (r2=0.25, 
P=0.08); in contrast, no correlation was observed in POAG/OH patients.
CONCLUSION: Systemic arterial stiffness seems not to be strongly associated with 
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318098737a 
PMID: 18303378  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


883. J Glaucoma. 2008 Jan-Feb;17(1):11-4. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318133fc34.

The prevalence of optic disc pits and their relationship to glaucoma.

Healey PR(1), Mitchell P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Sydney, Centre for Vision Research,
Westmead Millennium Institute, Westmead Hospital, Australia.
PHealey@glaucoma.net.au

Comment in
    J Glaucoma. 2008 Dec;17(8):702.

PURPOSE: To determine prevalence and associations of pits of the optic disc in an
older population and assess their relationship to open-angle glaucoma.
DESIGN: Population-based cross-sectional study.
METHODS: The Blue Mountains Eye Study examined 3654 persons (82.4% of permanent
residents) aged over 48 years. Stereo-optic disc photographs were graded in a
masked fashion.
RESULTS: Nine pits were found in 7 persons, a population prevalence of 0.19%.
Three morphologic subtypes were found. Four peripheral pits were found at the
inferior pole. Four central pits were located adjacent to the main vessel trunk. 
One pit was on the temporal disc margin. Pit prevalence increased with age
(beta=0.0879, P=0.0099). It was strongly associated with high-pressure open-angle
glaucoma [odds ratio (OR) 29, 95% confidence interval (95CI) 7-127],
beta-peripapillary atrophy (OR 7.5, 95CI 2-32), and optic disc hemorrhage (OR 42,
95CI 9-183) after adjusting for age and sex. All peripheral pits were associated 
with paracentral visual field loss.
CONCLUSIONS: The classically described temporal optic disc pit was the rarest
morphologic subtype found in this older population. Optic disc pits were
primarily associated with glaucoma and the related signs of optic disc hemorrhage
and beta-peripapillary atrophy. The previously reported optic disc pit
association with low-tension glaucoma may represent acquisition bias.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318133fc34 
PMID: 18303377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2008 Mar;19(2):85-8. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3282f3919b.

Normal-tension glaucoma: is it different from primary open-angle glaucoma?

Shields MB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. bruce.shields@yale.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a common form of open-angle
glaucoma throughout the world, and yet there are many unanswered questions
regarding both the mechanisms of the optic neuropathy and the treatment of these 
patients. The present review considers how recent literature advances our
understanding of both the mechanisms of glaucomatous damage and the treatment of 
patients with NTG.
RECENT FINDINGS: The main theme in the current literature continues to be that
NTG and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) represent a continuum of open-angle
glaucomas, in which a certain level of intraocular pressure (IOP) is the
predominant causative risk factor in POAG, while additional IOP-independent
factors take increasing importance in NTG. There is considerable overlap between 
the two conditions, however, and within the population of NTG patients there are 
subsets in which IOP, blood flow and other factors assume relative importance.
SUMMARY: In clinical practice, control of IOP remains the mainstay of managing
NTG patients, but consideration must also be given to other factors, especially
those that may influence perfusion of the optic nerve head. Treatment paradigms
will likely change as researchers continue to investigate the mechanisms of
glaucomatous optic neuropathy and search for IOP-independent neuroprotective
agents.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3282f3919b 
PMID: 18301279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2008 Feb;225(2):151-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-963789.

[Comparison of central corneal thickness in patients participating in a glaucoma 
screening programme and those who were examined in the glaucoma unit].

[Article in German]

Hufnagl C(1), Hitzl W, Hornykewycz K, Grabner G, Reitsamer HA.

Author information: 
(1)Augenheilkunde und Optometrie, Universitätsklinik der Salzburger
Landeskliniken, Salzburg. ch.hufnagl@salk.at

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to compare central corneal thickness (CCT) 
and intraocular pressure in patients participating in a glaucoma screening
programme and patients who were examined in the glaucoma unit.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 406 patients of a glaucoma screening programme
(Salzburg-Moorfields collaborative glaucoma study) were included in this study.
In addition a group of 406 patients who were admitted to the glaucoma clinic for 
a detailed glaucoma examination was included (outpatient clinic group). In all
participants central corneal thickness (CCT) was measured and possible relations 
of CCT within the study groups were statistically analysed.
RESULTS: In the population screening group the mean central corneal thickness in 
normal subjects was 536+/-4.3 microm, in patients with ocular hypertension (OHT) 
552+/-5.7 microm, patients suffering from a normal tension glaucoma (NTG) showed 
a mean CCT of 534+/-14.2 microm and those with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG)
had a value of 521+/-17.9 microm. In the 'outpatient clinic group' the OHT
subgroup had a mean CCT of 553+/-6.8 microm, the NTG subgroup of 529+/-26.5
microm and the one with POAG had a mean of 527+/-19.8 microm. In addition, CCT
was measured in all glaucoma patients whose "partner" eye was healthy (544+/-5
microm) and included in this study as part of the normal subgroup. In both groups
(screening group and outpatient group), CCT was significantly higher in OHT
patients than in normals. In contrast, no statistically significant difference
between normals and NTG or POAG patients was detected. Intraocular pressure was
significantly lower in the screening groups than in the other ones.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data confirm the previously published results concerning OHT and
healthy subjects. In this study no significant difference between NTG or POAG
subjects and normal eyes was detected. The lower IOP in the screening population 
can be explained by the fact that patients contacting the screening program are
self selected whereas patients of the glaucoma unit are admitted by practising
ophthalmologists and are, therefore, rather advanced cases or carrying special
risk factors.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-963789 
PMID: 18293267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Exp Eye Res. 2008 Mar;86(3):512-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2007.12.010. Epub 2008 Jan
3.

Oxygen saturation levels in the juxta-papillary retina in eyes with glaucoma.

Ito M(1), Murayama K, Deguchi T, Takasu M, Gil T, Araie M, Peyman G, Yoneya S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Saitama Medical University, Moroyama, Saitama,
Japan.

Oxygen saturation (OS) levels in the juxta-papillary retina particularly
inferotemporal retina were investigated in open-angle glaucoma (OAG) patients as 
well as normal subjects. Fifty-six eyes of 56 OAG Japanese patients and 20 eyes
of 20 age-matched normal subjects were recruited for the study. OAG eyes (56)
were subdivided into two groups: 15 eyes of low-tension (LT) subgroup and 41 eyes
of high-tension (HT) subgroup. The average of age of the LT, HT subgroup and
normal group were 60.5, 55.9 and 52.6 years, respectively. OS levels in the
retina were measured using a Fourier transform-based spectral retinal imaging
(SRI) system (Retinal Cube; ASI Co. Migdal Hemak, Israel), with which OS levels
in the fundus could be computed at every pixel point of a 35 degrees fundus
image. We calculated OS levels at five points in the retina near the optic disc
and retinal arteries and veins in all eyes. The OS levels were also compared with
the results analyzed using Humphrey visual field Analyzer with the program 30-2
SITA. At the superior and nasal juxta-papillary retinal points, OS level of the
LT subgroup showed significant decrease as compared with the HT subgroup and the 
normal group (p=0.048-0.009). The LT and the HT subgroups were significantly
lower than the normal group at the inferotemporal and the average of the retinal 
points (p=0.047-0.001). There were no statistically significant differences among
the three groups in regards to the OS in the retinal artery. There was a
statistical significant correlation between the mean of total deviation of the 17
points in the upper arcuate area and OS of the inferotemporal point (p=0.018),
and between mean deviation and the average of OS of the inferotemporal and the
superotemporal point (p=0.037) in the HT subgroup. However, there was no
significant correlation in the LT subgroup. OS levels in the retina were
especially decreased in the low-tension glaucoma subtype. There was a correlation
between the visual field defect and OS in the HT eyes in the inferotemporal
region. OS measurement may be a novel adjunct to study glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2007.12.010 
PMID: 18262523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Eye (Lond). 2008 Nov;22(11):1410-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.eye.6703089. Epub 2008 Jan
25.

A survey of investigations used for the management of glaucoma in hospital
service in the United Kingdom.

Gordon-Bennett PS(1), Ioannidis AS, Papageorgiou K, Andreou PS.

Author information: 
(1)Broomfield Hospital, Broomfield, Chelmsford, Essex, UK.
patelgordon@yahoo.co.uk

AIMS: This study surveys the current use of investigations for the management of 
glaucoma in hospital practice by UK ophthalmologists.
METHODS: A total of 1007 questionnaires were posted to all active NHS consultant 
ophthalmologists. They were asked to indicate the type of hospital (whether
university (UTH) or general (DGH) hospital), glaucoma specialist status, and
availability and use of automated perimetry, disc photography, HRT, GDx, OCT, and
pachymetry.
RESULTS: A total of 493 completed questionnaires were received and 469 were
analysed: 284 (60.6%) DGH, 185 (39.4%) UTH, 144 (30.7%) glaucoma specialists.
There was good availability of automated perimetry (467, 99.6%), disc photography
(420, 89.6%), pachymetry (374, 79.7%), OCT (212, 45.2%), HRT (206, 43.9%), and
GDx (59, 12.6%). A total of 308 (65.7%) consultants had at least one digital
imaging instrument available. The majority of consultants used SAP (347, 74.0%)
and SITA-fast (282, 60.1%) for glaucoma suspects, and for monitoring glaucoma
(283, 60.3% and 197, 42.0%, respectively). Some used Esterman (155, 33.0%) and
Goldmann fields (90, 19.2%) in addition to SAP and SITA-fast for glaucoma
suspects. Few consultants used short-wavelength automated perimetry and
frequency-doubled perimetry. Of the three imaging tests, HRT was the most
commonly used investigation for disc asymmetry, early glaucoma, glaucomatous
progression, ocular hypertension, normal tension glaucoma, and unreliable visual 
fields (P<0.0001). Where pachymeters were available, 333 (89.0%) consultants and 
117 (98.3%) glaucoma specialists used pachymetry in glaucoma management.
CONCLUSIONS: There was some variation in the use of investigations for the
diagnosis and management of glaucoma, reflecting the range of techniques
available. SAP, SITA-fast, and pachymetry were the most commonly utilised
investigations followed by HRT. Glaucoma specialist status, type of hospital, and
presence of research influenced the availability and use of all investigations,
except visual fields.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6703089 
PMID: 18219340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Apr;246(4):573-80. doi:
10.1007/s00417-007-0737-8. Epub 2008 Jan 12.

Sera of glaucoma patients show autoantibodies against myelin basic protein and
complex autoantibody profiles against human optic nerve antigens.

Joachim SC(1), Reichelt J, Berneiser S, Pfeiffer N, Grus FH.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Ophthalmology, Department of Ophthalmology, Johannes Gutenberg
University, Langenbeckstrabe 1, 55101 Mainz, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to gain more information about the possible
immunological mechanisms in glaucoma. We analyzed the complex autoantibody
patterns against human optic nerve antigens in sera of patients with glaucoma and
tried to identify important antigens.
METHODS: Sera of 133 patients were included: healthy control subjects (n = 44),
primary open-angle glaucoma (n = 44), and normal tension glaucoma patients (n =
45). The sera were tested against Western blots of human optic nerve, and
antibody bands were visualized with chloronaphthol. IgG antibody patterns were
analyzed by multivariate statistical techniques, and the most significant
antigens were identified by mass spectrometry (Maldi-TOFTOF).
RESULTS: All subjects, even healthy ones, showed different and complex antibody
patterns. Glaucoma groups showed specific up- and down-regulations of antibody
reactivities compared to the control group. The multivariate analysis of
discriminance found significant differences (P < 0.05) in IgG antibody profiles
against human optic nerve antigens between both glaucoma groups and healthy
subjects. The identified antigens include: myelin basic protein (up-regulated in 
the POAG group), glial fibrillary acidic protein (down-regulated in the glaucoma 
groups), and vimentin (down-regulated in the glaucoma groups in comparison to
controls).
CONCLUSIONS: Using human optic nerve antigen, we were able to demonstrate that
complex IgG autoantibody patterns exist in sera of patients with glaucoma. Large 
correlations between the given and our previous studies using bovine optic nerve 
antigens could be seen. Furthermore, anti-myelin basic protein antibodies, which 
can also be detected in patients with multiple sclerosis, were found in sera of
glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-007-0737-8 
PMID: 18193265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2007 Dec;111(12):946-52.

[Ocular pulse amplitude in patients with open-angle glaucoma, normal-tension
glaucoma, and ocular hypertensionby dynamic observing tonometry].

[Article in Japanese]

Kawabata K(1), Kimura T, Fujiki K, Murakami A.

Author information: 
(1)Ueno Eye Clinic, Japan. eye@med.juntendo.ac.jp

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to compare the ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) in
patients with different types of glaucoma, and also to evaluate the usefulness of
OPA for the elucidation of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). OPA is thought to
reflect choroidal circulation.
SUBJECTS: Sixty-six patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), 52 patients with
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), 42 with ocular hypertension (OH) and 68
normal controls (NC) were enrolled in this study.
METHODS: OPA was measured in all participants by dynamic observing
tonometry(DOT). The correlation between OPA and the following parameters [IOP,
refraction error (Ref), blood pressure, pulse pressure (PP), MD of Humphrey field
analyzer 30-2, type of groups] was analyzed by linear and multiple regression
analysis (MRA). Multiple logistic regression analysis (MLR) was used to estimate 
the adjusted odds ratio (OR) for evaluation of the association between OPA
(including other factors) and the proportion of NTG.
RESULTS: In MRA, IOP, Ref (< -3 D), PP and type of groups were significantly
associated with OPA. The OPA in NTG was significantly lower than NC (p < 0.05).
MLR demonstrated that OPA [OR 0.26 (95% CI, 0.12-0.57), p = 0.001] was associated
with increased risk of having NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: Lower OPA in patients with NTG suggests that there is insufficiency 
of ocular circulation in NTG. Evaluation of OPA may be useful for the elucidation
of the pathogenesis of glaucoma.


PMID: 18186216  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2007 Nov-Dec;51(6):417-23. Epub 2007 Dec 21.

Association between open-angle glaucoma and gene polymorphism for heat-shock
protein 70-1.

Tosaka K(1), Mashima Y, Funayama T, Ohtake Y, Kimura I; Glaucoma Gene Research
Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
karin.i@nifty.com

PURPOSE: Heat-shock proteins (HSPs) or antibodies against them may contribute to 
glaucomatous optic neuropathy. We investigated the associations of HSP70-1
polymorphisms with open-angle glaucoma (OAG) in a Japanese population.
METHODS: In 241 normal Japanese controls and 501 Japanese OAG patients, including
211 with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and 290 with normal-tension glaucoma 
(NTG), two single-nucleotide polymorphisms, A-110C and G+190C, of HSP70-1 were
identified by using an Invader assay and polymerase chain reaction-restriction
fragment length polymorphism, respectively. Genotype distributions were compared 
between controls and OAG patients. Age at diagnosis, untreated maximum
intraocular pressure, and visual field defects at diagnosis were examined for
associations with the polymorphisms.
RESULTS: Distribution of the A-110C genotype (AA versus AC+CC) differed
significantly between controls and OAG patients (P = 0.007), POAG patients (P =
0.007), or NTG patients (P = 0.032). The genotype distribution of the G+190C
polymorphism did not differ significantly between the controls and any patient
group. No significant differences in the clinical characteristics of the patients
were detected between genotype-defined groups by logistic regression analysis.
CONCLUSION: The A-110C polymorphism of HSP70-1 may be associated with OAG
pathogenesis in Japanese patients.

(c) Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2007

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-007-0475-9 
PMID: 18158591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


891. J Glaucoma. 2007 Dec;16(8):694-9.

Clinical comparison of pascal dynamic contour tonometry and goldmann applanation 
tonometry in asymmetric open-angle glaucoma.

Sullivan-Mee M(1), Halverson KD, Qualls C.

Author information: 
(1)Albuquerque VA Medical Center, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
micheal.sullivan-mee@med.va.gov

PURPOSE: To investigate and compare the relationships between glaucomatous visual
field loss and intraocular pressure (IOP) as measured by both Pascal dynamic
contour tonometry (DCT) and Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma
patients seen between July 2005 and June 2006 with at least 2 sets of
good-quality, bilateral DCT and GAT measurements were retrospectively identified.
Additional inclusion criteria required that all subjects had repeatable,
asymmetric glaucomatous visual field loss that corresponded with asymmetric
glaucomatous optic neuropathy. After mean IOP values were computed and visual
fields were scored using Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS) criteria,
paired-eye comparisons were conducted using right versus left eyes and higher
versus lower AGIS-score eyes.
RESULTS: Sixty-seven (42 primary open-angle glaucoma, 25 normal tension glaucoma)
subjects met all criteria for study inclusion. Per paired t test, mean DCT-IOP
was significantly higher in the higher AGIS-score eyes compared with the lower
AGIS-score eyes (16.3 vs. 15.5 mm Hg, P=0.004), whereas GAT-IOP was not
significantly different in these same eyes (14.5 vs. 14.4 mm Hg, P=0.56). Mean
IOP difference between the 2 methods was significantly larger in higher versus
lower AGIS-score eyes (P<0.001), and 72% of the subjects demonstrated larger
intermethod IOP differences in their higher AGIS-score eye compared with their
lower AGIS-score eye (P<0.001; 95% confidence interval: 0.59-0.82). Multivariate 
linear regression analysis revealed that AGIS-score differences between eyes were
independently associated with both intermethod IOP differences between eyes
(P=0.004) and central corneal thickness (CCT) differences between eyes (P=0.04). 
CCT, however, was not associated with intermethod IOP differences within or
between eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that DCT-IOP is correlated with glaucomatous 
damage, and moreover, DCT-IOP is more closely related to extent of glaucoma
damage than is GAT-IOP. The most likely explanation for these results is that
GAT-IOP systematically underestimates IOP compared with DCT-IOP. Our findings
also support the hypothesis that corneal biomechanical factors other than CCT are
major confounders of applanation tonometry measurements.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3180408dc6 
PMID: 18091457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Mol Vis. 2007 Nov 26;13:2137-41.

No association between OPA1 polymorphisms and primary open-angle glaucoma in
three different populations.

Liu Y(1), Schmidt S, Qin X, Gibson J, Munro D, Wiggs JL, Hauser MA, Allingham RR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Genetics, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether recently described polymorphisms in the optic
atrophy 1 gene (OPA1) are associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) with
elevated intraocular pressure in the Caucasian, African-American, and Ghanaian
(West African) populations.
METHODS: POAG was defined as the presence of glaucomatous optic nerve damage,
associated visual field loss, and elevated intraocular pressure (>21 mm of
mercury in both eyes). We used TaqMan allelic discrimination assays to genotype
two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs, rs10451941 and rs166850) in OPA1 in
the Caucasian (279 cases, 227 controls), African American (193 cases, 97
controls), and Ghanaian (170 cases, 138 controls) populations. Allele, genotype, 
and haplotype frequencies were compared between the cases and controls from each 
population.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in OPA1 allele or genotype
frequencies between POAG patients and controls at the rs10451941 and rs166850
SNPs in any population (p>0.05). Haplotype analysis also failed to demonstrate a 
significant association with POAG. The age-of-onset distribution in the Caucasian
POAG patients was independent from genotypes at rs10451941.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no association between two previously implicated OPA1
polymorphisms and a POAG phenotype that includes elevated intraocular pressure.
This represents the first association analysis of OPA1 in high tension glaucoma
in the African American and Ghanaian populations and is the largest study to date
on the investigation of the potential association between OPA1 and POAG with
elevated intraocular pressure. OPA1 association with POAG may be limited to
patients with normal tension glaucoma in these populations.


PMID: 18079692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Ophthalmology. 2008 Jul;115(7):1173-1178.e1. Epub 2008 Feb 20.

Glaucoma is associated with peripheral vascular endothelial dysfunction.

Su WW(1), Cheng ST, Ho WJ, Tsay PK, Wu SC, Chang SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung
University College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate peripheral vascular endothelial function in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) using
noninvasive endothelium-dependent flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD).
DESIGN: Case-control study.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty patients with NTG, 30 with POAG, and 30 healthy age- and
gender-matched controls.
METHODS: Participants underwent measurement of FMD and endothelium-independent
nitroglycerin-mediated vasodilation (NMD) via high-resolution 2-dimensional
ultrasonographic imaging of the brachial artery. All patients also underwent
blood sampling for biochemistry, lipid profile, and high sensitivity C-reactive
protein analysis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The association of FMD with NTG and POAG.
RESULTS: The FMD values differed significantly between the patients with NTG,
those with POAG, and controls: NTG, 2.70+/-2.25%; POAG, 5.33+/-2.81%; controls,
7.21+/-2.36%; P<0.001. In comparison with the POAG group and normal controls, the
NTG group demonstrated markedly impaired FMD. The POAG group exhibited higher
intermediate FMD than the NTG group (P<0.001) but significantly lower FMD than
normal controls (P = 0.012). Multivariate analysis indicated that independent
predictors for impaired FMD were presence of NTG, presence of POAG, and advanced 
age. Additionally, FMD values were significantly lower in glaucoma patients than 
in controls (4.02+/-2.85% vs. 7.21+/-2.36%; P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with glaucoma have impaired FMD. Additionally, patients
with NTG have lower FMD than those with POAG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.10.026 
PMID: 18076992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2007 Sep;43(9):784-7.

[Comparison of peripapillary atrophy in eyes with unilateral visual field defect 
in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Pan YZ(1), Ren ZQ, Li M, Qiao RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the First Hospital of Peking University, Beijing 
100034, China. panyingzi99@yahoo.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the difference of the peripapillary atrophy between two
eyes of unilateral visual field defect in each of patient with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This study included 40 eyes with unilateral visual field defect in
patients with POAG (20 cases) and NTG (20 cases). Color stereo optic disc
photographs were morphometrically evaluated by a video camera and a computer
system. The refractive range (spherical equivalent) of all these subjects was
between -3.00D and +3.00D.
RESULTS: The cup areas (CA) and cup/disc areas (CA/DA) in eyes with visual field 
defect were significantly larger than in eyes with normal visual field (CA:
t=5.332, P<0.01; CA/DA: t=5.126, P<0.01). The alpha zone areas (alphaA) of PPA
were significantly enlarged in visual field defect eyes compared with visual
field normal eyes (t=3.02, P=0.0045), while there is no significant difference in
beta-zone area (betaA) between two eyes. (S=13.5, P=0.426). The frequency of the 
PPA (alpha-zone and beta-zone) occurrence were also similar in both eyes.
(alphaA: chi(2)=0.00, P=1.000; betaA: chi(2)=1.2857, P=0.2568).
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that either beta-zone area or the presence of PPA
is not closely correlated to the visual field defect in POAG and NTG patients
with exclusion of moderate or high myopia.


PMID: 18070521  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Oftalmologia. 2007;51(3):98-103.

[Central thickness of the cornea in ocular hypertension and open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Chiseliţă D(1), Danielescu C, Gagos-Zaharia O, Gherman C.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica I Oftalmologie, Iaşi.

PURPOSES: To assess the necessity for corneal pachimetry in the primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG) and ocular hypertension (OHT) diagnosis and follow-up. To
establish a correlation between central corneal thickness (CCT) and glaucoma
progression.
METHOD: Retrospective study that included 199 eyes (108 patients) with POAG,
normal tension glaucoma, OHT or glaucoma suspects. The evaluation included the
intraocular pressure, CCT, C/D ratio and visual field (standard automated
perimetry). For the patients that had performed at least 3 visual fields we have 
searched the perimetric progression of glaucoma and we have noted the mean lOP
throughout the follow-up period.
RESULTS: The mean CCT was higher in OHT (559.28 +/- 26.35 m) than in POAG (542.83
+/-31.07 microm). In the 10 cases of newly diagnosed OHT the CCT has influenced
the diagnosis (the OHT with a high risk of progression to glaucoma was assigned
to antiglaucoma treatment). 57 eyes had at least 3 visual fields. The
Kaplan-Meyer survival analysis showed that the eyes with CCT 520 m had
significantly earlier glaucoma progression ( the mean IOP was 17.59 +/- 2.33
mmHg, compared to 18.28 +/- 1.55 mmHg in the eyes with CCT> 520 m, p = 0.36).
CONCLUSIONS: The central corneal thickness is significantly higher in eyes with
ocular hypertension than in those with POAG. In eyes with thin cornea the
glaucoma progression tends to appear earlier, which suggests a need for lower
target IOP in these cases.


PMID: 18064964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2007 Dec;21(4):222-7.

Disc hemorrhages in patients with both normal tension glaucoma and branch retinal
vein occlusion in different eyes.

Yoo YC(1), Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hallym University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.

PURPOSE: To document the clinical features of disc hemorrhage in patients with
branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and to
evaluate the relationship between BRVO and NTG with disc hemorrhages.
METHODS: From July 2001 to May 2006, sixteen patients with both NTG and BRVO in
different eyes were successively collected from outpatient population of Seoul
National University Hospital in this observational case series. The frequency and
location of disc hemorrhages, history of associated systemic diseases, and the
order of the time of diagnosis between NTG and BRVO were studied.
RESULTS: All patients had unilateral BRVO, and their mean age was 63.3+/-10.6
years. Disc hemorrhages were detected in eight patients (50%) during the mean
follow-up of 26.8 months (range, 3-96 months). Six patients (75%) had disc
hemorrhages in the non-BRVO eyes and two patients (25%) in BRVO eyes. Five
hemorrhages (62.5%) were located at inferior-temporal quadrant of the optic disc.
History of systemic hypertension was identified in 12 patients (75.0%). In 11
patients (68.8%), NTG was diagnosed at the same time as BRVO.
CONCLUSIONS: A higher frequency of disc hemorrhages was identified in patients
with both BRVO and NTG. Therefore, some cases of NTG, especially with disc
hemorrhages, may share a common vascular pathophysiology with BRVO.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2007.21.4.222 
PMCID: PMC2629887
PMID: 18063887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Surv Ophthalmol. 2007 Nov;52 Suppl 2:S162-73.

What is the present pathogenetic concept of glaucomatous optic neuropathy?

Flammer J(1), Mozaffarieh M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

Glaucomatous optic neuropathy implies loss of neural tissue, activation of glial 
cells, tissue remodeling, and change of blood flow. The blood flow reduction is
not only secondary but has a primary component. Activation of astrocytes leads to
an altered microenvironment. An unstable ocular perfusion, either due to IOP
fluctuation or a disturbed autoregulation (due to primary vascular dysregulation 
syndrome) leads to a mild reperfusion injury. The superoxide (O(2)(-)) anion
produced in the mitochondria of the axons, fuses with the nitric oxide (NO)
diffusing from the astrocytes, leading to the damaging peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)).
It is possible that the diffusion of endothelin and metalloproteinases to the
surrounding of the optic nerve head leads to a local vasoconstriction and thereby
increases the risk for venous occlusion and weakens the blood-brain barrier,
which in extreme situations results in splinter hemorrhages. Activated retinal
astrocytes can be visualized clinically. The involvement of primary vascular
dysregulation in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic neuropathy may explain
why women, as well as Japanese, suffer more often from normal-tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2007.08.012 
PMID: 17998042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Ann Ophthalmol (Skokie). 2007 Fall;39(3):246-8.

Optic disc asymmetry: normal tension glaucoma or a space-occupying lesion?

Gupta A(1), Rahman I, Mohan M.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, Oxford Road, Manchester, M13 9WH, UK.
abha16@hotmail.com

Optic disc asymmetry is a common finding. In the majority of cases automated
visual fields are normal. However, in a minority, a visual field defect may lead 
to a diagnosis of normal tension glaucoma. Rarely, the optic discs and visual
field deteriorate irrespective of the normal or reduced intraocular pressure.


PMID: 18025635  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Mar;246(3):389-96. Epub 2007 Nov 15.

Circadian changes of intraocular pressure and ocular perfusion pressure after
timolol or latanoprost in Caucasians with normal-tension glaucoma.

Costagliola C(1), Parmeggiani F, Virgili G, Lamberti G, Incorvaia C, Perri P,
Campa C, Sebastiani A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the circadian effects on intraocular pressure (IOP) and
ocular perfusion pressure (OPP) of 0.5% timolol or 0.005% latanoprost in
Caucasian patients affected by normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this crossover trial, 30 consecutive NTG subjects
underwent three 24-hour assessments of IOP, blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR),
and OPP [calculated according to the formula OPP = (1/3 systolic BP + 2/3
diastolic BP) x 2/3 - IOP]: at baseline, and after 1-month treatment with timolol
or latanoprost. These parameters were recorded at 4 a.m., 8 a.m., noon, 4 p.m., 8
p.m., and midnight.
RESULTS: Both timolol and latanoprost reduced IOP (p < 0.001), with a difference 
in favour of latanoprost of 1.3 mmHg (95% CI 0.9, 1.6; p < 0.001). After timolol,
BP and HR decreased with respect to baseline (p < 0.001). Latanoprost increased
mean OPP (3.6 mmHg, 95% CI 2.9, 4.3; p < 0.001), whereas timolol did not improve 
it.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost induces an IOP reduction greater than timolol, also
achieving a better circadian flattening of the IOP curve. Only latanoprost
significantly increased mean 24-hour OPP. The management of Caucasian NTG
patients should be critically realized, considering the 24-hour influence of each
IOP-lowering drug on the ocular blood perfusion.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-007-0704-4 
PMID: 18004586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Mol Vis. 2007 Oct 9;13:1912-9.

Association between primary open-angle glaucoma and WDR36 DNA sequence variants
in Japanese.

Miyazawa A(1), Fuse N, Mengkegale M, Ryu M, Seimiya M, Wada Y, Nishida K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine whether mutations in the WD repeat domain 36 gene (WDR36)
are associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in Japanese. Subjects with
high tension glaucoma (HTG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) were analyzed
separately.
METHODS: One hundred and thirty-six unrelated Japanese patients with HTG and 103 
unrelated patients with NTG were studied. Genomic DNA was extracted from
peripheral blood leukocytes, and all 23 exons were amplified by polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) and directly sequenced bidirectionally.
RESULTS: Twenty sequence alterations were identified: 10 have already been
reported (p.I264V, c.1494+90C>T, c.1494+143A>G, c.1609+89G>A, c.1775+89C>A,
c.1965-30A>G, p.V714V, c.2170+217C>T, p.V727V, and c.2518+60G>C) and 10 were
novel (p.D179D, p.Q270Q, p.M283R, c.898+63C>G, c.1074+20C>T, p.G459G,
c.1884+26C>G, p.S664L, p.S664S, and p.P744P). One nonsynonymous amino acid change
in exon 17, p.S664L, was identified in a patient with HTG. The frequency of the
p.I264V variant was significantly higher in the HTG group than in the control
group (p=0.01), but the frequency in the NTG group was not significantly
different from the control group (p=0.12). The frequency of the c.1965-30A>G
variant was also significantly higher in the HTG group than in the control group 
(p=0.03), but the frequency in the NTG group was not significantly different from
the control group (p=0.06).
CONCLUSIONS: One nonsynonymous variant, p.S664L, and the association of the
allelic variants (p.I264V and c.1965-30A>G) in WDR36 and their prevalence in
unrelated Japanese patients with HTG suggest that they are probably involved in
the pathogenesis of HTG.


PMID: 17960130  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2007 Sep-Oct;51(5):379-89. Epub 2007 Oct 5.

Decreased nasal-temporal asymmetry of the second-order kernel response of
multifocal electroretinograms in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma.

Asano E(1), Mochizuki K, Sawada A, Nagasaka E, Kondo Y, Yamamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine,
Gifu, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine whether multifocal electroretinograms (mfERGs) can provide 
an index for identification of glaucomatous optic neuropathy in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: mfERGs were recorded in 30 normal volunteers (30 eyes) and 20 patients
(20 eyes) with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Visual field examinations were
performed with a Humphrey field analyzer, and all NTG patients had unilateral
hemifield defects. The mfERGs were elicited by a binary m-sequence of flashes
from 37 hexagonal elements that subtended an overall visual angle of 50 degrees x
40 degrees. The mfERGs were summed and analyzed for predetermined retinal loci.
These mfERGs were compared with the perimetric findings of the corresponding
visual fields.
RESULTS: In normal volunteers, the amplitude of the second-order kernel within
the central 5 degrees of the nasal hemisphere was significantly smaller than in
that of the temporal hemisphere (Wilcoxon signed-rank test, P = 0.0001). In NTG
patients, this asymmetry of the two hemispheres was reduced or not present. The
ratio of the amplitude of the mfERGs from the nasal and temporal hemispheres (N/T
amplitude ratio) in normal control volunteers was significantly different from
that of NTG patients with a hemifield defect (analysis of variance, P = 0.0001). 
When the cutoff value for the N/T amplitude ratio was set at 0.83 for
discriminating glaucomatous eyes from normal eyes, the sensitivity was 65.0% with
a specificity of 96.7%. The area under the receiver-operating characteristic
curve of the N/T amplitude ratio was 0.86. The N/T amplitude ratio and the visual
field indices were significantly correlated.
CONCLUSION: A decrease in the nasal-temporal asymmetry in the amplitude of the
second-order kernel responses within the central 5 degrees of glaucoma patients' 
eyes indicated a dysfunction of the inner retinal layers, including of the
retinal ganglion cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-007-0468-8 
PMID: 17926116  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


902. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2007 May;30(5 Pt 2):3S22-30.

[Recognizing the pitfalls. Pseudoglaucomatous visual fields].

[Article in French]

Laloum L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinique de la Muette, 46-48 rue Nicolo, 75116 Paris.

Pseudo-glaucomatous visual fields pose two major problems: diagnosing optic nerve
compression; diagnosing congenital optic nerve pathology. Looking for the
deviation of each point on the schema is not enough: every total deviation value 
must be compared on both sides of the vertical median. Often, optic disc
examination and clinical context can rectify a diagnosis. However, since 2002, it
has been clear that normal-tension glaucoma diagnosis requires magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) to rule out intracranial compressive lesions involving the anterior
visual pathway (of course, before imaging, other types of glaucoma will be ruled 
out).


PMID: 17646797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2007 Sep;111(9):728-34.

[Case of neurosarcoidosis with rapid visual field defect progression].

[Article in Japanese]

Hasumi Y(1), Ishihara M, Asukata Y, Nishida T, Hayashi K, Nakamura S, Mizuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Yokohama City University
Graduate School of Medicine, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To report a case of neurosarcoidosis with rapid progression of visual 
field defects.
CASE: A 28-year-old woman presented with bilateral uveitis and was diagnosed as
having sarcoidosis after skin and cervical lymph node biopsy. Since bilateral
excavations of the optic nerve head and visual field defects were observed,
endocranial lesion was suspected. However, a computed tomography (CT) scan of the
head detected nothing abnormal. It was regarded as a case of
sarcoidosisaccompanied by normal-tension glaucoma and treatment was initiated
with latanoprost. Four months later, the patient's visual field deteriorated
rapidly. A CT scan showed a pituitary mass. Neurologicalfindings and
hypopituitarism were found which improved with systemic prednisolone therapy.
Diabetes insipidus developed after the start of treatment, and was treated with
intranasal desmopressin therapy. After 6 weeks, head magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) showed a remarkable reduction of the enhanced regions.
CONCLUSIONS: Although ocular sarcoidosis is often accompanied by secondary
glaucoma or optic nerve atrophy, the progression of neurosarcoidosis can lead to 
visual field defects. Central nervous system (CNS) sarcoidosis is rare, but a
precise examination with enhanced MRI should be considered when the visual field 
defect progresses rapidly.


PMID: 17907467  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Proteomics Clin Appl. 2007 Oct;1(10):1316-23. doi: 10.1002/prca.200700150. Epub
2007 Sep 11.

Disease proteomics reveals altered basic gene expression regulation in leukocytes
of Normal-Tension and Primary Open-Angle glaucoma patients.

Golubnitschaja O(1), Yeghiazaryan K, Wunderlich K, Schild HH, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
Olga.Golubnitschaja@ukb.uni-bonn.de.

Glaucomatous damage is a neurodegenerative eye disease and one of the leading
causes of blindness with 67 million patients worldwide. Major currently
challenging questions include early diagnosis, risk evaluation, and follow-up.
Circulating leukocytes have been demonstrated as potentially important source of 
disease specific markers. The relevance of expression alterations in leukocytes
for glaucomatous damage needs to be clarified. Noteworthy, gene expression
patterns of trabecular meshwork and Schlemm's canal, which are anatomically and
functionally highly relevant for glaucoma pathology, were shown to be similar to 
those of circulating leukocytes. Here, we report extensive alterations in
characteristic protein expression patterns of circulating leukocytes for
Normal-Tension and Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma, as revealed by analysis of 2-D
PAGE images. Among most conservative alterations we found the protein spot
identified by MALDI-TOF as basic transcription factor activating protein-2beta
(AP-2β). Western-blot analysis demonstrated significantly increased protein
expression rates of AP-2β in both Normal-Tension and Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma 
versus controls. AP proteins are essential factors of the basic transcription
regulation; AP-2 proteins play a decisive role, particularly, in morphogenesis of
eye. Conservative AP-2 up-regulation is of special importance in terms of basic
transcriptional dysregulation that might be specific for glaucoma disease.

Copyright © 2007 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/prca.200700150 
PMID: 21136628  [PubMed]


905. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2007 Dec;245(12):1851-7. Epub 2007 Sep 28.

Diurnal variation of intraocular pressure in suspected glaucoma patients and
their outcome.

Tajunisah I(1), Reddy SC, Fathilah J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 50603 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. tajun69@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: A case-controlled prospective study was conducted to evaluate the
diurnal variation of intraocular pressure (IOP); the mean, the amplitude of
variation and the peak and trough times of pressure readings in the suspected
open-angle glaucoma patients as compared with a control group. We also looked at 
the outcome of these suspects after diurnal variation of IOP measurements.
METHODS: Diurnal variation of intraocular pressure was measured in 202 eyes of
suspected open-angle glaucoma patients and 100 control eyes, at 4-hourly
intervals for 24 hours (phasing). Based on the phasing results, optic disc
changes and visual field defects, the patients were diagnosed as primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG), ocular hypertension (OHT), 
or physiologic cup (PC), or still remained as glaucoma suspects due to
inconclusive diagnosis. The last group (glaucoma suspects) was then followed up
6-monthly for their eventual outcome.
RESULTS: The highest percentage of suspected glaucoma patients had peak (maximum)
readings in the mid-morning (10-11 A.M.) and trough (minimum) readings after
midnight (2-3 A.M.); the highest percentage of control group had peak readings in
the late evening (6-7 P.M.) and trough readings after midnight (2-3 A.M.). The
mean amplitude of variance was 6 mm Hg in suspected glaucoma group and 4 mm Hg in
the control group. After 'phasing', 18.8% of the suspected glaucoma patients were
diagnosed as POAG, 16.8% as NTG, 5% as OHT, and 28.7% as physiologic cup; 30.9%
remained as glaucoma suspects. After 4 years follow-up, 70% of the glaucoma
suspects still remained as glaucoma suspects, 6.7% developed NTG and another 6.7%
POAG; 16.6% were normal.
CONCLUSIONS: Serial measurement of IOP ( phasing) in a 24-hour period is still
needed, in order not to miss the peak and the trough IOP readings in suspected
open-angle glaucoma patients, which helps in better management of glaucoma. Among
30.9% of patients who remained as glaucoma suspects after the initial phasing,
13.4% developed NTG/POAG over a period of 4 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-007-0681-7 
PMID: 17901971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Mol Vis. 2007 Sep 5;13:1573-9.

IgG antibody patterns in aqueous humor of patients with primary open angle
glaucoma and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma.

Joachim SC(1), Wuenschig D, Pfeiffer N, Grus FH.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Ophthalmology, Department of Ophthalmology, Johannes Gutenberg
University, Mainz, Germany.

PURPOSE: There has been growing body of evidence indicating an immunological
component in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. Several studies found specific
antibodies in sera of glaucoma patients. Recently, we detected antibody profiles 
in aqueous humor of patients with normal tension glaucoma that showed significant
differences when compared to control subjects. The aim of this study was to
compare the IgG antibody patterns against retinal antigens in aqueous humor of
patients with primary open angle glaucoma, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma, and
control subjects then to identify some of the important biomarkers of this study.
METHODS: Aqueous humor of 44 patients was analyzed: 15 patients with primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG), 14 patients with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEX), and 15 
control subjects (CO). The aqueous was tested against western blots of bovine
retinal antigens. The IgG antibody patterns were analyzed by multivariate
statistical techniques. Some of the important biomarkers were identified via mass
spectrometry (Maldi-TOFTOF).
RESULTS: All patients showed complex patterns of IgG antibodies against retinal
antigens. The discriminant analysis revealed a statistically significant
difference between the antibody profiles of the POAG and the CO group
(p=0.00018). There was also a statistically significant difference between the
antibody profiles of the PEX and the CO group (p=0.0013). Not only were
up-regulations in the glaucoma groups observed, compared to controls, but also
down-regulations. There was no significant difference between the antibody
patterns of the POAG and PEX group. The identified biomarkers included heat shock
protein 27, alpha-enolase, actin, and GAPDH.
CONCLUSIONS: We could show significant differences between the IgG antibody
profiles of the glaucoma groups (PEX and POAG) and controls. The analysis of
intraocular antibodies could provide further hints for autoimmune involvement in 
glaucoma.


PMID: 17893658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2007 May-Jun;70(3):471-9.

[Comparative study between diurnal intraocular pressure curve and the association
of ambulatory intraocular pressure curve with the water-drinking test in open
angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma and normal eyes].

[Article in Portuguese]

Meirelles SH(1), Yamane R, Alvares RM, Botelho PB, Morais FB, Moreira PB, Dantas 
AM, de Moraes Júnior HV.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Gama Filho, Brasil. serhme@terra.com.br

PURPOSE: To evaluate and correlate the peaks and the fluctuation of intraocular
pressure seen in the association of the ambulatory intraocular pressure curve
with the water-drinking test versus the peaks and the fluctuation seen in the
daily intraocular pressure curve.
METHODS: The sample was as follows: 77 eyes belonging to 77 patients who were
divided into three groups composed of 31 eyes belonging to 31 patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma, 26 eyes belonging to 26 patients with normal tension
glaucoma and 20 normal eyes belonging to 20 individuals.
RESULTS: A significant correlation could be observed between the pressure peaks
collected from the daily intraocular pressure curve and the pressure peaks seen
in the ambulatory intraocular pressure curve, on the water-drinking test, as well
as in the association of the ambulatory intraocular pressure curve with the
water-drinking test. The procedure which showed the highest rate of correlation
between the pressure peaks and the peaks of the daily intraocular pressure curve 
was the ambulatory intraocular pressure curve (r2= 0.81). However, no
statistically significant difference was found between the pressure peaks and the
correlation coefficients observed in the other methods. The correlation between
the fluctuation of intraocular pressure obtained in the association of the
ambulatory intraocular pressure curve with the water-drinking test and the
fluctuation of the pressure seen in the daily intraocular pressure curve showed a
slight association (r2= 0.21).
CONCLUSIONS: The association between ambulatory intraocular pressure curve and
water-drinking test was not efficient to estimate peaks and the fluctuation of
daily intraocular pressure curve. The ambulatory intraocular pressure curve and
the water-drinking test must be analyzed separately. When predicting the peak and
the fluctuation of the daily intraocular pressure curve, the ambulatory
intraocular pressure curve was the most efficient procedure.


PMID: 17768555  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Clin Ophthalmol. 2007 Sep;1(3):217-23.

Potential role for angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in the treatment of
glaucoma.

Hirooka K(1), Shiraga F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, Miki,
Kagawa, Japan.

Therapeutic methods directed at alleviating the basic pathological processes of
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) are yet to be established. Although there seems to 
be little doubt that intraocular pressure (IOP) represents a risk factor in most 
patients, reduction of IOP does not prevent progression in every patient with
NTG, indicating that factors other than elevated IOP are involved in glaucoma
progression. New avenues of treatment under investigation include agents that
could improve blood flow to the eye and neuroprotective drugs. The major
components of the renin-angiotensin system have been identified in ocular tissue.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are widely used to treat systemic 
hypertension. ACE inhibitors are inhibitors of kininase II and thus prevent
breakdown of bradykinin. Bradykinin displays protective actions against glutamate
neurotoxicity through bradykinin-B(2) receptors in cultured retinal neurons. ACE 
inhibitors blocked the liberation of angiotensin II from angiotensin I. Lower
angiotensin II levels may have beneficial effects on outcomes by lowering
vascular superoxide anion production. The effects of ACE inhibitor as a potential
antiglaucoma therapy deserve intense scrutiny.


PMCID: PMC2701139
PMID: 19668475  [PubMed]


909. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2007 Aug;224(8):636-40.

[Comparison of central and peripheral corneal thicknesses between normal subjects
and patients with primary open angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma and
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Rüfer F(1), Westphal S, Erb C.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Augenheilkunde, Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, Campus
Kiel. fruefer@ophthalmol.uni-kiel.de

BACKGROUND: While many comparative data are available about central corneal
thickness in different types of open angle glaucoma, peripheral corneal thickness
has been much less investigated up to now. Thus, the aim of this study was to
compare the central and peripheral corneal thicknesses in patients with primary
open angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and pseudoexfoliation
glaucoma (PEXG) to values of normal subjects.
PATIENTS: 104 patients with POAG, 20 patients with NTG, 23 patients with PEXG and
127 normal subjects were investigated with the Orbscan II. The central corneal
thickness and the peripheral corneal thickness at 3 mm distance from the centre
were determined in 4 quadrants. The acoustic equivalent factor of 0.92 was not
used. Patients with eye diseases, patients who had undergone eye surgery or
wearers of contact lenses were excluded. Differences were analysed with the
Bonferroni-adjusted Mann-Whitney U Test for statistical significance.
RESULTS: The median central corneal thickness in POAG was 600 +/- 35 microm, in
NTG 577 +/- 31 microm, in PEXG 603 +/- 25 microm and in the control group 606 +/-
38 microm. The difference between NTG and the control group was statistically
significant (p = 0.01). Superiorly the peripheral corneal thickness was lower in 
POAG (670 +/- 47 microm) and NTG (639 +/- 37 microm) compared to the control
group (686 +/- 46 microm). Nasally the peripheral corneal thickness was lower in 
POAG (656 +/- 48 microm), NTG (658 +/- 55 microm) and PEXG (642 +/- 47 microm)
compared to the control group (677 +/- 46 microm). Temporally and inferiorly
there were only small differences compared to the control group. The differences 
in peripheral corneal thickness were not statistically significant.
DISCUSSION: In accord with literature data the central corneal thickness was
lower in patients with normal tension glaucoma compared to normal subjects.
Superiorly and nasally the peripheral corneal thickness was lower in patients
with open angle glaucoma than in normal subjects which was, however, not
statistically significant. To what extent these characteristics of the corneal
architecture are relevant for the pathogenesis of open angle glaucomas has to be 
clarified in further larger trials.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-963337 
PMID: 17717779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Eye (Lond). 2009 Jan;23(1):164-70. Epub 2007 Aug 10.

Performance of colour Doppler imaging discriminating normal tension glaucoma from
healthy eyes.

Plange N(1), Kaup M, Weber A, Harris A, Arend KO, Remky A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany.
nplange@ukaachen.de

PURPOSE: Previous studies have shown decreased retrobulbar blood flow in normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) compared to healthy controls. This study evaluates the
ability of colour Doppler imaging (CDI) to identify patients with NTG.
METHODS: Sixty-two patients with untreated NTG (mean age 57+/-14 years) and 40
age-matched controls (mean age 58+/-9 years) were included in a prospective
cross-sectional institutional study. Peak systolic velocity (PSV), end-diastolic 
velocity (EDV), and resistive indices (RI=(PSV-EDV)/PSV) of the ophthalmic artery
(OA), central retinal artery (CRA), and short posterior ciliary arteries (PCAs)
were measured by means of CDI. Using receiver operating characteristic (ROC)
curves, sensitivity was determined at 90% specificity.
RESULTS: Patients with NTG showed significantly decreased PSV (P<0.0001) and EDV 
(P<0.0001) of the CRA, significantly decreased EDV of the nasal (P=0.004) and
temporal (P=0.002) PCA, and significantly increased RI of the temporal (P=0.003) 
PCAs compared to healthy controls. Sensitivity values at 90% specificity were
calculated: PSV of the CRA, 30.6%; EDV of the CRA, 48.4%; EDV of the nasal PCA,
43.9%; EDV of the temporal PCA, 45.9%; and RI of the temporal PCA, 39.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: The power to identify NTG using CDI reaches 48% sensitivity at 90%
specificity. Further longitudinal studies are needed to determine the prognostic 
value of CDI in glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702943 
PMID: 17693998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Niger J Clin Pract. 2007 Mar;10(1):79-82.

A review of the risk factors in primary open angle glaucoma.

Omoti AE(1), Edema OT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University ofBenin Teaching Hospital, Benin City,
Nigeria. afeomoti@yahoo.com

The aetiology of primary open-angle glaucoma is still uncertain. However certain 
factors are known or suspected of having an aetiologic role. These are known as
the risk factors. These include higher intraocular pressures, black race, old age
especially after the age of 40 years, the peculiar larger optic disc structure of
black people, a positive family history, vascular factors such as systemic
hypertension, perfusion pressure, vasospasm, atherosclerosis and acute
hypotension which is a risk factor for normal-tension glaucoma. Others are
diabetes, which is prone to selection bias, myopia, a history of typical migraine
headaches, thinner central corneal thickness and the ability to taste
phenylthiourea. If a particular patient is identified as having one or more of
these risk factors, that patient is by definition, at greater risk of developing 
glaucoma than a patient who does not.


PMID: 17668721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Am J Ophthalmol. 2007 Aug;144(2):310-1.

Risk factors for noncompliance with follow-up among normal-tension glaucoma
suspects.

Ngan R(1), Lam DL, Mudumbai RC, Chen PP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate noncompliance with follow-up in normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) suspects.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS: We reviewed 203 patient charts at a university eye clinic, identified as
NTG suspects from a database of optic disk photographs. Noncompliance was defined
as less than one year of follow-up and/or fewer than two completed visual field
(VF) tests.
RESULTS: Twenty-two patients (11%) were excluded because at least two VF tests
were not ordered. The 181 patients analyzed included 45 (25%) non-Whites and 16
(9%) non-English speakers. Eighty-three patients (46%) were noncompliant. These
patients were significantly younger (50.5 +/- 15.0 years vs 55.1 +/- 12.8 years; 
P = .028), were more likely to speak English (P = .023), and were more likely to 
have no or unknown health insurance (P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Almost half of NTG suspects lacked appropriate follow-up. Lack of
health insurance may be a significant barrier to compliance with follow-up in
this population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.04.005 
PMID: 17659968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Eye (Lond). 2009 Jan;23(1):17-24. Epub 2007 Jul 6.

Investigation of the association between 677C>T and 1298A>C 5,10-methylenetetra- 
hydrofolate reductase gene polymorphisms and normal-tension glaucoma.

Woo SJ(1), Kim JY, Kim DM, Park SS, Ko HS, Yoo T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: Homozygous polymorphism of the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase 
(MTHFR) gene and resultant hyperhomocysteinaemia have been established as an
independent risk factor for vascular diseases. There are evidences that vascular 
abnormalities are involved in the pathogenesis and progression of normal-tension 
glaucoma (NTG). In the present study, we were to find out the associations
between 677C>T and 1298A>C polymorphisms of the MTHFR gene and NTG.
METHODS: This was a retrospective, case-controlled study enrolling 78 NTG
patients and 100 controls. DNA from peripheral blood lymphocytes was extracted
and the genotypes of polymorphisms (677C>T and 1298A>C) in the MTHFR gene were
determined using PCR followed by restriction enzyme digestion. The frequencies of
the polymorphic genotypes in the patients with NTG and controls were compared.
RESULTS: The frequencies of the polymorphisms of the MTHFR gene (677C>T and
1298A>C) in the NTG patients were not significantly different from those of
controls. But the younger NTG patients (age at diagnosis < or = 45 years) showed 
significantly higher prevalence of 677C>T polymorphism than the older NTG
patients (age at diagnosis > 45 years) (TT genotype, 38.9 vs 11.9%, P=0.006,
OR=4.71, 95% CI=1.49-14.9) and than the younger control subgroup (TT genotype,
38.9 vs 6.1%, P=0.001, OR=9.86, 95% CI=2.23-42.4).
CONCLUSIONS: The 677C>T polymorphism was significantly associated with NTG in the
younger patients, while 1298A>C polymorphism was not. This suggests that 677C>T
polymorphism of the MTHFR gene can be a genetic risk factor of NTG in Korean
population.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702920 
PMID: 17618244  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Curr Eye Res. 2007 Jun;32(6):501-9.

Antibodies to alpha B-crystallin, vimentin, and heat shock protein 70 in aqueous 
humor of patients with normal tension glaucoma and IgG antibody patterns against 
retinal antigen in aqueous humor.

Joachim SC(1), Bruns K, Lackner KJ, Pfeiffer N, Grus FH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany.

PURPOSE: To show the existence of IgG antibodies against retinal antigens in
aqueous humor of normal tension glaucoma patients.
METHODS: Forty-two patients were included in this study. Aqueous humor was
collected from control subjects (CO; n = 21) and patients with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG; n = 21). Western blot methods against bovine retinal antigens were
used to detect the IgG antibody patterns. The complex antibody repertoires were
analyzed by multivariate statistical techniques. Mass spectrometry was used to
identify the most important antigens.
RESULTS: Very complex IgG antibody patterns against retinal antigens were found
in all analyzed aqueous humor samples. Our multivariate approach could quantify
differences in immunoreactivities, and including all peaks, the analysis of
discriminance revealed a statistical significant difference between the patterns 
of the NTG and the CO group (p < 0.001). The antigen band at 21 kDa was
identified as alpha B-crystallin, the 57-kDa antigen band as vimentin, and one at
70 kDa as heat shock protein 70.
CONCLUSIONS: We could demonstrate that complex IgG antibody patterns against
retina exist in aqueous humor. The significant differences in the antibody
pattern of the glaucoma group compared with the nonglaucoma group in aqueous
humor confirm the results of previous studies using sera of glaucoma patients.
These differences in antibody patterns might be further evidence for an
autoimmune involvement in the pathogenesis of some glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.1080/02713680701375183 
PMID: 17612966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Clin Invest. 2007 Jul;117(7):1763-70.

The potential role of glutamate transporters in the pathogenesis of normal
tension glaucoma.

Harada T(1), Harada C, Nakamura K, Quah HM, Okumura A, Namekata K, Saeki T,
Aihara M, Yoshida H, Mitani A, Tanaka K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, School of Biomedical Science and Medical
Research Institute, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.

Glaucoma, a progressive optic neuropathy due to retinal ganglion cell (RGC)
degeneration, is one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness. Although
glaucoma is often associated with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), IOP
elevation is not detected in a significant subset of glaucomas, such as normal
tension glaucoma (NTG). Moreover, in some glaucoma patients, significant IOP
reduction does not prevent progression of the disease. Thus, understanding
IOP-independent mechanisms of RGC loss is important. Here, we show that mice
deficient in the glutamate transporters GLAST or EAAC1 demonstrate spontaneous
RGC and optic nerve degeneration without elevated IOP. In GLAST-deficient mice,
the glutathione level in Müller glia was decreased; administration of glutamate
receptor blocker prevented RGC loss. In EAAC1-deficient mice, RGCs were more
vulnerable to oxidative stress. These findings suggest that glutamate
transporters are necessary both to prevent excitotoxic retinal damage and to
synthesize glutathione, a major cellular antioxidant and tripeptide of glutamate,
cysteine, and glycine. We believe these mice are the first animal models of NTG
that offer a powerful system for investigating mechanisms of neurodegeneration in
NTG and developing therapies directed at IOP-independent mechanisms of RGC loss.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI30178 
PMCID: PMC1890997
PMID: 17607354  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


916. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2007 Jun;23(3):311-3.

Clinical experience in the treatment of normal tension glaucoma with latanoprost 
in Germany.

Thelen U, Weiler W, Kirchhoff E, Fuchs HB, Stewart WC.

AIMS: The aim of this analysis was to evaluate the general ophthalmologist's
experience in using latanoprost to treat normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: NTG patients included in this study were part of an observational cohort
of patients that were changed from previous therapy to latanoprost in Germany.
RESULTS: This study included 200 NTG glaucoma patients who were being treated
with latanoprost monotherapy (average duration, 1.2 +/- 1.4 years) and had 6
months of follow-up. At the beginning of the observation period, patients had an 
average intraocular pressure (IOP) of 15.2 +/- 2.5 mmHg and after 6 months, 15.0 
+/- 2.4 mmHg (P = 0.769). Eight (8) patients (4.0%) were discontinued from
latanoprost during the observation period, with the most common reason noted as
the need for further IOP reduction (n = 7; 3.5%). Twenty-four (24) patients
(12.0%) noted at least one ocular adverse event during the observation period,
with the most common reason noted as burning/stinging (n = 9; 4.5%) or
conjunctival hyperemia (n = 9; 4.5%).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that patients with NTG who are already treated
with latanoprost monotherapy should continue to have, over a short-term
follow-up, generally stable IOPs, low side-effect incidence, and
discontinuations, as well as "very good" to "excellent" physician ratings of
patient efficacy, tolerability, and satisfaction.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2006.126 
PMID: 17593016  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


917. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2007 Jul;33(7):1209-16.

Phacoviscocanalostomy versus cataract surgery only in patients with coexisting
normal-tension glaucoma: midterm outcomes.

Shoji T(1), Tanito M, Takahashi H, Park M, Hayashi K, Sakurai Y, Nishikawa S,
Chihara E.

Author information: 
(1)Sensho-kai Eye Institute, Kyoto, and the Department of Ophthalmology, Shimane 
University School of Medicine, Shimane, Japan. t-shoji@yg7.so-net.ne.jp

Comment in
    J Cataract Refract Surg. 2007 Jul;33(7):1139-40.

PURPOSE: To compare the midterm efficacy and safety of phacoviscocanalostomy
(viscocanalostomy, phacoemulsification, and intraocular lens [IOL] implantation) 
and cataract surgery (phacoemulsification and IOL implantation) in patients with 
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and cataract.
SETTING: Sensho-kai Eye Institute, Kyoto, Japan.
METHODS: Thirty-one eyes had phacoviscocanalostomy, and 35 eyes had uncomplicated
cataract surgery only. The intraocular pressure (IOP), postoperative antiglaucoma
medications, and visual outcomes were compared between groups.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up was 34.9 months+/-19.8 (SD) (range 7 to 78 months).
At 36 months, the mean preoperative IOP and postoperative IOP were 17.2+/-1.5 mm 
Hg and 14.1+/-1.6 mm Hg, respectively, in the phacoviscocanalostomy group and
16.7+/-1.4 mm Hg and 15.6+/-3.4 mm Hg, respectively, in the cataract surgery only
group. The differences between groups were significant at all time points
(P<.05). The success probabilities of the phacoviscocanalostomy group achieving
20% and 30% IOP reductions with (or without) medications were 78.5% (67.4%) and
35.5% (37.4%) at 24 months and 58.0% (44.2%) and 28.0% (26.6%) at 48 months,
which were significantly better than the probabilities in the cataract surgery
only group, which were 16.0% (9.5%) and 5.7% (2.9%) at 24 months (P<.001 for each
comparison, Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis with log-rank test). Based on the
modified Aulhorn-Greve classification, the visual acuity and visual fields did
not deteriorate in the phacoviscocanalostomy group; the visual fields
deteriorated in 6 eyes in the cataract surgery only group during the follow-up
(P=.024).
CONCLUSION: Phacoviscocanalostomy lowered IOP and maintained postoperative visual
outcomes; it was safe and effective in elderly patients with coexisting NTG and
cataract.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2007.03.027 
PMID: 17586377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Glaucoma. 2007 Jun-Jul;16(4):352-7.

Effect of concomitant use of latanoprost and brinzolamide on 24-hour variation of
IOP in normal-tension glaucoma.

Nakamoto K(1), Yasuda N.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Police Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. user902850@aol.com

PURPOSE: To study the effect of the concomitant use of latanoprost and
brinzolamide on the 24-hour variation in the intraocular pressure (IOP) in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: We studied a total of 44 eyes from 22 NTG patients. Mean 24-hour IOP
variation was determined after a washout period of > or =4 weeks. Latanoprost
monotherapy was continued in both eyes for 8 weeks. Thereafter, patients were
randomized to continue latanoprost monotherapy in 1 eye whereas brinzolamide was 
added as an adjunct to latanoprost therapy in the other eye. Eight weeks after
the initiation of brinzolamide treatment, the 24-hour IOP variation was
remeasured. IOP was measured in the sitting position 8 times daily using a
Goldmann applanation tonometer before and after treatment.
RESULTS: The eyes treated with latanoprost monotherapy and those treated with
latanoprost and brinzolamide showed a significant decrease in IOP at all time
points. Percent reductions in the diurnal mean IOP (mean IOP at 10 AM, 1 PM, and 
4 PM) and in nocturnal mean IOP (mean IOP at 10 PM, 1 AM, and 3 AM) were
significantly greater in the eyes treated with the combination of latanoprost and
brinzolamide than those with latanoprost alone (diurnal mean IOP: latanoprost and
brinzolamide=19.8%, latanoprost=14.1%, P<0.001; nocturnal mean IOP: latanoprost
and brinzolamide=13.4%, latanoprost=10.0%, P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: For the treatment of NTG, the combination of latanoprost and
brinzolamide demonstrated additive effects in lowering IOP, not only during the
day, but also at night.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318033b491 
PMID: 17570997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Ophthalmology. 2007 Dec;114(12):2221-6. Epub 2007 Jun 12.

Systemic antihypertensive medication and incident open-angle glaucoma.

Müskens RP(1), de Voogd S, Wolfs RC, Witteman JC, Hofman A, de Jong PT, Stricker 
BH, Jansonius NM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Medical Center Groningen, University
of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To determine the association between systemic antihypertensive
medication and incident open-angle glaucoma.
DESIGN: Prospective population-based cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: The study population consisted of a subset of 3842 participants of 
the Rotterdam Study for whom data from identical ophthalmologic examinations at
baseline and follow-up were available.
METHODS: Use of antihypertensive medication was registered over an average
follow-up period of 6.5 years. Associations between incident open-angle glaucoma 
and antihypertensive medication were assessed using multivariate logistic
regression models adjusted for age, gender, duration of follow-up, intraocular
pressure, intraocular pressure-lowering medication, and cardiovascular disease.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Odds ratios of associations between incident open-angle
glaucoma and use of antihypertensive medication.
RESULTS: During follow-up, there were 87 incident cases of open-angle glaucoma.
Participants using calcium channel antagonists had a 1.8-fold (95% confidence
interval [CI], 1.04-3.2; P = 0.037) higher risk of developing incident open-angle
glaucoma. beta-Blockers were associated with a nonsignificant risk reduction
(odds ratio, 0.6; 95% CI, 0.3-1.02; P = 0.060). None of the other classes of
antihypertensives was significantly associated with incident open-angle glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that use of calcium channel antagonists is
associated with open-angle glaucoma, but this requires confirmation. These
results do not support the use of calcium channel antagonists for the treatment
of normal-tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.03.047 
PMID: 17568677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Mol Vis. 2007 May 16;13:724-9.

Variations in the WDR36 gene in German patients with normal tension glaucoma.

Weisschuh N(1), Wolf C, Wissinger B, Gramer E.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Laboratory, University Eye Hospital, Tuebingen, Germany.
nicole.weisschuh@uni-tuebingen.de

PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence of WDR36 sequence variants in a cohort of
German patients with normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: All of the 23 coding exons and flanking introns of the WDR36 gene were
amplified by PCR from genomic DNA and subjected to denaturing high performance
liquid chromatography. Samples with aberrant profiles were sequenced. In
addition, restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis was performed in
order to identify previously described nucleotide changes.
RESULTS: This study identified 11 nucleotide changes in the WDR36 gene that lead 
to predicted amino acid substitutions. Previously reported disease-causing
mutations were found in 4% of patients (4/112) whereas sequence variants
previously classified as disease-susceptibility mutations were found in 5% of
patients (6/112). One nonsynonymous nucleotide change that has not been reported 
before was found in one patient. Mutation screening also identified several
exonic and intronic polymorphisms.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings in the current study indicate that WDR36 gene variants 
may be only rare causes of normal tension glaucoma in the German population.


PMCID: PMC2765470
PMID: 17563723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Mol Vis. 2007 May 14;13:719-23.

Investigation of the association between interleukin-1beta polymorphism and
normal tension glaucoma.

Wang CY(1), Shen YC, Su CH, Lo FY, Lee SH, Tsai HY, Fan SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, National
Yang-Ming University, Taichung, Taiwan, Republic of China.

PURPOSE: In normal tension glaucoma (NTG), factors other than elevated
intraocular pressure are likely to have a role in the pathogenesis of optic
neuropathy. The potential similarities in cellular apoptosis leading to
neurodegeneration between Alzheimer's disease and NTG were shown in recent
studies. The interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta; -511) and IL-1beta (+3953)
polymorphisms were found to increase risk with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose
of this study was to test the hypothesis that the IL-1beta polymorphism is
associated with NTG in the Chinese population.
METHODS: This is a cohort study in a Chinese population that involved 231 people 
with NTG and 245 healthy controls. Genomic DNA was amplified by a polymerase
chain reaction, followed by the enzymatic restriction fragment length
polymorphism technique. Patients and controls were genotyped for the C/T
polymorphism at position -511 and +3953 of the IL-1beta gene. Genotypes for NTG
and control groups were compared for statistically significant differences.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in genotype frequency or allele
frequency distribution of the IL-1beta gene polymorphisms (position -511 and
+3953) between NTG patients and the control group (p >0.3).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed no evidence for an association between the IL-1beta
(-511) and IL-1beta (+3953) polymorphisms and NTG. The IL-1beta gene
polymorphisms (position -511 and +3953) may not play a key role in NTG
pathogenesis in Chinese population.


PMCID: PMC2765469
PMID: 17563722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Arch Ophthalmol. 2007 Jun;125(6):805-12.

Blood pressure, arterial stiffness, and open-angle glaucoma: the Rotterdam study.

Hulsman CA(1), Vingerling JR, Hofman A, Witteman JC, de Jong PT.

Author information: 
(1)The Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts 
and Sciences, and Department of Ophthalmology, Academic Medical Center,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 2008 May;126(5):741; author reply 741-2.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate cross-sectional associations among blood pressures
(BPs), arterial stiffness, and open-angle glaucoma (OAG).
METHODS: Study participants came from the population-based Rotterdam Study. The
baseline examination phase took place after an extensive home interview from
March 20, 1990, to June 17, 1993, and the third phase between March 19, 1997, and
December 16, 1999. Cases were classified into high-tension OAG (htOAG) and
normal-tension OAG (ntOAG), according to an intraocular pressure greater than 21 
mm Hg or 21 mm Hg or less. Pulse pressure was the difference between systolic and
diastolic BP. Diastolic perfusion pressure was the difference between diastolic
BP and the intraocular pressure; indicators of arterial stiffness were
carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity and carotid distensibility. Associations were
evaluated with logistic regression analysis, adjusted for age, sex, body mass
index, smoking, diabetes mellitus, serum cholesterol level, and BP-lowering
treatment.
RESULTS: A total of 5317 participants were included in this study. In
participants with a higher pulse pressure, the prevalence of htOAG was elevated
(odds ratio [OR] per standard deviation, 1.32; 95% confidence interval [CI],
1.03-1.69). In persons treated for systemic hypertension, low diastolic perfusion
pressure (<50 mm Hg) was inversely associated with ntOAG (OR, 0.25; 95% CI,
0.10-0.63) and positively associated with htOAG (OR, 4.68; 95% CI, 1.29-17.01).
The lowest tertile of carotid distensibility compared with the highest had an OR 
for htOAG of 2.84 (95% CI, 0.99-8.10; P=.05).
CONCLUSIONS: We found that htOAG was associated with high pulse pressure,
possibly with increased carotid arterial stiffness, and, only in persons treated 
for systemic hypertension, with low diastolic perfusion pressure. In these
persons, ntOAG was associated with high diastolic BP, whereas the association
between ntOAG and low diastolic perfusion pressure was inverted.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.125.6.805 
PMID: 17562992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Clin Drug Investig. 2004;24(6):343-52.

Medical outcomes of glaucoma therapy from a nationwide representative survey.

Denis P(1), Lafuma A, Berdeaux G.

Author information: 
(1)Service d’Ophthalmologie, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the medical outcomes of patients treated for primary open 
angle glaucoma (POAG) or ocular hypertension.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-eight ophthalmologists selected at random from a
national professional list in France were asked to report on disease progression 
in consecutive patients who they saw in their clinics and who had either POAG,
normal tension glaucoma/ocular hypertension, and who were aged >18 years of age. 
Data on sociodemographics, general and ocular comorbidities, glaucoma risk
factors, visual acuity (VA), optic nerve head (ONH) clinical data, and visual
fields were collected. Disease progression was defined as a deterioration of ONH 
and/or visual field since initial diagnosis. Changes in treatment were also
monitored. A treatment change was defined as adding a new drug or changing any of
the current treatments. Time to treatment failure was compared using the Wilcoxon
test applied to survival curves.
RESULTS: Of 127 patients who were evaluated, 12 developed a disease progression
after diagnosis (average follow-up 2.4 years). No statistically significant
difference in the known confounding factors of disease progression was found
between patients with or without disease progression. At 32 months, 2.6% of the
patients with no changes in treatment had a DP, compared with 22.6% with one
change in treatment and 46.2% with two or more changes in treatment (p < 0.03).
Patients who experienced adverse effects (p < 0.008) and those who said they were
unhappy with their treatment (p < 0.03) more often experienced disease
progression.
CONCLUSION: An estimated 9.4% of a representative sample of patients with POAG or
ocular hypertension experienced disease progression within 2.5 years of initial
diagnosis. Patients with disease progression had more changes in treatment and
adverse events; they were also more likely to have complained about being unhappy
with their treatment.


PMID: 17516721  [PubMed]


924. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2007 May;224(5):396-400.

[Retrobulbar haemodynamics in normal and high tension glaucoma patients: the
diagnostic importance of tinnitus, migraine and Raynaud-like symptoms].

[Article in German]

Wiermann A(1), Galambos P, Vafiadis J, Wagenfeld L, Richard G, Klemm M, Zeitz O.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Klinik und Poliklinik für
Augenheilkunde, Hamburg. a.wiermann@uke.uni-hamburg.de

BACKGROUND: In the pathophysiology of open-angle glaucoma altered perfusion of
the optic nerve head is of importance. Up to now these disturbances were presumed
to be the chief cause of glaucomatous damage in patients with normal tension
glaucoma showing other vascular disturbances like migraine or tinnitus.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Peak systolic velocity (PSV) and end-diastolic velocity
(EDV) were measured and the resistive index (RI) was calculated by colour Doppler
imaging (CDI) in the ophthalmic artery (OA), central retinal artery (CRA) and in 
the short and long posterior ciliary arteries (SPCA, LPCA) in 18 patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), in 18 patients with high tension glaucoma (HTG)
and in 18 normal control subjects.
RESULTS: In an upright sitting position both glaucoma groups showed statistically
significant decreases in PSV and EDV in CRA and SPCA compared to the control
subjects. HTG when compared to NTG and normal subjects showed statistically
significant decreases of EDV and statistically significant increases of RI in
LPCA. In addition, compared to normal subjects, HTG patients showed statistically
significant increases of RI in both OA and SPCA.
DISCUSSION: Both glaucoma groups showed decreased blood flow velocities in the
small retrobulbar vessels in an upright sitting position. Normal tension glaucoma
patients with symptoms of vasospasms compared to patients with high tension
glaucoma showed only small differences in ocular haemodynamics.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-963118 
PMID: 17516368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Can J Ophthalmol. 2007 Jun;42(3):414-7.

Special considerations in low-tension glaucoma.

Krupin T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. krupin@northwestern.edu

Low-pressure (low-tension) glaucoma is reviewed in relation to neuroprotection,
that is, the therapeutic strategy to keep neurons living and functionally
connected to targets within the brain. Baseline results of the Low-Pressure
Glaucoma Treatment Study (LoGTS) are reviewed.

DOI: 10.3129/can j ophthalmol.i07-043 
PMID: 17508037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Br J Ophthalmol. 2007 Oct;91(10):1364-8. Epub 2007 May 10.

Novel pressure-to-cornea index in glaucoma.

Iliev ME(1), Meyenberg A, Buerki E, Shafranov G, Shields MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Bern, Inselspital, 3010 Bern,
Switzerland. milko.iliev@insel.ch

BACKGROUND: Several conversion tables and formulas have been suggested to correct
applanation intraocular pressure (IOP) for central corneal thickness (CCT). CCT
is also thought to represent an independent glaucoma risk factor. In an attempt
to integrate IOP and CCT into a unified risk factor and avoid uncertain
correction for tonometric inaccuracy, a new pressure-to-cornea index (PCI) is
proposed.
METHODS: PCI (IOP/CCT(3)) was defined as the ratio between untreated IOP and
CCT(3) in mm (ultrasound pachymetry). PCI distribution in 220 normal controls, 53
patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), 76 with ocular hypertension (OHT),
and 89 with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) was investigated. PCI's ability to
discriminate between glaucoma (NTG+POAG) and non-glaucoma (controls+OHT) was
compared with that of three published formulae for correcting IOP for CCT.
Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were built.
RESULTS: Mean PCI values were: Controls 92.0 (SD 24.8), NTG 129.1 (SD 25.8), OHT 
134.0 (SD 26.5), POAG 173.6 (SD 40.9). To minimise IOP bias, eyes within the same
2 mm Hg range between 16 and 29 mm Hg (16-17, 18-19, etc) were separately
compared: control and NTG eyes as well as OHT and POAG eyes differed
significantly. PCI demonstrated a larger area under the ROC curve (AUC) and
significantly higher sensitivity at fixed 80% and 90% specificities compared with
each of the correction formulas; optimum PCI cut-off value 133.8.
CONCLUSIONS: A PCI range of 120-140 is proposed as the upper limit of
"normality", 120 being the cut-off value for eyes with untreated pressures <or=21
mm Hg, 140 when untreated pressure >or=22 mm Hg. PCI may reflect individual
susceptibility to a given IOP level, and thus represent a glaucoma risk factor.
Longitudinal studies are needed to prove its prognostic value.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2007.120980 
PMCID: PMC2001018
PMID: 17494954  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Glaucoma. 2007 Mar;16(2):230-3.

Normal tension glaucoma is not associated with the interleukin -1alpha (-889)
genetic polymorphism.

Wang CY(1), Shen YC, Lo FY, Su CH, Lee SH, Tsai HY, Fan SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of ophthalmology, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, National
Yang-Ming University, Taiwan, Republic of China. cywangtw@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Factors other than intraocular pressure are likely to play a role in 
the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic neuropathy, particularly in individuals
with normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Recent laboratory evidence has shown that
there are potential similarities between Alzheimer disease and NTG in cellular
apoptosis leading to neurodegeneration. IL-1alpha (-889) T allele polymorphism
has been found to increase the risk of developing Alzheimer disease. The aim of
this study was to test in a Chinese cohort the hypothesis that IL-1alpha (-889)
polymorphism is associated with NTG.
METHODS: One hundred sixty-two unrelated patients with NTG were recruited and
compared with 167 controls in a Chinese population. Genomic DNA was amplified by 
polymerase chain reaction, followed by enzymatic restriction fragment length
polymorphism technique. Patients and controls were genotyped for the C/T
polymorphism at position -889 of the IL-1alpha gene promoter region.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the frequency of IL-1alpha (-889)
alleles or genotypes in the NTG population compared with that in the control
group.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that C/T polymorphism at position -889 of the IL-1alpha 
gene promoter region does not increase the risk of developing NTG. However,
further studies on NTG are necessary to investigate the genetic basis and factors
involved in the development of the neurodegenerative process.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3180300818 
PMID: 17473736  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2007 Mar;21(1):33-8.

Investigation of the association between normal-tension glaucoma and single
nucleotide polymorphisms in natriuretic peptide gene.

Jeoung JW(1), Kim DM, Ko HS, Park SS, Kim JY, Kim SY, Yoo TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Chongno-gu,
Korea.

PURPOSE: The expression of natriuretic peptides in the neural bundles of the
anterior portion of the optic nerves and their functions in regulating vessel
tone and blood flow may suggest a possible role in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. 
The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between
normal-tension glaucoma and the genetic variations of atrial natriuretic peptide 
(Nppa) and natriuretic peptide receptor A (Npr1) gene.
METHODS: Sixty-seven Korean normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and 100
healthy subjects (as normal controls) were enrolled. DNA from peripheral blood
leukocytes was extracted, and the genotypes of five polymorphisms (c.94G>A,
c.454T>C, IVS1+16C>T, IVS2+701G>A, and c.-764C>G) in the Nppa gene and one
polymorphism (c.1023G>C) in the Npr1 gene were determined using the restriction
fragment length polymorphism and the SNaPshot methods. The genotype and allele
frequencies of these polymorphisms in patients with NTG and normal controls were 
compared using the Fisher's exact test and the chi-square test.
RESULTS: In both groups, the genotype distributions were in accordance with the
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. There was no significant difference in the frequency 
of the Nppa and Npr1 alleles or genotypes in the normal-tension glaucoma group as
compared to the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: Nppa and Npr1 gene polymorphisms are not associated with
normal-tension glaucoma, suggesting that this gene does not have an important
role in the pathogenesis of optic neuropathy in this disease.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2007.21.1.33 
PMCID: PMC2629695
PMID: 17460430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2007 May;48(5):2123-6.

Lack of association between interleukin-1 gene cluster polymorphisms and glaucoma
in Chinese subjects.

How AC(1), Aung T, Chew X, Yong VH, Lim MC, Lee KY, Toh JY, Li Y, Liu J, Vithana 
EN.

Author information: 
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore.

PURPOSE: A recent study identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within 
the IL-1 gene cluster at chromosomal locus 2q13 that were associated with reduced
risk for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in whites. The purpose of this study 
was to investigate the association between IL-1 SNPs and glaucoma in Chinese
patients with either POAG or primary-angle closure glaucoma (PACG).
METHODS: Patients with POAG with a mean IOP without treatment that was
consistently <21 mm Hg on diurnal testing were classified as having
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and those with higher IOP were classified as having
high-tension glaucoma (HTG). Subjects with PACG had at least 180 degrees of angle
closure on gonioscopy. Genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction and
restriction digest enzymes at the following loci: IL1A (-889C/T), IL1B
(+3953C/T), and IL1B (-511C/T). The association of individual SNPs with glaucoma 
was evaluated by using chi(2) testing. Haplotype analysis was performed with the 
PHASE program, with haplotype frequency estimated for combined cases and
controls, assuming Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) of haplotypes.
RESULTS: Of the Chinese subjects studies, 194 had POAG (94 NTG and 100 HTG), 125 
had PACG, and 79 were normal control subjects. There was no significant
difference in IL-1 SNP or allele frequencies for in subjects with POAG or PACG
compared with control subjects, or between NTG and HTG. None of the common
haplotypes showed any significant difference between the HTG, NTG, PACG, and
normal control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: This study did not find an association between IL-1 gene cluster
polymorphisms and glaucoma in this sample of Chinese subjects.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.06-1213 
PMID: 17460270  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2007 Apr;224(4):255-9.

[Positive ibopamine provocative test in normal-tension glaucoma suspects].

[Article in German]

Kniestedt C(1), Romppainen T, Gloor BP, Stürmer J.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Kantonspital Winterthur, Winterthur, Schweiz.
christoph.kniestedt@usz.ch

BACKGROUND: Ibopamine is an alpha-adrenergic agent and causes an elevation of
intraocular pressure in eyes with increased outflow resistance. It has been
proposed as a test substance for the detection of early ocular hydrodynamic
disorders.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 64 normal-tension glaucoma suspect eyes without 
anti-hypertensive treatment were enrolled. A daily pressure curve was registered 
with measurements at 7:00 am, 8:00 am, 12:00 am, 17:00 pm using an applanation
tonometer and a contour tonometer followed by instillation of ibopamine 2% in
both eyes. Tonometry was performed every 15 minutes during the following hour. An
IOP increase of > 2.0 mmHg was considered positive.
RESULTS: The positive test group showed a significant pressure increase from
18.04 to 22.06 mmHg. Ocular pulse amplitude increased from 2.96 to 3.97 mmHg and 
was positively correlated with the pressure. Intraocular pressure was unchanged
in the negative test group. Central corneal thickness was not significantly
different in the two groups (p = 0.32).
CONCLUSIONS: Ibopamine 2% eye drops have a positive pressure effect in 50% of
suspected normal-tension glaucoma eyes and may differentiate between eyes with
normal trabecular outflow capacity and eyes with increased resistance in the
trabecular meshwork that are prone to pressure peaks and deterioration to
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-962939 
PMID: 17458787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Ethiop Med J. 2006 Apr;44(2):159-65.

The pattern of glaucoma in Menelik II Hospital Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

Melka F(1), Alemu B.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Ophthalmology, A.F.G. H.

OBJECTIVES: To describe the demographic and clinical profiles glaucoma and
evaluate the magnitude of blindness among patients with glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Cases with glaucoma that were seen at Menelik II hospital
Addis Ababa between May 10, 1994 and May 9, 1997 were reviewed Data on relevant
demographic and clinical variables were collected and analysed.
RESULTS: A total of 1,586 glaucoma patients were seen at the glaucoma clinic
during the study period. The male to female ratio was 2:1. The mean age is 51.9
(SD 17.9) years. Those patients above the age of 40 years represented 78% of the 
total glaucoma population. The prevalence of glaucoma was highest (27.1%) in the 
age group of 51-60 years. It was bilateral in 806 (51%) of the patients. Primary 
Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG) was the most frequent type documented in 631 (40%) of 
the patients, followed by Secondary Glaucomas in 605 (38%), Primary Angle Closure
Glaucoma (PACG) in 285 (18%), Normal Tension Glaucoma (NTG) in 36 (2%), and
Congenital Glaucoma in 33 (2%). Six hundred fifty six patients (41%) were blind
either in one or both eyes. PACG was found to be potentially a blinding type of
glaucoma, in which 53% of the patients suffered from blindness. In the other
types, poor public awareness and lack of treatment services were the most
important factors that largely precopitated the occurrence of blindness.
CONCLUSION: We recommend that, in addition to improving the diagnostic and
therapeutic facilities, intensive work be done to increase public awareness on
the nature of the disease, to expand the infrastructure and to develop and
rationally deploy the required human resources.


PMID: 17447379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


932. J Glaucoma. 2007 May;16(3):320-3.

Systemic high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels in normal-tension glaucoma
and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Su WW(1), Ho WJ, Cheng ST, Chang SH, Wu SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung
University College of Medicine, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: To determine the systemic high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP)
level in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: With the exclusion of patients with cardiovascular and
other systemic diseases, 40 patients with NTG, 40 with POAG, and 40 normal
controls were enrolled in this study. Each patient underwent blood sampling for
hsCRP, biochemistry, and lipid profile analysis.
RESULTS: Each group had similar demographic parameters including the age, sex,
body mass index, heart rate, and blood pressure. There was no statistically
significant difference in the hsCRP and biochemistry results between the 3
groups. The lipid profile exhibited a mild elevation in the patients with POAG.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data revealed no difference in the hsCRP level between NTG,
POAG, and normal controls after exclusion of patients with cardiovascular and
other systemic diseases. Systemic vascular inflammation may not be a major cause 
in the pathogenesis of glaucoma in those without histories of cardiovascular
diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3180391a83 
PMID: 17438427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


933. J Glaucoma. 2007 May;16(3):307-12.

Diurnal fluctuation and concordance of intraocular pressure in glaucoma suspects 
and normal tension glaucoma patients.

Shuba LM(1), Doan AP, Maley MK, Zimmerman MB, Dinn RB, Greenlee EC, Alward WL,
Kwon YH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.

PURPOSE: The study objective was to determine the concordance of intraocular
pressure (IOP) in glaucoma suspects (GS) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
patients.
METHODS: This was a retrospective review of diurnal curves of untreated GS and
NTG patients. No subject had IOP greater than 21 mm Hg. We defined GS patients as
having suspicious optic nerves with normal visual fields, and NTG patients as
having glaucomatous optic nerves with associated visual field loss. Goldmann
applanation tonometry was performed at 10:00, 13:00, 16:00, 19:00, 22:00, and
07:00. Linear association of OD and OS IOP was estimated using Pearson
correlation coefficient (r). The diurnal period was divided into 7 time intervals
of 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, and 21 hours, and the absolute difference in change in
IOP between fellow eyes and probability that it was within 3 mm Hg were
calculated.
RESULTS: The study included 68 GS and 95 NTG subjects. The diurnal curves of the 
OD and OS showed a parallel course in both groups. The average correlations (r)
of OD and OS IOP over the 6 time points were 0.78 and 0.81 for GS and NTG,
respectively. The mean absolute difference in IOP change between OD and OS over
the 6 time intervals ranged between 1.4 and 1.9 mm Hg for GS, and 1.3 and 1.5 mm 
Hg for NTG subjects. The probability that this difference was within 3 mm Hg
ranged between 87% and 94% for GS, and 86% and 93% for NTG subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: The diurnal variation in IOP between the 2 eyes in GS and NTG is
largely concordant in approximately 90% of the time.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3180316736 
PMID: 17438425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


934. J Glaucoma. 2007 May;16(3):293-6.

Comparison of localized retinal nerve fiber layer defects between a low-teen
intraocular pressure group and a high-teen intraocular pressure group in
normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Kim DM(1), Seo JH, Kim SH, Hwang SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
dmkim@snu.ac.kr

PURPOSE: To compare the features of localized retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL)
defects between a low-teen intraocular pressure (IOP) group and a high-teen IOP
group in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: Seventy-seven eyes of 77 NTG patients showing localized RNFL defects on 
RNFL photographs and corresponding visual filed defects at the initial visit to a
glaucoma specialist were selected for this study. Patients with range of diurnal 
IOP within low-teen or high-teen in both eyes were included. All participants
completed refraction, diurnal IOP measurement, central corneal thickness (CCT)
measurement, stereoscopic disc photography, RNFL photography, and automated
perimetry. On RNFL photograph, approximation of the defect to the macula (angle
alpha) and width of the defects (angle beta) were measured to represent RNFL
defects. The patients were divided into 2 groups according to the level of IOP. A
low-teen group had highest IOP of <or=15 mm Hg (group A) and a high-teen group
had lowest IOP of >15 mm Hg (group B). Age at diagnosis, percentage of male
patients, systemic disease, refraction, CCT, highest IOP, angle alpha, angle
beta, and mean deviation and pattern standard deviation of visual field were
compared between the 2 groups.
RESULTS: Age at diagnosis of NTG, age distribution, percentage of male patients, 
systemic disease, spherical equivalent of refraction, CCT, mean deviation, and
pattern standard deviation were not different between the 2 groups. Highest IOP
was 13.8+/-1.2 mm Hg in group A and 19.2+/-1.4 mm Hg in group B (P<0.001). Angle 
alpha was significantly smaller in group A than in group B (37.0+/-14.0 vs.
56.5+/-21.2 degrees, P<0.001), whereas angle beta was not different between the 2
groups (39.9+/-17.9 vs. 37.5+/-15.9 degrees, P=0.54). There were no significant
correlations between spherical equivalent and angle alpha (r=-0.03, P=0.82),
between spherical equivalent and angle beta (r=-0.04, P=0.74), and between angle 
alpha and angle beta (r=-0.21, P=0.07).
CONCLUSIONS: Localized RNFL defect was closer to the center of the macula in
group A than in group B, whereas width of defects was not different between the 2
groups. These findings provide indirect evidence to suggest that more than one
pathogenic mechanism may exist in the development of RNFL defects in NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31803bda3d 
PMID: 17438422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2006 Dec;42(12):1078-83.

[Peripapillary atrophies in primary open-angle glaucoma and glaucoma-like normal 
disks].

[Article in Chinese]

Pan YZ(1), Ren ZQ, Li M, Qiao RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the First Hospital of Peking University , Beijing
100034, China. panyingzi99@yahoo.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the variety of peripapillary atrophy (PPA) and its
relationship with visual field among primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), normal
tension glaucoma (NTG), and normal subjects with glaucoma-like disk (GLD) that
had no evidence of visual field defect and retinal nerve fiber layer defect.
METHODS: The study included 42 eyes of 42 patients with POAG, 40 eyes of 40
patients with NTG, and 45 eyes of normal subjects with GLD. Stereo color optic
disc photographs were morphometrically evaluated by a video camera and computer
system. The refractive range ( spherical equivalent) of all these subjects was
between + 3.00D and -3.00D.
RESULTS: The alpha-zone and beta-zone of PPA occurred significantly (P <0. 05)
more frequent in both patients with POAG( 100. 0% ,48. 9% )and with NTG(95.0%
,37. 5% )than that of normal subjects with GLD(85.4% ,19. 1% ) , but no
difference was found between the POAG and NTG groups (P > 0. 05). The beta-zone
area of PPA was significantly ( P < 0. 05) enlarged in POAG compared with GLD
normal subjects. While there is no significant difference in alpha-and beta-zone 
area between all other groups. In glaucoma patients, The alpha-zone or the
beta-zone area of PPA weakly correlated with the glaucomatous visual field defect
While cup/disk area ratio showed a relatively strong correlation. Cup/disc area
ratio and age were the only two risk factors for the occurrence of glaucomatous
visual field defect among all the factors including PPA by logistic regression
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that cup/disc area ratio is well correlated 
with glaucomatous visual field defect. The occurrence of alpha-zone, beta-zone,
and beta-zone areas of PPA may not be a clinically useful parameter, for
diagnosing or differentiating POAG and NTG .


PMID: 17415964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2007 Mar-Apr;51(2):156; author reply 156-7.

Prognostic factors for progression of visual field damage in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Spaeth GL.

Comment on
    Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jan-Feb;50(1):38-43.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-006-0415-0 
PMID: 17401633  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging. 2007 Mar-Apr;38(2):118-25.

Retinal nerve fiber layer thickness evaluation using optical coherence tomography
in eyes with optic disc hemorrhage.

Choi F(1), Park KH, Kim DM, Kim TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between disc hemorrhage and 
retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: RNFL thicknesses were measured using optical coherence
tomography at the location of disc hemorrhage, at the superior or inferior
symmetrical area of the same eyes, and at equivalent locations in contralateral
eyes without disc hemorrhage. RNFL thicknesses were compared using the
paired-sample t test. For recurrent hemorrhages, the correlation between the
number of recurrences and RNFL thickness was examined using Kendall's tau-b
method.
RESULTS: Thirty-two disc hemorrhages were found in 32 eyes with normal tension or
primary open-angle glaucoma. RNFL thicknesses in areas with disc hemorrhage were 
thinner than those in superior or inferior symmetrical locations in the same eyes
(81.7 +/- 32.9 vs 100.7 +/- 34.5 microns, P = .005), but were not different from 
those in equivalent locations in contralateral eyes (92.8 +/- 31.7 microns, P =
.092). Number of recurrent hemorrhages and RNFL thicknesses at sites of recurrent
hemorrhages tended to show a negative correlation (correlation coefficient =
-0.260, P = .079).
CONCLUSIONS: Disc hemorrhage is associated with RNFL thinning measured by optical
coherence tomography, and a negative correlation was found between recurrent
hemorrhages and RNFL thickness.


PMID: 17396692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Am J Ophthalmol. 2007 Apr;143(4):693-5. Epub 2006 Dec 20.

Influence of ocular hypotensive eyedrops on intraocular pressure fluctuation with
postural change in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma.

Kiuchi T(1), Motoyama Y, Oshika T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan. kiuchi-t@md.tsukuba.ac.jp <kiuchi-t@md.tsukuba.ac.jp>

PURPOSE: To investigate the effect of various ocular hypotensive eyedrops on the 
intraocular pressure (IOP) fluctuations caused by the postural change in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Randomized crossover single-blind study.
METHODS: Twenty-four eyes of 24 newly diagnosed NTG patients were enrolled. One
of the three eyedrops including timolol maleate, latanoprost, and brinzolamide
was randomly administered for one month. Each patient received all three eyedrops
with a one-month washout period between the drugs. The IOP at baseline and after 
each treatment trial was measured in both sitting and supine positions.
RESULTS: Compared with the baseline level, the magnitude of IOP elevation
associated with the postural change did not alter significantly by the
application of any eyedrops (one-way repeated-measures analysis of variance, P = 
.288).
CONCLUSIONS: The mechanism of action underlying the IOP change with the postural 
change is different from the pharmacologic action of these hypotensive agents.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2006.11.020 
PMID: 17386282  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2007 Dec;85(8):810-21. Epub 2007 Mar 22.

Cataract and glaucoma surgery in pseudoexfoliation syndrome: a review.

Drolsum L(1), Ringvold A, Nicolaissen B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centre for Eye Research, Ullevål University
Hospital, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. Liv.Drolsum@uus.no

Pseudoexfoliation syndrome is a risk factor in cataract surgery because of the
increased weakness of zonular apparatus and reduced pupillary dilatation. The
surgical outcome of using phacoemulsification in the central zone, inducing
minimal stress on the zonules, inserting a capsular tension ring in selected
cases, and stretching the pupil mechanically in eyes with miotic pupils, may turn
out to be uneventful in most cases. Postoperative fibrosis with subsequent
shrinkage of the capsule is increased in these eyes, and these centripetal forces
will further loosen the zonular fibres. Late in-the-bag intraocular lens
dislocation is therefore anticipated to become a growing problem in the future.
Despite the dysfunctioning of the blood-aqueous barrier in eyes with
pseudoexfoliation syndrome, the frequency of postoperative inflammatory reaction 
is low due to the improvements made in surgical technique and equipment in recent
years. Glaucoma frequently occurs in eyes with pseudoexfoliation syndrome.
Compared with primary open-angle glaucoma, optic damage is more pronounced in
these eyes at the time of diagnosis and response to medical therapy is poorer.
Although responses to argon laser therapy and filtering surgery are roughly
similar between the two types of glaucoma, there are indications that primary
laser trabeculoplasty has a higher success rate in pseudoexfoliation glaucoma
than in primary open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2007.00903.x 
PMID: 17376188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Br J Ophthalmol. 2007 Apr;91(4):500-4.

The use of a "cheese-wire" suture in trabeculectomy.

Prem-Venkatesh(1), Ramamurthi S, Montgomery DM.

Author information: 
(1)Tennent Institute of Ophthalmology, Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow, UK.
premvenkatesh@hotmail.com

AIM: To report a preliminary study on the safety and efficacy of the use of a
cheese-wire suture in trabeculectomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The case notes of 32 eyes of 25 patients with medically
uncontrolled glaucoma who underwent trabeculectomy with cheese-wire suture at
Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow, UK, between July 2001 and September 2002 were studied
retrospectively. Diagnoses included primary open angle glaucoma (n = 24), normal 
tension glaucoma (n = 3), angle closure glaucoma (n = 2), ocular hypertension (n 
= 1), angle recession glaucoma (n = 1) and combined mechanism glaucoma (n = 1).
The mean presenting intraocular pressure (IOP) was 29.5 mm Hg and mean
intraocular pressure before operation was 23.5 mm Hg
OUTCOME MEASURES: Success was defined as lowering of IOP by at least 15% compared
with IOP before removal.
RESULTS: A total of 20 eyes (62%) underwent removal of the cheese-wire suture. 17
eyes (85%) underwent removal for therapeutic reasons (failing/failed blebs) and
three eyes (15%) underwent suture removal as the suture loops were exposed. The
timing of removal was between 2 weeks and 12 months following surgery. A
successful outcome was seen in 12/17 (70%) eyes in the eyes that had therapeutic 
suture removal. 15 eyes had undergone previous surgical interventions
(trabeculectomy n = 12, extracapsular cataract extraction n = 1 and laser
peripheral iridotomies n = 2). Mean IOP before removal was 23.66 mm Hg and mean
IOP immediately following removal was 11.33 mm Hg. Of the 32 eyes that underwent 
trabeculectomy with cheese-wire suture, 24 eyes had intraoperative mitomycin C
and one eye had 5-fluorouracil. The remaining seven eyes did not have any
antimetabolites. Early complications related to the surgical procedure included
conjunctival haematoma in one eye (3%), corneal abrasion in one eye (3%), wound
leak in five eyes (15%), shallow anterior chamber in one eye (3%), hyphaema in
six eyes (18%), choroidal effusion in six eyes (18%) and raised IOP in two eyes
(6%). Late complications of suture exposure occurred in three eyes (9%).
Complications related to removal of the cheese-wire suture included suture
breakage in two eyes (10%), hypotony in one eye (5%) and transient hyphaema in
one eye (5%).
CONCLUSION: The use of cheese-wire suture in trabeculectomy appears to be safe
and may provide an alternative strategy in the management of bleb failure.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2006.100057 
PMCID: PMC1994764
PMID: 17372339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Am J Ophthalmol. 2007 May;143(5):795-800. Epub 2007 Mar 19.

Familial cavitary optic disk anomalies: identification of a novel genetic locus.

Fingert JH(1), Honkanen RA, Shankar SP, Affatigato LM, Ehlinger MA, Moore MD,
Jampol LM, Sheffield VC, Stone EM, Alward WL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa 52242, USA.

PURPOSE: To identify the chromosomal location of the gene involved in the
pathogenesis of cavitary optic disk anomalies in a large pedigree with autosomal 
dominant inheritance of disease.
DESIGN: Linkage analysis of a pedigree affected with cavitary optic disk
anomalies.
METHODS: Optic disk photographs were examined for the presence of cavitary optic 
disk anomalies. Sixteen affected family members and one obligate carrier were
identified and studied with linkage analysis using both microarrays of single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and short tandem repeat polymorphism (STRP)
markers.
RESULTS: Multipoint linkage analysis of SNP genotypes yielded a maximum
nonparametric logarithm of the odds (LOD) score of 21.7 with markers located on
chromosome 12q. Linkage was confirmed with 16 STRP markers in the 12q region. A
maximum two-point LOD score of 4.06 (theta = 0) was obtained with marker
D12S1700. The disease interval defined by observed recombinants is 9.1 cM, which 
corresponds to 13.5 Mbp. Three candidate genes (GDF-11, NEUROD4, and WIF1) in the
chromosome 12q locus were evaluated as possible disease-causing genes. No
mutations were detected in the coding sequence of these genes.
CONCLUSIONS: The discovery of the chromosomal location of a gene responsible for 
cavitary optic disk anomalies is a key step in identifying the genetic basis of
this condition and ultimately may provide important insight into the pathogenesis
of more common optic nerve diseases such as normal-tension glaucoma and primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG).

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.01.042 
PMCID: PMC3684050
PMID: 17368552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Ophthalmologe. 2007 Mar;104(3):230-5.

[Ocular pulse amplitude: a new biometrical parameter for the diagnose of
glaucoma?].

[Article in German]

Romppainen T(1), Kniestedt C, Bachmann LM, Stürmer J.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universitätsspital Zürich, Frauenklinikstrasse 24, 8091 Zürich,
Schweiz. timosamuel.romppainen@usz.ch

BACKGROUND: Dynamic contour tonometry (DCT) enables accurate transcorneal
measurements of the intraocular pressure and ocular pulse amplitude (OPA). In
this study, we investigated whether this new biometrical parameter can
characterize different glaucoma types and serve as a helpful tool in the
diagnosis and therapy of the disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 441 eyes of 222 patients were included. Pressure
measurements were performed with contour and applanation tonometry.
RESULTS: Mean OPA was 3.1+/-1.4 mmHg. Eyes with ocular hypertension showed
significantly higher OPA values (3.6+/-1.3 mmHg) than healthy eyes (3.1+/-1.4
mmHg) and eyes with low-tension glaucoma (2.9+/-1.4 mmHg). After trabeculectomy, 
the values were significantly lower (2.4+/-1.3 mmHg) than in healthy eyes.
CONCLUSION: The size of the OPA seems to be characteristic for different types of
glaucoma and directly dependent on intraocular pressure levels. Further
investigation is indicated to clarify its diagnostic usefulness.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-006-1467-8 
PMID: 17323044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Ophthalmology. 2007 May;114(5):927-30. Epub 2007 Feb 21.

Central corneal thickness of Korean patients with glaucoma.

Lee ES(1), Kim CY, Ha SJ, Seong GJ, Hong YJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Inha University College of Medicine, Incheon,
Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the central corneal thickness (CCT) in Koreans and
assess CCT variation in different types of glaucoma.
DESIGN: Observational cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients previously diagnosed as primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG,
n = 343), normal-tension glaucoma (NTG, n = 192), and ocular hypertension (OHT, n
= 44), as well as nonglaucomatous patients (n = 224) examined in a glaucoma
clinic in Korea.
METHODS: Participants' CCT was measured by ultrasound pachymetry.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mean CCT and its correlations with glaucoma diagnosis,
age, spherical equivalent, gender, diabetes, and hypertension.
RESULTS: Mean CCT was highest in eyes with OHT (582.1 microm, P<0.0001), lowest
in NTG (537.5 microm, P<0.0001), and intermediate and similar in eyes with POAG
and healthy eyes (550.7 and 553.6 microm, respectively, P = 0.289). Central
corneal thickness was inversely correlated with age (r = -0.12; P<0.0001). There 
was no statistically significant difference in mean CCT between eyes with
different gender or presence of diabetes and hypertension. Mean CCT in normal and
OHT eyes was weakly correlated with refractive error (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In Korean subjects, CCT is greatest in eyes with OHT and least in
eyes with NTG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.09.036 
PMID: 17316807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2006 Dec 26;86(48):3401-4.

[Diurnal variation curve of intraocular pressure and ocular pulse amplitude with 
dynamic contour tonometer in primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension
glaucoma patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Yun HM(1), Fu P, Yuan JS, Zhang B, Li XX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shenzhen Hospital, Peking University, Shenzhen
518036, China.

OBJECTIVE: To observe the diurnal variations of intraocular pressure (IOP)
measured with dynamic contour tonometer (DCT) in primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) patients, normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients, and healthy controls,
and to compare the differences of diurnal variation curves between the two eyes
of each subject and define the distribution of the peak of IOP; to analyze the
diurnal variation range of ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) and compare the
differences among the POAG and NTG patients and healthy controls.
METHODS: DCT was used to measure the diurnal variations of IOP and OPA in the two
eyes of 18 POAG patients, 17 NTG patients and 30 normal controls at 5:00, 7:00,
10:00, 14:00, 18:00, and 22:00 and the distribution of the peak IOP was observed.
The range of the diurnal variation of OPA was identified.
RESULTS: The diurnal variation curves of IOP were different among the POAG
patients, NTG patients, and normal people, and also between the two eyes of each 
subject. Four right eyes (13.3%) and 6 left eyes (20.0%) of the healthy controls,
4 right eyes (23.5%) and 5 left eyes (29.4%) of the NTG patients, and 5 right
eyes (27.8%) and 4 left eyes (22.2%) of the POAG patients reached the peak IOP
values in out-office period. Diurnal variation of OPA was detected in both the
patients and controls, and the variation curves were different within different
groups sampled and between the two eyes of each subject. The diurnal OPA range of
the right and left eyes of the POAG group were (2.1 +/- 1.3) mm Hg, and (2.4 +/- 
1.9) mm Hg respectively, significantly larger than those of the normal controls
[(1.1 +/- 0.5) mm Hg and 1.2 +/- 0.5) mm Hg respectively], and those of the NTG
group [(1.1 +/- 0.8) mm Hg and (1.0 +/- 0.5) mm Hg) respectively] (all P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: OPA has diurnal variation. The diurnal variation of the POAG patients
is the largest. NTG patients and normal controls have asymmetric IOP and OPA
diurnal variations. The two eyes of the same individual cannot always be treated 
as the same. The value of IOP measured in the office-time cannot completely
represents the 1 d IOP.


PMID: 17313852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2007 Feb;224(2):146-9.

[Nerve fibre bundle defects in a pre-chiasmal lesion].

[Article in German]

Mildenberger I(1), Lagrèze W, Schiefer U.

Author information: 
(1)Abt. für Pathophysiologie des Sehens und Neuroophthalmologie,
Universitäts-Augenklinik Tübingen, Schleichstrasse 12-16, 72076 Tübingen.
Ingrid.Mildenberger@med.uni-tuebingen.de

BACKGROUND: Prechiasmal lesions of the visual pathway are produced by visual
field defects that either affect only one eye or, if both eyes are affected, they
are clearly different. Typically, the defects respect the vertical meridian. This
report of a case shows that the classical nerve fibre bundle defect must be taken
into consideration for differential diagnosis.
CASE REPORT: In a 67-year-old patient, a meningeoma of the sphenoid was diagnosed
that had spread into the optic canal. Examination of the visual field showed an
inferior altitudinal nerve fibre bundle defect.
CONCLUSIONS: Apparently the retinal pattern of nerve fibres remains intact even
when approaching the optic chiasm. Nerve fibre bundle defects are therefore
sometimes found in prechiasmal lesions and should be considered for differential 
diagnosis (e. g., in the case of a suspected low tension glaucoma).

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-927321 
PMID: 17309013  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Ghana Med J. 2006 Jun;40(2):39-44.

Outcome of trabeculectomies without adjunctive antimetabolites.

Gyasi M(1), Amoaku W, Debrah O, Awini E, Abugri P.

Author information: 
(1)Presbyterian Hospital Eye Unit, P.O. Box 45, Bawku, Ghana.

SUMMARY BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of trabeculectomy in the management of
glaucoma is well known. It is the most common intervention for most glaucoma
cases treated in the Upper East region. In this region trabeculectomies are,
however, performed without adjunctive antimetabolites.
OBJECTIVE: To report on the outcome of trabeculectomy without adjunctive
antimetabolites in controlling the intraocular pressures of eyes with Primary
Open Angle and Normal Tension Glaucomas.
DESIGN: Retrospective, non-comparative interventional case study
METHOD: Records of 191 eyes of 164 patients who had undergone standard
trabeculectomy were retrospectively analyzed.
OUTCOME MEASURE: Successful intraocular pressure control defined as IOP less than
22 mmHg or a reduction of 30% if pre-operative pressure was already less than
22mmHg.
RESULTS: There were 185 (96.8%) eyes with Primary Open Angle glaucoma and 6
(3.2%) with the Normal Tension variant. Mean age of patients was 50.6 years
(Range 17-85) with 22% aged below 40 years. There was a statistically significant
difference between the mean pre-op and post-op intraocular pressures (38.09,
SD=6.11 versus 18.97, SD=7.28 mmHg respectively); p=0.0001. The procedure was
effective in controlling the intraocular pressures to below 22mmHg in 88.46% and 
below 18mmHg in 67.95% of OAG eyes at six months. In eyes with NTG only one out
of six (16.7%) achieved a successful 30% target pressure reduction.
CONCLUSION: Trabeculectomy alone was effective in controlling IOPs to less than
22 mmHg in POAG. Lower IOP levels needed to control progressive visual field loss
may require the use anti-metabolites.


PMCID: PMC1790841
PMID: 17299564  [PubMed]


947. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2007 Jan-Feb;51(1):34-40. Epub 2007 Feb 9.

Midterm results and the problems of nonpenetrating lamellar trabeculectomy with
mitomycin C for Japanese glaucoma patients.

Fukuchi T(1), Suda K, Nakatsue T, Hara H, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Graduate School of Medical and
Dental Sciences, Niigata University, Niigata, Japan. tfuku@med.niigata-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To present midterm results and problems pertaining to nonpenetrating
lamellar trabeculectomy (NPT) with mitomycin C (MMC) for Japanese glaucoma
patients.
METHODS: Thirty-nine patients (39 eyes) with primary open-angle glaucoma or
normal-tension glaucoma underwent NPT. The results were compared with those in
patients treated by penetrating trabeculectomy (PT) with MMC. In addition, the
NPT patients were classified into two groups (group A, 24 patients treated
between April 1998 and April 1999; group B, 21 patients treated from May 1999
onward), and the results were compared.
RESULTS: The average intraocular pressure (IOP) was 12.6 +/- 2.8 mmHg with NPT
and 12.4 +/- 3.0 mmHg with PT. No statistical differences between NPT and PT were
identified with respect to IOP at any time after surgery. A life-table analysis
showed that the probability of success (good IOP control) was 37.2% with NPT and 
62.5% with PT. No significant difference was detected in postoperative IOP change
or in the probability of success between NPT groups A and B.
CONCLUSIONS: While postoperative IOP is similar between PT and NPT, the
probability of success is better with PT than with NPT. Postoperative laser
treatment after NPT is effective but sometimes has a negative influence on IOP
control.

(c) Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2007.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-006-0381-6 
PMID: 17295138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Mol Vis. 2007 Feb 2;13:151-63.

Variation in optineurin (OPTN) allele frequencies between and within populations.

Ayala-Lugo RM(1), Pawar H, Reed DM, Lichter PR, Moroi SE, Page M, Eadie J, Azocar
V, Maul E, Ntim-Amponsah C, Bromley W, Obeng-Nyarkoh E, Johnson AT, Kijek TG,
Downs CA, Johnson JM, Perez-Grossmann RA, Guevara-Fujita ML, Fujita R, Wallace
MR, Richards JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, MI, uSA. rositaya@yahoo.com <rositaya@yahoo.com>

PURPOSE: To evaluate the extent to which mutations in the optineurin (OPTN)
glaucoma gene play a role in glaucoma in different populations.
METHODS: Case-controlled study of OPTN sequence variants in individuals with or
without glaucoma in populations of different ancestral origins and evaluate
previous OPTN reports. We analyzed 314 subjects with African, Asian, Caucasian
and Hispanic ancestries included 229 cases of primary open-angle glaucoma, 51
cases of juvenile-onset open-angle glaucoma, 33 cases of normal tension glaucoma,
and 371 controls. Polymerase chain reaction-amplified OPTN coding exons were
resequenced and case frequencies were compared to frequencies in controls matched
for ancestry.
RESULTS: The E50K sequence variant was identified in one individual from Chile
with normal tension glaucoma, and the 691_692insAG variant was found in one
Ashkenazi Jewish individual from Russia. The R545Q variant was found in two Asian
individuals with primary open-angle glaucoma; one of Filipino ancestry and one of
Korean ancestry. In addition to presenting OPTN allele frequencies for Caucasian 
and Asian populations that have been the subject of previous reports, we also
present information for populations of Hispanic and black African ancestries.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study contributes additional evidence to support the previously 
reported association of the OPTN E50K mutation with glaucoma. After finding an
additional 691_692insAG OPTN variant, we can still only conclude that this
variant is rare. Combined analysis of our data with data from more than a dozen
other studies indicates no association of R545Q with glaucoma in most
populations. Those same studies disagree in their conclusions regarding the role 
of M98K in glaucoma. Our analysis of the combined data provides statistically
significant evidence of association of M98K with normal tension glaucoma in Asian
populations, but not in Caucasian populations; however, the validity of this
conclusion is questionable because of large differences in allele frequencies
between and within populations. It is currently not possible to tell how much of 
the underlying cause of the allele frequency difference is attributable to
demographic, technical, or ascertainment differences among the studies.


PMCID: PMC2533035
PMID: 17293779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2007 Feb;85(1):67-72.

Retinal mean transit time in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and
normal-tension glaucoma.

Bjärnhall G(1), Tomic L, Mishima HK, Tsukamoto H, Alm A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Ophthalmology, Uppsala University, Uppsala,
Sweden.

PURPOSE: To compare the mean transit time (MTT) of retinal circulation in eyes
with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and eyes with normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) and examine the possible relationship between MTT and visual field damage, 
expressed as mean deviation (MD).
METHODS: Video fluorescein angiography was performed in 40 patients with POAG or 
NTG. Dye curves for fluorescein passing through the retinal arteries and veins
were used to calculate MTT in each patient with a computer-assisted technique
based on an impulse-response analysis (MTT(IR)).
RESULTS: We were able to analyse MTT(IR) in all 40 angiograms. Mean (SD) MTT(IR) 
was 5.0 (1.5) seconds in eyes with POAG and 4.7 (1.4) seconds in eyes with NTG.
The difference was not statistically significant. There was a weak but
significant correlation between the MD and MTT(IR) (MTT(IR) = 4.12-0.08*MD; r =
-0.49, p = 0.0013).
CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate that loss of neuronal tissue in glaucoma is 
combined with an effect on the retinal circulation and that the effect is similar
in eyes with NTG and eyes with POAG.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2006.00780.x 
PMID: 17244213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


950. J Glaucoma. 2007 Jan;16(1):47-51.

No increased risk of developing Alzheimer disease in patients with glaucoma.

Kessing LV(1), Lopez AG, Andersen PK, Kessing SV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University Hospital of Copenhagen, Denmark.
lars.kessing@rh.dk

PURPOSE: To investigate whether primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is associated 
with increased risk of developing Alzheimer disease (AD).
METHODS: In a nationwide case register linkage study of patients with hospital
admission or outpatient contact during the period from 1977 to 2001 in Denmark,
the rate of subsequent AD for patients with a diagnosis of POAG was compared with
the rate for patients with primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG), cataract, and
osteoarthritis (OA) and with the rate for the general population.
RESULTS: A total of 11,721 patients with a diagnosis of POAG (including normal
tension glaucoma), 5975 patients with PACG, 162,640 patients with cataract, and
230,208 patients with OA were identified in the registers. Patients with POAG did
not have increased rate of subsequent AD compared to patients with PACG,
cataract, or OA or compared with the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: POAG was not associated with increased risk of developing AD. It
cannot be excluded that this negative finding is due to diagnostic
misclassification as register data were used.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31802b3527 
PMID: 17224749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Glaucoma. 2007 Jan;16(1):42-6.

Prevalence of normal tension glaucoma in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome
patients.

Sergi M(1), Salerno DE, Rizzi M, Blini M, Andreoli A, Messenio D, Pecis M,
Bertoni G.

Author information: 
(1)Unità Operativa di Fisiopatologia Respiratoria, Ospedale Luigi Sacco, Milano. 
fisiopatologia@hsacco.it

PURPOSE: To explore the prevalence of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) among
patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) and to examine OSAS as a
risk factor of NTG.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty-one consecutive white patients with OSAS were
compared with 40 healthy subjects. All the study subjects underwent blood gas
analysis, polysomnography, oxyhemoglobin saturation, and an ophthalmologic
examination including visual field, visually evoked potential (VEP), and pattern 
electroretinography (PERG) and disc analysis with the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph
II.
RESULTS: Three of 51 OSAS patients (5.9%) had NTG. No patient in the control
group had OSAS or NTG. The severity of OSAS correlated with intraocular pressure,
the mean deviation of the visual field, the cup/disk ratio and the mean of the
retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (P<0.01 to 0.001). Apnea hypopnea index and
intraocular pressure were significantly greater in OSAS patients with abnormal
VEP and PERG, compared to those with normal PERG and VEP.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study suggests that the prevalence of NTG in our OSAS
patients is higher than expected in a white population of the same age and that
OSAS may be an important risk factor for NTG. Our data underline the importance
of taking an accurate sleep history from patients with NTG and referring patients
with sleep disturbance for polysomnography.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000243472.51461.24 
PMID: 17224748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Glaucoma. 2007 Jan;16(1):9-13.

Frequency doubling technology perimetry in open-angle glaucoma eyes with
hemifield visual field damage: comparison of high-tension and normal-tension
groups.

Murata H(1), Tomidokoro A, Matsuo H, Tomita G, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Tokyo Graduate School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the performance of frequency doubling technology (FDT)
perimetry in open-angle glaucoma eyes with hemifield visual field damage and to
compare it between open-angle glaucoma with high pressure [high-tension glaucoma 
(HTG)] and those with normal pressure [normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)] groups.
METHODS: FDT perimetry with the N-30 full threshold protocol and standard
automated perimetry (SAP) using the Humphrey Field Analyzer with the 30-2 full
threshold protocol were performed in 20 eyes of 20 HTG patients and 36 eyes of 36
NTG patients with visual field damage confirmed with SAP in only one hemifield.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in demographics, the Heidelberg
Retina Tomography indices, and the Humphrey Field Analyzer indices between HTG
and NTG groups. Regarding the FDT perimetry results, mean deviation in the global
field (P=0.009) and mean sensitivity in the SAP-spared (P=0.001) and SAP-impaired
(P=0.011) hemifields were lower; the numbers of FDT abnormal test points
(probability of abnormality <5%) in the SAP-spared hemifield were significantly
greater (P=0.005) in HTG than in NTG groups. Eyes in which FDT results of the
SAP-spared hemifield were judged as abnormal was more frequent in HTG groups
(P=0.007).
CONCLUSIONS: The performance of FDT perimetry to detect early or preperimetric
glaucomatous functional changes should be different between HTG and NTG eyes.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000243478.90403.84 
PMID: 17224743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2007 Jan;48(1):104-11.

Circadian fluctuation of mean ocular perfusion pressure is a consistent risk
factor for normal-tension glaucoma.

Choi J(1), Kim KH, Jeong J, Cho HS, Lee CH, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Asan
Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate systemic and ocular hemodynamic risk factors for
glaucomatous damage in eyes with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Each patient with diagnosed NTG underwent 24-hour monitoring of
intraocular pressure (IOP) and blood pressure (BP), scanning laser polarimetry
(GDx-VCC), and a Humphrey visual field (HVF) examination. Multivariate regression
models were used to evaluate potential risk factors: age, spherical equivalent,
central corneal thickness (CCT), mean/peak in-hospital IOP, circadian IOP
fluctuation, average mean arterial pressure (MAP), circadian MAP fluctuation, and
circadian fluctuation of mean ocular perfusion pressure (MOPP). Functional
outcome variables for glaucomatous damage were mean deviation (MD), pattern SD
(PSD), and Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS) score. Anatomic outcome
variables were TSNIT (temporal, superior, nasal, inferior, and temporal) average,
superior average, inferior average, and nerve fiber indicator (NFI) on GDx-VCC.
RESULTS: One hundred thirteen eyes of 113 patients met the inclusion criteria. In
the multivariate regression models, larger circadian MOPP fluctuation was
significantly associated with decreased MD, increased PSD, and increased AGIS
score among functional outcome variables and with reduced TSNIT average, reduced 
inferior average, and increased NFI among anatomic outcome variables. Larger MAP 
fluctuation was associated with decreased MD, increased PSD, reduced TSNIT
average, reduced inferior average, and increased NFI. CCT was not associated with
any outcome variable.
CONCLUSIONS: Of the functional and anatomic outcome variables, circadian MOPP
fluctuation was the most consistent clinical risk factor for glaucoma severity in
eyes with NTG. This finding may suggest an etiology of NTG as a chronic ischemic 
end organ disease.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.06-0615 
PMID: 17197523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Ann Acad Med Stetin. 2007;53 Suppl 1:30-4; discussion 34.

[Evaluation of ganglion cells function with PERG test in normal tension glaucoma 
patients].

[Article in Polish]

Podboraczyńska-Jodko K(1), Lubiński W, Palacz O, Safranow K, Karczewicz D.

Author information: 
(1)Katedra i Klinika Okulistyki Pomorskiej Akademii Medycznej w Szczecinie al.
Powstańców Wlkp. 72, 70-111 Szczecin.

PURPOSE: To evaluate bioelectrical function of inner retinal layers measured by
PERG in normal tension glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In 50 eyes of 30 patients with normal tension glaucoma the 
following examinations were performed: history, routine ophthalmic examination,
standard static perimetry and pattern ERG test.
RESULTS: The most frequent abnormalities were incorrect N95/P50 amplitude ratio
and increase latency of N95-wave. In analyzed glaucoma patients sensitivity of
PERG test was 50% and specificity 87%.
CONCLUSIONS: In normal tension glaucoma, the ganglion cells dysfunction is
present and can be detected with PERG test. PERG can be additional useful
diagnostic test in patients with normal tension glaucoma, particulary for those
with difficult to cooperate.


PMID: 19425477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Am J Ophthalmol. 2007 Jan;143(1):125-130. Epub 2006 Oct 23.

The OPA1 gene polymorphism is associated with normal tension and high tension
glaucoma.

Mabuchi F(1), Tang S, Kashiwagi K, Yamagata Z, Iijima H, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
1110 Shimokato, Chuo-shi, Yamanashi 409-3898, Japan. fmabushi@yamanashi.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To assess whether genetic polymorphisms of optic atrophy 1 (OPA1) are
associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
DESIGN: Prospective case control association study.
METHODS: Japanese patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG, n = 194), and high 
tension glaucoma (HTG, n = 191), and 185 control subjects were analyzed for the
OPA1 intervening sequence (IVS) 8+4 cystosine thymine (C/T) and IVS 8+32 thymine 
cystosine (T/C) polymorphisms using pyrosequencing technique.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference in the OPA1 IVS 8 +32 T/C genotype
frequencies between the NTG patients and control subjects (P = .0074), and the
frequency of the cystosine (C) allele was significantly higher in the NTG
patients compared with the control subjects (19.3% vs 11.6%, P = .0036). Adjusted
for age, gender, refractive error, and intraocular pressure, an almost two-fold
increased risk of NTG (P = .004, odds ratio 2.27, 95% confidence interval 1.30 to
3.97) was found with the OPA1 IVS 8 +32 C allele. Although there was no
significant difference in the OPA1 IVS 8 +32 T/C genotype frequencies between the
HTG patients and control subjects (P = .24), the age at the time of diagnosis (53
+/- 11.0 years, median value +/- median absolute deviation) in the HTG patients
with the OPA1 IVS 8 +32 C allele was significantly younger than that (57 +/- 12.0
years) in the HTG patients without C allele (P = .048).
CONCLUSIONS: The OPA1 IVS 8 +32 T/C polymorphism is associated with NTG, and may 
be used as a marker for this disease association. This polymorphism also
influences the phenotypic feature in patients with HTG and should be considered
to be a genetic risk factor not only for NTG, but also for HTG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2006.09.028 
PMID: 17188046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Nov-Dec;50(6):547-9. Epub 2006 Dec 18.

No apparent association between ocular perfusion pressure and visual field damage
in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Kurita N(1), Tomidokoro A, Mayama C, Aihara M, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the correlation of ocular perfusion pressure (OPP) with
general and localized visual field damage in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
patients.
METHODS: Correlations between OPP, blood pressure, age, intraocular pressure,
refractive error, and extent of visual field damage in the eye with the worst
mean deviation (MD) were investigated retrospectively in 94 eyes of 94 NTG
patients. Visual fields were analyzed statistically with respect to 15 sectors
between two age-matched groups of subjects with high or low OPP.
RESULTS: Significant positive correlations were found between OPP and age (P <
0.001), blood pressure and age (P < 0.05), and MD and refractive error (P <
0.01). OPP had no significant correlation with MD or mean sensitivity in the
visual field in any of the visual field sectors.
CONCLUSION: OPP and systemic blood pressure have no evident effect on the extent 
or pattern of visual field damage in NTG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-006-0375-4 
PMID: 17180531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Yan Ke Xue Bao. 2006 Jun;22(2):68-70, 84.

[Clinical application of the 24 hour IOP monitoring in the diagnose of the normal
tension glaucoma suspects].

[Article in Chinese]

Du C(1), Peng S, Huang W.

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510060, China.

PURPOSE: To determine the value of 24-hour IOP monitoring in routine clinical
practice of the suspects of normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Fifty-one suspects of NTG (51 eyes) were selected for 24-hour IOP
monitoring without any antiglaucoma therapy.
RESULTS: In all of 51 eyes, there were only 18 (35.3%) eyes's IOP kept in the
statistic normal range and the IOP variation amplitude were under 6 mm Hg, 33
eyes (64.7%) have large diurnal fluctuations in IOP or the peak IOP up to 21 mm
Hg. The mean of the IOP variation amplitude ,mean and peak of the 24-hour
monitoring was 4.65 mm Hg, 1.64 mm Hg and 3.96 mm Hg higher than of the daytime
IOP measurement (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the daytime IOP measurement, the 24-hour IOP
monitoring could identify diurnal IOP and/or IOP spikes better.


PMID: 17162879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Yan Ke Xue Bao. 2005 Sep;21(3):192-5.

The comparison study of renin and angiotensin A II levels on normal tension
glaucoma patients and normal individuals.

Yun H(1), Fu P, Ding K, Yang Q.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking University Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen
518036, China.

PURPOSE: To investigate the levels of renin-angiotension system (RAS) components 
in normal tension glaucoma patients and normal controls.
METHODS: Blood samples were obtained from 11 normal tension glaucoma(NTG)patients
and 11 age and sex matched controls. The levels of renin and angiotensin A II of 
11 NTG patients and normal controls were examined by radio-immunity test.
Statistical analyses were performed by paired t test.
RESULTS: The levels of renin of NTG patients and normal controls are
(769.085+/-183.217) pg/ml/n and (822.035+/-124.140) pg/ml/n, while the levels of 
angiotensin A II of NTG patients and normal controls are (37.347+/-10.669) pg/ml 
and (24.836+/-10.665) pg/ml respectively. No statistically significant
differences were observed between the levels of renin and angiotensin among NTG
patients and normal controls.
CONCLUSION: There were not many abnormalities of the levels of circulating rennin
and angiotensin A II of NTG patients in our study.


PMID: 17162860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Doc Ophthalmol. 2007 Jan;114(1):9-19. Epub 2006 Dec 8.

The 'two global flash' mfERG in high and normal tension primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Palmowski-Wolfe AM(1), Todorova MG, Orguel S, Flammer J, Brigell M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital, Mittlere Strasse 91,
4012, Basel, Switzerland. palmowskia@uhbs.ch

PURPOSE: To analyse the sensitivity of the '2 global flash' multifocal
electroretinogram (mfERG) to detect glaucomatous dysfunction in normal tension
(NTG) and high tension primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) patients.
METHODS: MfERGs were recorded from 20 NTG and 20 POAG patients and compared to
those of 20 controls. The mfERG array consisted of 103 hexagons. Each m-sequence 
step started with a focal flash that could be either dark or light (m-sequence:
2--13, L(max): 200 cd/m(2), L(min): 1 cd/m(2)), followed by two global flashes
(L(max): 200 cd/m(2)) at an interval of approximately 26 ms. Focal scalar
products (SP) were calculated using focal templates derived from the control
recordings (VERIS 4.8). We analyzed 5 response averages (central 7.5 degrees and 
4 adjoining quadrants) of the response to the focal flash, the direct component
at 10-40 ms (DC) and the following two components induced by the effects of the
preceding focal flash on the response to the global flashes at 40-70 ms (IC-1)
and at 70-100 ms (IC-2).
RESULTS: Both NTG and POAG patients differed from controls in the IC-1 response
to the superior quadrants, and POAG patients also differed from controls in the
centre. The most sensitive parameter was the IC-1 of the superior temporal
quadrant with an area under the ROC curve of 0.82 for POAG and 0.79 for NTG. The 
DC and the IC-2 did not differ significantly between the groups. When all five
response averages of the IC-1 were taken into consideration 90% of the NTG
patients and 85% of the POAG patients were correctly classified as abnormal while
80% of the control subjects were correctly classified as normal.
CONCLUSIONS: This stimulus sequence holds promise for the diagnosis of early
functional changes in POAG. A new finding is that both NTG, as well as POAG can
be differentiated from control subjects.

DOI: 10.1007/s10633-006-9033-x 
PMID: 17160421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Sante. 2006 Apr-Jun;16(2):83-8.

[Prevalence of glaucomas in a Black Cameroonian population].

[Article in French]

Ellong A(1), Mvogo CE, Bella-Hiag AL, Mouney EN, Ngosso A, Litumbe CN.

Author information: 
(1)Université Yaoundé I, Faculté de Médecine et des Sciences Biomédicales, BP
1364, Yaoundé Cameroun. ellong_august@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: To determine the prevalence and the various types of glaucoma in a
Black urban Cameroonian population.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A retrospective analysis of 1,343 glaucomatous patients'
files (757 men and 586 women) from a total of 24,462 Cameroonian patients of all 
ages was carried out from January 1991 to December 2001 in the Douala General
Hospital in Cameroon in Central Africa.
RESULTS: The prevalence of glaucoma of all types is 5.5%. It increases with age. 
Of subjects with glaucoma, 79.6% had not been previously diagnosed. The mean
patient's age is 53.3 (+/-17.1) years. The mean intraocular pressure is 29.6
(+/-12.6) mmHg. The mean vertical cup-disc ratio is 0.7 (+/-0.2). The prevalence 
of primary glaucoma of any type is 4.5%. The overall prevalence of primary
open-angle glaucoma, primary angle-closure glaucoma and congenital glaucoma was
4.3%, 0.03% and 0.07%, respectively. The normal-tension glaucoma is rare in this 
study (6.3% of primary open-angle glaucoma).The most common form of primary angle
closure glaucoma is chronic angle closure glaucoma (61,1%) and is usually
undiagnosed due to a lack of gonioscopic evaluation. The prevalence of secondary 
glaucoma of any type is 1%. The most common forms of secondary angle closure
glaucoma were neovascular glaucoma (47.4% of cases with the prevalence of 0.5%)
and post-traumatic glaucoma (23.1% of cases with the prevalence of 0.2%).
Prevalence of bilateral and monocular blindness due to glaucoma is 8% (108/1,343)
and 32.9% (441/1,343) respectively of glaucoma patients.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms the high prevalence of glaucoma in a black
African population. Gonioscopy is an important diagnostic tool that should be
promoted to guide more effective glaucoma treatment in our region. The very high 
rate of blindness among the glaucoma patients in Cameroon is due to a lack of
care. The patients are young, the disease is advanced, and compliance and
follow-up are poor. Glaucoma surgery therefore offers a favourable option from an
economical standpoint. Glaucoma is a devastating disease and constitutes a
significant public health problem.


PMID: 17116629  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


961. Eye (Lond). 2008 Mar;22(3):349-53. Epub 2006 Oct 27.

Prevalence of serum autoantibodies and paraproteins in patients with glaucoma.

Hammam T(1), Montgomery D, Morris D, Imrie F.

Author information: 
(1)Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Alexandra Parade, Glasgow, UK. thammamaol.com

PURPOSE: To investigate the possible link between normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
and autoimmunity.
METHODS: We studied the serum of 95 patients: 31 with NTG, 32 with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and 32 age- and sex-matched controls. Blood was drawn
from each patient and serum was examined for the presence of antinuclear antigens
(ANA), autoantibodies to extractable nuclear antigens (ENA), anti-double-strand
DNA, serum protein electrophoresis, and immunoglobulin (IgG, IgA, and IgM)
levels.
RESULTS: In the NTG group, the relative risks for ANA and ENA positivity were 2.5
and 4.4 times, respectively, that of the control group. There was a statistically
significant difference between IgA levels in the NTG and control group (P=0.024),
but there was no statistically significant difference between both groups
regarding IgM or IgG levels. In the POAG group, the relative risks for ANA and
ENA positivity were 0.77 and 2.9 times, respectively, that of the control group. 
The relative risk for detection of paraprotein in the POAG group was 0.97 times
that of the control group. Also, there was a statistically significant difference
between IgA levels in the POAG and control group (P=0.011), but there was no
statistically significant difference between both groups regarding IgM or IgG.
CONCLUSION: These results support the hypothesis that humoral immune mechanisms
may have a role in the pathogenesis of NTG.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702613 
PMID: 17072291  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Curr Eye Res. 2006 Oct;31(10):851-62.

Intraocular pressure and ocular pulse amplitude comparisons in different types of
glaucoma using dynamic contour tonometry.

Punjabi OS(1), Ho HK, Kniestedt C, Bostrom AG, Stamper RL, Lin SC.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) School of Medicine, San
Francisco, California, USA. punjabio@vision.ucsf.edu

PURPOSE: To compare the intraocular pressures (IOP) and ocular pulse amplitudes
(OPA) in patients with different types of glaucoma, ocular hypertension (OHT),
and normal controls (NC) using dynamic contour tonometry (DCT) and the goldmann
applanation tonometry (GAT).
METHODS: 906 eyes of 501 adult patients in the following five groups were
included in this cross-sectional study: primary open angle glaucoma (POAG),
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), Pseudoexfoliative Glaucoma (PXG), OHT, and NC. The
following tests were performed simultaneously during a single visit: IOP using
DCT and GAT; OPA using DCT and central corneal thickness (CCT) using ultrasound
pachymetry. Mixed effects regression models were used to compare the DCT and GAT 
IOP measurements in the five groups; the effect of CCT on IOP and the
relationship between OPA and IOP within each group.
RESULTS: DCT consistently had higher IOP values than GAT in POAG, PXG, NTG, and
controls (p < 0.001) but not in OHT (p = 0.84). DCT IOP did not change while GAT 
IOP showed a non-significant increase (p = 0.09) with increased corneal thickness
in each group. OPA was found to be highest in OHT (3.61 mmHg) and lowest in the
control group (2.86 mmHg) and significantly increased with IOP in all groups.
CONCLUSIONS: DCT measures an IOP that is significantly higher than GAT IOP in
glaucoma and control subjects but not in ocular hypertensives. Furthermore, the
DCT may measure an IOP that is independent of the CCT, which may not be true for 
the GAT, which increases with the CCT. OPA was highest in OHT and may be affected
by the IOP.

DOI: 10.1080/02713680600899887 
PMID: 17050277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2006 Sep;110(9):717-22.

[Long-term effects of isopropyl unoprostone monotherapy on intraocular pressure
and visual field for normal-tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma
patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Saito Y(1), Saeki T, Sugiyama K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Opthalmology, Kanazawa University School of Medicine, Japan.
saito-yo@med.kanazawa-u.ac.jp

We retrospectively investigated the long-term effects of isopropyl unoprostone
monotherapy on intraocular pressure and visual field for normal-tension glaucoma 
and primary open-angle glaucoma patients. Among 80 eyes of 49 subjects receiving 
isopropyl unoprostone monotherapy for 2 years or more, 32 eyes of 32 subjects
were analyzed because of the good reliability of their visual acuity and visual
field (age, 68.1 +/- 10.1 yrs, follow-up period 47.8 +/- 14.7 months). The mean
values of intraocular pressure and visual field indices were compared with
baseline data before medication. The visual field changes were also analyzed
using the Kaplan-Meier life-table method. The mean intraocular pressure decreased
for 4 years from 14.7 +/- 4.3 mmHg (mean +/- SD) at baseline, to 12.7 +/- 4.4mmHg
at 4 years. The global index of visual field (mean defect, loss variance) did not
change significantly during the 4 years. The accumulative probability of survival
was 80.7 +/- 8.0% after 4 years when the endpoint was defined as 3dB progression 
in mean defect. Isopropyl unoprostone might have the possibility of stabilizing
the visual field for a long period of time.


PMID: 17025229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Sep-Oct;50(5):449-54.

Diurnal variation of intraocular pressure in suspected normal-tension glaucoma.

Hasegawa K(1), Ishida K, Sawada A, Kawase K, Yamamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine,
Gifu, Japan.

PURPOSE: To assess diurnal variations of intraocular pressure (IOP) in suspected 
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with subsequent long-term observation to
detect changes that may lead to a new diagnosis.
METHODS: Diurnal variation of IOP was measured in a sitting position at 2-h
intervals for 24 h in a total of 569 subjects with suspected NTG.
RESULTS: Thirty of the 569 subjects (5.3%) showed IOP values exceeding 20 mmHg
during the 24-h monitoring and were diagnosed as having primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG). In subjects in whom NTG was definitely diagnosed based on the
results of the 24-h monitoring, the average maximum, minimum, and mean IOP was
16.1, 11.7, and 13.9 mmHg, respectively, and the mean diurnal variation in IOP
was 4.4 mmHg. The peak time was observed outside clinic hours (1800-0800) in
41.4% of patients, and the trough time was observed during clinic hours
(1000-1600) in 15.9%. In 2.9% of NTG subjects, the diagnosis was eventually
changed to POAG during follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Assessment of diurnal variations of IOP in suspected NTG patients is 
useful for the differential diagnosis of POAG from NTG and for establishment of a
baseline, which may affect the management plan.

Copyright Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2006.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-006-0343-z 
PMID: 17013698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Sep-Oct;50(5):443-8.

Addition of or switch to topical bunazosin hydrochloride in elderly patients with
normal-tension glaucoma: A one-year follow-up study.

Yoshikawa K(1), Katsushima H, Kimura T, Yamagishi K, Yamabayashi S.

Author information: 
(1)Yoshikawa Eye Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of 0.01% bunazosin hydrochloride
ophthalmic solution (bunazosin) for elderly patients with normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) as an addition to or instead of their previous therapy.
METHODS: Bunazosin was administered to NTG patients aged 65 years or over who had
been undergoing topical glaucoma therapy. In accordance with the study protocol, 
intraocular pressure (IOP) and visual field measurement were performed and the
safety of the treatment was evaluated periodically between week 0 and week 52 at 
the five facilities where the study was carried out.
RESULTS: Of the 98 enrolled patients, 84 (85.7%) were followed up for 52 weeks.
During the follow-up period, IOP significantly and persistently decreased (week
0, 15.0 +/- 2.5 mmHg; week 52, 13.4 +/- 2.4 mmHg, P < 0.0001), but the decrease
in mean deviation (MD) was not significant. Although no systemic adverse
reactions were observed, local adverse events were noted in 7 of the 98 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of or the switch to bunazosin in elderly NTG patients
resulted in a significant reduction of IOP without apparent exacerbation of
visual field defects or systemic or local adverse reactions other than
conjunctival hyperemia.

Copyright Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2006.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-006-0351-z 
PMID: 17013697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Ophthalmology. 2006 Dec;113(12):2150-5. Epub 2006 Sep 25.

Relationship of progression of visual field damage to postural changes in
intraocular pressure in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Kiuchi T(1), Motoyama Y, Oshika T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan. kiuchi-t@md.tsukuba.ac.jp

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2007 Jul;114(7):1413; author reply 1413-4.
    Ophthalmology. 2007 Dec;114(12):2362; author reply 2362.

PURPOSE: To evaluate whether postural changes of intraocular pressure (IOP) are
associated with progression of visual field damage in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Prospective, noncomparative, nonrandomized study.
PARTICIPANTS: Sixty eyes of 33 patients with NTG.
METHODS: Intraocular pressure, blood pressure (BP), and pulse rate (PR) were
measured in both sitting and supine positions. Visual fields were examined using 
Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA; Zeiss-Humphrey Instruments, Inc., San Leandro, CA).
Changes in mean deviation (MD) per year (dB/year), that is, MD slope, were
calculated by linear regression analysis of the HFA Statpac 2 program.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The relationship between postural changes of IOP and MD
slope was analyzed. The correlation between postural changes of IOP and
cardiovascular parameters such as BP and PR also was analyzed.
RESULTS: The IOP in the supine position was significantly higher than that in the
sitting position (P<0.001, paired t test). There was no significant correlation
between MD slope and sitting IOP (Pearson r = 0.172; P = 0.188), but a
significant correlation was found between MD slope and supine IOP (r = -0.261; P 
= 0.043). The MD slope significantly correlated with IOP elevation caused by the 
postural change (r = -0.682; P<0.001). The systolic BP in the supine position
correlated with postural changes of IOP (r = 0.364; P = 0.004), but other
cardiovascular parameters did not correlate with IOP parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: The progression of visual field damage in NTG is associated with IOP
in the supine position and the magnitude of IOP elevation accompanying postural
changes. These results suggest that deterioration in NTG may occur when patients 
are lying flat during sleep.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.06.014 
PMID: 16996611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


967. J Glaucoma. 2006 Oct;15(5):358-63.

Distribution of optineurin sequence variations in an ethnically diverse
population of low-tension glaucoma patients from the United States.

Hauser MA(1), Sena DF, Flor J, Walter J, Auguste J, Larocque-Abramson K, Graham
F, Delbono E, Haines JL, Pericak-Vance MA, Rand Allingham R, Wiggs JL.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Genetics Duke School of Medicine, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA 02114, USA.

PURPOSE: Previous studies have suggested that Optineurin (OPTN) sequence variants
contribute to low-tension glaucoma (LTG) in ethnically homogeneous populations.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the prevalence of OPTN sequence variants
in an ethnically diverse population of LTG patients from the United States, and
to describe the phenotype of patients with OPTN sequence variants preferentially 
found in LTG patients.
METHODS: Genomic DNA purified from 67 LTG patients was screened for DNA sequence 
variants located in the exons and flanking introns of the OPTN gene using
high-performance liquid chromatography analysis and direct genomic DNA
sequencing. Eighty-six primary open-angle glaucoma probands and 100 control
patients were also analyzed.
RESULTS: Nine OPTN DNA sequence variants were identified in this patient
population including the 2 previously identified heterozygous nonsynonymous
single-nucleotide polymorphisms in exons 4 and 5. Four LTG patients with severe
disease and positive family history of glaucoma, were found to have DNA sequence 
changes not found in primary open-angle glaucoma probands or control individuals 
including the previously reported E50K variation.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study support the rare association of OPTN
sequence variants with familial forms of LTG. The E50K mutation seems to be
associated with a severe form of LTG, and although rare, the identification of
this sequence variant in patients at risk may help direct appropriate therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000212255.17950.42 
PMID: 16988596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


968. J Glaucoma. 2006 Oct;15(5):354-7.

Effect of latanoprost on the diurnal variations in the intraocular and ocular
perfusion pressure in normal tension glaucoma.

Ishibashi S(1), Hirose N, Tawara A, Kubota T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, University of Occupational
and Environmental Health , Kitakyushu, Japan. ishii@med.uoeh-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effects of latanoprost on the diurnal variations in the 
intraocular pressure (IOP) combined with the ocular perfusion pressure (OPP) in
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-two eyes from 22 patients with NTG were used for the
study. The diurnal variations in the IOP and blood pressure (BP) were measured
every 3 hours without therapy, and then the patients were treated with
latanoprost (0.005%) once daily for more than 12 weeks. The diurnal variations in
the IOP and BP under medication were again measured every 6 hours. The diurnal
variation of IOP for 24 hours, mean diurnal IOP, maximum IOP, minimum IOP, range 
of variation in IOP, OPP, and BP were compared between the baseline and after
treatment by means of a paired t test.
RESULTS: At 3 months after the start of the latanoprost treatment regimen, the
IOP showed a statistically significant decrease at every assessed time point over
24 hours (P<0.001). Latanoprost significantly reduced the mean diurnal IOP,
maximum IOP, minimum IOP, and mean range of variation in the IOP values from
baseline (P<0.001, <0.001, <0.001, and 0.009, respectively). OPP after treatment 
showed no significant difference at any assessed time points from the baseline
(P>0.1). Latanoprost did not significantly alter the mean diurnal OPP (P>0.1),
and BP (P>0.5) from the baseline.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost was thus found to significantly reduce IOP over 24
hours, whereas it does not affect OPP and BP in NTG patients. Therefore, it may
be a useful medication for NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000212264.96864.3e 
PMID: 16988595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Med Hypotheses. 2007;68(1):228-9. Epub 2006 Sep 15.

Normal-tension glaucoma and Alzheimer's disease: Helicobacter pylori as a
possible common underlying risk factor.

Kountouras J, Zavos C, Gavalas E, Boziki M, Chatzopoulos D, Katsinelos P.

Comment in
    Med Hypotheses. 2011 Sep;77(3):466.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.07.008 
PMID: 16978795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2006 Aug;110(8):594-600.

[Low penetrance of His26Asp mutation in the optineurin gene in a Japanese family 
with normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasuda N(1), Nakamoto K, Funayama T, Mashima Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Metropolitan Police Hospital, Japan.

PURPOSE: Three glaucoma genes have been identified in open-angle glaucoma(OAG).
In this study, two of these genes were analyzed in Japanese patients with OAG.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: After informed consent was obtained, the myocilin gene and 
the optineurin gene were analyzed in 99 Japanese patients with OAG, including 49 
cases of primary open-angle glaucoma(POAG) and 50 cases of normal-tension
glaucoma(NTG). The patients were outpatients at the Tokyo Metropolitan Police
Hospital. Family members were examined for the genes and clinical features if the
proband had a mutation.
RESULTS: One of the 99 patients had His26Asp mutation in the optineurin gene.
None of the 240 subjects serving as controls had this mutation. The proband was a
37-year-old man diagnosed as having NTG. His father had the same mutation, but
had normal clinical findings. His mother did not have the mutation, but had
ocular hypertension. Polymorphism of Thr34Thr was observed in a wild type for the
proband, and heterozygous change was found in his parents. For the myocilin gene,
only the Asp208Glu mutation was found in his mother.
CONCLUSION: His26Asp mutation in the optineurin gene showed low penetrance in a
Japanese family with NTG.


PMID: 16972651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Mol Vis. 2006 Aug 29;12:1016-21.

Investigations on the association between normal tension glaucoma and single
nucleotide polymorphisms of the endothelin-1 and endothelin receptor genes.

Kim SH(1), Kim JY, Kim DM, Ko HS, Kim SY, Yoo T, Hwang SS, Park SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: In normal tension glaucoma (NTG), intraocular pressure is within normal 
the range; thus, some mechanism other than increased pressure contributes to the 
optic neuropathy. Endothelin may be an important contributor to the development
of the optic neuropathy characteristic of glaucoma. We investigated whether
polymorphisms of the endothelin-1, endothelin receptor type A, and endothelin
receptor type B genes were associated with NTG.
METHODS: Sixty-seven Korean NTG patients and 100 healthy Korean subjects were
enrolled. DNA from peripheral blood leukocytes was extracted and genotype
distributions of six polymorphisms in genes encoding endothelin-1
(EDN1:c.-131dupA, EDN1:c.594G > T), endothelin receptor type A (EDNRA:c.-231G >
A, EDNRA:c.*70C > G, EDNRA:c.*1222C > T), and endothelin receptor type B
(EDNRB:c.831A > G) were determined. Genotype and allele distributions were
compared between patients and controls. In NTG subjects, untreated baseline
intraocular pressure and age at the time of diagnosis, as well as the mean
deviation and pattern standard deviation values of automated static perimetry
were examined for an association with these genetic polymorphisms.
RESULTS: The polymorphism of EDNRA:c.*1222C > T was significantly associated with
NTG (p = 0.028, OR = 3.33, 95% CI 1.05-10.24). In addition, the AA genotype of
the EDNRA:c.-231G > A polymorphism was associated with a lower baseline
intraocular pressure than in the GG+GA genotype group (14.0 +/- 2.8 mm Hg versus 
16.2 +/- 2.3 mm Hg, p = 0.047). No polymorphism was associated with visual field 
parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: A polymorphism of the endothelin receptor type A gene is associated 
with NTG.


PMID: 16971893  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Curr Eye Res. 2006 Sep;31(9):727-31.

Plasma endothelin-1 level in Japanese normal tension glaucoma patients.

Kunimatsu S(1), Mayama C, Tomidokoro A, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare the plasma concentration of endothelin-1 (ET-1) among
patients < 60 years of age with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG), and in age-matched normal participants.
METHODS: Plasma concentration of ET-1 was determined in 30 NTG 18 POAG patients, 
and 19 age-matched normal participants using an enzyme immunoassay.
RESULTS: The ET-1 level was 1.49 +/- 0.51 pg/ml in the NTG patients (49.4 +/- 8.8
years), 1.58 +/- 0.64 pg/ml in the POAG patients (44.7 +/- 10.7 years), and 1.33 
+/- 0.50 pg/ml in the normal participants (49.9 +/- 5.6 years). The ET-1 levels
were not significantly different among the three groups, and no significant
correlation with the extent of visual field damage, intraocular pressure (IOP),
refraction, or age was seen in the glaucoma patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The plasma ET-1 level showed no difference among NTG patients, POAG 
patients, and normal participants < 60 years of age in the Japanese population.

DOI: 10.1080/02713680600837382 
PMID: 16966145  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Br J Ophthalmol. 2007 Jan;91(1):62-8. Epub 2006 Sep 6.

Meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials comparing latanoprost with
brimonidine in the treatment of open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension or
normal-tension glaucoma.

Fung AT(1), Reid SE, Jones MP, Healey PR, McCluskey PJ, Craig JC.

Author information: 
(1)Sydney Eye Hospital, Macquane, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia.
adrianfungi@yahoo.com.au

AIM: To compare the efficacy and tolerability of latanoprost versus brimonidine
in the treatment of open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension or normal-tension
glaucoma.
METHOD: Systematic review of randomised controlled trials comparing latanoprost
and brimondine, identified by searches including Medline, Embase and Cochrane
Controlled Trials Register. Two reviewers independently assessed trials for
eligibility and quality and extracted data. Data were synthesised (random effects
model) and expressed as the absolute mean intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction
difference from baseline to end point for efficacy and relative risk for adverse 
events. Subgroup analysis and regression were used to explore heterogeneity
according to patient characteristics, trial design and quality.
RESULTS: 15 publications reporting on 14 trials (1784 participants) were included
for meta-analysis. IOP reduction favoured latanoprost (weighted mean difference
(WMD) = 1.10 mm Hg (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.57 to 1.63)). Significant
heterogeneity was present (chi(2)(13) = 38.29, p = 0.001, I(2) = 66.0%). Subgroup
analysis showed greater WMD for studies where data were analysed from end points 
>6 months duration, cross-over design, open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension
and monotherapy. Multiple regression showed no significant association of WMD
with trial duration (t(9) = 1.92, p = 0.09), trial design (t(9) = 1.79, p =
0.11), trial quality (t(9) = -0.46, p = 0.66), or monotherapy or adjunctive
therapy (t(9) = -2.14, p = 0.06). Fatigue was less commonly associated with
latanoprost (RR = 0.27, 95% CI 0.08 to 0.88). Publication bias was not evident on
visual inspection of a funnel plot.
CONCLUSION: Latanoprost is more effective than brimonidine as monotherapy in
lowering IOP. Brimonidine is associated with a higher rate of fatigue.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2006.096693 
PMCID: PMC1857560
PMID: 16956912  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Eye (Lond). 2007 Feb;21(2):293-5. Epub 2006 Sep 1.

Cessation of migraines in a woman with low-tension glaucoma following the use of 
latanoprost: a favourable side effect?

Karagiannis DA, Venkatesh P, Kirkpatrick N.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702548 
PMID: 16946757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Am J Ophthalmol. 2006 Sep;142(3):523-5.

Prevention of visual field defect progression with angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitor in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma.

Hirooka K(1), Baba T, Fujimura T, Shiraga F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa,
Japan. kazuyk@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To report the effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor on
visual field changes in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Retrospective observational case series.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed a total of 38 patients with NTG. Control
subjects had no previous history of hypertension. NTG hypertension patients were 
divided into two groups, those receiving ACE inhibitor and those receiving other 
antihypertensive drug treatments. HfaFiles 5, an analytical program for the
Humphrey Field Analyzer, was used to calculate the slope for the mean deviation
(MD) change per year.
RESULTS: In the ACE inhibitor-treated group, the mean MD change per year was 0.48
+/- 0.19 dB, in control subjects was -0.38 +/- 0.23 dB, and in the other
antihypertensive drug-treated group was -0.50 +/- 0.39 dB.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the present study is retrospective and the sample size is
small, ACE inhibitor might have a favorable effect on the visual field in
patients with NTG in this small study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2006.04.020 
PMID: 16935614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Ophthalmology. 2006 Nov;113(11):1954-60. Epub 2006 Aug 28.

Scanning laser polarimetry with variable corneal compensation in the area of
apparently normal hemifield in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma.

Choi J(1), Cho HS, Lee CH, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, University of Ulsan, Asan
Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) in the retinal segments
without visual field loss in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) that have
localized visual field defects.
DESIGN: Prospective interventional case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Fifty-six Asian glaucoma patients with localized visual field
defects confined to 1 hemifield and 43 normal control participants.
METHODS: A complete ophthalmic examination, the 24-2 full-threshold test on the
Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA), and scanning laser
polarimetry with variable corneal compensation (SLP-VCC; GDx-VCC, Carl Zeiss
Meditec) were performed in each participant.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We compared RNFL thickness parameters on SLP-VCC printouts
and severity scores based on the SLP-VCC deviation map algorithm in retinal
segments with corresponding visual field defects with those in segments without
visual field defects and with those in matched segments of age-matched normal
controls. Linear regression analyses were performed between the RNFL thickness
parameters and the severity scores in both segments with corresponding visual
field defects and those without visual field defects and HFA indices (mean
deviation, corrected pattern standard deviation) in these NTG eyes.
RESULTS: Seven of 56 eyes with NTG showed abnormal RNFL thickness parameters
(P<0.05) in the quadrants without visual field defects, whereas no eye showed
abnormal RNFL thickness parameters (P<0.05) in the matched quadrant of the
control group. The mean RNFL thickness parameter in the quadrants without visual 
field defects in the NTG eyes was 62.41+/-7.71, which was significantly lower
than in the matched quadrants of the control group (74.57+/-9.21; P<0.001) but
was significantly higher than in the quadrants with corresponding visual field
defects in NTG eyes (48.01+/-9.45; P<0.001). The severity score in the matched
quadrants of control eyes was 0.53+/-3.20, whereas the severity score of
quadrants without visual field defects of the NTG eyes was 13.52+/-35.40
(P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Perimetrically normal hemifields of NTG eyes showed significantly
lower RNFL thickness parameters than the corresponding retinal regions of healthy
eyes, as measured by SLP-VCC. Scanning laser polarimetry with variable corneal
compensation may have potential as an ancillary diagnostic tool in the evaluation
of the corresponding RNFL without visual field defects in NTG eyes with localized
visual field defects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.05.040 
PMID: 16935338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Ophthalmology. 2006 Oct;113(10):1832-6. Epub 2006 Aug 22.

Compromised autoregulatory control of ocular hemodynamics in glaucoma patients
after postural change.

Galambos P(1), Vafiadis J, Vilchez SE, Wagenfeld L, Matthiessen ET, Richard G,
Klemm M, Zeitz O.

Author information: 
(1)Glaukomlabor, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.

PURPOSE: The autoregulatory control of retrobulbar blood flow in response to
postural challenge was investigated in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients in 
comparison with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients and healthy
volunteers.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS AND CONTROLS: Twenty POAG patients, 20 NTG patients, and 20 control 
subjects.
METHODS: Peak systolic velocity (PSV), end diastolic velocity (EDV), and
resistivity index (RI) in the short posterior ciliary artery (SPCA), central
retinal artery (CRA) and ophthalmic artery (OA) were recorded after a change from
sitting upright to a supine body position using color Doppler imaging.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Peak systolic velocity, EDV, and RI.
RESULTS: Ten minutes after postural change to a supine position, blood flow
velocities in the SPCA remained unchanged in controls, whereas a significant
increase of PSV and EDV was found in both glaucoma groups. The RI in the SPCA was
significantly lowered in the NTG group. Recordings for the OA and CRA showed a
significant increase in EDV and significant decrease in RI in all 3 groups; a
significant increase in PSV in the CRA was detected only in the NTG group.
CONCLUSIONS: The unaltered flow velocities in the SPCA of healthy controls may
indicate tight autoregulatory control, whereas the flow velocities in the CRA and
OA appeared to follow alterations in hydrostatic pressure. In contrast, NTG and
POAG patients demonstrated an insufficient compensatory response to postural
change, leading to accelerated flow in the SPCA. This compromised autoregulatory 
control could represent another contributing factor in the pathogenesis of
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.05.030 
PMID: 16920194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Adv Ther. 2006 May-Jun;23(3):385-94.

A 3-month clinical trial comparing the IOP-lowering efficacy of bimatoprost and
latanoprost in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Dirks MS(1), Noecker RJ, Earl M, Roh S, Silverstein SM, Williams RD.

Author information: 
(1)Black Hills Regional Eye Institute, Rapid City, SD 57701, USA.

This multicenter, randomized, double-blind clinical trial was undertaken to
compare the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy and safety of topical
bimatoprost 0.03% with that of latanoprost 0.005% for the treatment of patients
with normal-tension glaucoma. After washout of all ocular hypotensive
medications, patients with normal-tension glaucoma (n=60) were randomly assigned 
to oncedaily bimatoprost 0.03% or latanoprost 0.005% for 3 mo. Diurnal IOP
measurements were taken at each study visit. Primary outcome measures consisted
of mean change from baseline IOP (8 AM, Noon, 4 PM) and change in visual field.
Secondary measures included mean IOP, ophthalmologic examination findings,
results of clinical evaluation, and adverse events. Mean change from baseline IOP
at each study visit was statistically significant at all diurnal measurements for
patients taking bimatoprost and for those taking latanoprost (P<.001). The 8 AM
mean change from baseline IOP measurement showed a significant between-group
difference (P< or =.033) in favor of bimatoprost at both follow-up visits. After 
3 mo of treatment, mean IOP reductions from baseline ranged from 2.8 to 3.8 mm Hg
(17.5%-21.6%) with bimatoprost and from 2.1 to 2.6 mm Hg (12.7%-16.2%) with
latanoprost. Overall mean reduction in IOP after 3 mo of treatment was 3.4 mm Hg 
(19.9% rpar; with bimatoprost and 2.3 mm Hg (14.6%) with latanoprost (P=.035). No
significant between-group differences were observed in incidence of adverse
events, clinical success, or demographic variables. Bimatoprost was found to be
more effective than latanoprost in lowering IOP in the patient with
normal-tension glaucoma. Both drugs were efficacious and well tolerated.


PMID: 16912020  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jul-Aug;50(4):334-7.

Additional reduction in intraocular pressure achieved with latanoprost in
normal-tension glaucoma patients previously treated with unoprostone.

Enoki M(1), Saito J, Hara M, Uchida T, Sagara T, Nishida T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ogori Daiichi General Hospital, Ogori, and
Department of Biomolecular Recognition and Ophthalmology, Yamaguchi University
School of Medicine, Japan. m.enoki@saikyo.or.jp

PURPOSE: To determine whether treatment with latanoprost eye drops is able to
further reduce intraocular pressure (IOP) in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
patients whose IOP has been well controlled with unoprostone.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 34 eyes (34 individuals) with NTG that had been 
treated with 0.12% unoprostone eye drops twice daily for >or=3 months were
switched to treatment once daily with eye drops containing 0.005% latanoprost.
IOP was measured before and 1, 2, and 3 months after the switch to latanoprost.
RESULTS: The mean IOP of all eyes was decreased significantly by 1.8, 2.9, and
2.3 mmHg at 1, 2, and 3 months after the switch from unoprostone to latanoprost
treatment. The IOP of patients with an initial IOP of <or=12 or >12 mmHg was
reduced by 11.0 or 19.9%, respectively, after 3 months on latanoprost. The IOP of
30 (88.2%) of the 34 eyes was further reduced by the switch from unoprostone to
latanoprost.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost reduced the IOP of NTG patients who had already been
treated with unoprostone, even though both drugs are prostaglandin-related.
Switching to latanoprost might thus achieve a maximal decrease in IOP and thereby
better prevent damage to the optic nerve and loss of visual field in NTG
patients.

Copyright (c) Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2006.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-005-0334-5 
PMID: 16897217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Mol Vis. 2006 Jul 24;12:816-20.

OPTN gene: profile of patients with glaucoma from India.

Sripriya S(1), Nirmaladevi J, George R, Hemamalini A, Baskaran M, Prema R, Ve
Ramesh S, Karthiyayini T, Amali J, Job S, Vijaya L, Kumaramanickavel G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Molecular Biology, Vision Research Foundation,
Sankara Nethralaya, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.

PURPOSE: Optineurin gene (OPTN) mutations are reported in primary open angle
glaucoma patients (POAG) from different populations. The coding and noncoding
regions of OPTN were screened for mutations in 100 Indian high tension glaucoma
patients (HTG). The frequency of the OPTN M98K mutation in an additional 120
patients (70 HTG and 50 normal tension glaucoma [NTG]) was analyzed by
restriction enzyme digestion.
METHODS: The HTG patients (about 40 years of age) were characterized by open
angles on gonioscopy, with raised intraocular pressure (IOP) more than 21 mmHg
(<21 mmHg on office diurnal phasing for NTG), and typical glaucomatous disc
changes with corresponding visual field defects in the absence of any secondary
cause. One hundred HTG patients and controls were screened for OPTN mutations by 
direct sequencing using an ABI prism 310/3100 Avant genetic analyzer. The M98K
status was analyzed by restriction enzyme digestion with StuI. A
genotype/phenotype correlation was also attempted for OPTN sequence alterations
with clinical parameters such as age at diagnosis, intraocular pressure, cup:disc
ratio, etc. The putative change in the transcription factor binding site for the 
IVS7 +24G>A polymorphism was attempted with AliBaba software (version 2.1).
RESULTS: Six sequence alterations were observed in the 100 POAG patients by
direct sequencing. The M98K substitution was observed in a total of 10 patients
(7/170 HTG and 3/50 NTG) contributing to 4.1% in HTG and 6% in the NTG group and 
not in the controls. The IVS7+24G>A nucleotide change showed a significant
difference in the HTG group (7/100) when compared to the control group (0/100)
and found to be associated with increased IOP at diagnosis (p=0.03). The
IVS7+24G>A polymorphism resulted in the creation of binding sites for
transcription factors NF-1 and CPE that were not present in the wild type.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study suggests a possible role of SNPs rather than
mutations in OPTN in POAG pathology in the Indian population.


PMID: 16885925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


981. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2006 May;29(5):520-5.

[The French glaucoma and ocular hypertension 1-day study].

[Article in French]

Villain M(1), Nordmann JP, Renard JP, Bron A, Delcourt C, Pinchinat S, Solesse de
Gendre A, Pelen F.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, Hôpital Gui de Chauliac, 80, avenue Augustin Fliche, 
34295 Montpellier cedex 5.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to describe the distribution and
characteristics (age, duration, type, treatment, etc.) of ocular hypertension and
glaucoma in French ophthalmologic practices.
METHODS: The French glaucoma and ocular hypertension 1-day study is a descriptive
cross-sectional "1-day" type survey, conducted among all ophthalmologists of
mainland France. They had to include all patients aged 18 years and over with
ocular hypertension or glaucoma who were seen on November 25th 2003. The
participation rate was 24.0% (1.173 ophthalmologists). Among the 3.919 patients
included, 3.896 subjects (99%) had usable data for the statistical analyses.
RESULTS: The ophthalmologists reported treating 16 patients with ocular
hypertension or glaucoma on average per week. Among the patients, 29.5% had
ocular hypertension, 61.7% had open-angle glaucoma, 3.4% had normal tension
glaucoma, and 5.5% angle-closure glaucoma. The ophthalmologists used surgery or
laser treatment for 74.1% of angle-closure glaucoma, while for other pathologies,
treatment with drugs only was preponderant. More than 87% of patients received
one or several ocular treatments: beta-blockers (59.3%), prostaglandins (50.1%), 
carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (21.6%), or mydriatic sympathomimetics (6.3%).
CONCLUSIONS: The characteristics of glaucoma and ocular hypertension (type of
glaucoma, age, duration, etc.) correspond to those of other Western populations. 
The therapeutic habits of French ophthalmologists is in line with current
international guidelines.


PMID: 16885826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Dec;90(12):1454-7. Epub 2006 Aug 2.

The role of scanning laser polarimetry using the GDx variable corneal compensator
in the management of glaucoma suspects.

Shaikh A(1), Salmon JF.

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Eye Hospital, Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals NHS, Oxford, UK.

AIM: To determine the role of scanning laser polarimetry using the GDx variable
corneal compensator (VCC) in the management of glaucoma suspects.
METHODS: Over a 12-month period, 43 of 447 (9.6%) patients referred to a glaucoma
screening clinic were classified as "glaucoma suspects" when it was not possible 
to categorise the optic disc appearance and visual fields as definitely
glaucomatous or definitely normal. Of these patients, 39 underwent a full
ophthalmic review, including assessment of the visual fields and analysis of the 
retinal nerve fibre layer with the GDx VCC.
RESULTS: After the review, 17 of 39 (43.6%) patients were discharged because of
normal GDx VCC results. The remaining 22 of 39 (56.4%) were considered to be at
risk of developing progressive glaucoma, and further follow-up in the hospital
eye service was recommended. 3 (7.7%) patients received treatment. Of the 22
patients, 12 were considered to have pre-perimetric normal tension glaucoma, 7
normal tension glaucoma and 1 primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). In 19 of these 
patients, abnormal GDx VCC results were found, particularly inter-eye asymmetry
in the nerve fibre layer thickness. However, in 2 of 39 (5.1%) patients the GDx
VCC was normal, despite the presence of a neuroretinal rim defect in the optic
disc with corresponding visual field loss, and in 1 patient with POAG.
CONCLUSIONS: Scanning laser polarimetry using the GDx VCC is an important tool in
defining the management strategies of glaucoma suspects. In screening for
glaucoma, however, GDx VCC results should not be used in isolation, but in
conjunction with conventional methods of optic disc and visual field assessment.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2006.099143 
PMCID: PMC1857534
PMID: 16885189  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Nov;90(11):1420-4. Epub 2006 Aug 2.

The role of the Met98Lys optineurin variant in inherited optic nerve diseases.

Craig JE(1), Hewitt AW, Dimasi DP, Howell N, Toomes C, Cohn AC, Mackey DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Flinders Drive, Bedford
Park, South Australia 5042, Australia. jamie.craig@flinders.edu.au

AIMS: To investigate the role of the common OPTN Met98Lys variant as a risk
allele in open-angle glaucoma (OAG), autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA) and 
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON).
METHODS: The presence of the Met98Lys variant was determined in a total of 498
(128 with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)) patients with OAG, 29 patients who had
myocilin-related OAG, 101 patients from ADOA pedigrees, 157 patients from LHON
pedigrees and 218 examined OAG age-matched normal controls.
RESULTS: 17 of 218 (7.8%) controls had the Met98Lys variant. 28 (5.6%) patients
with OAG were Met98Lys positive. More Met98Lys carriers were found in the NTG
group than in the high-tension glaucoma (HTG) group (p = 0.033). However, no
significant difference was observed between the NTG and control cohorts (p =
0.609). Two MYOC mutation carriers were found to have the variant. The variant
was found in 1 of 10 pedigrees with ADOA and in 8 of 35 pedigrees with LHON.
CONCLUSION: Data from this study do not support a strong role for the OPTN
Met98Lys variant in glaucoma, ADOA or LHON. However, a weak association was
observed of the variant with NTG compared with that with HTG. Meta-analysis of
all published data on the variant and glaucoma confirmed that the association,
although weak, is highly statistically significant in the cohort with glaucoma
versus controls.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2006.099333 
PMCID: PMC1857489
PMID: 16885188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2006 Aug;47(8):3390-4.

Abnormal flow-mediated vasodilation in normal-tension glaucoma using a
noninvasive determination for peripheral endothelial dysfunction.

Su WW(1), Cheng ST, Hsu TS, Ho WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung
University College of Medicine, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: To assess peripheral vascular endothelial function in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) by using a noninvasive method:
endothelium-dependent flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD).
METHODS: Forty patients with NTG and 40 healthy age- and sex-matched normal
control subjects underwent measurement of FMD and endothelium-independent
nitroglycerin-mediated vasodilation (NMD) via high-resolution, two-dimensional
(2D) ultrasonographic imaging of the brachial artery. The patients also underwent
blood sampling for biochemistry, lipid profile, and high-sensitivity C-reactive
protein (hsCRP) analysis.
RESULTS: The NTG group exhibited significant impairment of FMD compared with the 
control group (NTG: 2.64% +/- 2.22%, control: 5.96% +/- 2.50%, P < 0.001).
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that the presence of NTG was the strongest
independent predictor of FMD. The lipid profile and hsCRP did not differ
significantly between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated impaired FMD in patients with NTG and the
results provide evidence of a generalized peripheral vascular endothelial
dysfunction in patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.06-0024 
PMID: 16877407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Rheumatol Int. 2006 Nov;27(1):101-2. Epub 2006 Jul 27.

Cerebellum vasculopathy and normal tension glaucoma in systemic lupus
erythematosus: report of a case and review of the literature.

Chan AY(1), Li EK, Wong GL, Liu DT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health, Social Hygiene Service, Hong Kong, China.

Cerebellar vasculopathy is an uncommon but clinically important neuropsychiatric 
syndrome of systemic lupus erythematosus (NP-SLE) for its ominous outcome and
need for prompt interventions. We described a young Chinese lady with systemic
lupus erythematosus and normal tension glaucoma, who had sudden headache, nausea 
and vomiting coupled with rapid neurological deterioration leading to comatose
status. Diagnosis of lupus cerebellar vasculopathy was made and intense
immunosuppressive therapy consisting of prednisolone and cyclophosphamide was
commenced. Clinical condition was salvaged with marked improvement of both
sensorium and general well-being.

DOI: 10.1007/s00296-006-0161-0 
PMID: 16871411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Mol Vis. 2006 Jul 7;12:735-9.

Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene polymorphisms c.677C/T and c.1298A/C are
not associated with open angle glaucoma.

Mabuchi F(1), Tang S, Kashiwagi K, Yamagata Z, Iijima H, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
Shimokato, Yamanashi, Japan. fmabuchi@yamanashi.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To assess whether or not the c.677C/T and c.1298A/C genetic
polymorphisms of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene are
associated with open angle glaucoma (OAG).
METHODS: Genomic DNA was examined in a cohort of 131 Japanese patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), 133 patients with primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG), and 106 control subjects. The mean age at the time of blood sampling was 
62.8+/-13.3 years (mean+/-SD) in the patients with NTG, 61.8+/-15.4 years in the 
patients with POAG, and 65.0+/-10.5 years in the control subjects. MTHFR c.677C/T
and c.1298A/C genotype and allele frequencies were determined using
pyrosequencing analysis, and the findings were compared between the OAG patients 
and control subjects. The frequencies of compound MTHFR c.677C/T and c.1298A/C
genotypes were also compared between OAG patients and control subjects.
RESULTS: No significant differences were observed (p>0.05, chi2 test or Fisher's 
exact test) regarding the MTHFR c.677C/T genotype (TT: 14.5%, CT: 44.3%, CC:
41.2% for patients with NTG; TT: 20.3%, CT: 41.4%, CC: 38.3% for patients with
POAG; TT: 17.9%, CT: 36.8%, CC: 45.3% for control subjects) and c.1298A/C (CC:
0%, AC: 38.9%, AA: 61.1% for patients with NTG; CC: 2.3%, AC: 32.3%, AA: 65.4%
for patients with POAG; CC: 0.9%, AC: 41.5%, AA: 57.6% for control subjects).
There were no allele frequencies between the NTG or POAG patients and the control
subjects. In addition, no significant differences (p>0.05, chi2 test) were found 
in the frequencies of the compound MTHFR c.677C/T and c.1298A/C genotypes between
the NTG or POAG patients and the control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: The MTHFR c.677C/T and c.1298A/C polymorphisms were not found to be 
associated with NTG and POAG. Further studies in the different ethnic populations
should be performed to elucidate the relationship between MTHFR and OAG.


PMID: 16862068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Optom Vis Sci. 2006 Jul;83(7):516-9.

Relationship between asymmetric central corneal thickness and glaucomatous visual
field loss within the same patient.

Sullivan-Mee M(1), Gentry JM, Qualls C.

Author information: 
(1)Albuquerque VA Medical Center, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87108, USA.
Michael.Sullivan-Mee@med.va.gov

PURPOSE: Considering that thinner central corneal thickness (CCT) has been
identified as a significant glaucoma risk factor, this study was designed to
determine whether patients with glaucoma with asymmetric CCT demonstrate greater 
visual field loss in their thinner CCT eye compared with their thicker CCT eye.
METHODS: Patient logs were used to retrospectively identify patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) with
CCT asymmetry of 10 microm or greater. Severity of glaucoma was determined using 
Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS) visual field scoring criteria. After 
statistical analysis was used to compare all thinner CCT eyes vs. corresponding
thicker CCT eyes, subjects with worse visual field loss in the thinner CCT eye
were compared with subjects with worse visual field loss in the thicker CCT eye. 
Subanalysis was then completed using only subjects with CCT asymmetry of 15
microm or greater.
RESULTS: In the 52 subjects who met all criteria for study inclusion, mean AGIS
score was significantly higher in the thinner CCT eyes compared with the thicker 
CCT eyes. Subjects with higher AGIS score in their thinner CCT eye outnumbered
subjects with higher AGIS score in their thicker CCT eye, with the differences
approaching statistical significance in the full sample (p = 0.06) and achieving 
significance when analysis was limited to subjects with CCT asymmetry of 15
microm or greater (p = 0.001). Multivariate logistic regression analysis
identified thinner CCT as the primary risk factor associated with higher AGIS
score in subjects with CCT asymmetry of 15 microm or greater.
CONCLUSION: These results correspond to prior reports implicating CCT as an
independent risk factor for glaucomatous visual field loss. When significant CCT 
asymmetry is present in patients with glaucoma, the thinner CCT eye is at greater
risk for more advanced visual field loss. The underlying nature of this increased
risk is unknown, but further study into structural vulnerabilities associated
with thinner CCT seems justified.

DOI: 10.1097/01.opx.0000218433.49803.e7 
PMID: 16840876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Med Hypotheses. 2006;67(6):1320-5. Epub 2006 Jul 7.

Scleral edge, not optic disc or retina, is the primary site of injury in chronic 
glaucoma.

Hasnain SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)hasnain40@sbcglobal.net

In chronic glaucoma, there is a gradual painless loss of vision, early
manifestation of arcuate field defect and typical atrophy of the optic disc known
as 'cupping'. Chronic glaucoma is classified into high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Although both types manifest with the same typical
visual field defect and cupping of the optic disc, high-tension glaucoma has
elevated intraocular pressure whereas in normal-tension glaucoma the intraocular 
pressure (IOP) is within the normal range (10-21 mmHg). There are several
theories about the pathogenesis of chronic glaucoma ranging from high intraocular
pressure directly damaging the optic disc to programmed death(apoptosis) of the
ganglion cells of the retina. But none of them satisfactorily explain the
manifestation of the early arcuate field defect which is a pathognomonic feature 
of both types of chronic glaucoma. This article focuses on two main issues.
First, how and why the arcuate field defects are produced in the early stages of 
glaucoma and secondly to find out the common ground in the pathogenesis of both
high and normal tension glaucoma. The early arcuate field defects are an
important lead in discovering the pathogenesis of glaucoma, therefore if any
factor or site which could not possibly produce initial sharply defined arcuate
field defects was ruled out. This article presents an unconventional approach to 
the pathogenesis of glaucoma. Instead of looking for various factors causing
glaucoma, emphasis was placed on determining the primary site of injury which
could produce the initial arcuate field defects. Keeping the arcuate visual field
defects in mind, the primary site of injury appears to be at the scleral edge and
not the optic disc or the retina in chronic glaucoma. The border tissue which
separates the sclera and choroid from the nerve fibers would atrophy due to
chronic ischemia as a result of high intraocular pressure in HTG, whereas due to 
poor systemic circulation in NTG. In both types of chronic glaucoma, the ciliary 
circulation supplying the prelaminar and border tissue is compromised. As a
result of atrophy of the border tissue, the optic disc sinks as a whole beginning
temporally due to its tilted position and causing nerve fibers to stretch, kink, 
and cut at the scleral edge. This process of optic disc sinking would accelerate 
due to loss of nerve fibers which also provides anchorage to the optic disc. This
cycle would continue until all the nerve fibers are cut at the scleral edge and
the optic disc is destroyed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.05.030 
PMID: 16824694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Am J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jul;142(1):179-81.

Effect of hospitalization on intraocular pressure in patients with high tension
and normal tension glaucoma.

Haufschild T(1), Orgül S, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To determine the effect of hospitalization on intraocular pressure (IOP)
in glaucoma patients.
DESIGN: Prospective case series.
METHODS: IOP was measured on three consecutive days in 26 high-tension (HTG) and 
13 normal-tension (NTGwm) glaucoma patients under IOP-lowering treatment, and in 
28 normal-tension glaucoma patients without IOP-lowering treatment (NTGnm), and
change was compared by analysis of variance.
RESULTS: IOP decreased significantly, but comparably, in the three groups and
between right and left eyes, although, the relative change to IOP on day 1 was
significantly less pronounced in the group without treatment on day 2 and 3
compared with the treated groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma patients showed a significant decrease in IOP during
hospitalization. Although this decrease was more pronounced among the treated
patients, it was also present in nontreated patients. Consequently, other factors
than improved compliance during hospitalization must play a role in this
phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2006.01.083 
PMID: 16815278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Am J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jul;142(1):40-45.

Correlation between hemifield visual field damage and corresponding parapapillary
atrophy in normal-tension glaucoma.

Kawano J(1), Tomidokoro A, Mayama C, Kunimatsu S, Tomita G, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the correlation between the superior or inferior half area
of parapapillary atrophy (PPA) and the corresponding hemifield visual field
damage (VFD) in normal-tension glaucoma.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
METHODS: patients: One hundred nine eyes of 109 consecutive patients with
normal-tension glaucoma. observation procedures: Topography parameters of the
optic nerve head and PPA (zone beta) area were obtained with the Heidelberg
Retina Tomograph (HRT), and VFD was evaluated with the 30 to 2 program of
Humphrey Field Analyzer. The HRT parameters and PPA area were determined
separately in superior and inferior half regions. main outcome measures: Partial 
correlation coefficients of the superior and inferior areas of PPA with
refractive error, axial length, HRT parameters, and corresponding hemifield VFD.
RESULTS: In simple correlation analyses, significant correlation was found
between the inferior PPA area and the superior hemifield VFD (Spearman rank
correlation coefficient; Rs = -0.32; P < .001) but not between the superior PPA
area and the inferior hemifield VFD (Rs = 0.05; P = .6). Age, refractive error,
axial length, and height variation contour were associated significantly with the
total, superior, and inferior areas of PPA, respectively (P < .01). Multiple
regression analyses showed that the superior PPA area was associated
significantly with only axial length (P < .001), and the inferior PPA area was
associated significantly with the axial length and the superior hemifield VFD (P 
< .001).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with normal-tension glaucoma, only the inferior half
area of PPA correlated significantly with glaucomatous VFD. Axial length and
myopia were associated with both the superior and inferior half areas of PPA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2006.01.087 
PMID: 16815249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Optometry. 2006 Jul;77(7):325; author reply 325-6.

Central corneal thickness and normal tension glaucoma: a cross-sectional study.

Givner S.

Comment on
    Optometry. 2006 Mar;77(3):134-40.

DOI: 10.1016/j.optm.2006.04.106 
PMID: 16814235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


992. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2006 Jun;22(3):188-93.

Effects of bimatoprost 0.03% on ocular hemodynamics in normal tension glaucoma.

Chen MJ(1), Cheng CY, Chen YC, Chou CK, Hsu WM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taiwan.
mj_chen@vghtpe.gov.tw

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of bimatoprost
0.03% on ocular hemodynamics in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Twenty-two (22) patients with NTG were consecutively recruited. After
basic eye examination and diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement, color
Doppler imaging was used to measure the peak systolic and end diastolic
velocities and resistive index of the central retinal, lateral posterior ciliary,
and medial posterior ciliary arteries. Patients received bimatoprost 0.03% for 4 
weeks, and these measurements were then repeated. The worse eye of each NTG
patient was used in the statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Bimatoprost 0.03% significantly reduced mean IOP from 15.1 +/- 3.8 mmHg 
at baseline to 12.0 +/- 2.9 mmHg after treatment in our sample of NTG patients (P
< 0.001). No significant changes in blood velocities or resistance indices were
observed in the retrobulbar vessels after the 4-week treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Topical bimatoprost 0.03% significantly reduced IOP in our NTG
patients without causing significant hemodynamic changes in the retrobulbar
vessels.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2006.22.188 
PMID: 16808680  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2006 Jun;110(6):477-83.

[A case of normal-tension glaucoma with impaired eye movements in a young
patient].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshida Y(1), Sugiyama T, Sugasawa J, Nakajima M, Ikeda T, Utsunomiya K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ujigawa Hospital. 31 Oinoki, Ogura-cho, Uji 611
0042, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We report a case of normal-tension glaucoma(NTG) with impaired eye
movements in a young patient.
CASE: A 22-year-old man with enlarged optic disc cuppings and visual field
defects was suspected to have NTG, and was found, upon examination, to have
impaired eye movements. Intraocular pressure recordings, including diurnal
variation, were under 21 mmHg. Gonioscopic findings were normal. Magnetic
resonance image(MRI) showed no particular findings. The patient was diagnosed
with NTG. Using the 123I-iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed
tomography (123I-IMP SPECT), decreased cerebral blood flow was detected in the
patient's occipital lobe and an electro-oculogram showed impaired eye movements
during smooth pursuit. The patient's visual field defects have increased over the
last two years, but, no accompanying change in his eye movements has been
observed.
CONCLUSION: The patient in this case has NTG with impaired eye movements and
decreased cerebral blood flow suggesting that some disorder of the central
nervous system may be one of the causative mechanisms of NTG.


PMID: 16808164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Med Hypotheses. 2006;67(5):1255-6. Epub 2006 Jun 23.

Normal-tension glaucoma and Alzheimer's disease: hypothesis of a possible common 
underlying risk factor.

Wostyn P.

Comment in
    Med Hypotheses. 2007;68(1):227.
    Med Hypotheses. 2011 Sep;77(3):466.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.05.012 
PMID: 16797863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Doc Ophthalmol. 2006 May;112(3):157-68. Epub 2006 Jun 19.

Slow-stimulated multifocal ERG in high- and normal-tension glaucoma.

Palmowski-Wolfe AM(1), Allgayer RJ, Vernaleken B, Schötzau A, Ruprecht KW.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Hospital, D-66421, Homburg/Saar, Germany.

PURPOSE: To study the ability and sensitivity of the slow stimulation multifocal 
ERG (mfERG) to detect glaucomatous damage.
METHODS: Right eyes of 20 patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), 15
patients with high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and 15 healthy volunteers underwent
testing with the mfERG (VERIS 4.1). The central 50 degrees of the retina were
stimulated by 103 hexagons (m-sequence: 2(13)-1, Lmax: 100 cd/m(2), Lmin: 1
cd/m(2), background: 50 cd/m(2)). Each m-sequence step was followed by 3 black
frames (Lmax: < 1 cd/m(2)). Five response averages of the first order response
component (KI) were analyzed: the central 7.5 degrees and the 4 adjoining
quadrants. The amplitudes from the first minimum, N1, to the first maximum, P1,
and from P1 to the second minimum, N2, were analyzed as well as the latencies of 
N1, P1, N2 and the latencies of 3 multifocal oscillatory potentials (mfOPs) with 
their maxima at about 73, 80 and 85 ms.
RESULTS: For each parameter the percentage of deviation from the mean of the
control group was calculated. These values were then added for each individual to
form a deviation index (DI). Seventeen patients (85.0%) with NTG and 3 patients
(20.0%) with HTG showed a DI outside the normal range. The major changes were
observed in the mfOPs of the NTG patients. MfOPs were then selectively filtered
at 100-300 Hz and their scalar product was analyzed over an epoch of 68-105 ms.
This confirmed that mfOPs differed significantly from the control in the central 
7.5 degrees and, for NTG, in the nasal field. With a logistic regression analysis
the mfOPs had a sensitivity to differentiate 85% of the NTG patients and 73% of
the HTG patients from normal.
CONCLUSIONS: Under these conditions, the slow-stimulated mfERG can detect
glaucomatous dysfunction in NTG (85.0%). The differences observed between NTG and
HTG are in support of a different underlying pathomechanism.

DOI: 10.1007/s10633-006-0007-9 
PMID: 16786253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Mol Vis. 2006 Jun 12;12:673-80.

Polymorphism of beta-adrenergic receptors and susceptibility to open-angle
glaucoma.

Inagaki Y(1), Mashima Y, Fuse N, Funayama T, Ohtake Y, Yasuda N, Murakami A,
Hotta Y, Fukuchi T, Tsubota K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinanomachi,
Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: The human trabecular meshwork and ciliary body, which express
beta-adrenergic receptors (ADRB1 and ADRB2), control aqueous humor dynamics. We
investigated associations of ADRB polymorphisms with open-angle glaucoma (OAG),
because ADRB gene polymorphisms alter receptor function.
METHODS: We studied 240 Japanese controls and 505 Japanese OAG patients including
211 with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and 294 with normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG). Associations of four polymorphisms (Ser49Gly and Arg389Gly in the ADRB1
gene; Arg16Gly and Gln27Glu in the ADRB2 gene) were compared between patients and
controls. Age, intraocular pressure (IOP), and visual field defects at diagnosis 
were examined for associations with polymorphisms.
RESULTS: The Arg389Gly polymorphism in the ADRB1 gene showed significantly
different allele and genotype frequencies in patients with NTG than in controls
(p = 0.004 and 0.006, respectively). Other polymorphisms did not show a
significant frequency difference. In POAG patients, carriers of Gly16 in the
ADRB2 gene were significantly younger at diagnosis than noncarriers (p<0.001).
The IOP at diagnosis was significantly higher in OAG patients carrying 27Glu in
the ADRB2 gene than in patients without this allele (p<0.001). Clinical
characteristics of OAG patients did not differ significantly in relation to other
polymorphisms.
CONCLUSIONS: Certain polymorphisms of the ADRB1 and ADRB2 genes influence the
pathophysiology of OAG in Japanese patients.


PMID: 16785856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Mol Vis. 2006 Jun 12;12:649-54.

Evaluation of the association between OPA1 polymorphisms and primary open-angle
glaucoma in Barbados families.

Yao W(1), Jiao X, Hejtmancik JF, Leske MC, Hennis A, Nemesure B; Barbados Family 
Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Genetics and Visual Function Branch, National Eye Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda 20892-1860, MD.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the
OPA1 gene are associated with two primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) subgroups:
those with elevated intraocular pressure (POAG/IOP) and those with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) in the African-Caribbean population of Barbados, West Indies.
METHODS: SNPs at intervening sequence (IVS) 8, +4, and +32 of the OPA1 gene were 
directly sequenced from 48 individuals with POAG/IOP, 48 nonglaucomatous
controls, and 61 people with NTG. The remaining exons of OPA1 were screened for
sequence variations in the same 48 POAG/IOP participants and 48 controls by
denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (dHPLC), and identified
variations were confirmed by bidirectional sequencing. Genotype and allele
frequencies of all SNPs were compared for statistically significant differences
using the chi2 and Fisher's exact test. Haplotypes and compound genotypes were
also analyzed to evaluate the combined effect of the two IVS8 SNPs.
RESULTS: The analyses of the genotype and haplotype frequencies of IVS8 +4 and
+32 do not show statistically significant differences between those with POAG/IOP
or NTG and controls. At IVS8 +32, although there are suggestions of possible
associations of the CC genotype with NTG (chi2 = 3.81, p = 0.05), and the TC
genotype with POAG/IOP (chi2 = 4.23, p = 0.04), these differences do not reach
statistical significance at the level of 0.017 after a Bonferroni correction. In 
addition, the combined genotype comparisons at IVS8 +32 do not support the
association (for controls compared to NTG chi2 = 4.19, p = 0.12, df = 2; and for 
controls compared to POAG chi2 = 4.83, p = 0.09, df = 2). Sixteen variants are
observed in the OPA1 gene, of which 10 are novel. Neither genotype nor allele
frequencies of any SNP are found to be associated with POAG/IOP.
CONCLUSIONS: Although some results are suggestive, there is not sufficient
evidence to support an association of the SNPs evaluated in OPA1 with POAG/IOP or
NTG in the African-Caribbean population of Barbados, West Indies.


PMID: 16785854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


998. J Glaucoma. 2006 Jun;15(3):218-22.

Association of apolipoprotein E polymorphisms with normal tension glaucoma in a
Chinese population.

Lam CY(1), Fan BJ, Wang DY, Tam PO, Yung Tham CC, Leung DY, Ping Fan DS, Chiu Lam
DS, Pang CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the role of apolipoprotein E (APOE) polymorphisms in primary
open angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: A cohort of 400 unrelated Chinese POAG patients was examined, including 
294 cases of high tension glaucoma (HTG) and 106 with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG). Also studied were 300 unrelated Chinese control subjects. The genotypes of
the APOE polymorphisms in exon 4 and in the promoter at positions -491, -427, and
-219 were determined by polymerase chain reaction and restriction endonuclease
analysis. Frequencies of the genotypes were compared between patients and
controls by chi test or Fisher exact test. The association of APOE polymorphisms 
with POAG phenotypes including age at diagnosis, intraocular pressure (IOP) at
diagnosis, highest IOP, cup-disc ratio, and visual field score was investigated
by the Kruskal-Wallis test.
RESULTS: No significant difference was detected in the frequencies of APOE
promoter polymorphisms between POAG patients and control subjects (P>0.0125). For
the exon 4 polymorphism, when compared with control subjects, the frequency of
epsilon 4 carriers was significantly lower in patients with NTG (P=0.008; odds
ratio=0.36, 95% confidence interval=0.17, 0.79) but not in HTG (P=0.07). Compared
with -219TT, the -219G carriers had a significant higher age at diagnosis
(P=0.0046). No significant association was found between other APOE polymorphisms
and POAG phenotypes (P>0.07).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that the APOE epsilon 4 allele confers a
protective effect against NTG, whereas the APOE promoter polymorphisms do not
contribute to POAG risk. However, the APOE -219G carriers tended to have
later-onset POAG.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000212217.19804.a7 
PMID: 16778644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2006 May;110(5):404-9.

[Effect of topical glaucoma medications on optic disc topography in normal
tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Namba H(1), Namba R, Murofushi C.

Author information: 
(1)Namba Eye Clinic, Shizuoka, Japan. mail@nanba-ganka.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate the effects of topical glaucoma medications on optic disc
topography in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) using confocal scanning
laser ophthalmoscopy.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We enrolled 39 NTG patients (39 eyes) who had not been
treated for glaucoma. A combined medication of 0.005% latanoprost and 0.5%
timolol gel was administered. Optic disc parameters were measured before and
after the treatment using the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT). The treatment
period was 20.2 +/- 6.4 days (mean +/- SD).
RESULTS: Administration of these two drugs significantly decreased the
intraocular pressure (IOP) from 16.7 +/- 1.9 mmHg to 12.3 +/- 1.9 mmHg (26.7 +/- 
8.7% decrease). Cup area, cup/disk area ratio and cup volume decreased
significantly, while the rim area increased significantly. Linear progression
analysis showed a significant correlation between the percent decrease in the IOP
and the topographic changes in the cup area, cup/disk area ratio, rim area, cup
volume, rim volume, and height variation contour. When the subjects were divided 
into two groups: patients with high baseline IOP of more than 16 mmHg (HNTG
group) and those with low baseline IOP below 15 mmHg (LNTG group), significant
changes in several parameters were observed only in the HNTG group.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the topographic changes in the optic disc
were induced by the short-term topical glaucoma medications prescribed for the
NTG patients, and the changes in several HRT parameters correlated with the
percent decrease in the IOP.


PMID: 16764323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Exp Eye Res. 2006 Sep;83(3):473-83. Epub 2006 Jun 5.

Oxygen-dependent diseases in the retina: role of hypoxia-inducible factors.

Arjamaa O(1), Nikinmaa M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Animal Physiology, Department of Biology, Center of Excellence
in Evolutionary Genetics and Physiology, 20014 University of Turku, Finland.
olli.arjamaa@utu.fi

The function of the retina is sensitive to oxygen tension. Any change in the
perfusion pressure of the eye affects the retina although the eye is able to
autoregulate its hemodynamics. Systemic hypoxemia (lung or heart disease) or a
vascular disease in the retina can cause retinal hypoxia. All the
hypoxia-dependent events in cells appear to share a common denominator:
hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF), which is a heterodimeric transcription factor, a 
protein. HIF comprises a labile alpha subunit (1-3), which is regulated, and a
stable beta subunit, which is constitutively expressed. Both are helix-loop-helix
factors and belong to the PAS-domain family of transcription factors. Oxygen
plays the key role in stabilizing HIF-1alpha and its function. When the oxygen
tension is normal, HIF-1alpha is rapidly oxidized by hydroxylase enzymes, but
when cells become hypoxic, HIF-1alpha escapes the degradation and starts to
accumulate, triggering the activation of a large number of genes, like vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and erythropoietin. HIF-1alpha has been shown to
have, either clinically or experimentally, a mediating or contributing role in
several oxygen-dependent retinal diseases such as von Hippel-Lindau,
proliferative diabetic retinopathy, retinopathy of prematurity and glaucoma. In
retinitis pigmentosa and high-altitude retinopathy, however, the evidence is
still indirect. There are three different strategies available for treating
retinal diseases, which have all shown promising results: retinal cell
transplantation or replacement, gene replacement, and pharmacological
intervention. Specifically, recent results show that the HIF pathway can be used 
as a therapeutic target, although there is still a long way to go from bench to
clinic. HIF can be stabilized by inhibiting prolyl hydroxylase or by blocking the
VHL:HIF-alpha complex if angiogenesis is the goal, as in retinitis pigmentosa. On
the other hand, the downregulation of HIF has a pivotal role if we are to inhibit
neovascularization, as in proliferative diabetic retinopathy. To date, several
small-molecule inhibitors of HIF have been developed and are entering clinical
trials. HIF is a remarkable example of a single transcription factor that can be 
regarded as a "master switch" regulating all the oxygen-dependent retinal
diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2006.01.016 
PMID: 16750526  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1001. Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Sep;90(9):1132-6. Epub 2006 May 17.

The effects of glaucoma on the latency of the multifocal visual evoked potential.

Rodarte C(1), Hood DC, Yang EB, Grippo T, Greenstein VC, Liebmann JM, Ritch R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, 405 Schermerhorn, Columbia University, New York, NY 
10027, USA.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Sep;90(9):1077-8.
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Sep;90(9):1076-7.

AIMS: To determine the effect of glaucomatous damage on the latency of the
multifocal visual evoked potential (mfVEP).
METHODS: Monocular mfVEPs were recorded from a glaucoma group (n = 50) defined by
a glaucomatous disc and an abnormal visual field and a control group (n = 47). 25
patients were characterised as normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and 25 as high
tension glaucoma (HTG). Monocular and interocular latency analyses of the more
affected eye were obtained using custom software.
RESULTS: On interocular analysis, both the HTG and NTG groups showed a
statistically significant increase in mean mfVEP latency with average relative
latencies and percentage of points with significant delays of 1.7 ms and 10.3%
(HTG) and 1.3 ms and 8.2% (NTG) compared to -0.3 ms and 2.7% (controls). On
monocular analysis, only the HTG group showed a significant increase in latency
with measures of 5.7 ms and 14.6% (HTG) compared to 3.2 ms and 10.6% (NTG) and
2.1 ms and 9.6% (controls). Using the 95th percentile of a normative group as the
cut off, the sensitivity ranged from 20% to 38% and the specificity from 87% to
100% with the interocular analysis providing the best discrimination,
CONCLUSION: Although up to 40% of patients showed delays in the mfVEP latency,
these delays were modest, on average a few milliseconds. These results differ
markedly from those of a recent conventional VEP study, which reported 100%
sensitivity, 100% specificity, and an average delay that exceeded 25 ms.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2006.095158 
PMCID: PMC1857385
PMID: 16707520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1002. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2006 Jun;84(3):289-95.

Intravascular oxygen saturation in retinal vessels in normal subjects and
open-angle glaucoma subjects.

Michelson G(1), Scibor M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen,
Germany. Georg.Michelson@rzmail.uni-erlangen.de

PURPOSE: To measure the oxygen saturation (SO(2)) in retinal arterioles and
venules in patients with glaucomatous optic neuropathy.
METHODS: We examined SO(2) in retinal arterioles and venules simultaneously by
imaging spectrometry. Oxygen saturation was evaluated according to the difference
of the extinction spectra of haemoglobin and oxyhaemoglobin. The arterio-venous
difference (avD) was calculated by (SO(2art) - SO(2ven)). The optic nerve head
topography was estimated by Heidelberg retinal tomography and the visual field
using the Octopus G1. We examined one eye in each of 58 healthy persons (mean age
58.6 +/- 10.7 years; mean rim area 1.52 +/- 0.33 mm(2); mean defect 0.65 +/- 1.31
dB; mean intraocular pressure [IOP] 18.5 +/- 2.7 mmHg), 49 patients with
normal-tension primary open-angle glaucoma (NTG) (mean age 63.0 +/- 8.5 years;
mean rim area 0.89 +/- 0.34 mm(2); mean defect 5.4 +/- 4.1 dB; mean IOP 19.2 +/- 
2.9 mmHg), and 45 patients with high-tension primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)
(mean age 62.6 +/- 10.3 years; mean rim area 0.97 +/- 0.47 mm(2); mean defect 7.1
+/- 6.4 dB; mean IOP 31.6 +/- 10.8 mmHg).
RESULTS: The intraclass correlation coefficients of the SO(2) measurement were
0.82 (arteriole) and 0.59 (venule). In normal eyes, the SO(2art), SO(2ven) and
avD were 92.3 +/- 3.4%, 55.7 +/- 6.8% and 36.6 +/- 7.0%, respectively. Equivalent
data were 89.7 +/- 5.4%, 56.0 +/- 8.3% and 33.7 +/- 10.6%, respectively, in NTG
eyes and 91.4 +/- 4.0%, 58.3 +/- 10.5% and 33.1 +/- 11.5%, respectively, in POAG 
eyes. Over all examined eyes, the arteriolar SO(2) and the retinal arterio-venous
difference correlated significantly with the rim area.
CONCLUSION: Eyes with NTG showed significantly decreased arteriolar SO(2). These 
changes were not seen in POAG patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2005.00631.x 
PMID: 16704685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2006 Feb 28;86(8):554-9.

[Polymorphisms of myocilin and optineurin in primary open angle glaucoma
patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Yao HY(1), Cheng CY, Fan BJ, Tam OS, Tham CY, Wang DY, Lam SC, Pang CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China.

OBJECTIVE: To detect the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the myocilin
(MYOC) and optineurin (OPTN) genes, and to investigate their associations with
high tension glaucoma (HTG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: SNPs were detected using polymerase chain reaction (PCR), followed by
conformation sensitive gel electrophoresis (CSGE) and fluorescent labeling
automated DNA sequencing among 94 unrelated patients with HTG, 48 unrelated
patients with NTG, and 77 unrelated control subjects.
RESULTS: Fourteen MYOC sequence alterations were identified, five of them: V53A, 
I304I, T347T, 1-126T > C, and IVS2 + 172C > A, were novel. Among them, V53A was
for the first time found in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) patient. R76K
usually occurred with the promoter polymorphism 1-83G > A. No sequence
alterations in the MYOC gene showed significant differences among the HTG, NTG
and control subjects (all P > 0.05). A total of 12 sequence alterations were
identified in the OPTN gene, and three of them: V161M, I407T and L211L, were
novel. Among them, I407T and L211L were found only in the HTG patients. The
allele and genotype frequencies of T34T in the NTG patients were significantly
higher than those of the controls (P = 0.001 and 0.004 respectively). In HTG,
only the allele frequency of T34T was 24% (23/96), significantly higher than
those of the NTG group (16.5%, 31/188) and the control group (9.1%, 14/154) (both
P < 0.05). In addition, IVS8 + 20G > A was found only in the HTG (3.1%, 3/96) and
NTG patients (3.7%, 7/188), and had significantly higher frequencies in the HTG
and NTG patients when compared with the controls (P = 0.016 and 0.014, and P =
0.027 and 0.026).
CONCLUSION: Polymorphisms in the MYOC and OPTN genes are associated with POAG in 
Chinese people. Moreover, sequence alterations not causing amino acid changes may
play a role in the pathogenesis of POAG.


PMID: 16681888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1004. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2006 Mar;42(3):204-8.

[The interrelationship between the sectorial disc and the visual field changes in
patients with normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Ren ZQ(1), Qiao RH, Liu LN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034,
China. renzeqin@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the changes of the sectorial discs and visual fields,
and their interrelationships in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: 26 patients with NTG were undergone the optic nerve and visual field
examinations with HRT-II and HFA II in a time interval of less than 5 months. The
parameters in the study including cup shape measure (CSM), rim area (RA), rim
volume (RV), mean cup depth (MCD) and cup volume index (CVI) were compared
between the global discs and the sectorial discs in eyes with the evidences of
preperimetric or early visual field defect (MD < or = 4 dB). The CVI was proposed
to be equal to CV/(DA x MCD + RA x RNFLT), where DA was disc area and RNFLT was
retinal nerve fiber layer thickness. The linear correlations were evaluated
between the visual field MD and each of 5 parameters in sectorial discs.
RESULTS: The sectorial disc areas were mostly in correspondence to the damaged
hemifields (CVI: 92.68%, RA: 87.80%, RV: 82.93%). In addition, a correlation was 
seen for CSM and MCD (63.41% and 53.66%; chi2 = 23.17, P < 0.05). The comparison 
between preperimetric and early defects were significantly difference (t = 1.735 
approximately 6.536, P < 0.05 approximately P < 0.05, one-sided t test). The
correlation between CSM and MD was negative (r = -0.3002, P > 0.05), however the 
positive correlation was demonstrated in RA versus MD (r = 0.3105, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The examination of the 5 parameters of sectorial discs had even
closer relationship than those of global discs scanning in the detection of early
vision field defect and it is valuable in diagnosis of early glaucoma.


PMID: 16643749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1005. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2006 Mar;42(3):199-203.

[The measurement of central corneal thickness of normal subjects and glaucomatous
patients with optical coherence tomography].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu X(1), Zeng YF, Huang JJ, Zheng XP, Ling YL, Cai XY.

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510060, China. 
ykoct@gzsums.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate central corneal thickness (CCT) of normal subjects,
patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
and ocular hypertension (OHT) using optical coherence tomography (OCT).
METHODS: One hundred and forty-three eyes of 143 normal subjects, 36 eyes of 36
patients with POAG, 39 eyes of 39 patients with NTG and 40 eyes of 40 patients
with OHT were enrolled. CCT were measured by OCT3 and analyzed using ANOVA. The
relationship of CCT and intraocular pressure (IOP) measured by Goldmann
applanation tonometry were analyzed by linear regression. The inter-observer and 
intra-observer agreement of CCT measurement by OCT were analyzed by interclass
correlation coefficient (ICC).
RESULTS: The average CCT of normal subjects, patients with POAG, NTG and OHT were
(525.31 +/- 32.18) microm, (531.87 +/- 31.58) microm, (507.61 +/- 21.56) microm
and (574.09 +/- 27.84) microm, respectively. There was no significant difference 
between normal subjects and patients with POAG (P = 0.099). The average CCT of
OHT patients was larger than those of other groups (P < 0.001). The average CCT
of patients with NTG was less than those of other groups (P < 0.001). There was
positive relationship between CCT and IOP in normal subjects (r = 0.318, R2 =
0.101, P < 0.001). The ICC of inter-observer and intra-observer agreement of CCT 
measurement by OCT were 0.995 and 0.996 respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Central corneal thickness could be measured by OCT accurately. The
average CCT in the patients with NTG was thinner, but the average CCT in the
patients with OHT was thicker than that of normal subjects. CCT could affect IOP 
measurement in the application of Goldmann applanation tonometry but with little 
significant.


PMID: 16643748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1006. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2006 Apr;223(4):315-20.

[Parapapillary autofluorescence as indicator for glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Viestenz A(1), Langenbucher A, Mardin CY.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik der Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen.
Arne.Viestenz@t-online.de

BACKGROUND: A pronounced fundus autofluorescence (lipofuscin) occurs in eyes with
AMD. Parapapillary lipofuscin accumulation in the retinal pigment epithelial
cells was observed in eyes with advanced glaucoma histologically. The aim of this
study was to evaluate the parapapillary autofluorescence (PAF) in vivo in healthy
eyes (controls), and in eyes with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG),
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PSXG) or normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Controlled cross-sectional analysis was performed on 281
consecutive eyes (98 controls, 95 POAG, 32 PSXG, 56 NTG). Eyes with fundus
pathologies were excluded. The confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope HRA II
(Heidelberg Retina Angiograph II) was used after lipofuscin-excitation with an
argon blue laser (488 nm) to detect PAF in the spectrum above 500 nm. PAF area
and PAF distance to the optic nerve head were analyzed using the HRA standard
software. Two experienced ophthalmologists classified independently the stage of 
glaucomatous optic nerve head atrophy (GONHA) using 15 degrees fundus
photographs.
RESULTS: Vital optic nerve heads had smaller PAF areas (stage 0: 0.07 +/- 0.09 mm
(2)) in contrast to advanced stages of GONHA (stages 1 to 4: 0.27 +/- 0.46 mm
(2); p < 0.001; logistic regression Cox and Snell: r = 0.7; p = 0.015). The PAF
distance to the optic nerve head was lower in controls (0.12 +/- 0.08 mm) than in
eyes with POAG, PSXG, or NTG (0.25 +/- 0.21 mm, Bonferroni: p < 0,004). The PAF
area correlated significantly with the stage of GONHA (stage 1: 0.23 +/- 0.23 mm 
(2), stage 2: 0.24 +/- 0.19 mm (2), stages 3 and 4: 0.34 +/- 0.73 mm (2), p <
0.01). No significant difference of PAF area was found between the glaucoma
types. However, the distance between PAF and optic nerve head was higher in POAG 
(0.28 +/- 0.26 mm) than in NTG (0.24 +/- 0.07 mm) or in PSXG (0.18 +/- 0.07 mm,
Bonferroni: p < 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: A pronounced fundus autofluorescence was detected as a sign of
increased lipofuscin accumulation in the parapapillary atrophic zone of eyes with
POAG, PSXG, and NTG in contrast to controls. The PAF analysis may provide an
indicator for glaucomas in the future.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-858856 
PMID: 16639670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1007. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2006 May;209(1):49-52.

A case of normal tension glaucoma associated with Buerger's disease.

Ohguro I(1), Ohguro H, Ohta T, Nakazawa M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hirosaki Medical University School of Medicine, 5
Zaifu-cho, Hirosaki 036-8562, Japan. imaruyam@cc.hirosaki-u.ac.jp

Open angle glaucoma, a slowly progressive optic atrophy, is clinically
characterized by visual field defects corresponding to excavation of the optic
disc, called glaucomatous cupping. Open angle glaucoma is further divided into
primary open angle glaucoma caused by elevated intraocular pressure (higher than 
the normal limit of 21 mmHg), and normal tension glaucoma, in which intraocular
pressure is in the normal range. Here we report a case of normal tension glaucoma
associated with Buerger's disease, also known as thromboangiitis obliterans,
which causes systemic blood flow disturbance. A 66-year-old man suffering from
Buerger's disease for 10 years was diagnosed as having branch retinal artery
occlusion in his left eye. He was referred to our clinic due to progressive
visual field disturbance in that eye. Ophthalmologic examinations revealed
occlusion in the infero-temporal retinal artery in the left eye, and glaucomatous
cupping, normal intraocular pressure, retinal vessel tortuosity and retinal
arteriosclerosis in both eyes. Visual field examination revealed decreased
retinal sensitivities in the areas within the visual field arches above and below
fixation from the blind spot to the median raphe, corresponding to the arcuate
retinal nerve fibers comprising the Bjerrum areas and the area corresponding to
the retinal artery occlusion. Buerger's disease is characterized by the
development of segmental thrombotic occlusions and vasospasm of the medium and
small arteries. Our case suggests that the blood flow disturbance due to
arteriosclerosis, thrombotic occlusions and vasospasm associated with Buerger's
disease might affect the ophthalmic circulation system, thereby contributing to
the etiology of normal tension glaucoma.


PMID: 16636522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1008. J Glaucoma. 2006 Apr;15(2):164-71.

Incidence of disc hemorrhages in open-angle glaucoma before and after
trabeculectomy.

Miyake T(1), Sawada A, Yamamoto T, Miyake K, Sugiyama K, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine,
Gifu, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the effects of reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) by
surgical intervention on the frequency of disc hemorrhages in eyes with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
METHODS: We studied 99 eyes of 99 patients with POAG and 50 eyes of 50 patients
with NTG, who underwent trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C (MMC) and were
followed regularly at 1 to 3-month intervals at the Glaucoma Service of Gifu
University Hospital. We applied Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis for the
detection of disc hemorrhages before and after trabeculectomy.
RESULTS: Trabeculectomy significantly reduced IOP (in POAG: 19.6 +/- 4.4 down to 
11.1 +/- 4.2 mm Hg; in NTG: 15.3 +/- 1.5 down to 11.3 +/- 4.5 mm Hg; mean +/-
SD). Life-table analysis revealed that the final cumulative probability of
detecting a disc hemorrhage after surgery in POAG was 5.5 +/- 2.2% (calculated
probability +/- SE) and was significantly lower than that (33.4 +/- 7.8%) before 
surgery (P < 0.0001, log-rank test). Likewise, the final probability after
surgery in NTG was 23.1 +/- 6.3% and was significantly lower than that (42.1 +/- 
8.8%) before surgery (P = 0.0063, log-rank test).
CONCLUSIONS: IOP reduction via surgical intervention significantly decreases the 
frequency of disc hemorrhages in open-angle glaucoma patients.


PMID: 16633231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. J Glaucoma. 2006 Apr;15(2):120-3.

Relationship between central corneal thickness and localized retinal nerve fiber 
layer defect in normal-tension glaucoma.

Choi HJ(1), Kim DM, Hwang SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To determine whether central corneal thickness (CCT) is related to the
extent of localized retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defect at the initial
examination of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy-five eyes of 75 NTG patients showing localized RNFL
defects on RNFL photographs and corresponding visual field defects at the initial
visit to a glaucoma specialist were selected for this study. All participants
completed refraction, Goldmann applanation tonometry, CCT measurement,
stereoscopic disc photography, RNFL photography, and automated perimetry. Each
patient's age, spherical equivalent, intraocular pressure, CCT, approximation of 
the RNFL defect to the fovea (angle alpha), circumferential width of the RNFL
defects (angle beta), horizontal and vertical cup-to-disc ratios, and mean
deviation of visual field were analyzed.
RESULTS: In univariate and multivariate analyses, lower CCT was significantly
associated with increased horizontal and vertical cup-to-disc ratios, decreased
angle alpha, and increased angle beta. For a decrease of 10 microm of CCT,
horizontal and vertical cup-to-disc ratios increased by 0.020, angle alpha
decreased by 1.58 degrees, and angle beta increased by 1.71 degrees,
respectively.
CONCLUSION: CCT is a significant factor in predicting the extent of localized
RNFL defect at the initial examination of NTG patients.


PMID: 16633225  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1010. J Glaucoma. 2006 Apr;15(2):91-7.

Correlation between intraocular pressure, central corneal thickness, stage of
glaucoma, and demographic patient data: prospective analysis of biophysical
parameters in tertiary glaucoma practice populations.

Kniestedt C(1), Lin S, Choe J, Nee M, Bostrom A, Stürmer J, Stamper RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
Christoph@Kniestedt.ch

PURPOSE: To determine the correlation of central corneal thickness (CCT) to
Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT) and dynamic contour tonometry (DCT, PASCAL),
and to glaucoma stage as assessed by cup-to-disc ratio (CDR).
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional tricenter observation study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From three glaucoma specialty practices a sample of 406
independent eyes was included. After ultrasound pachymetry, intraocular pressure 
was measured using PASCAL and Goldmann applanation tonometry and cup-to-disc
ration was reassessed. Demographic data were included in the multivariate
analysis.
RESULTS: Mean corneal thickness was 540 microm. African Americans and
normal-tension glaucoma patients showed the lowest values (518 microm and 522
microm, respectively). These values were significantly thinner than the central
corneal thickness of Caucasians (549 microm) and ocular hypertensives (564
microm). Intraocular pressure assessed by Goldmann applanation tonometry shows a 
significant correlation with central corneal thickness (r = 0.068, P < 0.001),
whereas PASCAL is not significantly associated with central corneal thickness (r 
< 0.001, P = 0.997). Increased IOP is significantly correlated with large ocular 
pulse amplitudes (r = 0.13, P < 0.001), which is predominantly seen in ocular
hypertensives. A significant negative correlation was detected between
cup-to-disc ratio and central corneal thickness (r = 0.102, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Glaucoma patients with thin central corneal thickness are more likely
to be found at an advanced stage of the disease and among those with
normal-tension glaucoma and black African ancestry. Underestimation of
intraocular pressure by Goldmann applanation tonometry could be one causative
factor.


PMID: 16633220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1011. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Mar-Apr;50(2):153-7.

Latanoprost nonresponders with open-angle glaucoma in the Japanese population.

Ikeda Y(1), Mori K, Ishibashi T, Naruse S, Nakajima N, Kinoshita S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, 
Japan. yikeda@ophth.kpu-m.ac.jp

PURPOSE: As some patients show little response to latanoprost, one of the most
powerful topical glaucoma medications, we investigated the incidence and clinical
profiles of latanoprost nonresponders (LNR) in the Japanese population.
METHODS: We examined 62 glaucoma patients (62 eyes) who had received only
latanoprost for more than 3 months. Their mean age was 63.8 +/- 1.8 years; the
mean observation period was 9.7 +/- 0.4 months. At 1, 3, 6, and 12 months, their 
intraocular pressure (IOP) was measured, and the IOP reduction rate (RR) and the 
rate of LNR, defined as RR of 10% or less, were calculated. We statistically
analyzed clinical factors involved in the LNR status of our study population.
RESULTS: At 1, 3, 6, and 12 months, RR was 20.1 +/- 2.0%, 18.8 +/- 2.3%, 21.1 +/-
2.8%, and 23.0 +/- 2.6%, respectively. At the same time points, the LNR incidence
was 23.1%, 28.1%, 23.5%, and 31.8%, respectively, and significantly higher in
patients whose baseline IOP was less than 15 mmHg. Patient sex and age and the
glaucoma type played no significant role in the LNR status.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of LNR in the Japanese population, including
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients, is higher than among European or American
patients. Only low baseline IOP was a significant clinical factor among LNR.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-005-0293-x 
PMID: 16604392  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1012. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Mar-Apr;50(2):128-34.

Mitochondrial DNA mutations with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy in Japanese 
patients with open-angle glaucoma.

Inagaki Y(1), Mashima Y, Fuse N, Ohtake Y, Fujimaki T, Fukuchi T; Glaucoma Gene
Research Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: Abnormal optic disc excavations are found in patients with Leber's
hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON). The purpose of this study was to determine
whether heteroplasmy for the major three LHON mutations or for the rare LHON
mutations are risk factors for open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: Blood samples from 835 Japanese subjects were screened with the Invader 
assay for ten LHON-associated mutations: three major mutations (G3460A, G11778A, 
T14484C) and seven rare mutations (T9101C, G9804A, C14482A, C14482G, G14459A,
T14498C, and A14510G). Of the 835 subjects, 241 were patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 310 were patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG),
and 284 were healthy controls.
RESULTS: Five POAG patients and three NTG patients had one of five mutations,
C9099A, T9101G, T9101C, G9804A, or G11778A, but none of these patients had LHON. 
The C9099A (Ile191Met) and T9101G (Ile192Ser) mutations were novel and identified
within the probes by lack of signal in the assay. Two patients with the G11778A
mutation showed heteroplasmy, with 15% mutant mtDNA in the male patient and 80%
in the female patient. The remaining LHON-associated mutations were not detected 
in any of the subjects. A case-control study did not show a significant
difference (P = 0.099): eight potentially disease-associated variants in 551
patients versus zero variants in the 284 controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Rare LHON-associated mitochondrial DNA mutations were found in
Japanese patients with open-angle glaucoma (OAG). However, whether mitochondrial 
DNA mutations are risk factors for OAG is still open to question.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-005-0290-0 
PMID: 16604388  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1013. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Mar-Apr;50(2):96-9.

Incidence of a latanoprost-induced increase in iris pigmentation in Japanese
eyes.

Latanoprost-Induced Iris Pigmentation Study Group.

PURPOSE: To prospectively determine the incidence of a latanoprost-induced
increase in iris pigmentation in Japanese brown iris eyes by identifying changes 
in iris pigmentation on a series of iris color photographs.
METHODS: In a cohort study, we prospectively and consecutively enrolled 104
patients (104 eyes) with primary open-angle glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma
who began treatment with latanoprost eye drops for the first time. None of the
enrolled patients had a history of previous intraocular surgery or laser surgery.
Patients comprised 51 men and 53 women. Their ages ranged from 23 to 80 years
(mean +/- SD, 63.8 +/- 10.4 years). Before and every 3 months after starting
latanoprost treatment, iris photographs were taken using a slit-lamp
biomicroscope with an attached camera. To identify an increase in iris
pigmentation, seven glaucoma specialists independently read the series of
photographs. If five of the seven observers agreed that iris pigmentation had
increased, we determined that the iris pigmentation had increased from the time
the previous photograph was taken. Ten normal volunteers served as controls, and 
photographs of their eyes were used in the evaluation of iris pigmentation. The
Kaplan-Meier life table analysis was adopted to evaluate the incidence of
increase in iris pigmentation during treatment with latanoprost.
RESULTS: The Kaplan-Meier life table analysis indicated that the incidence of
increased iris pigmentation at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15 months after the start of
latanoprost treatment was 16.3%, 34.2%, 49.5%, 58.2%, and 58.2%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost instillation for at least 1 year induced increased iris 
pigmentation in approximately 50% of the treated Japanese eyes, which is a
considerably higher percentage than that reported in Caucasians.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-005-0288-7 
PMID: 16604382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1014. Georgian Med News. 2006 Feb;(131):37-40.

[Neuroprotective treatment of patients with normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Golovacheva MO.

We used antiischemic cardiovascular preparation mildronat as neuroprotective and 
cytoprotective therapy to treat and prevent glaucomatous optic neuropathy.
Prescription of mildronat was given to 35 patients. From 35 patients 20 were
women and 15 men, at the age 40-75, visual acuity 0.1-1.0, Pt=18-24, treatment
course 2,5-3 months. Before and after treatment patients were observed with
routine methods (visometry, tonometry, determinig visual field on goldman
spheroperymeter) and besides that on automated static perimetry Humphrey (30-2;
24-2; Armally) and Medmont studio (Glaucoma test; Full test). Also we used method
of biomicroophtalmoscopy by positive lens +83 dptr on slit lamp and described
optic nerve head with our scheme. According to the subjective and objective data 
positive dynamics were signed in 34 patients (63 eyes), negative dynamics in 1
patient (2 eyes). Glaucoma is medical and social problem in many countries. With 
the difference of expensive methods in prevention and treatment of glaucomatous
optic neuropathy, using a mildronat as neuroprotective and cytoprotective drug is
available for the majority of glaucoma patients. We recommend using mildronat in 
patients with primary open angle glaucoma with normolised intraocular pressure
and in patients with normal tension glaucoma.


PMID: 16575128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1015. J Biol Chem. 2006 Jun 9;281(23):16147-56. Epub 2006 Mar 28.

Optineurin increases cell survival and translocates to the nucleus in a
Rab8-dependent manner upon an apoptotic stimulus.

De Marco N(1), Buono M, Troise F, Diez-Roux G.

Author information: 
(1)Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine, Via Pietro Castellino 111, 80131 
Napoli, Italy.

In glaucoma the retinal ganglion cells of the retina die through the induction of
apoptosis leading to excavation of the optic nerve and blindness. Mutations in
the optineurin (optic neuropathy inducing) protein were found associated with an 
adult form of glaucoma. To date, the role of optineurin in the neurodegeneration 
process that occurs during glaucoma is still unknown. We now report that in
response to an apoptotic stimulus, optineurin changes subcellular localization
and translocates from the Golgi to the nucleus. This translocation is dependent
on the GTPase activity of Rab8, an interactor of optineurin. Furthermore, we
demonstrate that the overexpression of optineurin protects cells from
H2O2-induced cell death and blocks cytochrome c release from the mitochondria. A 
mutated form of optineurin, E50K, identified in normal tension glaucoma patients 
loses its ability to translocate to the nucleus and when overexpressed
compromises the mitochondrial membrane integrity resulting in cells that are less
fit to survive under stress conditions. The correlation between optineurin
function and cell survival will be key to begin to understand retinal ganglion
cell biology and signaling and to design general "survival" strategies to treat a
disease of such a complex etiology as glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M601467200 
PMID: 16569640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1016. Am J Ophthalmol. 2006 Apr;141(4):652-9.

Trabeculectomy with mitomycin C in pseudophakic patients with open-angle
glaucoma: outcomes and risk factors for failure.

Fontana H(1), Nouri-Mahdavi K, Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Division, Jules Stein Eye Institute, University of California, Los
Angeles, California, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate tonometric outcomes of trabeculectomy with mitomycin C in
pseudophakic patients with open-angle glaucoma and associated risk factors for
failure.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS: Seventy-three pseudophakic patients (89 eyes) with primary open-angle,
normal-tension, exfoliative, or pigmentary glaucoma were recruited. Success rates
were defined according to three criteria: (A) intraocular pressure (IOP) < or =
18 mm Hg and IOP reduction > or = 20%; (B) IOP < or = 15 mm Hg and IOP reduction 
> or = 25%; and (C) IOP < or = 12 mm Hg and IOP reduction > or = 30%. IOP, visual
acuity, complications, and additional interventions were documented after
surgery. Cox's proportional hazard regression analysis was used to identify risk 
factors for failure.
RESULTS: Mean IOP (+/-SD) decreased from a preoperative value of 18.8 +/- 6.6 mm 
Hg to 10.2 +/- 5.1 mm Hg at one year and to 10.0 +/- 4.2 at two years (P < .001
for both). Average number of preoperative medications decreased from 3.0 +/- 1.1 
to 0.5 +/- 1.0 at one year and to 0.5 +/- 0.9 at two years (P < .001 for both).
For criteria A, B, and C, success rates (+/-SE) were 87% +/- 4%, 83% +/- 5%, and 
76% +/- 5% at 1 year and 67% +/- 4%, 58% +/- 8%, and 50% +/- 7 at two years.
Laser suture lysis was performed in 30 eyes, and 11% of those required a second
glaucoma procedure.
CONCLUSION: Increasing age, use of a limbus-based conjunctival flap, and
performance of laser suture lysis were factors that were associated with a
smaller risk of failure. Present findings indicate that trabeculectomy with
mitomycin C provides acceptable long-term success rates in pseudophakic patients,
with a low incidence of complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2005.11.039 
PMID: 16564799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1017. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2006 Mar;223(3):225-9.

[Early postoperative spikes of the intraocular pressure (IOP) following
phacoemulsification in late-stage glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Dietlein TS(1), Jordan J, Dinslage S, Lüke C, Krieglstein GK.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Augenheilkunde, Universitäts-Augenklinik Köln.
Thomas.Dietlein@uk-koeln.de

BACKGROUND: Modern cataract surgery with use of viscoelastics can induce
remarkable early spikes of the intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with
glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The purpose of this prospective study was to investigate
risk factors for an early increase of the IOP following cataract surgery in eyes 
with end-stage glaucoma. Clear cornea phacoemulsification with implantation of a 
foldable acrylic lens was performed in 25 eyes with end-stage glaucoma (primary
open-angle glaucoma including normal tension glaucoma or exfoliative glaucoma)
either under topical anesthesia or under general anesthesia. In eyes with
exfoliative glaucoma, trabecular aspiration was performed additionally. IOP
measurements were conducted at the day before surgery, 4 hours following surgery 
and on the first morning following surgery.
RESULTS: Cataract surgery was performed without complications. The mean IOP was
18.5 +/- 4.2 mm Hg with 2.1 +/- 1.0 topical medications. 4 hours postoperatively,
mean IOP was 31.3 +/- 11.9 mm Hg. In eyes with exfoliative glaucoma (n = 12) the 
early postoperative IOP was 28.5 +/- 12.0 mm Hg, but without significant
difference compared to eyes with POAG (n = 13). The early postoperative IOP
showed significant correlation with the maximum IOP in patient's history (p =
0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with late-stage glaucoma can experience considerable early 
IOP spikes following uneventful cataract surgery, although preoperatively IOP is 
controlled by topical medications. Postoperative IOP monitoring is recommended at
the day of surgery, especially if high IOP values are reported in patient's
history.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-858728 
PMID: 16552655  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1018. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2006 Apr;17(2):196-202.

Pattern electroretinogram in glaucoma.

Ventura LM(1), Porciatti V.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, Florida 33136, USA. lventura@med.miami.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Several studies have shown that the pattern electroretinogram,
a direct, objective method of measuring retinal ganglion cell function, is
altered early in ocular hypertension and glaucoma. Renewed interest in the
pattern electroretinogram for early detection of pre-perimetric glaucoma has been
sparked by noninvasive and reproducible methods of recording using skin
electrodes.
RECENT FINDINGS: With the noninvasive pattern electroretinogram, response
abnormalities have been detected in up to 50% of glaucoma suspects with normal
standard perimetry. In early glaucoma (with either normal or high intraocular
pressure), a reduction of intraocular pressure has sometimes yielded improvement 
in pattern electroretinogram amplitude. A prolonged steady-state stimulus
presentation reduces the pattern electroretinogram amplitude and increases optic 
nerve blood flow in normal subjects, suggesting that sustained activity of
retinal ganglion cells is physiologically associated with autoregulatory changes 
of the neural-vascular system. It is unknown whether this autoregulation is
altered in glaucoma. The multifocal pattern electroretinogram does not seem to
have an advantage over the pattern electroretinogram in the early detection of
glaucoma. The photopic negative response of the diffuse flash electroretinogram
has shown changes in glaucoma, but may not be able to detect retinal dysfunction 
in normal tension glaucoma.
SUMMARY: The pattern electroretinogram is a noninvasive, direct, objective method
that may be useful to clinicians in detecting early retinal ganglion cell
dysfunction in glaucoma suspects. The pattern electroretinogram may also optimize
treatment strategies based on improvement of retinal ganglion cell function.

DOI: 10.1097/01.icu.0000193082.44938.3c 
PMCID: PMC2756426
PMID: 16552256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1019. Exp Eye Res. 2006 Jun;82(6):968-73. Epub 2006 Mar 3.

Constitutive signalling pathway activity in trabecular meshwork cells from
glaucomatous eyes.

Zhang X(1), Schroeder A, Callahan EM, Coyle BM, Wang N, Erickson KA, Schuman JS, 
Fini ME.

Author information: 
(1)Evelyn F. and William L. McKnight Vision Research Center, Bascom Palmer Eye
Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL 33136, USA.

We recently described an IL-1-regulated stress response specific to the eye's
aqueous outflow pathways that is diagnostic of glaucomas of diverse etiology. The
goal of this study was to further identify IL-1-regulated signalling pathways in 
normal TM cells and determine whether their activity is altered in glaucomatous
TM cells. Activity of the MAPK, p38, and JNK signalling pathways, represented by 
protein kinases ERK1/2, p38, and JNK-1, was followed by western blotting using
antibodies specific for the active phosphorylated forms, after treatment of
normal (N=5) or glaucomatous (N=5) cell lines by IL-1. Active forms of each of
these kinases could be detected in normal and glaucomatous cells prior to
treatment. When normal cells were stimulated with exogenous IL-1, an increase in 
activity of each of the kinases was observed. In contrast, treatment of
glaucomatous cells with IL-1 resulted in little or no change in kinase activity. 
This difference was shown to be statistically significant by use of the paired
two-tailed Student's t-test. Interference with IL-1 autocrine signalling in
glaucomatous cell lines by treatment with IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) had
no effect on constitutive p38 or JNK activity (ERK was not examined). The results
suggest that the MAPK, p38 and JNK signal transduction pathways are relatively
unresponsive in glaucomatous cells as compared to normal cells. These results
provide new information about the behaviour of glaucomatous TM cells, which may
be important for understanding the pathophysiology of high-tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2005.11.001 
PMID: 16516195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1020. Optometry. 2006 Mar;77(3):134-40.

Central corneal thickness and normal tension glaucoma: a cross-sectional study.

Sullivan-Mee M(1), Halverson KD, Saxon MC, Saxon GB, Qualls C.

Author information: 
(1)Albuquerque VA Medical Center, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87108, USA.
Michael.sullivan-mee@med.va.gov

Comment in
    Optometry. 2006 Jul;77(7):325; author reply 325-6.

BACKGROUND: Recently published evidence has identified thinner central corneal
thickness (CCT) as a strong predictive factor for the conversion from ocular
hypertension (OHT) to primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The association between
CCT and development of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), however, is less clear.
Accordingly, we designed this cross-sectional study to further explore the
relationship between CCT and NTG.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All patients with a clinical diagnosis of NTG and NTG
suspect (NTGS) who were seen from September 2002 through May 2003 at the
Albuquerque VA Medical Center eye clinic were identified retrospectively. After
eligible subjects were categorized into no, mild, moderate, and advanced visual
field loss groups, analysis of variance (ANOVA) and regression analyses were used
to determine group differences for several IOP variables, several systemic
variables, and CCT. Additional analyses were completed after eligible subjects
were recategorized into thin, intermediate, and thick CCT groups.
RESULTS: Eighty-four eyes in 84 NTGS subjects and 56 eyes in 56 NTG subjects were
studied. Mean CCT was significantly thicker in the no field loss group (NTGS)
when compared with all 3 groups with glaucomatous visual field loss (NTG). In
multivariate regression analysis, the association between CCT and the presence of
NTG-related visual field loss was robust and independent. Conversely, no
relationship was found between CCT and severity of NTG-related visual field loss.
CONCLUSIONS: In eyes characterized by statistically normal intraocular pressure
(IOP) measurements as measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry, we found a
significant relationship between CCT and the presence, but not severity, of
glaucomatous visual field loss. A prospective study is required to further
explore and confirm these relationships.

DOI: 10.1016/j.optm.2005.12.013 
PMID: 16513514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1021. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2006 Mar;47(3):831-6.

Effect of nocturnal blood pressure reduction on circadian fluctuation of mean
ocular perfusion pressure: a risk factor for normal tension glaucoma.

Choi J(1), Jeong J, Cho HS, Kook MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Asan
Medical Center, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To study blood pressure (BP), intraocular pressure (IOP), and mean
ocular perfusion pressure (MOPP) in patients with untreated normal tension
glaucoma (NTG), and to investigate the relationship between circadian MOPP
fluctuation and visual field status at initial presentation.
METHODS: IOP and BP were evaluated in hospital over 24 hours in 132 patients with
NTG, with measurements taken every 2 hours between 12 PM and 10 AM the following 
day, except for the period between 12 and 6 AM, during which measurements were
taken every 3 hours. MOPP was calculated from the 24-hour IOP and BP data.
Patients were classified into three groups-nondippers, dippers, and
overdippers-corresponding to the degree of reduction in their nocturnal mean
arterial pressure (MAP) compared with their diurnal MAP. IOP and systemic and
ocular hemodynamic parameters were compared among the groups. The correlations
between circadian MOPP fluctuation and visual field scores (mean deviation [MD]
and corrected pattern standard deviation [CPSD]) at initial presentation were
analyzed.
RESULTS: Forty-one (31.1%) of the patients with NTGs were classified into the
nondipper group, 36 (27.2%) into the dipper group, and 55 (41.7%) into the
overdipper group. Marked circadian MOPP fluctuation was noted in the overdipper
group (P < 0.05). Circadian MOPP fluctuation showed positive associations with
visual field indices at initial diagnosis of NTG (P < 0.05, R2 = 0.056 with MD,
R2 = 0.038 with CPSD).
CONCLUSIONS: Marked circadian MOPP fluctuation was associated with nocturnal BP
reduction. Circadian MOPP fluctuation may be a risk factor for the development of
NTG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.05-1053 
PMID: 16505014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1022. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2005 Dec;19(4):297-301.

The effect of latanoprost on intraocular pressure during 12 months of treatment
for normal-tension glaucoma.

Oh JY(1), Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy of
latanoprost in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: One-hundred and seventeen eyes of 63 NTG patients treated with 0.005%
latanoprost once a day were enrolled in this study. Of these, 85 eyes of 47
patients were treated for 12 months. Mean IOPs were analyzed, and the mean IOP
reductions from the untreated baseline were assessed after two weeks and after 1,
3, 6, 9, and 12 months of treatment.
RESULTS: The mean untreated baseline IOP was 15.0 +/- 2.7 mmHg. After two weeks
of latanoprost treatment, the mean IOP reduction from the baseline value was 2.6 
+/- 0.2 mmHg (17.3%, p<0.05), and after 6 and 12 months, the reduction was 2.4
+/- 0.2 mmHg (16.0%, p<0.05) and 2.4 +/- 0.2 mmHg (16.0%, p<0.05), respectively. 
Patients with a baseline IOP of > or = 15 mmHg achieved significantly higher IOP 
reductions than those with a baseline IOP of <15 mmHg at all follow-ups (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost was found to be well tolerated and to significantly
reduce IOP in NTG patients.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2005.19.4.297 
PMID: 16491821  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1023. Ophthalmology. 2006 Apr;113(4):598-602. Epub 2006 Feb 17.

The relationship between recurrent optic disc hemorrhage and glaucoma
progression.

Kim SH(1), Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul Artificial Eye Center, Seoul National University Hospital Clinical Research
Institute, Seoul, South Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical characteristics and progression rates of
glaucoma in patients with recurrent and single disc hemorrhages (DHs).
DESIGN: Retrospective comparative case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with DH.
METHODS: The medical records of 57 eyes of 54 patients with DH were reviewed
retrospectively. These patients had been regularly followed up at 1- to 3-month
intervals, between 1991 and 2003, for at least 1 year after the initial DH. The
recurrent DH group was composed of patients who had experienced > or =2 episodes 
of hemorrhage, whereas the single DH group was composed of those who had
experienced a single DH episode. These 2 patient groups were compared with
respect to clinical courses after initial DH and their clinical characteristics.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Progression of optic disc and visual field (VF)
deterioration.
RESULTS: Twenty-six of the eyes in this study (45.6%) exhibited recurrent DH, and
31 eyes (54.4%) single DH. The average total follow-up period in the recurrent DH
group was 67.5 months, whereas single DH patients were followed up for an average
of 54.7 months. There were no differences between the groups with regard to age, 
diagnosis, follow-up period, associated disease, or mean deviation in automated
perimetry. Normal-tension glaucoma was the most commonly encountered glaucoma
type, and the inferotemporal area was the most common location of DH in both
groups. The cumulative probability of optic disc deterioration, including retinal
nerve fiber layer change after DH, was found to be significantly greater in
patients with recurrent DH (P = 0.004, log rank test). However, no significant
differences were found between the 2 groups with regard to rate of VF
deterioration (P = 0.10, log rank test).
CONCLUSIONS: No differences were found between the recurrent and single DH groups
in terms of clinical characteristics. Recurrent DH in cases of glaucoma may
reflect more rapid optic nerve head damage progression than single DH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2005.12.018 
PMID: 16488014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1024. Eye (Lond). 2007 May;21(5):604-8. Epub 2006 Feb 17.

Lifetime visual prognosis for patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.

Ang GS(1), Eke T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, Norwich,
UK.

AIM: To investigate final visual outcome in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG)
including low-tension glaucoma (LTG).
METHODS: Retrospective review of case notes for patients who died between 1999
and 2002. All were booked for a follow-up appointment in glaucoma clinic at time 
of death.
RESULTS: A total of 121 case notes were reviewed. In all, 113 patients had POAG
and eight had LTG. All were White Caucasians. Mean ages at presentation and death
were 74.6 (SD 9.6, range 49-94) and 81.9 (SD 8.3, range 51-98) years,
respectively. Mean follow-up duration was 7.4 (SD 6.8, range up to 29) years.
Average number of clinic visits was 18 (SD 17, range 1-95). At final visit, 50.4%
had cataract operations, and 45.5% had glaucoma operations. At final visit,
vision was inadequate for driving in the UK in 47.1%. In 18.2%, this was due to
glaucoma alone, while in 28.9%, other ocular pathologies contributed to poor
vision. In all, 14% were eligible for partial sight certification, with 6.6% due 
to glaucoma alone. A total of 3.3% were eligible for blind certification, none
due to glaucoma alone.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that POAG does affect the quality of life, with
regards to glaucoma clinic visits, eye drops, and surgical procedures. Most
patients with treated POAG in Norfolk will retain useful vision for their whole
life. A significant proportion of patients with POAG do lose vision resulting in 
driving ineligibility and certification as visually impaired, although actual
blindness is uncommon.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702284 
PMID: 16485015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1025. Am J Ophthalmol. 2006 Feb;141(2):394-6.

Comparative study of cerebral blood flow in patients with normal-tension glaucoma
and control subjects.

Sugiyama T(1), Utsunomiya K, Ota H, Ogura Y, Narabayashi I, Ikeda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, Osaka, Japan.
opt017@poh.osaka-med.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To evaluate regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in normal-tension
glaucoma patients (NTGs) compared with normal volunteers (controls) in a pilot
study.
DESIGN: Observational cohort study.
METHODS: The Iodine-123-IMP single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)
scans were acquired in 31 NTGs and 18 age-matched controls. The SPECT images in
NTGs were classified and the quantitative rCBF data were compared with controls.
RESULTS: Seven of 31 NTGs (22.6%) exhibited an Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like
perfusion pattern although none of them were clinically diagnosed with AD. The
visual field defect of NTGs with an AD-like pattern progressed more rapidly than 
NTGs with a normal pattern (P=.132). The rCBF in left parietal regions of NTGs
with senile sclerotic or focal ischemic disk was significantly lower than
controls (P<.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A number of NTGs exhibited an AD-like perfusion pattern, suggesting 
that some of NTGs and AD patients might have a common pathologic mechanism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2005.08.037 
PMID: 16458708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1026. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jan-Feb;50(1):75-8.

A case of unilateral occult maculopathy with normal-tension glaucoma.

Hotta K.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 May;135(5):715-7.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-005-0272-2 
PMID: 16453197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1027. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jan-Feb;50(1):38-43.

Prognostic factors for progression of visual field damage in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Nakagami T(1), Yamazaki Y, Hayamizu F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan. nakagami@med.nihon-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2007 Mar-Apr;51(2):156; author reply 156-7.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the rate of progression and the prognostic factors of visual
field damage in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Ninety-two NTG patients (92 eyes) were followed up for more than 2 years
with topical antiglaucoma medications. All subjects were classified as having
early damaged eyes with an initial mean deviation (MD) of -6 dB or better,
moderately damaged eyes with MD between -6 dB and -12 dB, and severely damaged
eyes with MD of -12 dB or worse, and survival data were analyzed using regression
analysis based on the Cox proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: The probability of visual field stability was significantly higher in
patients with moderate damage than in those with severe damage (P = 0.035). The
patients with early damage showed no difference in the probability of visual
field stability compared with patients with moderate or severe damage. The
progression of visual field damage was significantly associated with mean
intraocular pressure (IOP) (P = 0.000) or IOP fluctuation (P = 0.002) during
follow-up regardless of the severity of the initial visual field damage.
CONCLUSIONS: The rate of progression of visual field damage differed according to
the severity of the initial visual field damage. IOP reductive medication may be 
effective in preventing glaucomatous visual field progression in patients with
NTG.

Copyright Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2006.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-005-0273-1 
PMID: 16453186  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1028. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jan-Feb;50(1):20-4.

Correlation between individual differences in intraocular pressure reduction and 
outflow facility due to latanoprost in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Kondo N(1), Sawada A, Yamamoto T, Taniguchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu, Japan. 
kondo-nobuhiko@umin.ac.jp

PURPOSE: The amount of intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction achieved by the use
of latanoprost eyedrops varies among patients, and there are even nonresponders. 
This report examines whether there is any correlation between the amount of
individual variability in IOP reduction and the uveoscleral outflow facility
after latanoprost eyedrop instillation in normal-tension glaucoma patients.
METHODS: Sixteen normal-tension glaucoma patients (mean age, 56.4 years) were
enrolled in the study to investigate the relationship between the amount of IOP
reduction and outflow facility. Before treatment, subjects underwent circadian
IOP measurement and then tonography, and the outflow facility was calculated.
Subsequently, patients began treatment once daily with latanoprost instillation
in one eye. After 4 weeks of daily latanoprost treatment, circadian IOP was
measured again.
RESULTS: Mean pretreatment outflow facility was 0.23 +/- 0.05 microl/min per
mmHg. On average, latanoprost instillation decreased IOP by 2.8 mmHg, but the
reduction varied among individuals from -0.3 mmHg to 5.8 mmHg. No significant
correlation was noted between the outflow facility and the IOP decline associated
with latanoprost.
CONCLUSION: Because there was no significant correlation between individual IOP
reduction by latanoprost and outflow facility, the differences in substantial
change in uveoscleral outflow after latanoprost administration may be one
explanation for the individual variation in IOP reduction after treatment with
this drug.

Copyright Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2006.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-005-0267-z 
PMID: 16453183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1029. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2006 Sep;244(9):1077-82. Epub 2006 Jan 27.

Optineurin gene is not involved in the common high-tension form of primary
open-angle glaucoma.

Ariani F(1), Longo I, Frezzotti P, Pescucci C, Mari F, Caporossi A, Frezzotti R, 
Renieri A.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Genetics, Department of Molecular Biology, University of Siena, Siena,
Italy.

PURPOSE: To assess the influence of optineurin in the more common high-tension,
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Eighteen sporadic cases and 35 probands from 35 familial cases,
including three families with one member having normal-tension glaucoma (NTG),
were enrolled. Using transgenomic WAVE denaturing high-performance liquid
chromatography (DHPLC), all coding portion of the optineurin gene (from exon 4 to
exon 16) was analyzed. Samples displaying an altered elution profile were
sequenced to confirm and identify sequence variants. Exon 4 containing the
previously reported p.E50K (Glu50Lys) recurrent mutation (covering 13% of
normotensive cases) was entirely sequenced.
RESULTS: We did not detect the mutation p.E50K, and we did not find any other
pathogenic mutation. A putative splice-site mutation was detected in one family. 
Extension of segregation analysis to additional family members and mRNA
investigation failed to establish a certain involvement of this mutation with the
disease. We detected a number of common polymorphisms, including the previously
reported p.M98K (Met98Lys) variant.
CONCLUSIONS: In this population, mutations in the optineurin gene are not
associated with adult-onset primary POAG.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-005-0079-3 
PMID: 16440206  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1030. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 2005;(298):53-60.

Screening for vascular risk factors in glaucoma: the GVRF study.

Zeyen T(1); Belgian Glaucoma Society.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Ophthalmology, Leuven, Belgium. thierry.zeyen@uzleuven.be

PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence of vascular risk factors (VRF) in patients
with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and
ocular hypertension (OH), and to evaluate their influence in the progression of
the disease.
METHODS: 269 Belgian ophthalmologists were invited to participate in this
cross-sectional prevalence study. Using a questionnaire the following parameters 
were analyzed in patients with POAG, NTG, and OH: age, intraocular pressure,
refraction, visual field defect, vertical cup/disc ratio, medical therapy, and
vascular risk factors. Progression of visual field was based on subjective
analysis of minimum three reliable automated perimetries over a period of minimum
three years.
RESULTS: 4920 patients were enrolled in the study. 75% had POAG, 8% had NTG, and 
17% had OH. The mean age was 67 years (40-99 y.). Fifty-three percent were
female. There was a significant difference in the prevalence of no VRF vs. >1 VRF
between the patients with OH and the patients with POAG/NTG (p < 0.01). Visual
field progression was found in 34% of the patients with POAG and 46% of the
patients with NTG. In the group with POAG the presence of at least 2 and at least
3 VRF increased the risk for visual field progression with respectively 16% and
42% compared to patients without VRF (p = respectively 0.03 and 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of VRF is significantly higher in patients with
POAG/NTG compared to patients with OH. The presence of VRF might increase the
risk for progression of glaucomatous visual field defects.


PMID: 16422222  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1031. Klin Oczna. 2005;107(7-9):448-51.

[Corneal endothelial density in glaucoma patients].

[Article in Polish]

Zarnowski T(1), Lekawa A, Dyduch A, Turek R, Zagórski Z.

Author information: 
(1)Z Katedry i I Kliniki Okulistyki im. prof. Tadeusza Krwawicza Akademii
Medycznej im. Feliksa Skubiszewskiego w Lublinie.

PURPOSE: To asses mean endothelial cell density in glaucoma patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Examinations were conducted and registered using the Noncon
Robo (Konan) non-contact specular microscope between years 2000 and 2004, in
Tadeusz Krwawicz Chair of Ophthalmology and 1st Eye Hospital, Medical University 
of Lublin. The results of 159 patients (233 eyes) with glaucoma and 37 patients
(44 eyes) with pseudoexfoliation syndrome were analyzed. Patients, 22-91 years
old, were divided into 8 groups according to the clinical diagnosis and for each 
group an adequate control group was matched. Statistical analysis was carried out
to compare the examined and control groups using the non-parametric U
Mann-Whitney test.
RESULTS: Corneal endothelial cell density were significantly lower in all groups 
of glaucoma patients. There was a significant reduction in cell count in patients
with chronic angle-closure glaucoma: 2333 +/- 476/mm2, control group (C): 2809
+/- 378/mm2, p< 0.001), acute angle-closure glaucoma 2136 +/- 620/mm2, C. 2780
+/- 384/mm2, p< 0.001, pigmentary glaucoma 2537 +/- 355/mm2, C. 3003 +/- 335/mm2,
p< 0.05, juvenile glaucoma 2337 +/- 277/mm2, C. 3001 +/- 168/mm2, p< 0.001,
primary open angle glaucoma 2326 +/- 231/mm2, C. 2779 +/- 398/mm2, p< 0.001,
normal tension glaucoma 2343 +/- 394/mm2, C. 2732 +/- 356/mm2, p< 0.01, capsular 
glaucoma 2128 +/- 483/mm2, C. 2753 +/- 354/mm2, p< 0.001 and in patients with
pseudoexfoliation syndrome 2255 +/- 299/mm2, C. 2721 +/- 352/mm2, p< 0.001.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with glaucoma have lower mean corneal endothelial cell
density than control groups. The density of corneal endothelial cells depends on 
the type of glaucoma.


PMID: 16416994  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2006 Aug;244(8):984-90. Epub 2006 Jan 13.

Paraoxonase 1 gene polymorphisms influence clinical features of open-angle
glaucoma.

Inagaki Y(1), Mashima Y, Funayama T, Ohtake Y, Fuse N, Yasuda N, Fukuchi T,
Murakami A, Hotta Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to determine whether genetic
polymorphisms affecting high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-associated antioxidant
enzymes were associated with open-angle glaucoma (OAG). The rationale for this
study was that the modification of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) by HDL prevents 
oxidative modification which can then cause dysfunction of endothelial cells.
METHODS: We studied 284 normal Japanese controls and 555 Japanese patients with
OAG, including primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG). The possible associations of polymorphisms of PON1/L55M, PON1/Q192R,
PON2/S311C, and PAF-AH/V279F with OAG were investigated. We compared the genotype
distributions and allele frequency in controls and patient groups. The age at
diagnosis, intraocular pressure (IOP) at diagnosis, and visual field score at
diagnosis were examined for association with polymorphisms.
RESULTS: The distributions of genotypes and allele frequency for the four
polymorphisms were not significantly different between any patient group and
controls. In NTG patients, 55M carriers of the PON1 gene were significantly older
at diagnosis than 55M non-carriers (P=0.001). The IOP at diagnosis was
significantly higher in glaucoma patients carrying 192R in the PON1 gene than in 
patients not carrying 192R (P=0.006). No significant differences were seen in
clinical characteristics of OAG patients in relation to other polymorphisms.
CONCLUSION: PON1 gene polymorphisms may influence the features of Japanese
patients with OAG.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-005-0200-7 
PMID: 16411107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. Arch Ophthalmol. 2006 Jan;124(1):12-9.

A multicenter, retrospective pilot study of resource use and costs associated
with severity of disease in glaucoma.

Lee PP(1), Walt JG, Doyle JJ, Kotak SV, Evans SJ, Budenz DL, Chen PP, Coleman AL,
Feldman RM, Jampel HD, Katz LJ, Mills RP, Myers JS, Noecker RJ, Piltz-Seymour JR,
Ritch RR, Schacknow PN, Serle JB, Trick GL.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine resource consumption and the direct costs of treating
glaucoma at different disease severity levels.
DESIGN: Observational, retrospective cohort study based on medical record review.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred fifty-one records of patients with primary open-angle
or normal-tension glaucoma, glaucoma suspect, or ocular hypertension (age > or
=18 years) were randomly selected from 12 sites in the United States and
stratified according to severity based on International Classification of
Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification codes. Patients had to have been 
followed up for a minimum of 5 years. Patients with concomitant ocular disease
likely to affect glaucoma treatment-related resource consumption were excluded.
METHODS: Glaucoma severity was assessed and assigned using a 6-stage glaucoma
staging system, modified from the Bascom Palmer (Hodapp-Anderson-Parrish) system.
Clinical and resource use data were collected from the medical record review.
Resource consumption for low-vision care and vision rehabilitation was estimated 
for patients with end-stage disease based on specialist surveys. For each stage
of disease, publicly available economic data were then applied to assign resource
valuation and estimate patient-level direct costs from the payer perspective.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Average annual resource use and estimated total annual
direct cost of treatment were calculated at the patient level and stratified by
stage of disease. Direct costs by specific resource types, including
ophthalmology visits, glaucoma surgeries, medications, visual field examinations,
and other glaucoma services, were also assessed.
RESULTS: Direct ophthalmology-related resource use, including ophthalmology
visits, glaucoma surgeries, and medication use, increased as disease severity
worsened. Average direct cost of treatment ranged from $623 per patient per year 
for glaucoma suspects or patients with early-stage disease to $2511 per patient
per year for patients with end-stage disease. Medication costs composed the
largest proportion of total direct cost for all stages of disease (range,
24%-61%).
CONCLUSIONS: The study results suggest that resource use and direct cost of
glaucoma management increase with worsening disease severity. Based on these
findings, a glaucoma treatment that delays the progression of disease could have 
the potential to significantly reduce the health economic burden of this chronic 
disease over many years.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.124.1.12 
PMID: 16401779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1034. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 2006 Jan;26(1):26-32.

Fluorescein filling defects of the optic nerve head in normal tension glaucoma,
primary open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension and healthy controls.

Plange N(1), Kaup M, Huber K, Remky A, Arend O.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik des Universitätsklinikum Aachen, Germany. nplange@ukaache.de

BACKGROUND: To evaluate fluorescein filling defects of the optic nerve head in
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), ocular
hypertension (OHT) and controls.
METHODS: Forty patients with NTG (mean age 55 +/- 10 years), 40 patients with
POAG (mean age 55 +/- 11 years), 40 patients with OHT (mean age 53 +/- 13 years),
and 40 age-matched controls (mean age 54 +/- 11 years) were included in a
prospective study. Video fluorescein angiograms were performed by means of a
scanning laser ophthalmoscope. The extent of absolute filling defects of the
optic nerve head was assessed (as a percentage of the disc area) using digital
image analysis. Visual fields were tested by automatic static perimetry (Humphrey
Field Analyzer, programme 24-2).
RESULTS: Absolute filling defects were significantly larger in patients with NTG 
(12.2 +/- 15.5%) and POAG (12.9 +/- 13.1%) compared to patients with OHT (1.2 +/-
3.6%) and healthy controls (0.1 +/- 0.5%) (p < 0.0001). The area under the
receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was 0.806 for NTG vs healthy
controls, and 0.812 for POAG vs OHT. Absolute filling defects are significantly
correlated to the global indices mean deviation (r = -0.63, p < 0.0001), pattern 
standard deviation (r = 0.61, p < 0.0001), and corrected pattern standard
deviation (r = 0.62, p < 0.0001) and significantly correlated to horizontal (r = 
0.50, p < 0.0001) and vertical (r = 0.53, p < 0.0001) cup-to-disc-ratios.
CONCLUSIONS: Fluorescein filling defects of the optic disc representing capillary
dropout are present in NTG and POAG. The extent of these filling defects is
correlated to visual field loss and morphological damage. Fluorescein angiography
may be useful in the diagnosis and management of NTG and POAG.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-1313.2005.00349.x 
PMID: 16390479  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1035. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2006;6(15):1-81. Epub 2006 Jul 1.

Routine eye examinations for persons 20-64 years of age: an evidence-based
analysis.

Health Quality Ontario.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this analysis was to determine the strength of
association between age, gender, ethnicity, family history of disease and
refractive error and the risk of developing glaucoma or ARM?
CLINICAL NEED: A routine eye exam serves a primary, secondary, and tertiary care 
role. In a primary care role, it allows contact with a doctor who can provide
advice about eye care, which may reduce the incidence of eye disease and injury. 
In a secondary care role, it can via a case finding approach, diagnose persons
with degenerative eye diseases such as glaucoma and or AMD, and lead to earlier
treatment to slow the progression of the disease. Finally in a tertiary care
role, it provides ongoing monitoring and treatment to those with diseases
associated with vision loss. Glaucoma is a progressive degenerative disease of
the optic nerve, which causes gradual loss of peripheral (side) vision, and in
advanced disease states loss of central vision. Blindness may results if glaucoma
is not diagnosed and managed. The prevalence of primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) ranges from 1.1% to 3.0% in Western populations, and from 4.2% to 8.8% in 
populations of African descent. It is estimated up to 50% of people with glaucoma
are aware that they have the disease. In Canada, glaucoma disease is the second
leading cause of blindness in people aged 50 years and older. Tonometry,
inspection of the optic disc and perimetry are used concurrently by physicians
and optometrists to make the diagnosis of glaucoma. In general, the evidence
shows that treating people with increased IOP only, increased IOP and clinical
signs of early glaucoma or with normal-tension glaucoma can reduce the
progression of disease. Age-related maculopathy (ARM) is a degenerative disease
of the macula, which is a part of the retina. Damage to the macula causes loss of
central vision affecting the ability to read, recognize faces and to move about
freely. ARM can be divided into an early- stage (early ARM) and a late-stage
(AMD). AMD is the leading cause of blindness in developed countries. The
prevalence of AMD increases with increasing age. It is estimated that 1% of
people 55 years of age, 5% aged 75 to 84 years and 15% 80 years of age and older 
have AMD. ARM can be diagnosed during fundoscopy (ophthalmoscopy) which is a
visual inspection of the retina by a physician or optometrist, or from a
photograph of the retina. There is no cure or prevention for ARM. Likewise, there
is currently no treatment to restore vision lost due to AMD. However, there are
treatments to delay the progression of the disease and further loss of vision.
THE TECHNOLOGY: A periodic oculo-visual assessment is defined "as an examination 
of the eye and vision system rendered primarily to determine if a patient has a
simple refractive error (visual acuity assessment) including myopia,
hypermetropia, presbyopia, anisometropia or astigmatism." This service includes a
history of the presenting complaint, past medical history, visual acuity
examination, ocular mobility examination, slit lamp examination of the anterior
segment, ophthalmoscopy, and tonometry (measurement of IOP) and is completed by
either a physician or an optometrist.
REVIEW STRATEGY: THE MEDICAL ADVISORY SECRETARIAT CONDUCTED A COMPUTERIZED SEARCH
OF THE LITERATURE IN THE FOLLOWING DATABASES: OVID MEDLINE, MEDLINE, In-Process &
Other Non-Indexed Citations, EMBASE, INAHTA and the Cochrane Library. The search 
was limited to English-language articles with human subjects, published from
January 2000 to March 2006. In addition, a search was conducted for published
guidelines, health technology assessments, and policy decisions. Bibliographies
of references of relevant papers were searched for additional references that may
have been missed in the computerized database search. Studies including
participants 20 years and older, population-based prospective cohort studies,
population-based cross-sectional studies when prospective cohort studies were
unavailable or insufficient and studies determining and reporting the strength of
association or risk- specific prevalence or incidence rates of either age,
gender, ethnicity, refractive error or family history of disease and the risk of 
developing glaucoma or AMD were included in the review. The Grading of
Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system was used to
summarize the overall quality of the body of evidence.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: A total of 498 citations for the period January 2000 through
February 2006 were retrieved and an additional 313 were identified when the
search was expanded to include articles published between 1990 and 1999. An
additional 6 articles were obtained from bibliographies of relevant articles. Of 
these, 36 articles were retrieved for further evaluation. Upon review, 1
meta-analysis and 15 population-based epidemiological studies were accepted for
this review PRIMARY OPEN ANGLE GLAUCOMA: Age Six cross-sectional studies and 1
prospective cohort study contributed data on the association between age and
PAOG. From the data it can be concluded that the prevalence and 4-year incidence 
of POAG increases with increasing age. The odds of having POAG are statistically 
significantly greater for people 50 years of age and older relative to those 40
to 49 years of age. There is an estimated 7% per year incremental odds of having 
POAG in persons 40 years of age and older, and 10% per year in persons 49 years
of age and older. POAG is undiagnosed in up to 50% of the population. The quality
of the evidence is moderate. Gender Five cross-sectional studies evaluated the
association between gender and POAG. Consistency in estimates is lacking among
studies and because of this the association between gender and prevalent POAG is 
inconclusive. The quality of the evidence is very low. Ethnicity Only 1
cross-sectional study compared the prevalence rates of POAG between black and
white participants. These data suggest that prevalent glaucoma is statistically
significantly greater in a black population 50 years of age and older compared
with a white population of similar age. There is an overall 4-fold increase in
prevalent POAG in a black population compared with a white population. This
increase may be due to a confounding variable not accounted for in the analysis. 
The quality of the evidence is low. Refractive Error Four cross-sectional studies
assessed the association of myopia and POAG. These data suggest an association
between myopia defined as a spherical equivalent of -1.00D or worse and prevalent
POAG. However, there is inconsistency in results regarding the statistical
significance of the association between myopia when defined as a spherical
equivalent of -0.5D. The quality of the evidence is very low. Family History of
POAG Three cross-sectional studies investigated the association between family
history of glaucoma and prevalent POAG. These data suggest a 2.5 to 3.0 fold
increase in the odds having POAG in persons with a family history (any
first-degree relative) of POAG. The quality of the evidence is moderate.
AGE-RELATED MACULOPATHY: Age Four cohort studies evaluated the association
between age and early ARM and AMD. After 55 years of age, the incidence of both
early ARM and AMD increases with increasing age. Progression to AMD occurs in up 
to 12% of persons with early ARM. The quality of the evidence is low Gender Four 
cohort studies evaluated the association between gender and early ARM and AMD.
Gender differences in incident early ARM and incident AMD are not supported from 
these data. The quality of the evidence is lows. Ethnicity One meta-analysis and 
2 cross-sectional studies reported the ethnic-specific prevalence rates of ARM.
The data suggests that the prevalence of early ARM is higher in a white
population compared with a black population. The data suggest that the
ethnic-specific differences in the prevalence of AMD remain inconclusive.
Refractive Error Two cohort studies investigated the association between
refractive error and the development of incident early ARM and AMD. The quality
of the evidence is very low. Family History Two cross-sectional studies evaluated
the association of family history and early ARM and AMD. Data from one study
supports an association between a positive family history of AMD and having AMD. 
The results of the study indicate an almost 4-fold increase in the odds of any
AMD in a person with a family history of AMD. The quality of the evidence, as
based on the GRADE criteria is moderate.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS: The prevalence of glaucoma is estimated at 1 to 3% for a
Caucasian population and 4.2 to 8.8% for a black population. The incidence of
glaucoma is estimated at 0.5 to 2.5% per year in the literature. The percentage
of people who go blind per year as a result of glaucoma is approximately 0.55%.
The total population of Ontarians aged 50 to 64 years is estimated at 2.6 million
based on the April 2006 Ontario Ministry of Finance population estimates. The
range of utilization for a major eye examination in 2006/07 for this age group is
estimated at 567,690 to 669,125, were coverage for major eye exams extended to
this age group. This would represent a net increase in utilization of
approximately 440,116 to 541,551. The percentage of Ontario population
categorized as black and/or those with a family history of glaucoma was
approximately 20%. Therefore, the estimated range of utilization for a major eye 
examination in 2006/07 for this sub-population is estimated at 113,538 - 138,727 
(20% of the estimated range of utilization in total population of 50-64 year olds
in Ontario), were coverage for major eye exams extended to this sub-group. This
would represent a net increase in utilization of approximately 88,023 to 108,310 
within this sub-group.
COSTS: The total cost of a major eye examination by a physician is $42. (ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED)


PMCID: PMC3379534
PMID: 23074485  [PubMed]


1036. Am J Ophthalmol. 2005 Dec;140(6):1139-41.

Central corneal thickness and development of glaucomatous optic disk hemorrhages.

Jonas JB(1), Stroux A, Oberacher-Velten IM, Kitnarong N, Juenemann A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Eye Hospital, University Erlangen-Nürnberg,
Erlangen, Germany. Jost.Jonas@augen.ma.uni-heidelberg.de

PURPOSE: To evaluate whether central corneal thickness influences the development
of optic disk hemorrhages in chronic open-angle glaucoma.
DESIGN: Prospective observational clinical study.
METHODS: The study included 390 eyes of 223 white subjects with chronic
open-angle glaucoma observed during a mean follow-up time of 61.3 +/- 36.4
months. Central corneal thickness was measured by corneal pachymetry.
RESULTS: The event of optic disk hemorrhages during follow-up was detected in 63 
eyes (16.2%). Development of optic disk hemorrhages was, univariately (P = .73)
as well as in a multiple Cox regression analysis, controlling for age, sex,
normal tension glaucoma, intraocular pressure, neuroretinal rim area, and size of
beta zone of peripapillary atrophy, statistically independent (P = .56) of
central corneal thickness.
CONCLUSIONS: Development of optic disk hemorrhages may not be markedly influenced
by central corneal thickness.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2005.06.056 
PMID: 16376668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1037. Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jan;90(1):59-63.

Longitudinal glaucoma screening for siblings of patients with primary open angle 
glaucoma: the Nottingham Family Glaucoma Screening Study.

Sung VC(1), Koppens JM, Vernon SA, Pawson P, Rubinstein M, King AJ, Tattersall
CL.

Author information: 
(1)Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat Centre, Queen's Medical Centre University Hospital
NHS Trust, Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK.

AIMS: To assess the prevalence and cumulative incidence of open angle glaucoma
(OAG) in a cohort group of siblings of OAG probands.
METHODS: Between 1994 and 2003, a group of siblings of OAG probands underwent
both initial and follow up standardised ophthalmic examinations. Siblings were
classified as "definite glaucoma" (primary OAG (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma
(NTG)), "glaucoma suspects" (NTG suspects or ocular hypertension (OHT)), and
normal. The prevalence and cumulative incidence of OAG over the follow up
interval were calculated.
RESULTS: At the initial study, 271 siblings (mean age 63.6 years; female to male 
ratio 1.2) from 156 probands were examined. 32 (11.8%) were classified as
definite glaucoma and 15 (5.5%) as suspects. In the follow up study, 157 of the
224 "normal" siblings from the initial study were examined (mean interval from
initial study 7.0 (SD 1.0) years). 11 (7%) were classified as definite glaucoma
and 30 (19.1%) as suspects. There were significant trends of increasing
prevalence and incidence of OAG with age and a lifetime risk estimated at
approximately 20% by age 70.
CONCLUSION: Siblings of glaucoma patients have an increased risk of developing
glaucoma and the risk increases with age. An effective and repeated screening
programme should be considered for this high risk group.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2005.072751 
PMCID: PMC1856884
PMID: 16361669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1038. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2005 Jul-Aug;68(4):565-75. Epub 2005 Nov 22.

[Normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Portuguese]

Tavares IM(1), Mello PA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Oftalmologia, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo,
SP. imaynart@oftalmo.epm.br

Normal tension glaucoma is an optic neuropathy in which the retinal nerve fiber
layer thickness is reduced, the optic nerve is pathologically excavated, and the 
visual field is disturbed, although intraocular pressure is classified as normal.
Patients with normal tension glaucoma are a heterogeneous group in which many
systemic pathologic conditions may be present, and presenting ocular clinical
signs that are difficult to be identified in the early stages of the disease.
Treatment is more challenging than in hypertensive glaucomas. The authors sought 
to review the pathophysiology and differential diagnosis of this condition
assessing vascular, rheumatic, neurological and genetic aspects that should be
studied, as well as its treatment. The sources of references are PubMed
(MEDLINE), LILACS and Cochrane Library (CENTRAL) databases.

DOI: /S0004-27492005000400028 
PMID: 16322849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2006 Jul;244(7):795-801. Epub 2005 Nov 29.

Decreased blood flow at neuroretinal rim of optic nerve head corresponds with
visual field deficit in eyes with normal tension glaucoma.

Sato EA(1), Ohtake Y, Shinoda K, Mashima Y, Kimura I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, 160-8582 Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine the relationship between the blood flow parameters of the
optic disc rim and the glaucomatous visual field changes.
DESIGN: Observational cross-sectional study.
METHODS: Tissue blood flow in the neuroretinal rim within the optic disc was
determined with the Heidelberg retina flowmeter(HRF) in 54 eyes of 54 patients
with normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Patients were selected whose visual field
defects were confined to either the superior or inferior hemifield. Blood flow
measurements were made in a 10 degrees x 2.5 degrees area of the superior and
inferior neuroretinal rim within the optic disc. The mean blood flow (MBF) was
calculated by the automatic full-field perfusion image analyzer program, and the 
ratio of the MBF in the superior to the inferior rim areas (the S/I ratio) was
calculated from the same HRF image in order to minimize the variation of
measurement condition.
RESULTS: Inferior rim blood flow is less than superior rim blood flow in patients
with superior hemifield defect, and superior rim blood flow is reduced compared
to inferior in patients with inferior hemifield defect. The mean S/I ratios of
the MBF in the patients with superior hemifield defect (1.46, n=37) was
significantly higher than that in the patients with inferior hemifield defect
(0.79, n=17; P<0.0001, Mann-Whitney U-test).
CONCLUSIONS: The blood flow in the neuroretinal rim was found to correspond to
the regional visual field defect in eyes with NTG. Reductions in flow were
associated with reductions in function.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-005-0177-2 
PMID: 16315043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1040. Ophthalmology. 2005 Dec;112(12):2157-63. Epub 2005 Nov 14.

Diagnostic ability of optical coherence tomography with a normative database to
detect localized retinal nerve fiber layer defects.

Jeoung JW(1), Park KH, Kim TW, Khwarg SI, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the diagnostic ability of third-generation optical coherence
tomography (Stratus OCT) with a normative database to detect localized retinal
nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defects.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: One eye of each of 55 subjects (43 normal-tension glaucoma and 12
primary open-angle glaucoma subjects) with localized, wedge-shaped RNFL defects
by red-free RNFL photographs and corresponding visual field defects (mean
deviation, -6.77+/-3.54; range, -1.25 to -9.20 dB).
METHODS: The segments of the borderline and outside normal limits in the RNFL
thickness profile of OCT were considered to be significant RNFL defects by OCT
and by comparison with their corresponding red-free RNFL photographs. The angular
locations and widths of RNFL defects by OCT were compared with those of RNFL
defects by red-free RNFL photographs.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Sensitivity and specificity of OCT with a normative
database to detect the localized RNFL defects.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 57.9+/-10.6 years (range, 25-78 years).
The overall sensitivity and specificity of the OCT with a normative database for 
detecting localized RNFL defects were 85.9% and 97.4%, respectively. The OCT with
a normative database showed good diagnostic agreement with red-free RNFL
photographs (overall kappa value = 0.79). The angular locations and widths of
RNFL defects by OCT were highly correlated with those of RNFL defects by red-free
RNFL photographs (Pearson correlation coefficient [r] = 0.996 and 0.725,
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The OCT with a normative database can detect localized RNFL defects 
with moderate sensitivity and high specificity, and shows good diagnostic
agreement with red-free RNFL photographs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2005.07.012 
PMID: 16290196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. Ophthalmologica. 2005 Nov-Dec;219(6):357-61.

Episcleral venous pressure in untreated primary open-angle and normal-tension
glaucoma.

Selbach JM(1), Posielek K, Steuhl KP, Kremmer S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Essen, Germany.
michael.selbach@uni-essen.de

The aim of this prospective study was to investigate episcleral venous pressure
(EVP) in different forms of glaucoma in comparison with age-matched controls. EVP
was measured by means of a venomanometer in 32 eyes with untreated primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 36 eyes with untreated normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) 
as well as 56 control eyes without ophthalmological disease other than cataract. 
In addition to ophthalmological standard examination, cardiovascular parameters
such as systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate were recorded. In
the POAG group, EVP was 12.1 +/-0.5 mm Hg and in the NTG group 11.6 +/- 0.4 mm
Hg. This was significantly different from EVP of the controls (9.5 +/- 0.2 mm
Hg). The EVP/intraocular pressure (IOP) ratio was significantly different in NTG 
patients (80.0% +/- 3.2) in comparison with both POAG patients (67.1% +/- 2.8)
and controls (69.2% +/- 2.4). The difference between IOP and EVP (IOP - EVP) was 
6.2 +/- 0.6 in the POAG, 3.1 +/- 0.45 in the NTG and 4.5 +/- 0.4 in the control
group. All these values were significantly different from each other. Regression 
analysis revealed a significant linear correlation between EVP and IOP in both
the NTG and the POAG group. In the control group, however, the correlation was
weak. This study is the first to demonstrate differences in EVP between untreated
NTG and POAG and an age-matched healthy control group.

Copyright 2005 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000088378 
PMID: 16286795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1042. Ophthalmologica. 2005 Nov-Dec;219(6):317-23.

Therapeutic strategies for normal-tension glaucoma.

Orgul S(1), Zawinka C, Gugleta K, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland. sorguel@uhbs.ch

Treatment of normal-tension glaucoma has been a subject of debate for several
years. Glaucomatous damage cannot be influenced directly, and current treatment
modalities in normal-tension glaucoma are aimed at the control of risk factors.
Intraocular pressure is a widely accepted risk factor and its reduction can
improve the prognosis in normal-tension glaucoma patients. The repeated
demonstration of the importance of hemodynamic factors in normal-tension glaucoma
has, however, not been paralleled by a comparable progress in the development of 
therapeutic modalities capable of influencing favorably ocular blood flow. Today,
calcium channel blockers seem to be the most promising adjunctive treatment to be
considered in patients with glaucomatous optic neuropathy without increased
intraocular pressure.

Copyright 2005 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000088372 
PMID: 16286789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1043. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2005 Oct;222(10):807-13.

[Update on prospective glaucoma intervention studies].

[Article in German]

Arend KO(1), Redbrake C.

Author information: 
(1)Augenzentrum Alsdorf. arend@augenzentrum-alsdorf.de

BACKGROUND: Previously published prospective therapeutic intervention studies in 
ocular hypertension and glaucoma are summarized.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The concept of intraocular pressure reduction was evaluated
in normal tension glaucoma ["Early manifest glaucoma trial (EMGT)"], the
"Collaborative normal-tension glaucoma study (CNTGS)" and ocular hypertension
["Ocular hypertensive study (OHTS)" as well as the "European glaucoma prevention 
study (EGPS)"]. Early open angle glaucoma patients were included in the EMGT
trial as well as the "Collaborative initial glaucoma treatment study (CIGTS)",
whereas advanced glaucoma patients were examined in the "Advanced glaucoma
intervention study (AGIS)".
RESULTS: The study design, the results and the conclusions will be highlighted in
the text.
CONCLUSIONS: The therapeutic concept of intraocular pressure reduction decreases 
the risk of progression by 50 % in normal tension glaucoma, ocular hypertension
and early open angle glaucoma. The mean pressure reduction to 12 mmHg in advanced
glaucoma abolished visual field progression. The natural course of the disease
documented by the control groups is now known. Sensitive glaucoma progression
detection is clinically available by glaucoma change probability maps
(Humphrey-full threshold perimetry) used in the EMGT.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-858210 
PMID: 16240274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1044. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2005 Oct;222(10):760-71.

[Diagnostics and therapy for normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Baleanu D(1), Michelson G.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Erlangen. delia.baleanu@augen.imed.uni-erlangen.de

Pooled data from "The Baltimore Eye Survey", "The Blue Mountains Eye Study", "The
Beaver Dam Eye Study", "The Rotterdam Study" and "The Melbourne VIP" showed a
strong age-dependent prevalence of open angle glaucoma. Patients younger than 60 
years have a prevalence of open angle glaucoma of less than 1 %. Beginning with
the age of 60 the prevalence increases exponentially. The prevalence of open
angle glaucoma in persons in the 8(th) age decade reaches up to 5 %. Among these 
patients, 30-50 % have normal intraocular pressure. The diagnostics and therapy
for open angle glaucoma with normal intraocular pressure (IOP), also called
normal tension glaucoma, is a complex and often interdisciplinary challenge.
Established causative factors for developing a glaucomatous optic nerve atrophy
in normal tension glaucoma are: relatively increased IOP, older age, non-dippers 
(0-10 %) or extreme dippers (> 20 %) concerning nocturnal arterial blood pressure
drop, small vessel disease with cardiovascular disease and cerebral microgliosis 
(white matter lesions), decreased blood flow in the optic nerve head, extreme dip
of the optic nerve head blood flow in the morning, cerebral blood flow
dysregulation and the epsilon4-allele polymorphism of the apolipoprotein E-gene. 
Clinical pathways are presented for the diagnostics and therapy for normal
tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-858741 
PMID: 16240268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. J Hum Hypertens. 2006 Feb;20(2):137-42.

24-h blood pressure monitoring in normal tension glaucoma: night-time blood
pressure variability.

Plange N(1), Kaup M, Daneljan L, Predel HG, Remky A, Arend O.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik des Universitätsklinikum Aachen, Germany. nplange@ukaachen.de

Systemic arterial hypotension, hypertension and altered ocular blood flow are
known risk factors in glaucoma. In this study, 24-h ambulatory blood pressure
monitoring was performed in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
controls to evaluate blood pressure variability. In all, 51 patients with NTG and
28 age-matched controls were included in this prospective study. A 24-h
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (SpaceLabs Medical Inc., Redmond, USA) was
performed and systolic, diastolic and mean arterial blood pressures were measured
every 30 min during daytime (0800-2000) and night time (0000-0600). To evaluate
blood pressure variability a variability index was defined as the s.d. of blood
pressure measurements. Night-time blood pressure depression ('dip') was
calculated (in percent of the daytime blood pressures). Patients with NTG
exhibited higher night-time diastolic (P = 0.01) and mean arterial blood pressure
values (P = 0.02) compared to controls, whereas systolic blood pressure data were
not significantly different. The variability indices of night-time systolic,
diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure measurements were significantly
increased in patients with NTG compared to controls (P < 0.05). The night-time
blood pressure depression of systolic (P = 0.47), diastolic (P = 0.11) and mean
arterial blood pressures (P = 0.28) was not significantly different between
patients with NTG and controls. In conclusion, patients with NTG showed increased
variability of night-time blood pressure measurements compared to controls.
Increased fluctuation of blood pressure may lead to ocular perfusion pressure
fluctuation and may cause ischaemic episodes at the optic nerve head.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001959 
PMID: 16239898  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1046. Optometry. 2005 Oct;76(10):600-8.

New thoughts on normal tension glaucoma.

Sowka J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nova Southeastern University, College of Optometry, 3200 South University
Drive, Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33328, USA. jsowka@nova.edu

Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is considered a primary optic neuropathy within the
glaucoma family. Whereas NTG shares many of the same pathologic characteristics
as primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), there are several differences such as
pattern of visual field defect and incidence of disc hemorrhaging. The most
notable difference is that NTG does not manifest a recordable intraocular
pressure (IOP) greater than 21 mmHg. Debate has existed as to whether NTG is a
pressure-sensitive neuropathy and if pressure reduction affects the course of the
disease. Likely, there are aspects in the pathophysiology of NTG that are both
pressure sensitive and insensitive, and the etiology of NTG has never been
adequately explained.

DOI: 10.1016/j.optm.2005.08.020 
PMID: 16230276  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1047. Eye (Lond). 2007 Jan;21(1):71-8. Epub 2005 Oct 14.

Intermediate-term comparison of trabeculectomy with intraoperative mitomycin-C
between Asian American and Caucasian glaucoma patients: a case-controlled
comparison.

Law SK(1), Modjtahedi SP, Mansury A, Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. law@jsei.ucla.edu

PURPOSE: Compare the efficacy and survival of trabeculectomy with intraoperative 
mitomycin-C (MMC) between Asian American and Caucasian patients in the same
clinical setting.
METHODS: In total, 29 Asian American patients (29 eyes) with trabeculectomies
were matched case to case with 29 Caucasian patients (29 eyes) retrospectively.
Matching criteria included age, glaucoma subtype, and preoperative intraocular
pressure (IOP), gender, surgeon, ocular history, and glaucoma medications.
Criteria of success included: (1) Final IOP>5 and <22 mmHg, (2) IOP
reduction>or=20%, or final IOP<or=10 mmHg, and (3) without additional glaucoma
surgery, loss of light perception, or complication.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up durations of Asian American and Caucasian group were
40.11+/-22.5 months and 38.8+/-17.7 months, respectively (P=0.81). At the final
visits, IOP decreased from 18.7+/-6.1 to 10.9+/-4.0 mmHg (P<0.0001) in the Asian 
American group, and from 19.0+/-5.5 to 11.0+/-3.8 mmHg (P<0.0001) in the
Caucasian group. There were no significant differences between the two groups in 
IOP levels at 6 months, 1 year, and final visits. The probabilities of
trabeculectomy survival (continuing to meet definition of success criteria) at 12
and 48 months were 75.9 and 56.6% in the Asian American group and 82.8 and 66.6% 
in the Caucasian group, respectively. (P=0.46) There were no significant
differences for rates of surgical success, failure, complication, vision
decrease, hypotony, and cataract development. Patients who had episodes of
hypotony had a higher rate of diagnosis of low-tension glaucoma subtype (P=0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: In a case-controlled comparison of an intermediate-term follow-up of
trabeculectomy with intraoperative MMC, Asian American patients have a similar
efficacy and survival probability as Caucasian patients.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702128 
PMID: 16227981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1048. Eye (Lond). 2007 Jan;21(1):46-51. Epub 2005 Oct 7.

South-East Scotland trabeculectomy survey.

Cackett P(1), Vallance J, Cobb C, Devlin H, Simpson A, Sanders R.

Author information: 
(1)Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion, Chalmers Street, Edinburgh, UK.
pete@pdcackett.demon.co.uk

AIM: Assessment of trabeculectomy in South-East Scotland (SESTS) with comparison 
to National Survey of Trabeculectomy (NST) and outcomes of consultant and trainee
surgery.
METHOD: A retrospective study of 304 consecutive, primary trabeculectomies, in
two Scottish centres (Edinburgh and Dunfermline) with two glaucoma specialists
and higher surgical trainees, was performed. The study group had primary open
angle glaucoma (65.5%), pseudoexfoliation (6.9%), normal tension glaucoma (7.6%),
pigment dispersion syndrome (1.6%), and other complicated glaucoma (18.4%). All
patients underwent trabeculectomy by the glaucoma specialist (57.6%) and higher
surgical trainee (42.4%) with close scrubbed supervision.
RESULTS: Compared to the NST, the waiting time for surgery (<3 months) was
significantly less in the SESTS (P<0.001). There was also significantly more use 
of intraoperative antimetabolites (P<0.01), bleb intervention (P<0.001), and a
higher rate of early complications (P<0.025). There was no significant difference
in outcome at intraocular pressure (IOP)<2/3 listing IOP (qualified and
unqualified) between the SESTS and the NST. Significantly, more patients achieved
an unqualified success of IOP<21 mmHg (P<0.01) and an unqualified success of
IOP<16 mmHg in the SESTS than the NST (P<0.05). At 1 year post surgery, visual
loss of greater than one Snellen line was more common in the NST (P<0.01) as was 
the use of anti-glaucoma medication (P<0.001). Trainee cases returned to theatre 
more frequently (P<0.025) and merited more bleb intervention (P<0.01) than
consultant cases, but the long-term outcome was similar.
CONCLUSION: Our study highlights significant changes in the practice and outcome 
of trabeculectomy compared to the national survey conducted a decade ago.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702118 
PMID: 16215540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1049. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2005 Jun;28 Spec No 2:2S25-2S30.

[Practical assessment. Clinical evaluation of normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Valtot F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut du glaucome, Fondation Hôpital Saint-Joseph, 185, rue Raymond
Losserand, F-75014 Paris.

Normal-tension glaucoma is a form of primary open-angle glaucoma where the
intraocular pressure remains within the normal range. The progression of the
disease is usually very slow. The main challenge is to establish the correct
diagnosis, with a double risk: the patient might have undetected (and untreated) 
high intraocular pressure or, the patient might have a nonglaucomatous (possibly 
treatable) disease looking as a glaucomatous optic neuropathy. The clinical
evaluation of the patient suspected of a normal-tension glaucoma must answer two 
questions: 1) is the intraocular pressure normal?, 2) is it a glaucomatous optic 
neuropathy or another type of optic neuropathy?


PMID: 16208237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. Int Ophthalmol. 2004 Jul;25(4):207-13. Epub 2005 Sep 29.

Viscocanalostomy versus trabeculectomy in patients with bilateral high-tension
glaucoma.

Yarangümeli A(1), Güreser S, Köz OG, Elhan AH, Kural G.

Author information: 
(1)1st Eye Clinic, Ankara Numune Training and Research Hospital, Ankara, Turkey. 
alperyx@yahoo.com

Results of trabeculectomy (TE) and viscocanalostomy (VCO) were compared in a
prospective randomised study in two fellow eyes of 22 consecutive patients with
bilateral symmetrical high-tension glaucoma. Rates of overall surgical success
with intraocular pressures (IOP) < or = 18 mm Hg with or without medications were
91 for the TE, and 95 for the VCO group after a mean follow-up of 18 months.
Complete success rates without medications were 64 and 59 for TE and VCO groups, 
respectively (p = 0.750). Both procedures significantly reduced IOP, however, IOP
course following trabeculectomy was significantly lower (p = 0.026). Rates of
complications were not found to be different between the two groups of eyes,
except for an apparent--though not significant (p = 0.066)--increase in cataract 
progression with TE. Various types of conjunctival blebs were detected in all
eyes with surgical success in both groups, however, diffuse, elevated or
multi-cystic functional blebs appeared to be more predominant in eyes with TE,
compared to the VCO group in which low-lying, localised blebs had a higher
incidence (p = 0.015). Viscocanalostomy was found to be a safe and effective
filtration technique in patients with uncomplicated high-tension glaucoma, though
IOP decrease was more pronounced with trabeculectomy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-004-6741-7 
PMID: 16200447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1051. Coll Antropol. 2005;29 Suppl 1:149-51.

Target intraocular pressure in the management of glaucoma.

Popović-Suić S(1), Sikić J, Vukojević N, Cerovski B, Nasić M, Pokupec R.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Ophthalmology, Clinical Hospital Center, Rebro,
Zagreb, Croatia.

Achievement of target intraocular pressure is the goal of every efficient
antiglaucoma therapy. Target intraocular pressure is the level of intraocular
pressure which is associated with minimal likelihood of visual field or optic
nerve lesion, or an existing lesion progression due to elevated intraocular
pressure. Results of large clinical studies which have offered some new concepts 
on target intraocular pressure in the management of glaucoma are reviewed. An
association between the curve of intraocular pressure decrease and glaucoma
progression was demonstrated in these studies. Generally, a lower value of target
intraocular pressure implies better protection from the loss of vision and visual
field impairment in glaucoma patients. In advanced glaucoma, the greatest
possible reduction from the initial intraocular pressure should be attempted. A
20% reduction from the initial intraocular pressure or decrease to < 18 mmHg in
advanced glaucoma has been recognized as a favorable strategy to reach target
intraocular pressure. In normal tension glaucoma, a lower value of target
intraocular pressure is associated with a slower disease progression. In patients
with initial glaucoma, 25% reduction from the initial intraocular pressure will
slow down the disease progression by 45%. The value of target intraocular
pressure depends on the pretreatment level of intraocular pressure, optic nerve
condition, glaucoma disease state, rate of glaucoma progression, patient's age,
and other risk factors for the development of glaucoma.


PMID: 16193700  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1052. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2005 Oct;83(5):549-53.

Can the prevalence of open-angle glaucoma be estimated from a retrospective
clinical material? A study on the west coast of Iceland.

Jóhannesson G(1), Gudmundsdóttir GJ, Lindén C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Ophthalmology, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.

Erratum in
    Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2011 May;89(3):e299.

PURPOSE: To explore the possibility of estimating the prevalence of open-angle
glaucoma (OAG) on the west coast of Iceland using a clinical retrospective
material, and to compare that estimate with the results from a recent prospective
Icelandic study.
METHODS: The compulsory ophthalmological examination for the prescription of eye 
glasses in combination with information obtained from Statistics Iceland were
used to establish the prevalence of glaucoma in Akranes and to estimate the
minimum prevalence for the greater west coast area. A recent prospective study
from Iceland was used as reference.
RESULTS: In all, 79% of 1443 Akranes inhabitants aged 50 years or more had
visited the eye clinic at least once between 1996 and 2001. The prevalence of OAG
was 4.8% (95% CI 3.6-6.1). The minimum prevalence for the west coast was 3.8%
(95% CI 3.2-4.4). The prevalence increased with age (p < 0.001). The overall
prevalence was similar to that of recently published prospective data but the
prevalence of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) was lower.
CONCLUSION: The results from the two studies are similar in many respects, which 
indicates that retrospective data may supply meaningful information on glaucoma
prevalence. Important sources of error are the selection and attendance of
patients, screening methods and diagnostic criteria. If routine examination does 
not include fundus photography and/or perimetry, the prevalence of NTG will be
underestimated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2005.00514.x 
PMID: 16187991  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1053. Br J Ophthalmol. 2005 Oct;89(10):1245-9.

Direct costs of glaucoma and severity of the disease: a multinational long term
study of resource utilisation in Europe.

Traverso CE(1), Walt JG, Kelly SP, Hommer AH, Bron AM, Denis P, Nordmann JP,
Renard JP, Bayer A, Grehn F, Pfeiffer N, Cedrone C, Gandolfi S, Orzalesi N, Nucci
C, Rossetti L, Azuara-Blanco A, Bagnis A, Hitchings R, Salmon JF, Bricola G,
Buchholz PM, Kotak SV, Katz LM, Siegartel LR, Doyle JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Clinica Oculistica, DiNOG, Azienda Ospedale Università San
Martino, Genoa, Italy. mc8620@mclink.it

BACKGROUND: Resource utilisation and direct costs associated with glaucoma
progression in Europe are unknown. As population progressively ages, the economic
impact of the disease will increase.
METHODS: From a total of 1655 consecutive cases, the records of 194 patients were
selected and stratified by disease severity. Record selection was based on
diagnoses of primary open angle glaucoma, glaucoma suspect, ocular hypertension, 
or normal tension glaucoma; 5 years minimum follow up were required. Glaucoma
severity was assessed using a six stage glaucoma staging system based on static
threshold visual field parameters. Resource utilisation data were abstracted from
the charts and unit costs were applied to estimate direct costs to the payer.
Resource utilisation and estimated direct cost of treatment, per person year,
were calculated.
RESULTS: A statistically significant increasing linear trend (p = 0.018) in
direct cost as disease severity worsened was demonstrated. The direct cost of
treatment increased by an estimated 86 for each incremental step ranging from 455
euro per person year for stage 0 to 969 euro per person year for stage 4 disease.
Medication costs ranged from 42% to 56% of total direct cost for all stages of
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate for the first time in Europe that resource
utilisation and direct medical costs of glaucoma management increase with
worsening disease severity. Based on these findings, managing glaucoma and
effectively delaying disease progression would be expected to significantly
reduce the economic burden of this disease. These data are relevant to general
practitioners and healthcare administrators who have a direct influence on the
distribution of resources.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2005.067355 
PMCID: PMC1772870
PMID: 16170109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1054. Mol Vis. 2005 Aug 29;11:625-31.

SNPs and interaction analyses of myocilin, optineurin, and apolipoprotein E in
primary open angle glaucoma patients.

Fan BJ(1), Wang DY, Fan DS, Tam PO, Lam DS, Tham CC, Lam CY, Lau TC, Pang CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. bjfan@cuhk.edu.hk

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association of myocilin (MYOC), optineurin (OPTN), and
apolipoprotein E (APOE) genes and their interactions in primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: A cohort of 400 unrelated POAG patients (294 high tension glaucoma, HTG,
and 106 normal tension glaucoma, NTG) and 281 unrelated control subjects were
recruited. All coding exons and splicing junctions in MYOC and OPTN were screened
for sequence alterations. Common polymorphisms in APOE were genotyped. Single
genes were investigated by univariate and haplotype analysis, and gene-gene
interactions by logistic regression and stratified analysis. Multiple comparisons
were corrected by the Bonferroni method. Bioinformatics analysis was performed to
assess the conservation of mutation sites across species and to predict putative 
motifs and secondary structures in mutated proteins.
RESULTS: Disease-causing mutations in MYOC and OPTN were identified in 1.75% and 
1% of POAG patients, respectively. Most of these mutations were highly conserved 
across species, many predicted to create new motifs or change protein secondary
structures. No individual MYOC polymorphisms significantly contributed to HTG or 
NTG. A haplotype containing the minor allele of the MYOC IVS2+35A>G increased NTG
risk (p=0.0001). Three OPTN polymorphisms, T34T, IVS5+38T>G, and IVS8-53T>C
increased NTG risk (p<0.0008), while IVS5+38T>G increased HTG risk (p=0.0006).
One haplotype that contains the minor alleles of 3 OPTN polymorphisms, T34T,
IVS5+38T>G, and IVS7+24G>A, increased NTG risk (p=0.0002). APOE epsilon4 carriers
had a decreased NTG risk (p=0.007). Possible gene-gene interactions were found
between MYOC, OPTN, and APOE.
CONCLUSIONS: Disease-causing mutations in MYOC and OPTN accounted for only a
small proportion of Chinese POAG patients. Common polymorphisms in MYOC, OPTN,
and APOE might interactively contribute to POAG, indicating a polygenic etiology.


PMID: 16148883  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. J Glaucoma. 2005 Oct;14(5):384-6.

C-reactive protein levels in normal tension glaucoma.

Leibovitch I(1), Kurtz S, Kesler A, Feithliher N, Shemesh G, Sela BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tel-Aviv Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel. leiboigal5@yahoo.com.au

PURPOSE: To determine C-reactive protein (CRP) levels in patients with normal
tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This study included 20 cases with NTG and 30 controls, with no history
of ocular disease. Plasma CRP levels of all the study participants were
determined using a highly sensitive CRP kit.
RESULTS: Twenty cases (11 males, 9 females, mean age 69 +/- 5 years) with NTG and
30 age-matched controls (15 males, 15 females, mean age 68 +/- 6) were evaluated.
Both groups had similar demographic parameters (age, sex, BMI). Plasma CRP levels
were significantly higher in the NTG cases than in controls (median [range], 3.20
[0.17-8.4] mg/dL compared with 0.5 [0.1-3.2], P < 0.001). The mean plasma CRP
level was significantly elevated in the NTG cases compared with the controls
(3.21 +/- 0.6 mg/dL and 0.85 +/- 0.17 mg/dL, respectively, P < 0 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that higher CRP levels may be associated with
NTG. It is possible that a vascular inflammatory process is involved in the
etiology of this glaucoma.


PMID: 16148587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1056. J Med Genet. 2005 Sep;42(9):e55.

Lack of association of p53 polymorphisms and haplotypes in high and normal
tension open angle glaucoma.

Dimasi DP, Hewitt AW, Green CM, Mackey DA, Craig JE.

BACKGROUND: The final common pathway for open angle glaucoma (OAG) is retinal
ganglion cell apoptosis. Polymorphisms in p53, a major regulator of apoptosis,
affect the efficiency of cell death induction. Association studies of p53
haplotypes and OAG have had conflicting results.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between p53 haplotypes and OAG in a larger 
white population than in previous reports, and extend the analysis to normal
tension glaucoma.
METHODS: 345 unrelated people with OAG were recruited (283 subjects with high
tension glaucoma and 62 with normal tension glaucoma) and compared with 178 age
matched controls. Genomic DNA was analysed for the p53 codon 72 Arg/Pro
polymorphism as well as for the presence or absence of a 16 bp intron 3
insertion.
RESULTS: In this white cohort no association was found between glaucoma (high or 
normal tension) and either sequence variant or haplotype.
CONCLUSIONS: The p53 codon 72 Arg/Pro polymorphism is not associated with age of 
onset or severity of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2005.032458 
PMCID: PMC1736135
PMID: 16140998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1057. J Clin Ultrasound. 2005 Jul-Aug;33(6):270-6.

Duplex sonography of retro-orbital and carotid arteries in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Akcar N(1), Yildirim N, Adapinar B, Kaya T, Ozkan IR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Osmangazi University Hospital, Meselik 26480,
Eskisehir, Turkey.

PURPOSE: To evaluate retrobulbar and carotid arterial hemodynamics in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma using Doppler sonography.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Duplex sonography was performed in 41 patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and 30 control subjects to evaluate resistance indices
(RIs) in retro-orbital and carotid arteries. Mean values were compared using the 
independent t-test. The ratios of the RI in retro-orbital to RIs in the carotid
arteries (CCA and ICA) and interocular and intercarotid differences in RI
(DeltaRI) were also calculated.
RESULTS: Is in the central retinal (CRA) and temporal and nasal posterior ciliary
arteries (TPCA and NPCA) were statistically significantly greater in glaucomatous
eyes (p < 0.001). Plaque formation in carotid arteries without significant
stenosis was noted in 12% of patients and 10% of control subjects. Ratios of RI
of CRA or TPCA or NPCA to that of CCA and the ratios of RI of CRA or NPCA to that
of ophthalmic arteries (OA) were significantly greater in glaucomatous eyes. We
also found that ratios of the RI of CRA or TPCA or NPCA to that of ICA and the
ratio of the RI of OA to CCA were nearly equal to 1 in both patients and control 
subjects. We found no significant difference between interocular and intercarotid
DeltaRIs in patients and control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with symmetric normal-tension glaucoma, duplex
sonography showed an elevated RI in CRA and PCA. The Doppler evaluation of
carotid arteries was useful.

DOI: 10.1002/jcu.20137 
PMID: 16134154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1058. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2005 Sep;46(9):3221-6.

Evidence for association of endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene in subjects
with glaucoma and a history of migraine.

Logan JF(1), Chakravarthy U, Hughes AE, Patterson CC, Jackson JA, Rankin SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Royal Group of Hospitals, Belfast, N.
Ireland, United Kingdom. joanne.logan1@btopenworld.com

PURPOSE: There is evidence to suggest that vasospasm and vascular dysregulation
play a role in the etiology of glaucoma. This effect may be particularly relevant
in patients with glaucoma who have a history of migraine or vasospastic
tendencies. This study was conducted to investigate the role of genes with
products that regulate blood flow to ocular tissues. The candidate genes were the
two isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), NOS3 and -2A, and endothelin (ET)-l.
The frequency of the T786C mutation in NOS3 was also examined.
METHODS: DNA was obtained from 58 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG), 76 with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and 38 control subjects.
Polymerase chain reactions (PCR) were used to compare the frequency of the
alleles between the subjects with glaucoma and the control subjects and the
subjects with glaucoma with vasospasm or migraine. The PCR product was sequenced 
to identify the frequency of the T786C mutation.
RESULTS: The distribution of the NOS3 repeat alleles in subjects with glaucoma
and control subjects just failed to reach statistical significance (P = 0.06).
The distribution in subjects with NTG or POAG did not differ significantly. A
significant difference was found (P < 0.001) in the distribution of allele
frequencies of the NOS3 marker in subjects who had glaucoma with migraine versus 
control subjects. There were no differences in the distribution of the NOS2A or
ET-1 markers between the subjects with glaucoma and the control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides evidence of an association between the NOS3 gene
and subjects with glaucoma who have a history of migraine. Unlike in other
studies, no evidence was found of an association between ET-1 and glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.05-0368 
PMID: 16123422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1059. Klin Oczna. 2005;107(4-6):306-11.

[Are endothelin-1 and neuropeptide Y involved in the pathogenesis of glaucoma?].

[Article in Polish]

Terelak-Borys B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Z Kliniki Okulistyki Centrum Medycznego Kształcenia Podyplomowego SPSK im.
prof. W. Orlowskiego w Warszawie.

Vasospasm in the vessels, supporting the optic disc, is nowadays considered one
of the possible etiological factors leading to development of glaucomatous
neuropathy. This article describes physiological regulatory mechanisms of blood
circulation in these vessels, including influence of autonomic nervous system and
blood flow autoregulation; it also explains why vasospasm may disturb
autoregulation. Special attention is paid to the role of vascular endothelial
mediators, which are responsible for autoregulation. Observations indicating that
vasospasm may be a risk factor of glaucomatous damage are also presented. The
article describes data concerning vasospastic effects of two mediators:
endothelin-1 (ET-1), released by vascular endothelium, and neuropeptide Y (NPY), 
a sympathetic nervous system neurotransmitter, on the vessels supporting the
optic disc and their possible role in producing blood flow disturbances in these 
vessels. Investigation results indicating that endothelial dysfunction, connected
with increased ET-1 plasma levels and sympathetic nervous system disorders, may
be involved in the pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma, are presented.


PMID: 16118946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1060. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2005 Aug;21(4):288-97.

Localization of endothelin-converting enzyme in bovine optic nerve and retina.

Dibas A(1), Prasanna G, Yorio T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, University of North Texas Health 
Science Center at Fort Worth, Fort Worth, TX 76109, USA. adibas@hsc.unt.edu

A significant loss and remodeling of the lamina cribrosa tissue leading to the
excavation of the optic nerve is seen in glaucoma. Elevated endothelin-1 (ET-1)
levels are detected in the aqueous humor of patients of open-angle glaucoma and
in the plasma of patients with normal- tension glaucoma. Optic nerve damage,
including axonal loss, can be mimicked by ET-1 injection near the optic nerve.
ET-1 is produced from its precursor Big ET-1 (38 amino acids) by
endothelin-converting enzyme (ECE). Although ET-1 and its receptors have been
identified in the retina, little is known of the distribution of ECE at the optic
nerve. Presently, ET-1 receptors and Big ET-1 converting activities were
characterized in bovine optic nerve and the retina. The ET(B) receptor was
detected in both the optic nerve and retina by immunoblotting and cross-linking, 
using 125I-ET-1. However, the ET(A) receptor was detected only in the retina. Big
ET-1 conversion activities were detected in the plasma membrane (PM) of bovine
retina, but not in the PM of the optic nerve. The retinal PM Big ET-1 converting 
activity was inhibited by phosphoramidon, thiorphan, and acidification.
Furthermore, ECE cytosolic activities were detected in both the optic nerve and
retina. Unlike the PM-ECE, cytosolic Big ET-1 converting activities were
activated by acidification (pH 6.4), suggesting the involvement of ECE-2-like
activity and/or cathepsin activity. Pepstatin, a potent inhibitor of cathepsins, 
inhibited the optic nerve (ON) cytosolic conversion of Big ET-1 peptide by 50%,
and the combination of pepstatin and phosphoramidon, a potent inhibitor of ECE,
inhibited the ON cytosolic activity by 86%. By contrast, the combination of both 
inhibitors weakly inhibited the cytosolic retinal Big ET-1 converting activity.
Western blotting revealed the presence of ECE-1 at the PM of the retina not the
ON. ECE-2 and cathpesins B, D, and L were detected only in the cytosol of both
the retina and ON. In summary, it appears that ET-1 could be produced in the
retina and optic nerve by at least two ECE subtypes and, perhaps, cathepsins. Big
ET-1 converting activity may be an important target in preventing ET-1-induced
optic nerve pathology.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2005.21.288 
PMID: 16117692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1061. Br J Ophthalmol. 2005 Sep;89(9):1228-9.

Normal tension glaucoma.

Brodsky MC.

Comment on
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2005 Feb;89(2):174-9.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2005.073866 
PMCID: PMC1772850
PMID: 16113393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1062. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2005 Jul-Aug;49(4):287-93.

Effect of topical unoprostone isopropyl on optic nerve head circulation in
controls and in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Kimura I(1), Shinoda K, Tanino T, Ohtake Y, Mashima Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
kimura@sc.itc.keio.ac.ip

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of unoprostone isopropyl on microcirculation in
the optic nerve head (ONH) of controls and patients with normal-tension glaucoma 
(NTG).
METHODS: Thirty healthy volunteers were randomly placed in a placebo group or a
control group. For ten NTG patients, one eye was selected to receive the placebo 
drops and the contralateral eye received the unoprostone in a masked fashion. In 
both studies, the intraocular pressure (IOP) and the parameters of the blood
hemodynamics of the ONH were obtained before and at 1 and 2 h after the
instillation. Blood flow measurements were made with a scanning laser Doppler
flowmeter.
RESULTS: In both control subjects and NTG patients, the changes in the IOPs after
the instillation of either unoprostone or the placebo were not significant
because almost all of the NTG patients had IOPs lower than 15 mmHg. Although the 
hemodynamic parameters were not significantly changed in the placebo-treated eyes
of the controls, the eyes of the controls treated with unoprostone had mean blood
velocity and flow values that were significantly higher than the baseline values 
1 and 2 h after instillation (P < 0.01). The velocity values of the controls
treated with unoprostone were significantly higher than in those controls
receiving the placebo at 2 h postinstillation (P = 0.027). The values for the
three circulation parameters (volume, velocity, flow) were significantly higher
than the baseline values after instillation in the eyes of the NTG patients
treated with unoprostone (P < 0.05). In contrast, none of these parameters was
significantly different from the baseline in the eyes of NTG patients treated
with placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: These results showed that unoprostone significantly increased
microcirculation in the ONH in control subjects and in NTG patients without
reducing the IOP significantly.

(c) Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2005.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-004-0208-2 
PMID: 16075327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1063. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2006 Feb;244(2):177-82. Epub 2005 Aug 2.

Central and paracentral corneal pachymetry in patients with normal tension
glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Jordan JF(1), Joergens S, Dinslage S, Dietlein TS, Krieglstein GK.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Hospital, University of Cologne, Joseph-Stelzmann-Str. 9,
50931, Cologne, Germany. jens.jordan@uk-koeln.de

PURPOSE: The difference in central corneal thickness among subgroups of glaucoma 
patients, as well as its influence on Goldmann applanation tonometry, has been
well documented in several clinical trials. In the present study, possible
similarities and differences between central corneal thickness and corneal
thickness of paracentral quadrants in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
and ocular hypertension (OHT) were investigated.
METHODS: Central and paracentral corneal thickness was measured by optical slit
scan pachymetry (Orbscan II). Fourteen patients (28 eyes) with NTG and 11
patients (22 eyes) with OHT were included in this study. t-Test was performed for
statistical analysis. To evaluate overall corneal topography, the mean and SD
values of the differences between the central corneal thickness and each
peripheral quadrant were analysed.
RESULTS: The following data was obtained (microm): (central, upper, temporal,
nasal, inferior paracentral quadrant): OHT group 617-695-663-687-660. NTG group
568-629-593-612-616. Corneal thickness of all four paracentral quadrants differed
significantly between the OHT and NTG groups. There was a more heterogeneous
intraindividual pattern of overall corneal topography in the OHT group, and a
more heterogeneous pattern of corneal topography among the individuals of the NTG
group (interindividual heterogeneity).
CONCLUSIONS: A comparison of central corneal thickness and paracentral corneal
thickness revealed clinically relevant differences between the OHT and NTG
groups. The presented data underlines the importance of correlating the site of
applanation with the corresponding corneal thickness, especially in OHT patients.
It further substantiates the necessity to obtain individual pachymetric data for 
each NTG patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-005-0053-0 
PMID: 16075223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1064. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2005 Aug;46(8):2816-22.

Clinical features and course of patients with glaucoma with the E50K mutation in 
the optineurin gene.

Aung T(1), Rezaie T, Okada K, Viswanathan AC, Child AH, Brice G, Bhattacharya SS,
Lehmann OJ, Sarfarazi M, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, United Kingdom. tin11@pacific.net.sg

PURPOSE: To investigate the clinical features of subjects with glaucoma with the 
E50K mutation in the optineurin (OPTN) gene and to compare the onset, severity,
and clinical course of these patients with a control group of subjects with
glaucoma without this mutation.
METHODS: The phenotype of well-characterized subjects from Moorfields Eye
Hospital, London, who had been identified as carrying the OPTN E50K mutation was 
examined. A wide range of structural, psychophysical, and demographic factors
were then compared with those in a control group of subjects with glaucoma
without this mutation.
RESULTS: Eleven subjects with glaucoma with the E50K mutation (nine in two
families and two sporadic cases) were studied. All 11 subjects had normal tension
glaucoma (NTG), with presenting and highest IOP of 15.3 +/- 3.0 and 16.5 +/- 2.5 
mm Hg (+/-SD) on diurnal testing. Compared with 87 NTG control subjects who did
not have this mutation, subjects with E50K presented at a younger age (40.8 +/-
15 years, P = 0.0001) and had more advanced optic disc cupping (mean cup-disc
ratio +/- SD 0.86 +/- 0.1, P = 0.001) and smaller neuroretinal rim area (+/-SD;
0.5 +/- 0.28 mm2, P = 0.001) at diagnosis. The rate of filtration surgery
performed for progressive visual field loss in those with and without the E50K
mutation was 72.7% and 25.3%, respectively (P = 0.003), and all subjects with
E50K were found to have progressing visual fields. In addition, seven E50K
mutation-carrying individuals in two families (age range, 23-58 years) presented 
with normal optic discs and visual fields and, as yet, no signs of glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, subjects with glaucoma who had the OPTN E50K mutation
were found to have NTG that appeared to be more severe than that in a control
group of subjects with NTG without this mutation. The findings emphasize the
importance of early detection and treatment of glaucoma in such individuals, to
minimize visual loss.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.04-1133 
PMID: 16043855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1065. Am J Ophthalmol. 2005 Jul;140(1):165-6.

Retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in the fellow eyes of normal-tension glaucoma
patients with unilateral visual field defect.

Kim DM(1), Hwang US, Park KH, Kim SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Korea.
dmkim@snu.ac.kr

PURPOSE: To quantitatively evaluate retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness in
the fellow eyes of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with unilateral visual 
field defect.
DESIGN: Observational case-control study.
METHODS: Twenty-nine NTG patients with unilateral visual field defect were
enrolled in this study. All 29 fellow eyes showed normal visual field. Thirty-one
normal eyes of 31 subjects served as controls. The RNFL thickness around the
optic disk was determined using Fast RNFL thickness (3.4) of optical coherence
tomography. Average and segmental (4 quadrants and 12 clock- hours) RNFL
thickness measurements were compared among the three groups.
RESULTS: RNFL thicknesses were significantly different among the three groups in 
the average, superior quadrant (11 and 12 clock-hour segments), and inferior
quadrant (6 clock-hour segment) (P = .00, one-way ANOVA and Tukey's tests).
CONCLUSIONS: RNFL thickness reductions are already present in the fellow eyes of 
NTG patients with unilateral visual field defect.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2005.01.015 
PMID: 16038674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1066. Ophthalmic Genet. 2005 Jun;26(2):85-9.

Analysis of rare variants and common haplotypes in the optineurin gene in Swedish
glaucoma cases.

Jansson M(1), Wadelius C, Rezaie T, Sarfarazi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Pathology Unit of Medical Genetics, Uppsala
University, SE-751 85 Uppsala, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: Glaucoma, a leading cause of blindness in the world, is characterized 
by neuropathy of the retinal ganglion cells and the optic nerve. Recently,
sequence alterations in the optineurin gene were shown to be associated with the 
disease in families with primarily normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: In the present study, 200 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, 200
patients with exfoliative glaucoma, and 200 matched controls were tested for
alterations in the coding sequences using denaturing high-performance liquid
chromatography and sequencing. In addition, single nucleotide polymorphisms
distributed throughout the gene were typed and haplotypes were constructed.
RESULTS: No disease-causing alterations were found in either of the patient
cohorts. The risk-associated allele M98K was found in equal amounts in both
patients and controls. Analysis of haplotype frequencies and distribution
revealed high haplotype diversity but no differences between patients and
controls.
CONCLUSION: These experiments show no association between optineurin and our
Swedish cohorts of high-pressure glaucoma cases, either in coding sequence or in 
haplotype frequency and distribution.

DOI: 10.1080/13816810490967953 
PMID: 16020311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. Eye (Lond). 2006 Jun;20(6):681-7. Epub 2005 Jun 24.

Evaluation of the high specificity Screening Program (C-20-1) of the Frequency
Doubling Technology (FDT) perimeter in clinical practice.

North RV(1), Jones AL, Hunter E, Morgan JE, Wild JM.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiff School of Optometry and Vision Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, 
UK. north@cardiff.ac.uk

AIMS: To compare the efficacy of the high specificity Frequency Doubling
Technology (FDT) Perimeter Screening Program (C-20-1) to standard threshold
automated perimetry in the diagnosis of open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: A total of 100 consecutively presenting patients attending a glaucoma
clinic who volunteered for the study (approximately 30% of whom were attending
for an initial visit) were examined with the FDT C-20-1 Screening Program and
with the Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA) SITA Fast algorithm and Program 24-2.
RESULTS: Of the patients, 17 were excluded due to unreliable visual field results
or non-glaucomatous ocular abnormalities. In all, 10 patients were diagnosed as
normal, 54 with open-angle glaucoma, eight with ocular hypertension, and 11 as
glaucoma suspects. Of the 54 glaucomatous patients, 45 exhibited high-tension
glaucoma and nine normal tension glaucoma. Perimetry with the HFA gave a
sensitivity of 81.5% for the combined category of glaucoma and glaucoma suspect
and a specificity of 83.3% for the combined category of normal and ocular
hypertension. Perimetry with the FDT gave a sensitivity of 74.5% and a
specificity of 85.2% compared to that of the HFA.
CONCLUSION: In the detection of glaucoma, Program C-20-1 of the FDT perimeter
exhibits high specificity. It exhibits low sensitivity for the detection of mild 
loss but high sensitivity for advanced field loss relative to Program 24-2 and
the SITA Fast algorithm of the HFA.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6701946 
PMID: 15999135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1068. BMJ. 2005 Jul 16;331(7509):134. Epub 2005 Jul 1.

Treatment of ocular hypertension and open angle glaucoma: meta-analysis of
randomised controlled trials.

Maier PC(1), Funk J, Schwarzer G, Antes G, Falck-Ytter YT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Freiburg, Killianstr 5,
D-79106 Freiburg, Germany. maierphi@aug.ukl.uni-freiburg.de

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Jul 16;331(7509):120-1.

OBJECTIVE: Open angle glaucoma is one of the most common causes of blindness in
industrialised nations. Treatments to lower ocular pressure are widely used in
glaucoma prevention and treatment, despite conflicting evidence.
DESIGN: We performed meta-analyses to reassess the effectiveness of pressure
lowering treatment to delay the development of glaucoma in ocular hypertension,
as well as progression of manifest open angle glaucoma.
DATA SOURCES: Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Library.
SELECTION OF STUDIES: Eligible studies were randomised controlled trials with a
concurrent untreated control group and information on time to glaucomatous
changes to visual field and optic disc. Trial reports were reviewed independently
by two investigators in an unblinded standardised manner.
RESULTS: Meta-analysis of trials in ocular hypertension showed a significant
preventive effect of reducing intraocular pressure on progression to glaucoma
(hazard ratio 0.56, 95% confidence interval 0.39 to 0.81, P = 0.01; number needed
to treat 12). Pooled data of studies in manifest glaucoma showed a significant
delay of visual field deterioration (0.65, 0.49 to 0.87, P = 0.003; NNT = 7),
with subgroup analysis showing a larger effect in patients with raised pressure
and a reduced effect in normal tension glaucoma (subgroup comparison: not
significant).
CONCLUSIONS: Lowering intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension
or manifest glaucoma is beneficial in reducing the risk of visual field loss in
the long term.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38506.594977.E0 
PMCID: PMC558697
PMID: 15994659  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1069. J Glaucoma. 2005 Aug;14(4):280-7.

Frequency doubling technology and scanning laser tomography in eyes with
generalized enlargement of optic disc cupping.

Kunimatsu S(1), Tomita G, Araie M, Aihara M, Suzuki Y, Iwase A, Koseki N,
Matsumoto S, Yamazaki Y, Yoshikawa K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan. shihok-tky@umin.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To characterize functional and structural changes in eyes with
generalized enlargement of optic disc cupping (vertical cup/disc ratio > or =
0.8), normal intraocular pressure, normal standard achromatic automated perimetry
(SAP) results, and no other ophthalmoscopic findings suggesting glaucoma (large
C/D eyes) using frequency doubling technology (FDT) and the Heidelberg Retina
Tomograph (HRT).
METHODS: This comparative observational case series included 30 large C/D eyes
(30 subjects), 17 eyes (17 patients) with early-stage normal tension glaucoma
with generalized enlargement of optic disc cupping (NTG eyes), and 25 eyes from
25 normal subjects (normal eyes). Results with Humphrey 30-2, FDT N-30 threshold 
programs, and HRT were compared among these groups. Large C/D eyes were
subdivided into FDT-normal and -abnormal eyes according to the predetermined
criteria and HRT parameters were compared among them.
RESULTS: No significant difference was seen in HRT parameters between the large
C/D and NTG eyes. In the large C/D eyes, FDT mean deviation was lower than in the
normal eyes and higher than in the NTG eyes, whereas FDT pattern standard
deviation was smaller than in the NTG eyes (P = 0.02-0.03). Among HRT parameters,
only cup shape measure (CSM) showed significant negative correlation with FDT
mean deviation in the large C/D eyes. Between FDT-normal and -abnormal subgroups,
only CSM showed significant difference (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Frequency doubling technology showed abnormalities in large C/D eyes.
Only CSM showed significant correlation with FDT result and difference between
those with normal and abnormal FDT results. In management of large C/D eyes, FDT 
and CSM will be useful to detect functional and structural change.


PMID: 15990608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1070. Mol Vis. 2005 Jun 23;11:431-7.

Association between glaucoma and gene polymorphism of endothelin type A receptor.

Ishikawa K(1), Funayama T, Ohtake Y, Kimura I, Ideta H, Nakamoto K, Yasuda N,
Fukuchi T, Fujimaki T, Murakami A, Asaoka R, Hotta Y, Kanamoto T, Tanihara H,
Miyaki K, Mashima Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
karin-i@sc.itc.keio.ac.jp

PURPOSE: Endothelin 1 (ET-1), a potent vasoconstrictor, may affect regulation of 
intraocular pressure and ocular vessel tone. Thus, ET-1 and its receptors may
contribute to development of glaucoma. We investigated whether gene polymorphisms
of ET-1 (EDN1) and its receptors ETA (EDNRA) and ETB (EDNRB) were associated with
glaucoma phenotypes and clinical features.
METHODS: We studied 224 normal Japanese controls and 426 open angle glaucoma
(OAG) patients including 176 with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and 250 with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Nine single nucleotide polymorphisms were detected
among the participants using the Invader assay; four for EDN1 (T-1370G, +138/ex1 
del/ins, G8002A, K198N), four for EDNRA (G-231A, H323H, C+70G, C+1222T), and one 
for EDNRB (L277L). Genotype distributions were compared between normal controls
and OAG. Age at diagnosis, untreated maximum intraocular pressure (IOP), and
visual field defects at diagnosis were examined for association with
polymorphisms.
RESULTS: Of the 9 polymorphisms, genotype distributions showed no significant
differences between OAG patients and controls adjusted by age. The GG genotype of
EDNRA/C+70G was associated with worse visual field defects in NTG patients
(p=0.014; Mann-Whitney U test, and p=0.027; logistic regression analysis).
CONCLUSIONS: The polymorphism of EDNRA/C+70G may be related to NTG risk factors.


PMID: 15988412  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1071. Br J Ophthalmol. 2005 Jul;89(7):809-11.

Intraocular pressure changes in the contralateral eye after trabeculectomy with
mitomycin C.

Vysniauskiene I(1), Shaarawy T, Flammer J, Haefliger IO.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic Basel, Mittlere Strasse 91, 4012 Basel, Switzerland.

AIM: To assess intraocular pressure (IOP) changes of the contralateral eyes of
eyes undergoing trabeculectomy with mitomycin C (MMC).
METHODS: Non-comparative retrospective study of 24 consecutive patients who
underwent trabeculectomy with MMC that led to more than 45% reduction in IOP. In 
the contralateral eyes, IOP before surgery was compared with IOP 1 day and 1
month after surgery. 11 fellow eyes were under topical hypotensive therapy while 
13 contralateral eyes were not (12 contralateral eyes had previous filtering
surgery and one had normal tension glaucoma). No patients had systemic ocular
hypotensive therapy.
RESULTS: Mean IOP in all contralateral eyes decreased from 15.5 (SD 5.5) mm Hg to
12.5 (3.8) mm Hg (p<0.01), and 13.0 (4.7) mm Hg (p<0.001) 1 day and 1 month after
surgery, respectively. In the 11 fellow eyes under topical ocular hypotensive
therapy mean IOP was reduced from 19.5 (4.0) mm Hg to 13.5 (2.2) mm Hg (p<0.01), 
and 16.5 (2.8) mm Hg (p<0.05) 1 day and 1 month after surgery, respectively. In
the 13 fellow eyes not under topical ocular hypotensive therapy mean IOP was
reduced from 12.1 (4.2) mm Hg to 11.6 (4.7) mm Hg (p not significant) and 9.8
(3.8) mm Hg (p0.01) 1 day and 1 month after surgery, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In the present population, a month after trabeculectomy, mean IOP in
the contralateral eyes decreased independently of whether these contralateral
eyes were undergoing topical ocular hypotensive therapy or not.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2004.050294 
PMCID: PMC1772747
PMID: 15965155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2005 May-Jun;49(3):223-7.

Efficacy and complications after trabeculectomy with mitomycin C in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Jongsareejit B(1), Tomidokoro A, Mimura T, Tomita G, Shirato S, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of and complications after trabeculectomy using
mitomycin C (MMC) in Japanese normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients by a
retrospective analysis based on the Kaplan-Meier life table method.
METHODS: Clinical records of 39 NTG patients who underwent trabeculectomy with
0.04% MMC and had postoperative follow-up periods of 3 years or more (50.5 +/-
8.4 months, mean +/- SD) were reviewed. Postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) 
at every 1 or 2 months, complications, visual acuity, and visual field at every 6
months were recorded.
RESULTS: IOP significantly decreased from 15.9 +/- 1.9 preoperatively to 8-11
mmHg throughout the postoperative follow-up period (P < 0.0001). The life table
analysis, in which failure of IOP control was defined as an IOP above a level
either 30% or 20% lower than the preoperative IOP at three consecutive visits,
showed a cumulative survival rate of 39.4 +/- 7.8% (mean +/- SEM) or 41.3 +/-
8.9%, respectively, at 4 years after surgery. Mean deviation of the visual field 
results did not significantly change (P > 0.5). The cumulative survival rate from
postoperative late-onset hypotony was 74.7 +/- 6.3% at 4 years after surgery.
Postoperative complications observed were shallow anterior chamber (six eyes),
choroidal detachment (nine eyes), hypotonous maculopathy (seven eyes), bleb leak 
(one eye), cataract development (three eyes), and blebitis (two eyes). No eyes
developed endophthalmitis.
CONCLUSIONS: In NTG patients, trabeculectomy with MMC showed significant efficacy
in reducing IOP up to 4 years after surgery. Since risks of postoperative
complications are unavoidable, indications for surgery should be carefully
considered, and careful follow-up is necessary to avoid severe postoperative
complications.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-004-0181-9 
PMID: 15944828  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1073. Eur J Hum Genet. 2005 Aug;13(8):935-46.

Genotype-phenotype studies in nail-patella syndrome show that LMX1B mutation
location is involved in the risk of developing nephropathy.

Bongers EM(1), Huysmans FT, Levtchenko E, de Rooy JW, Blickman JG, Admiraal RJ,
Huygen PL, Cruysberg JR, Toolens PA, Prins JB, Krabbe PF, Borm GF, Schoots J, van
Bokhoven H, van Remortele AM, Hoefsloot LH, van Kampen A, Knoers NV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, The 
Netherlands. t.g.j.derks@bkk.umcg.nl

Nail-patella syndrome (NPS) is characterized by developmental defects of dorsal
limb structures, nephropathy, and glaucoma and is caused by heterozygous
mutations in the LIM homeodomain transcription factor LMX1B. In order to identify
possible genotype-phenotype correlations, we performed LMX1B mutation analysis
and comprehensive investigations of limb, renal, ocular, and audiological
characteristics in 106 subjects from 32 NPS families. Remarkable phenotypic
variability at the individual, intrafamilial, and interfamilial level was
observed for different NPS manifestations. Quantitative urinanalysis revealed
proteinuria in 21.3% of individuals. Microalbuminuria was detected in 21.7% of
subjects without overt proteinuria. Interestingly, nephropathy appeared
significantly more frequent in females. A significant association was established
between the presence of clinically relevant renal involvement in an NPS patient
and a positive family history of nephropathy. We identified normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) and sensorineural hearing impairment as new symptoms associated
with NPS. Sequencing of LMX1B revealed 18 different mutations, including six
novel variants, in 28 families. Individuals with an LMX1B mutation located in the
homeodomain showed significantly more frequent and higher values of proteinuria
compared to subjects carrying mutations in the LIM domains. No clear
genotype-phenotype association was apparent for extrarenal manifestations. This
is the first study indicating that family history of nephropathy and mutation
location might be important in precipitating individual risks for developing NPS 
renal disease. We suggest that the NPS phenotype is broader than previously
described and that NTG and hearing impairment are part of NPS. Further studies on
modifier factors are needed to understand the mechanisms underlying phenotypic
heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201446 
PMID: 15928687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. Med Clin North Am. 2005 Jul;89(4):795-804.

Ophthalmologic disorders in minority populations.

Wilson MR(1), Eezzuduemhoi DR.

Author information: 
(1)Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 3601 4th Street, Lubbock, TX
79430, USA. Mroy.wilson@ttuhsc.edu

Race- and ethnicity-related differences in prevalence of a number
ofophthalmologic disorders have been documented. More importantly, blackand
Hispanic Americans share a disproportionate share of morbidity, asmeasured by
visual impairment and blindness, when compared with whiteAmericans. The reasons
for this health disparity are complex andmultifactorial. If the unequal,
individual, and societal burden of avoidable vision lossamong black and Hispanic 
Americans is to be decreased, it is essential tounderstand the apparent barriers 
to accessing timely and appropriateophthalmologic monitoring and care for these
minority populations. Forthose who do gain access to ophthalmologic care, it is
important tounderstand better the determinants leading to different treatment of 
blackand Hispanic Americans compared with white Americans. Opportunities for
decreasing vision-related morbidity caused by cataract,diabetic retinopathy, and 
glaucoma for these minority groups clearly exist. Strategies for each of these
ophthalmologic disorders may differ. Cataract isa reversible cause of visual
impairment and removal of cataract improvesquality of life. Cataract surgery
should be offered to all who can potentiallybenefit from this treatment. Earlier 
diagnosis, before the disease hasprogressed to loss of vision, should be a goal
in both glaucoma and diabeticretinopathy. Strategies for screening high-risk
groups may be particularlyrelevant in this regard. Additionally, with diabetic
retinopathy, improvedmanagement of contributing risk factors, such as blood
glucose control andblood pressure control, is important. Asian Americans are
increasingly becoming a sizable minority group inthe United States. It is
projected that by 2070, the Asian population willreach 11% of the total
population of the United States. Virtually all of thepopulation-based data
relating to ophthalmologic disorders in Asians havebeen performed in Asia. The
reported relative proportion of PACG versusPOAG, however, among some Asian
populations and of normal-tensionglaucoma versus high-tension glaucoma among the 
Japanese seems to applyto the United States Asian population. This assertion is
based onwidespread clinical impression and analysis of Medicare claims data [56].
Understanding the differences is important for optimal treatment of theseminority
populations as the proportion of Asians in the United Statescontinues to grow.
The common denominator in all of these diseases is the role of thephysician and
patient. Educational programs aimed at the physician tofacilitate cultural
competence and at the patient to increase level of knowledgeabout their disease
are appropriate and enthusiastically endorsed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcna.2005.02.002 
PMID: 15925650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2005 Jun;46(6):1993-2001.

Genetic polymorphisms in the angiotensin II receptor gene and their association
with open-angle glaucoma in a Japanese population.

Hashizume K(1), Mashima Y, Fumayama T, Ohtake Y, Kimura I, Yoshida K, Ishikawa K,
Yasuda N, Fujimaki T, Asaoka R, Koga T, Kanamoto T, Fukuchi T, Miyaki K; Glaucoma
Gene Research Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: The local renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is present in the ciliary body 
and plays a role in regulating aqueous humor dynamics and thus intraocular
pressure (IOP). The purpose of this study was to determine whether gene
polymorphisms in the RAS increase the risk of development of glaucoma in the
Japanese.
METHODS: A case-control study was performed in 698 Japanese subjects: 190
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 268 patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), and 240 normal subjects. Ten polymorphisms in
seven genes-AGT/Thr174Met and AGT/Met235Thr; REN/I8-83G-->A;
ACE/insertion(I)-deletion(D); CMA/-1930A-->G; AGTR1/-731T-->G, AGTR1/-521C-->T,
and AGTR1/1166A-->C; AGTR2/3123C-->A; and CYP11B2/-344T-->C were examined. The
age, IOP, and visual field defects, all at diagnosis, were examined to determine 
whether they were associated with the polymorphisms. The effects of oral
angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) on IOP were examined in association with
the AGTR1 and AGTR2 polymorphisms in 20 normal subjects.
RESULTS: Of the 10 polymorphisms, the AGTR2/3123C-->A polymorphisms had a
significantly different distribution in female patients with NTG; the frequency
of the CA+AA genotypes was significantly higher than in female control subjects
(P = 0.0095 for CC versus CA+AA). Although no significant difference was seen in 
the clinical characteristics of female patients with NTG who carried the
AGTR2/3123C-->A genotype, patients with CC in the AGTR2 gene had significantly
worse visual field scores if they carried ACE/ID+DD (i.e., D carriers; P =
0.012). ARB significantly lowered IOP in normal subjects, but the male subjects
with the AGTR2/3123A genotype had significantly less lowering of IOP than those
with the C genotype (P = 0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: Angiotensin II receptor gene polymorphisms may be associated with
the risk of glaucoma in the Japanese population.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.04-1100 
PMID: 15914614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2001 Mar;49(1):25-30.

Profile of glaucoma in a major eye hospital in north India.

Das J(1), Bhomaj S, Chaudhuri Z, Sharma P, Negi A, Dasgupta A.

Author information: 
(1)Guru Nanak Eye Centre, Maulana Azad Medical College, University of Delhi, New 
Delhi.

PURPOSE: To study the clinical profile and distribution of various subtypes of
glaucoma in a referral practice in North India.
METHOD: A retrospective analysis was done of 2425 patients who attended the
glaucoma clinic in a tertiary eye-care centre for five years from January 1995 to
December 1999. A detailed history was obtained and a thorough examination was
performed, including gonioscopy, disc assessment, applanation tonometry and
automated perimetry. Diurnal variation of IOP and provocative tests for glaucoma 
were done where applicable.
RESULT: Primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) was the most common glaucoma
subtype. The primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) to the PACG ratio was 37:63.
Chronic angle closure glaucoma (CACG) was the most common PACG subtype. The
majority of CACG cases were relatively asymptomatic. Male dominance was seen for 
POAG, juvenile open angle glaucoma (JOAG), CACG, normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
and secondary glaucomas. Female dominance was seen for ocular hypertension (OHT),
acute or intermittent ACG and developmental glaucomas. The mean age in years at
presentation was POAG:60.54 years (males 61.54 years, females 59.01 years) and
PACG: 55.13 years (males 57.25 years, females 53.60). The three common secondary 
glaucomas were: glaucoma secondary to adherent leucoma, aphakic and pseudophakic 
glaucomas and traumatic glaucomas. Advanced glaucoma was detected in 42 to 53% of
patients and bilateral blindness in 8 to 14% of patients in various subtypes.
CONCLUSION: Compared to Caucasians, glaucoma patients in North India seem to
present nearly a decade earlier and the disease is more advanced at presentation.
While PACG is the most commonly encountered glaucoma, NTG and exfoliative
glaucoma are relatively rare.


PMID: 15887712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1077. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2005 Mar;28(3):317-25.

[Circadian variations in intraocular pressure and their clinical implications].

[Article in French]

Blaise P(1), Guillaume S.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, CHU Sart Tilman B35, B-4000 Liège, Belgique.
Pierre.Blaise@ulg.ac.be

Intraocular pressure follows a circadian rhythm like many of the body's
parameters. These fluctuations in intraocular pressure were recently identified
as a risk factor for visual field loss, in addition to intraocular pressure
itself. Furthermore, the pressure curve seems to have a different profile in
glaucomatous patients: the peak occurs later compared with normal subjects.
Better knowledge of pressure fluctuations and their physiological mechanisms is
essential for optimal management of glaucomatous patients not only to interpret
the single ocular tension recordings, but also to use the available treatments
rationally, both drugs and surgery. The authors review different studies that
have contributed to the current knowledge on the circadian rhythm of intraocular 
pressure, aquous humor flow regulation, and the effects of topical hypotensive
drugs on the pressure curve.


PMID: 15883499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1078. J Glaucoma. 2005 Jun;14(3):196-200.

Sequential office pressure measurements in the management of glaucoma.

Collaer N(1), Zeyen T, Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the usefulness of day-long sequential office measurements of
intraocular pressure (IOP) to make therapeutic decisions in patients with
progressive glaucomatous damage despite apparently 'controlled' IOP.
METHODS: We reviewed the records of 93 consecutive glaucoma patients (185 eyes)
who underwent sequential office IOP measurements (every hour from 7 AM to 5 PM on
a single day). These included 53 patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), 12 
glaucoma suspects (GS), and 28 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)
whose visual field deteriorated despite apparently 'controlled' IOP. Only one eye
per patient was included in the study.
RESULTS: The pattern of the day-long IOP curve was similar in the 3 groups of
patients. IOPs were highest in the early morning hours in all groups. The mean
+/- SD of the IOP range was 5 +/- 2 mm Hg. An IOP > 21 mm Hg was found in 3 eyes 
(3%), whereas a range of IOPs > 5 mm Hg was detected in 33 eyes (35%). In the NTG
group, there was a significant correlation between visual field deterioration and
the peak and range of IOP (P = 0.0002 and P = 0.05, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Day-long sequential office IOP measurements are useful in selected
patients who demonstrate progressive glaucomatous damage. Early morning
measurements are most frequently highest. The range of IOP may be as important,
or more important than, the peak IOP level.


PMID: 15870600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1079. Am J Public Health. 2005 May;95(5):881-6.

Causes of visual impairment and common eye problems in Northwest American Indians
and Alaska Natives.

Mansberger SL(1), Romero FC, Smith NH, Johnson CA, Cioffi GA, Edmunds B, Choi D, 
Becker TM.

Author information: 
(1)Devers Eye Institute/Discoveries in Sight at Legacy Health System, Portland,
OR 97210, USA. smansberger@discoveriesinsight.org

OBJECTIVES: Little information exists regarding the causes of visual impairment
and the most common eye problems in American Indians/Alaska Natives.
METHODS: We randomly sampled American Indians/Alaska Natives older than 40 years 
from 3 tribes within the Northwest region.
RESULTS: We found a higher prevalence of visual impairment and normal-tension
glaucoma, as well as a lower prevalence of ocular hypertension, in American
Indians/Alaska Natives compared with previous results in other racial/ethnic
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: American Indians/Alaska Natives have a need for vision correction.
Future interventions in American Indians/Alaska Natives should include providing 
spectacles for refractive error, detecting glaucoma, and preventing visual
impairment from age-related maculopathy and cataracts.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.054221 
PMCID: PMC1449272
PMID: 15855469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Mol Vis. 2005 Apr 18;11:284-7.

Prevalence of myocilin and optineurin sequence variants in German normal tension 
glaucoma patients.

Weisschuh N(1), Neumann D, Wolf C, Wissinger B, Gramer E.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Laboratory, University Eye Hospital, University of
Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany. nicole.weisschuh@uni-tuebingen.de

PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence of optineurin (OPTN) and myocilin (MYOC)
sequence variants in a cohort of German patients with normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: All coding exons of the OPTN and MYOC genes were amplified by PCR from
genomic DNA and subjected to direct DNA sequencing. Analysis of sequence variants
in controls was done by denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC)
and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis.
RESULTS: Sequence variants were identified by DNA sequencing in 10 of 112 cases. 
The OPTN sequence variant M98K was found in seven patients. In addition, two
novel sequence variants (A336G and A377T) in the OPTN gene were identified that
were not present in a control group. Mutation screening also identified two
potentially pathogenic MYOC mutations (T293K and A445V).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings in the current study provide further evidence that MYOC
and OPTN gene variants are rare causes of NTG.


PMID: 15851979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1081. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2005 Apr;222(4):326-31.

[Long-term results after selective laser trabeculoplasty -- a clinical study on
269 eyes].

[Article in German]

Best UP(1), Domack H, Schmidt V.

Author information: 
(1)UPBest@t-online.de

BACKGROUND: Selective laser trabeculoplasty SLT is a new method to reduce
intraocular pressure in eyes with primary open angle glaucoma. With a Q-switched,
frequency-doubled Nd:YAG laser it targets the pigmented trabecular meshwork cells
without visible damage to the adjacent non-pigmented tissue. SLT acts
non-thermally, the intracellular microdisruptions triggered by the laser are
confined to the targeted cells, the laser pulses are so short that heat created
within the targeted cells does not have time to spread to the surrounding tissue.
A clinical prospective study was conducted to evaluate the long-term results,
safety and efficacy of SLT in the treatment of open angle glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Since 2002, we have performed a selective laser
trabeculoplasty in 269 eyes: in 17 eyes with ocular hypertension, in 239 eyes
with primary open angle glaucoma, in 11 eyes with low tension glaucoma, while 2
eyes had a secondary glaucoma due to uveitis. In 22 eyes the primary initial
treatment was SLT.
RESULTS: Three months after treatment, the mean IOP reduction from baseline was
3.4 mm Hg, respectively 15 %, after 12 months the mean IOP reduction was 3.0 mm
Hg (12.9 %), and after 24 months 2.7 mm Hg or 12.1 %. The response curve of the
eyes with ocular hypertension greatly resembled the eyes with primary open angle 
glaucoma and with low tension glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: SLT has shown reasonable efficacy in lowering IOP in eyes with
primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension, both as a first-line
treatment and as a treatment in medication-refractory eyes. SLT is effective for 
patients who have had prior treatment with ALT. Long-term follow-up studies are
needed to determine whether the IOP lowering effect is sustained over time, and
to assess the efficacy of repeated SLT. The exact biological effect induced with 
the SLT is still not understood.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-857955 
PMID: 15844043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1082. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2005 Feb;41(2):136-40.

[A comparative study of optic nerve damage between primary open angle glaucoma
and normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Xia CR(1), Xu L, Yang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Tongren Ophthamic Center, Capital University of Medical Sciences, Beijing
100730, China. xiacuiran@tom.com

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the differences in the characteristics of optic nerve
damage in patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG)and normal tension
glaucoma (NTG).
METHOD: The optic disc parameters and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) of 47 eyes
of 39 subjects with POAG (IOP > 24 mmHg) and 38 eyes of 32 subjects with NTG (IOP
< 21 mmHg) were measured by using a Heidelberg retina tomograph II, color
stereo-optic disc photographs, and an Octopus automated perimetry.
RESULTS: (1) Rim area, rim/disc area ratios and three sectors except temporal
quadrant of optic disc were significantly smaller, whereas C/D was significantly 
larger in patients with NTG than those of POAG. The mean RNFL thickness and RNFL 
cross-sectional areas at temporal/interior and temporal/superior in those with
NTG were significantly (P < 0.05) smaller than those of POAG. The rim volume was 
significantly (P < 0.05) smaller and mean cup depth was significantly (P < 0.05) 
larger in patients with NTG than POAG. (2) The defect types of RNFL: RNFL diffuse
loss and local defect ratio were 53.19% and 4.26% in POAG, respectively; while
were 21.05% and 55.26% in NTG, respectively. The difference between the
proportions of the defect type of RNFL in patients with POAG and those of NTG is 
statistically significant (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that the varieties of C/D area ratio, rim
area, RNFL thickness, and defect types of RNFL with NTG and POAG indicate that
the different mechanisms are involved in optic nerve damage in the two types of
glaucoma.


PMID: 15840340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1083. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2005 Aug;243(8):817-23. Epub 2005 Apr 15.

Autoantibodies in patients with glaucoma: a comparison of IgG serum antibodies
against retinal, optic nerve, and optic nerve head antigens.

Joachim SC(1), Pfeiffer N, Grus FH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Mainz, Langenbeckstrasse 1, 55101
Mainz, Germany.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to analyze and compare the entire IgG
autoantibody patterns against different ocular antigens (retina, optic nerve, and
optic nerve head) in sera of glaucoma patients and healthy subjects.
METHODS: Sixty-six patients were included in this study: healthy volunteers
without any ocular disorders (CO, n=30), patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG, n=19), and patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG, n=17). The
sera were tested for antibodies against retinal, optic nerve, and optic nerve
head tissues. Immunodetection was performed using 4-chloro-1-naphthol staining.
The autoantibody patterns were digitized and subsequently analyzed by
multivariate statistical techniques.
RESULTS: All patients showed a complex repertoire of IgG antibodies against
retinal, optic nerve, and optic nerve head antigens. The analysis of
discriminance revealed a statistically significant differences between the
patterns of all three groups. Our multivariate approach could quantify the
differences in immunoreactivities of patient sera against the three antigens. The
POAG group had the most significant difference against retinal antigens
(P=0.0021) compared with the other antigens. In the NTG group the highest
reactivity appeared against optic nerve head (P=0.00053) and optic nerve
(P=0.0025).
CONCLUSIONS: All groups showed different and complex antibody patterns against
the three ocular tissues. These autoantibodies are highly specific for each
patient group. The analysis of these patterns could provide further information
about possible autoimmune mechanisms in the pathogenesis of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-004-1094-5 
PMID: 15834611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1084. Optometry. 2005 Apr;76(4):228-38.

The relationship between central corneal thickness-adjusted intraocular pressure 
and glaucomatous visual-field loss.

Sullivan-Mee M(1), Halverson KD, Saxon GB, Saxon MC, Shafer KM, Sterling JA,
Sterling MJ, Qualls C.

Author information: 
(1)Albuquerque VA Medical Center, Eye Clinic, New Mexico 87108, USA.
Michael.Sullivan-Mee@med.va.gov

BACKGROUND: Although measurement of central corneal thickness (CCT) is
increasingly becoming an important component of glaucoma risk analysis,
significant controversy exists regarding the benefit of calculating a corrected
intraocular pressure (IOP) value from measured IOP and CCT data.
METHODS: Three hundred forty-four male subjects were identified from a VA eye
clinic with one of the following clinical diagnoses: ocular hypertension (OHT),
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and normal
tension glaucoma suspect (NTGS). Using one eye per subject, multivariate logistic
regression and correlational analyses were performed to determine relationships
between glaucomatous visual-field loss and several glaucoma risk factors,
including adjusted IOP values.
RESULTS: Multivariate logistic regression analysis did not identify CCT-adjusted 
IOP values as independent risk factors for development of either NTG or
POAG-related glaucomatous visual-field loss. CCT, however, was found to be
strongly associated with both NTG and POAG-related visual-field loss.
Correlational analysis revealed a weak correlation between Ehlers-adjusted
pre-treatment IOP and severity of POAG-related visual-field loss, but no other
adjusted IOP values significantly correlated with severity of visual-field loss
in either POAG or NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that adjusted IOP, as calculated using current
algorithms, is not useful within glaucoma risk analysis, since adjusted IOP was
unable to predict either presence or severity of glaucomatous visual-field loss
in this study. CCT, conversely, was found to be a robust and independent
predictor of glaucomatous visual-field loss. These findings, while supporting
routine CCT measurements for all glaucoma suspects, do not support routine
clinical computation of adjusted IOP values using current algorithms.


PMID: 15832843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1085. BMC Ophthalmol. 2005 Apr 5;5:6.

Effects of glaucoma drugs on ocular hemodynamics in normal tension glaucoma: a
randomized trial comparing bimatoprost and latanoprost with dorzolamide
[ISRCTN18873428].

Zeitz O(1), Matthiessen ET, Reuss J, Wiermann A, Wagenfeld L, Galambos P, Richard
G, Klemm M.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Klinik und Poliklinik für
Augenheilkunde, Martinistr, 52, D-20246 Hamburg, Germany.
zeitz@uke.uni-hamburg.de

BACKGROUND: Reduced choroidal perfusion is hypothesized to play a role in the
pathogenesis of normal tension glaucoma. Thus the impact of antiglaucomatous eye 
drops on ocular perfusion has been the focus of recent research and the subject
of intensive investigations. The present study investigates whether topically
applied latanoprost or bimatoprost influence ocular perfusion in patients with
normal tension glaucoma and compares these effects with that changes detected
after the treatment with dorzolamide.
METHODS: Ocular hemodynamics were assessed by color Doppler imaging (CDI) shortly
before and after a one-month treatment with either latanoprost, bimatoprost or
dorzolamide. Primary end-points of the study were peak systolic and end-diastolic
blood flow velocities in the short posterior ciliary artery (SPCA) under the new 
therapy. Intraocular pressure (IOP) and additional perfusion parameters in the
SPCA and other retrobulbar vessels were tracked as observational parameters. n = 
42 patients with normal tension glaucoma were enrolled in the study.
RESULTS: Systolic and diastolic blood flow velocities in the SPCA showed no
significant alteration after the treatment with latanoprost or bimatoprost.
Dorzolamide lead to increase of peak systolic velocity. IOP was reduced by all
three agents in a range reported in the literature.
CONCLUSION: Topically applied latanoprost and bimatoprost act in a
hemodynamically neutral manner and have the capability to lower IOP even in
patients with normal tension glaucoma and low initial IOP level. Dorzolamide
accelerates blood flow in systole. None of the tested compounds has a negative
impact on hemodynamics in the short posterior ciliary arteries.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-5-6 
PMCID: PMC1087849
PMID: 15811188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1086. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2005 Apr;83(2):191-5.

Central corneal thickness and vascular risk factors in normal tension glaucoma.

Doyle A(1), Bensaid A, Lachkar Y.

Author information: 
(1)L'Institut du Glaucome, Fondation Hôpital St. Joseph, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) has been shown to be associated with
reduced central corneal thickness (CCT). The association of NTG with vascular
risk factors is well documented. It has been postulated that a subset of NTG
patients are misclassified due to incorrect intraocular pressure measurements on 
thin corneas. The aim of this study was to establish whether corneal thickness in
NTG differs between patients with vascular risk factors specific to NTG and those
without.
METHODS: The study comprised a retrospective analysis of 108 eyes of 54 patients 
with NTG and 54 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Corneal
thickness was measured in all patients. Vascular risk factors were recorded.
Patients with NTG were divided into two groups depending on the presence (group
A) or absence (group B) of vascular risk factors.
RESULTS: The mean CCT was 549 +/- 34 microm in patients with POAG and 528 +/- 31 
microm in patients with NTG (p = 0.001). Mean CCT was 512 +/- 31 microm in group 
A (n = 13) and 533 +/- 31 microm in group B (n = 41) (p = 0.034). A total of
40.9% of those with thin corneas (n = 22) had vascular risk factors versus only
12.5% of those with CCT within the normal range (n = 32) (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Central corneal thickness in NTG was significantly lower than in POAG
and corneas were thinner in NTG patients with vascular risk factors than in those
without. Vascular risk factors were significantly more common in patients with
thin corneas. The finding of reduced corneal thickness in NTG does not obviate
the need to consider vascular risk factors in the pathophysiology of the disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2005.00436.x 
PMID: 15799731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1087. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2005 Aug;262(8):622-6. Epub 2005 Feb 25.

Antiphospholipid antibodies in patients with sensorineural hearing loss.

Bachor E(1), Kremmer S, Kreuzfelder E, Jahnke K, Seidahmadi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University Hospital Essen, Germany.
edgar.bachor@klinikum-badsalzungen.de

Sensorineural hearing loss can be associated with autoimmune diseases and the
presence of antiphospholipid antibodies. Sixty patients (mean age 47 years, range
18-76 years) with sudden sensorineural hearing loss were studied with audiograms,
stapedial thresholds, otoacoustic emissions, positional and caloric testing. The 
serologic testing included antibodies against phosphatidylserine and
beta(2)-glycoprotein. Additionally, a group of 34 patients (mean age 65 years,
range 31-81 years) with normal tension glaucoma was examined because in a
previous study these patients were reported to have elevated concentrations of
antiphospholipid antibodies with a coincidence of progressive sensorineural
hearing loss. The baseline for antiphospholipid antibody levels was established
in a control group of 40 healthy blood donors. In 12 of the 60 patients with
sudden sensorineural hearing loss, levels of antiphospholipid antibodies were
elevated. Antiphosphatidylserine IgM antibodies were significantly lower compared
to controls and patients with the combination of hearing loss and normal tension 
glaucoma (Fisher's exact two-sided test, P < 0.01). Our data suggest that
antibodies against beta2-glycoprotein seem to coincidence with an acute event,
such as sudden sensorineural hearing loss, whereas antibodies against
phosphatidylserine IgG are detectable in the prolonged sequel, such as in
patients with progressive sensorineural hearing loss and normal tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-004-0877-y 
PMID: 15731904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1088. Amino Acids. 2005 Mar;28(2):199-205. Epub 2005 Jan 23.

Increased DNA breaks and up-regulation of both G(1) and G(2) checkpoint genes
p21(WAF1/CIP1) and 14-3-3 sigma in circulating leukocytes of glaucoma patients
and vasospastic individuals.

Moenkemann H(1), Flammer J, Wunderlich K, Breipohl W, Schild HH, Golubnitschaja
O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Friedrich-Wilhelms-University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Vascular disorder leading to local ischemia/reperfusion has been shown
to play an important role in the glaucomatous damage. A decreased expression
level of XPGC-gene has been found in circulating leukocytes of normal-tension
glaucoma patients. Although decreased activity of XPGC-gene leads to insufficient
DNA-repair, no leukopenia has been observed in glaucoma. Molecular mechanisms
ensuring cell survival have not been elucidated yet for glaucoma with vascular
disorder.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Using the ex vivo optical imaging method of alkaline "comet
assay" comparative quantification of DNA breaks was performed in circulating
leukocytes of non-glaucomatous non-vasospastic and vasospastic individuals as
well as both normal-tension and high-tension glaucoma patients. Relative
expression levels of the anti-apoptotic factors P21(WAF1/CIP1) and 14-3-3 sigma
were investigated in all groups tested.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The quantification of P21(WAF1/CIP1) showed the highest 
expression rates in high-tension glaucoma patients which were significantly
higher than those in all other groups tested. The highest expression rates of
14-3-3 sigma were found in both groups of glaucoma patients. These expression
levels correlated well with DNA breaks measured. Since the expression of
P21(WAF1/CIP1) in leukocytes was shown to be crucial for their survival under
stress conditions, we suppose further that the up-regulation of this gene is the 
key event in the survival mechanisms of leukocytes in glaucoma accompanied with
vascular disorder. The p21(WAF1/CIP1) gene should be further taken into
consideration as a potential marker, the up-regulation of which in circulating
leukocytes of vasospastic individuals may indicate an increased risk for the
developing glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00726-005-0169-x 
PMID: 15723242  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2005 May;24(3):307-32. Epub 2004 Dec 20.

Optic nerve oxygenation.

Stefánsson E(1), Pedersen DB, Jensen PK, la Cour M, Kiilgaard JF, Bang K,
Eysteinsson T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Iceland, National University
Hospital, Landspitali, 105 Reykjavík, Iceland. einarste@landspitali.is

The oxygen tension of the optic nerve is regulated by the intraocular pressure
and systemic blood pressure, the resistance in the blood vessels and oxygen
consumption of the tissue. The oxygen tension is autoregulated and moderate
changes in intraocular pressure or blood pressure do not affect the optic nerve
oxygen tension. If the intraocular pressure is increased above 40 mmHg or the
ocular perfusion pressure decreased below 50 mmHg the autoregulation is
overwhelmed and the optic nerve becomes hypoxic. A disturbance in oxidative
metabolism in the cytochromes of the optic nerve can be seen at similar levels of
perfusion pressure. The levels of perfusion pressure that lead to optic nerve
hypoxia in the laboratory correspond remarkably well to the levels that increase 
the risk of glaucomatous optic nerve atrophy in human glaucoma patients. The risk
for progressive optic nerve atrophy in human glaucoma patients is six times
higher at a perfusion pressure of 30 mmHg, which corresponds to a level where the
optic nerve is hypoxic in experimental animals, as compared to perfusion pressure
levels above 50 mmHg where the optic nerve is normoxic. Medical intervention can 
affect optic nerve oxygen tension. Lowering the intraocular pressure tends to
increase the optic nerve oxygen tension, even though this effect may be masked by
the autoregulation when the optic nerve oxygen tension and perfusion pressure is 
in the normal range. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors increase the optic nerve
oxygen tension through a mechanism of vasodilatation and lowering of the
intraocular pressure. Carbonic anhydrase inhibition reduces the removal of CO2
from the tissue and the CO2 accumulation induces vasodilatation resulting in
increased blood flow and improved oxygen supply. This effect is inhibited by the 
cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin, which indicates that prostaglandin
metabolism plays a role. Laboratory studies suggest that carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors might be useful for medical treatment of optic nerve and retinal
ischemia, potentially in diseases such as glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy.
However, clinical trials and needed to test this hypotheses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2004.09.001 
PMID: 15708831  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1090. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2005 Jan-Feb;49(1):58-9.

The effect of once-daily levobunolol on intraocular pressure in normal-tension
glaucoma.

Inoue K, Ezure T, Wakakura M, Inoue J, Tomita G.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-004-0139-y 
PMID: 15692777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1091. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2005 Jan-Feb;49(1):36-40.

De novo age-related retinal disease and intraocular-pressure changes during a
10-year period in a Japanese adult population.

Kashiwagi K(1), Shibuya T, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Yamanashi, Faculty of Medicine,
Yamanashi 409-3898, Japan. kenjik@yamanashi.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To determine the proportion of age-related ophthalmologic diseases
discovered in a healthy Japanese adult population, as well as to evaluate the
age-related changes in intraocular pressure (IOP) in this population during a
10-year period.
METHODS: Ophthalmologic surveys were conducted in 1988 and 1998 at Tamaho-cho in 
Yamanashi Prefecture. The target population of the first survey was 1389 subjects
over 40 years of age, and of these, 1250 subjects (473 men and 777 women)
participated in the survey. Their mean age was 57.8 +/- 11.9 years. Of these 1250
subjects, 245 subjects participated in the second ophthalmologic survey in 1998. 
The cases of glaucoma or age-related ophthalmologic diseases developing over the 
intervening 10-year period were determined among the subjects who had been
diagnosed with no ophthalmologic abnormalities in the 1988 survey. We also
compared the IOP values of the 219 subjects who were diagnosed with no
ophthalmologic abnormalities in either the 1988 or the 1998 survey.
RESULTS: The number of cases in the 1998 survey with newly discovered ocular
diseases were as follows: two cases (0.82%) of normal-tension glaucoma, two cases
(0.82%) of epiretinal membrane, one case (0.41%) of age-related macular
degeneration, one case (0.41%) of angle-closure glaucoma, and one case (0.41%) of
branch retinal vein occlusion. The mean IOP of the 219 subjects diagnosed with no
ophthalmic abnormalities in either survey was 13.88 +/- 3.04 mmHg in 1988, which 
declined significantly to 13.16 +/- 2.75 mmHg in 1998 (P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: The 10-year follow-up of the 245 subjects participating in both
surveys showed one or two de novo cases of age-related macular degeneration,
epiretinal membrane, branch retinal vein occlusion, normal-tension glaucoma, or
angle-closure glaucoma. IOP was found to decline significantly with age.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-004-0143-2 
PMID: 15692772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1092. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2005 Jan;109(1):19-25.

[Difference of optic disc topography between a low-tension group and a
high-tension group in normal-tension glaucoma patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Shiraki R(1), Uchida H, Ishida K, Yamamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: Glaucomatous visual field loss and optic disc damage differ by
intraocular pressure (IOP) levels. In this study, we compared the optic disc
topography in the high-tension group and the low-tension group in normal-tension 
glaucoma (NTG).
METHOD: We selected NTG patients with mean deviation (MD) > or = -10.00 dB and
the highest recorded IOP of < 14 mmHg or > or = 17 mmHg without glaucoma
treatment. We classified NTG eyes into the following two groups: 1) a low-tension
group with the highest recorded IOP of < 14 mmHg, 2) a high-tension group with
the highest recorded IOP of > or = 17 mmHg. The optic disc parameters in the
low-tension group eyes were compared with those in the high-tension group eyes
using a Heidelberg Retina Tomograph.
RESULTS: Nineteen eyes of nineteen patients were selected for each group. The
cup/disc area ratio in the global sector, and the rim volume in the nasal sector 
of the low-tension group had deteriorated more than in the high-tension group.
CONCLUSIONS: The disc topography is different between the low-tension group and
the high-tension group in the nasal sector, suggesting that different
pathogenetic mechanisms exist in the optic disc damage in NTG.


PMID: 15682841  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1093. Br J Ophthalmol. 2005 Feb;89(2):174-9.

Optic nerve compression by normal carotid artery in patients with normal tension 
glaucoma.

Ogata N(1), Imaizumi M, Kurokawa H, Arichi M, Matsumura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kansai Medical University, 10-15 Fumizono-cho,
Moriguchi, Osaka 570-8507, Japan. ogata@takii.kmu.ac.jp

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2005 Sep;89(9):1228-9.

AIM: To determine whether compression of the optic nerve by the intracranial
carotid artery (ICA) can be a causative factor of normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: The medical records of 103 eyes of 54 Japanese patients with NTG and 104
eyes of 52 age matched control patients were reviewed. The neuroradiological
findings of magnetic resonance images (MRI) were evaluated to determine the
relation between the optic nerve and ICA. The clinical characteristics and
general medical conditions, such as diabetes and systemic hypertension, were also
compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: The prevalence of optic nerve compression by the ICA in patients with
NTG was 49.5%, which was significantly higher than that in control group with
34.6% (p = 0.035). Bilateral compression of the optic nerve was detected in 22
patients with NTG (40.7%), and this was also significantly higher (p = 0.029)
than that in the control group (11 patients, 21.2%). In the NTG group, eyes with 
cup/disc ratio (C/D ratio) > or =0.7 showed a higher percentage of compression
(52.6%) compared with eyes with C/D ratio of <0.7 (12.5%; p = 0. 042). The
presence of diabetes and hypertension did not affect the incidence of optic nerve
compression by ICA significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: The significantly higher percentage of NTG patients who had optic
nerve compression by the ICA suggests that compression of the optic nerve by ICA 
may be a possible causative factor or a risk factor for optic nerve damage in
some patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2004.047035 
PMCID: PMC1772506
PMID: 15665348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1094. Drugs Aging. 2005;22(1):1-21.

Management of glaucoma: focus on pharmacological therapy.

Marquis RE(1), Whitson JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center at Dallas, Texas 75390-9057, USA.

Glaucoma represents a major cause of vision loss throughout the world. Primary
open-angle glaucoma, the most common form of glaucoma, is a chronic, progressive 
disease often, though not always, accompanied by elevated intraocular pressure
(IOP). In this disorder, retinal ganglion cell loss and excavation of the optic
nerve head produce characteristic peripheral visual field deficits. Patients with
normal-tension glaucoma present with typical visual field and optic nerve head
changes, without a documented history of elevated IOP. A variety of secondary
causes, such as pigment dispersion syndrome and ocular trauma, can result in
glaucoma as well. Treatment of all forms of glaucoma consists of reducing IOP.
With proper treatment, progression of this disease can often be delayed or
prevented. Treatment options for glaucoma include medications, laser therapy and 
incisional surgery. Laser techniques for the reduction of IOP include argon laser
trabeculoplasty and selective laser trabeculoplasty. Both techniques work by
increasing outflow of aqueous humour through the trabecular meshwork. Surgical
options for glaucoma treatment include trabeculectomy, glaucoma drainage tube
implantation and ciliary body cyclodestruction. While each of these types of
procedures is effective at lowering IOP, therapy usually begins with medications.
Medications lower IOP either by reducing the production or by increasing the rate
of outflow of aqueous humour within the eye. Currently, there are five major
classes of drugs used for the treatment of glaucoma: (i) cholinergics
(acetylcholine receptor agonists); (ii) adrenoceptor agonists; (iii) carbonic
anhydrase inhibitors (CAIs); (iv) beta-adrenoceptor antagonists; and (v)
prostaglandin analogues (PGAs). Treatment typically begins with the selection of 
an agent for IOP reduction. Although beta-adrenoceptor antagonists are still
commonly used by many clinicians, the PGAs are playing an increasingly important 
role in the first-line therapy of glaucoma. Adjunctive agents, such as
alpha-adrenoceptor agonists and CAIs are often effective at providing additional 
reduction in IOP for patients not controlled on monotherapy. As with any chronic 
disease, effective treatment depends on minimising the adverse effects of therapy
and maximising patient compliance. The introduction of a variety of well
tolerated and potent medications over the past few years now allows the clinician
to choose a treatment regimen on an individual patient basis and thereby treat
this disorder more effectively.


PMID: 15663346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1095. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2004 Dec;108(12):836-61; discussion 862.

[A new approach for studying the retinal and choroidal circulation].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoneya S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Saitama Medical School, Iruma-gun, Japan.

One advantage of advanced computer technology is the high throughput with which
the retinal and the choroidal circulation can be evaluated from new aspects. To
study the choroidal circulation, we first reevaluated indocyanine green video
angiography to improve the visualization of indocyanine green (ICG) images, then 
applied computer technology to analyze images obtained by an ICG video camera
system. We also developed a new instrument to measure oxygen saturation levels in
the fundus using spectral retinal imaging technology. I. Choroidal circulation.
1. Reevaluation of ICG video camera system: For this purpose, the bio-chemical
nature of ICG was studied. 1) Spectral absorption of ICG: The peak absorption of 
ICG in distilled water was 780 nm as measured with a spectrophotometer. Its
maximum absorption shifted from 780 nm to 805 nm after gradually mixing ICG with 
human serum protein. Conjugation time of ICG as well as fluorescein sodium with
human serum protein was then measured by a stopped flowmeter. It was found that
fluorescein sodium conjugated with human serum protein within a few milliseconds,
while ICG required more than 600 seconds before equilibrium of the binding was
reached. From these observations, we developed a new ICG video system with dual
light sources; one, a 780 nm diode laser for the early dye filling phase, and the
other, a 805 nm diode laser for the later phase of ICG angiography. 2) Binding
properties of ICG in human blood: Blood samples were obtained from three healthy 
volunteers after intravenous administration of ICG. The resulting plasma samples 
were fractionated by agarose gel immunoelectrophoresis and polyacrylamide gel
DISC electrophoresis. The electrophoretic pattern obtained by each method was
observed with an ICG fundus video system. We also studied the affinity of ICG for
lipids that are common molecular components of lipoproteins such as high-density 
lipoprotein (HDL) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL). Four kinds of ICG solutions 
mixed with phospholipid, free cholesterol, esterified cholesterol, and
triacrylglycerol were observed with the ICG fundus video system. Both
electrophoretic studies showed that ICG bound intensely to HDL and moderately to 
LDL, and only the solution with phospholipid fluoresced brightly when observed
with the ICG fundus video system. 2. Residual fundus ICG fluorescence: Residual
fundus fluorescence observed in the late phase of ICG angiography may be
delineated differently in normal subjects and in patients with age-related
macular degeneration (ARMD). We performed ICG angiography on 8 normal subjects
aged below 36 years (8 eyes), 9 normal subjects aged above 62 years (9 eyes), and
21 patients with ARMD aged 50 to 88 years (37 eyes). The intensity and pattern of
fluorescence from angiograms obtained in the ultra-late phase, 24 hours after dye
injection, was recorded and analyzed. In the ultra-late phase, 95% of ARMD eyes
with choroidal neovascularization (CNV) showed geographic hypofluorescent
lesions. These hypofluorescent lesions occurred in 73% of ARMD eyes without CN,
while age-matched normal subjects had no hypofluorescent lesions. The mean
intensity of fluorescence in the normal elder subject group was significantly
higher than that seen in the normal younger subject group. These findings may
reflect aging change and bio-distribution of lipid on the Bruch-RPE complex. 3.
The early dye filling pattern of the choroid: We performed ICG angiography on 10 
healthy young volunteers aged 22 to 26 years (23.4+/-1.3; mean+/-standard
deviation) using an improved ICG video camera system. ICG (50 mg) dissolved in 2 
ml in distilled water was injected through the antecubital vein. Although the
choroidal dye filling varied among subjects, it always began in the macular area.
In the 10 subjects, initial dye filling had two patterns: reticular (n=8) and
flush (n=2). The choroidal circulation filled completely before the retinal
circulation did. Bright fluorescence in the macula and fast blood flow may be
correlated with ample blood volume and abundant blood vessels in the macular
area. 4. The spreading pattern of ICG fluorescence in the choroid: The ICG images
obtained for observing the early dye filling pattern of the choroid were further 
processed with a computer-assisted image analyzer. Subtracted images were made
using the early ICG frames with a time interval of 0.12 second. Ninety frames of 
time-sequential images for 3 seconds starting from the initial dye appearance in 
the choroid were prepared to construct an animated image. In the initial phase of
eye filling, patchy fluorescence appeared in the fovea. The fluorescence then
spread centrifugally in all directions in a wave-like pulsatile manner towards
the peripheral fundus with increasing brightness. Thus an animated video of
subtracted images allowed us to evaluate flow dynamics at the level of the
choriocapillaris. Using this new approach, pathogenic involvement of choroidal
circulation in varied chorioretinal diseases such as central serous
chorioretinopathy can be studied with precision. II. Retinal circulation. We
developed a new device to study the oxygen saturation (OS) levels in a wider
fundus area. We call this device a spectral retinal image (SRI) system. We are
pursuing the possibility of this instrument being in clinics to evaluate
chorioretinal diseases. 1. Introduction of the device: The instrument consists of
a Sagnac interferometer that has been mounted on top of a fundus camera, and a
software module which consists of an acquisition module and an analysis module.
The image acquisition process takes 6 seconds during which the fundus is
illuminated by the white incandescent light of the fundus camera at the regular
power settings. OS values in each pixel of the fundus image with a 35-degree view
can then be estimated from the respective spectrum that is obtained by
Fourier-transforming the interferometer signals. Each OS value is represented by 
a specific color, and each pixel of the fundus image is painted accordingly. 2.
Clinical applications. 1) Control study: OS levels of both retinal arteries and
veins within a 1 disc diameter (DD) area around the disc were measured from 20
SRIs obtained from 10 healthy volunteers, and were 96.65+/-3.30% and
56.05+/-4.69%, respectively. Then 30 healthy volunteers were recruited for
further study in which the OS values were calculated in five retinal regions: (1)
juxta-papillary area within 1.75 DD, (2) fovea within 1.0 DD, (3) papillomacular 
region within 1.0 DD, (4) superior area of the posterior fundus within 1.0 DD,
and (5) inferior posterior area of the posterior fundus within 1.0 DD. The OS
level of the juxta-papillary area was the highest, while that of the fovea was
the lowest and the other three posterior retinal regions were in the middle. Thus
OS levels differed at various areas in the retina with statistical significance. 
In spite of abundant choroidal circulation in the fovea, the overlying retina may
have a relative by low oxygen level. As the retinal pigment epithelium may be
efficient enough to block the effect of the choroid optically, our results may
indicate that the OS levels represent the OS of the retina. 2) Measurement of OS 
levels in eyes with retinal circulatory disturbances: Eleven eyes of 10 patients 
with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO), which showed various degrees of
severity, and 4 fellow unaffected eyes of selected patients were examined by both
fluorescein angiography (FAG) and the new SRI system. The fluroescein angiograms 
were correlated with OS maps that were calculated from the SRI. OS grading
demonstrated by OS maps correlated well with severity of CRVO, as estimated by
FAG. Thus our SRI system is noninvasive with reproducible results, and may prove 
to be a useful clinical tool to evaluate the degree of retinal ischemia. 3)
Measurement of OS levels in eyes with glaucoma: Forty-seven eyes with open angle 
glaucoma (OAG) of 47 patients and 21 eyes of 21 age-matched normal subjects were 
recuited for the study. Twelve eyes with low-tension glaucoma (LTG) were included
in the OAG eyes and the rest of the OAG eyes had primary OAG. All patients and
normal subjects were examined by SRI. Visual field tests for OAG eyes were done
with a Humphrey Field Analyzer using the 30-2 program, Swedish interactive
threshold argorithm (SITA). OS levels in the retina at 5 different points:
superior, inferior, superio- and inferio-temporal, and nasal region within a
juxta-papillary area of 200 microm in diameter were calculated from the SRI. OS
levels of retinal arteries were also measured and there were no significant
differences between OAG and the control group. OAG eyes showed reduced OS levels 
in the inferio-temporal retina with statistical significance. This observation
was more prominent in LTG eyes. The reduced OS levels observed in OAG eyes
correlated well with mean deviation (MD) and the sum of total deviation of the 17
points in corresponding areas in the visual field analysis.


PMID: 15656089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1096. Klin Oczna. 2004;106(4-5):588-92.

Some clinical implications of the collaborative normal tension glaucoma study.

Drance SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of BC, Vancouver, Canada.

This is to present the results of randomized multicenter normal tension glaucoma 
study. The primary aim of the study was to establish whether a 30% or greater
pressure reduction altered the course of NTG compared to untreated controls. Our 
study confirms that in glaucoma patients even with normal intraocular pressures
the pressure is involved in its pathogenesis and that pressure reduction
favourably affects its course in a significant proportion of cases. Moreover, it 
identifies a great variability of the untreated disease. Over 7 years nearly half
appeared to show no progression, the other half showed progression of their
damaged area but this was slow and often did not result in a change of their MD
index. There was a small group, who showed rapidly advancing disease, which was
likely lead to visual handicap. Moreover, it was then attempted to study risk
factors, other than intraocular pressure. Gender, ethnic background, migraine and
the presence of disc hemorrhage adversely influence the course of the disease and
may therefore account for some of the variability in the course of the disease.
normal tension glaucoma, randomized multicenter study.


PMID: 15646475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. Ophthalmology. 2005 Jan;112(1):20-7.

Restoration of retinal ganglion cell function in early glaucoma after intraocular
pressure reduction: a pilot study.

Ventura LM(1), Porciatti V.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Miami, Florida 33136, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate the changes of pattern electroretinogram (PERG) after
intraocular pressure lowering in glaucoma patients and normal controls.
DESIGN: Interventional retrospective cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-five patients (49 eyes) with ocular hypertension or glaucoma
undergoing topical treatment to lower IOP served as a study group; 22 patients
(44 eyes) with ocular hypertension or glaucoma observed without treatment served 
as a control group for treated glaucoma patients; 9 normal subjects (18 eyes)
receiving a 250-mg acetazolamide tablet served as a second study group; and 17
normal subjects (34 eyes) from a previous study served as a second control group 
for treated normal subjects.
METHOD: Pattern electroretinograms were recorded simultaneously from both eyes
using skin electrodes and automated analysis. Visual field (VF) analyses were
performed with white-on-white standard automated perimetry (SAP). Intraocular
pressure was measured with Goldmann applanation tonometry; central corneal
thickness was measured with pachymetry.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Pattern electroretinogram amplitude (microvolts), phase
(pi rads), and test-retest variability (test 2-to-test 1 ratio, in decibels), SAP
mean deviation (decibels), and IOP (millimeters of mercury).
RESULTS: In 56% of right eyes and 21% of left eyes of the treated glaucoma
subgroup, the PERG amplitude and/or phase improved beyond the 95% confidence
intervals of the test-retest variability of the untreated glaucoma control group.
Pattern electroretinogram improvement with IOP lowering occurred in both high-
and low-tension glaucoma eyes. Eyes with severely impaired VFs showed little
improvement in PERG; however, eyes of normal subjects treated with acetazolamide 
did not show significant PERG changes relative to the test-retest variability of 
normal controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Retinal ganglion cell function can be at least partially restored
after IOP reduction in glaucomatous eyes with early VF impairment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2004.09.002 
PMCID: PMC2756428
PMID: 15629815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1098. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2005 Jan;46(1):197-201.

Improvement of spatial contrast sensitivity threshold after surgical reduction of
intraocular pressure in unilateral high-tension glaucoma.

Gandolfi SA(1), Cimino L, Sangermani C, Ungaro N, Mora P, Tardini MG.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Institute of Ophthalmology, University of Parma, Parma,
Italy. s.gandolfi@rsadvnet.it

PURPOSE: To measure the effect of a surgical reduction of IOP on the spatial
contrast sensitivity threshold in eyes showing a considerably increased IOP but
no glaucomatous visual field defect, on white-on-white computer-assisted static
perimetry.
METHODS: Prospective clinical trial, lasting 36 months; 10 consecutive subjects
with untreated IOP > or = 30 mmHg in one eye and < or =18 mmHg in the fellow eye,
no evidence of field damage in both eyes, best corrected visual acuity > or
=20/20 in both eyes, and scheduled for a primary trabeculectomy in the eye
showing a high IOP. The spatial contrast sensitivity threshold was measured
before surgery and at each follow-up visit.
RESULTS: Preoperative spatial contrast sensitivity was worse in those eyes
bearing a high IOP relative to the normal fellow eyes (paired samples t-test, P
<0.0005). An improvement of contrast sensitivity threshold, exceeding the 95%
confidence limits of the preoperative test-retest variability, was observed at 3,
6, and 12 cyc/deg in each surgical eye at the end of follow-up. No change was
observed in the fellow untreated normal eyes. The improvement correlated directly
with the amount of decrease in pressure obtained by surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Eyes with no field defects on white-on-white computer-assisted
static perimetry, but bearing a IOP > or = 30 mmHg, show a decreased spatial
contrast sensitivity. A surgically obtained reduction of IOP is paralleled by an 
improvement of spatial contrast sensitivity.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.04-0199 
PMID: 15623774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1099. J Chin Med Assoc. 2004 Sep;67(9):465-71.

Diurnal intraocular pressure and blood pressure with two dosing regimens of
brimonidine in normal tension glaucoma.

Liu CJ(1), Cheng CY, Ko YC, Hsu WM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan,
ROC. jlliu@vghtpe.gov.tw

BACKGROUND: To compare the effects of 2 dosing regimens of brimonidine tartrate
0.2% on diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP) and systemic hemodynamics in patients 
with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Twenty NTG patients were enrolled and randomized to receive either
brimonidine twice daily (BID) for 4 weeks followed by brimonidine 3 times daily
(TID) for another 4 weeks, or in reverse order. Diurnal variations of IOP and
ocular perfusion pressure (OPP), as well as the 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure
(BP) and pulse rate, were evaluated at baseline and after treatment. Baseline and
post-treatment data were compared using a paired Student's t test, and treatment 
effects were compared between regimens using a crossover-designed analysis of
variance.
RESULTS: Both regimens decreased the mean (p < 0.001) and minimum (p < 0.001)
diurnal IOP, and only the TID regimen decreased the maximum IOP with a marginal
significance (p = 0.049). The TID regimen decreased the maximum OPP (p = 0.009)
while the BID regimen caused no changes in OPP. No significant difference in IOP 
or OPP was noted between regimens at each time point. Neither regimen caused
changes in BP or pulse rate as assessed using the 24-hour ambulatory monitoring
device.
CONCLUSIONS: The TID regimen of brimonidine produces similar reductions in
diurnal IOP for NTG patients as the BID regimen, and it alone decreases the
maximum OPP. Neither of the 2 regimens causes exaggerated nocturnal reduction of 
BP.


PMID: 15617307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1100. Br J Ophthalmol. 2005 Jan;89(1):21-5.

Effect of nimodipine on ocular blood flow and colour contrast sensitivity in
patients with normal tension glaucoma.

Luksch A(1), Rainer G, Koyuncu D, Ehrlich P, Maca T, Gschwandtner ME, Vass C,
Schmetterer L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

AIM: To investigate the effects of oral nimodipine on ocular haemodynamic
parameters and colour contrast sensitivity in patients with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: The study was performed in a randomised, placebo controlled, double
masked, crossover design.
PARTICIPANTS: Nimodipine (60 mg) or placebo was administered to 14 consecutive
NTG patients.
METHODS: The effects or oral nimodipine or placebo on ocular and systemic
haemodynamic parameters and colour contrast sensitivity along the tritan axis
were studied two hours after administration. Optic nerve head blood flow (ONHBF) 
and choroidal blood flow (CHBF) were assessed with laser Doppler flowmetry.
Ocular fundus pulsation amplitude (FPA) was measured with laser interferometry.
Colour contrast sensitivity (CCS) was determined along the tritan colour axis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: ONHBF, CHBF, FPA, intraocular pressure and CCS were
assessed in patients with NTG.
RESULTS: Mean ocular FPA increased by 14% (SD 14%) (p = 0.0008), ONHBF by 18% (SD
16%) (p = 0.0031), and CHBF by 12% (SD 14%) (p<0.001) after administration of
nimodipine. Nimodipine also decreased the threshold of colour contrast
sensitivity along the tritan colour axis (-14% (SD 12%); p = 0.048). However,
individual changes in FPA, ONHBF, or CHBF were not correlated with changes in
threshold of CCS along the tritan colour axis.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that nimodipine increases ONH and choroidal
blood flow in NTG patients and improves CCS. The latter effect does not, however,
seem to be a direct consequence of the blood flow improvement.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2003.037671 
PMCID: PMC1772476
PMID: 15615740  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1101. Ophthalmology. 2004 Dec;111(12):2211-9.

Central corneal thickness of Caucasians, Chinese, Hispanics, Filipinos, African
Americans, and Japanese in a glaucoma clinic.

Aghaian E(1), Choe JE, Lin S, Stamper RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco,
California, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the central corneal thickness (CCT) of Asian (Chinese,
Japanese, and Filipino), Caucasian, Hispanic, and African American patients in a 
multiethnic glaucoma practice.
DESIGN: Retrospective study (chart review).
PARTICIPANTS: Glaucomatous (n = 600) and nonglaucomatous (n = 201) eyes of 801
patients examined in a San Francisco glaucoma clinic from June 2002 to April 2004
who met inclusion criteria were included in the study. The 6 racial (ethnic)
groups represented in the study were Caucasian (n = 186, 23.2%), Chinese (n =
157, 19.6%), Japanese (n = 121, 15.1%), Hispanic (n = 116, 14.5%), Filipino (n = 
114, 14.2%), and African American (n = 107, 13.4%).
METHODS: Central corneal thickness was measured by means of ultrasound pachymetry
in Asian (Chinese, Japanese, and Filipino), Caucasian, Hispanic, and African
American participants with glaucomatous and normal eyes. The relationship between
CCT and race was investigated using multivariate regression analyses, controlling
for confounders. One eye of each of 801 participants was included for analysis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Correlation of mean CCT with race, glaucoma diagnosis,
age, spherical equivalent, gender, and history of ocular surgery.
RESULTS: The mean CCT of all participants was 542.9 mum. Central corneal
thicknesses of Chinese (555.6 microm), Caucasian (550.4 microm), Filipino (550.6 
microm), and Hispanic (548.1 microm) participants did not significantly differ.
The CCT of Japanese participants (531.7 microm) was significantly less than that 
of Caucasians, Chinese, Filipinos, and Hispanics (all, P< or =0.001) and greater 
than that of African Americans (P = 0.03). African Americans had a CCT (521.0.0
microm) less than that of all races (P< or =0.05). Glaucoma suspects and patients
with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG),
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEX), and chronic angle-closure glaucoma (CACG) had
corneas significantly thinner than those of normal participants (P< or =0.004),
whereas ocular hypertensives had significantly thicker corneas (P<0.0001). Among 
all participants, decreasing values of CCT were significantly related to older
age (P<0.01). Less negative or more positive refractive errors, gender, and
history of ocular surgery were not associated with changes in CCT (P = 0.38, P = 
0.50, and P = 0.97, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Studies examining individual Asian subpopulations in isolation
suggest that differences in CCT may exist among different Asian groups. The
results of this study indicate that CCT does, in fact, vary among Asian
subpopulations; Japanese have thinner corneas than Chinese and Filipinos.
Caucasians, Chinese, Hispanics, and Filipinos have comparable CCT measurements,
whereas the corneas of African Americans are significantly thinner. Additionally,
older individuals; glaucoma suspects; and participants with NTG, POAG, PEX, and
CACG have thinner corneas. Ocular hypertensives, however, have thicker corneas.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2004.06.013 
PMID: 15582076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1102. Clin Hemorheol Microcirc. 2004;31(4):295-302.

Red blood cell deformability, aggregability and cytosolic calcium concentration
in normal tension glaucoma.

Vetrugno M(1), Cicco G, Cantatore F, Arnese L, Delle Noci N, Sborgia C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology - ENT, Institute of Ophthalmology, University of
Bari, Italy. m.vetrugno@oftalmo.uniba.it

AIM: The aim of the study was to determine the role of some erythrocyte patterns 
(Red Blood Cell deformability, aggregability, cytosolic calcium concentration) in
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), compared with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG)
and normal subjects.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Ninety patients entered the study, divided in three groups:
age and sex-matched, otherwise normal subjects (30 patients), POAG (30 patients) 
and NTG patients (30 patients). Hemorheological parameters (elongation index [EI]
and aggregability half time [At1/2] were detected using a laser diffractometer
system (Laser-assisted Optical Rotational Cell Analyzer [LORCA]). Cytosolic
calcium levels were measured using spectrofluorimetry.
RESULTS: No significant difference in systemic variables and refractive error was
found. Mean hematocrit level, cell volume, plasma protein level and coagulation
factors did not show any statistical difference among groups and resulted to be
in the range of normality. A significant decrease in EI measurements was
demonstrated in the NTG group (p<0.001) only. Similarly, A-t1/2 measurements were
significantly smaller in the NTG group than in the other groups (p<0.001).
Cytosolic calcium levels were significantly higher in the NTG group than in the
other groups (p<0.001) and they were correlated to the elongation index for each 
group and overall (r=-0.756, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: A significant decrease of erythrocyte deformability and increase in 
aggregability was found in NTG patients. These alterations seem to be inversely
related to the intracytosolic calcium levels and they were not found in POAG
patients and controls. Those results may contribute to understand the
pathogenesis of normal tension glaucoma, suggesting a possible role played by red
blood cells.


PMID: 15567900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1103. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2004 Dec;45(12):4359-67.

Variants in optineurin gene and their association with tumor necrosis
factor-alpha polymorphisms in Japanese patients with glaucoma.

Funayama T(1), Ishikawa K, Ohtake Y, Tanino T, Kurosaka D, Kimura I, Suzuki K,
Ideta H, Nakamoto K, Yasuda N, Fujimaki T, Murakami A, Asaoka R, Hotta Y,
Tanihara H, Kanamoto T, Mishima H, Fukuchi T, Abe H, Iwata T, Shimada N, Kudoh J,
Shimizu N, Mashima Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate sequence variations in the optineurin (OPTN) gene and
their association with TNF-alpha polymorphisms in Japanese patients with
glaucoma.
METHODS: The OPTN gene was analyzed in blood samples from 629 Japanese subjects. 
There were 194 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 217 with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), and 218 with no eye disease (control subjects).
The gene was screened for mutations by denaturing high-performance liquid
chromatography. Genotyping of three polymorphisms of -308G-->A, -857C-->T, and
-863C-->A in the TNF-alpha promoter region was performed. The associations
between the genotypes and age, intraocular pressure (IOP), and visual field
defects at the time of diagnosis were examined.
RESULTS: A possible glaucoma-causing mutation, His26Asp, was identified in 1 of
the 411 Japanese patients with glaucoma. A c.412G-->A (Thr34Thr) polymorphism in 
the OPTN gene was significantly associated with POAG (genotype frequency, P =
0.011; allele frequency, P = 0.003). The frequency of TNF-alpha/-857T and
optineurin/412A carriers was significantly higher (P = 0.006) in patients with
POAG than in control subjects. Among the patients with POAG who were carriers of 
TNF-alpha/-857T, the optineurin/412A carriers had significantly worse (P = 0.020)
visual field scores than the non-optineurin/412A ones. The frequency of
TNF-alpha/-863A and optineurin/603A (or Lys98) carriers was significantly higher 
in patients with POAG (P = 0.008) or NTG (P = 0.027) than in control subjects.
Among the patients with POAG who were carriers of TNF-alpha/-863A, the ones with 
optineurin/603A (or Lys98) had significantly worse (P = 0.026) visual field
scores than did those with non-optineurin/603A (or Lys98).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrated that the OPTN gene is associated with
POAG rather than NTG in the Japanese. Statistical analysis showed a possible
interaction between polymorphisms in the OPTN and the TNF-alpha genes that would 
increase the risk for glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.03-1403 
PMID: 15557444  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1104. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2004 Oct;27(8):891-6.

[Clinical advantages of colorimetric exploration in the early diagnosis of
glaucomatous neuropathy].

[Article in French]

Misiuk-Hojlo M(1), Nizankowska MH, Regiec P, Raczyńska K.

Author information: 
(1)Clinique Ophtalmologique, Académie Médicale de Wroclaw, Pologne.

AIM: The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate acquired color vision
defects in the early stages of primary glaucoma and in patients at risk for
glaucoma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, normal-tension
glaucoma and ocular hypertension were examined with the IF-2 anomaloscope. The
Rayleigh equation and the Moreland equation were tested. We studied the
relationships between color vision defects and the other tested variables.
RESULTS: We found the mean value of the setting range of the Moreland equation
significantly increased in all tested groups. Color vision disturbances were
found in 57% of eyes with glaucoma and in 31% of eyes with ocular hypertension.
We found a positive correlation between the blue-green colour vision defects and 
the perimetric changes in the glaucomatous eyes. These results indicate a
decrease in color discriminating sensitivity in the short wavelength part of the 
visible spectrum in patients with glaucoma as well as in patients with ocular
hypertension.
CONCLUSION: Blue-yellow color vision testing with the anomaloscope may serve as
an additional test in the early diagnosis of glaucoma but the absence of
dyschromatopsia does not exclude the disease.


PMID: 15547469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1105. J Glaucoma. 2004 Dec;13(6):492-5.

Investigation of the association between OPA1 polymorphisms and normal-tension
glaucoma in Korea.

Woo SJ(1), Kim DM, Kim JY, Park SS, Ko HS, Yoo T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: OPA1, the gene responsible for autosomal dominant optic atrophy,
represents a good candidate gene for normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Single
nucleotide polymorphisms on intervening sequence (IVS) 8 of the OPA1 gene
(IVS8+4C>T; +32T>C) were recently found to be strongly associated with NTG in a
Caucasian population. We investigated whether these polymorphisms in the OPA1
gene were associated with NTG in Korea.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-five Korean NTG patients and 101 healthy Korean
subjects were enrolled. DNA from peripheral blood leukocytes was extracted and
the genotypes of two polymorphisms (IVS8+4C>T; +32T>C) in the OPA1 gene were
determined using the restriction fragment length polymorphism method. The
genotype and allele frequencies of two polymorphism in patients with NTG and
normal controls were compared using the Fisher exact test and the chi test.
Frequencies of haplotypes and haplotypes groups were also analyzed to assess the 
combined effect of two polymorphisms.
RESULTS: The frequencies of the CT genotype of IVS8+4C>T, CC genotype of
IVS8+32T>C, and TT genotype of IVS8+32T>C were not significantly different
between NTG patients and controls (4.6% versus 0.0%, P = 0.058 by the Fisher
exact test; 10.8% versus 4.0%, P = 0.11 by the Fisher exact test; 61.5% versus
67.3%, P = 0.45 by the chi test, respectively). Any haplotype or haplotype group 
of IVS8+4C>T and IVS8+32T>C was not associated with NTG, and the C allele of
IVS8+32T>C was not a significant modifier of IVS8+4C>T.
CONCLUSIONS: There were no significant associations between IVS8+4C>T; +32T>C
polymorphisms and NTG in the Korean population. These results do not support the 
results in Caucasians and indicate that ethnic differences may exist in the
association between polymorphisms in the OPA1 gene and NTG.


PMID: 15534475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. Ophthalmology. 2004 Nov;111(11):2126-32.

Central corneal pachymetry and visual field progression in patients with
open-angle glaucoma.

Kim JW(1), Chen PP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington,
USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate the association between corneal pachymetry and visual
field progression in patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma.
DESIGN: Retrospective case-control study.
PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-eight patients with primary open-angle glaucoma,
pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, pigmentary glaucoma, or normal-tension glaucoma,
followed for an average of 8 years, who had visual field loss and progression as 
defined by modified Anderson criteria. Cases with progression were matched for
race, diagnosis, and age at pachymetry with controls who did not have
progression.
METHODS: Progression was defined by use of the modified Anderson criteria.
Central corneal thickness (CCT) was determined by ultrasound pachymetry.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Visual field progression and corneal pachymetry.
RESULTS: The mean CCT in patients with visual field progression was significantly
lower than the mean CCT in patients who did not progress (529+/-36 mum vs.
547+/-35 mum; P = 0.02). Those with thinner CCT were more likely to progress than
those with thicker CCT as identified by Cox proportional hazards regression
analysis (P = 0.01; hazard ratio, 1.44 for a 40-mum thinner CCT; 95% confidence
interval, 1.12-1.80), and CCT was the only risk factor identified to be
significantly associated with visual field progression.
CONCLUSIONS: In this case-control patient population, visual field progression in
patients with open-angle glaucoma was significantly associated with thinner CCT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2004.04.029 
PMID: 15522381  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1107. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 2004;(293):35-43.

[Use of corneal pachymetry in ocular hypertension and chronic glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Detry-Morel M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cliniques universitaires St Luc, UCL, Bruxelles. detry@ofta.ucl.ac.be

Among the numerous corneal variables that may influence the determination of the 
"true" intraocular pressure (IOP) from applanation tonometry measurements and
considering the still non conclusive scientific data on all the different aspects
of this topic, the measurement of the central corneal thickness (CCT) may be an
interesting diagnosis tool in hypertensive and glaucomatous patients. As far as
the physiologic variability of the corneal thickness is considered, the
measurement of CCT can potentially become an important confounding variable when 
measuring applanation tonometry in patients with ocular hypertension. It could
also improve the management of patients with normal tension glaucoma and patients
with suspicious optic discs. In these three groups, the measurement of CCT may be
useful in determining if there is an artefactual error in the IOP measurement due
to a thicker (too high) cornea or thinner (too low) cornea. Therefore the IOP
corrected by CCT may change or influence a decision to initiate or modify
treatment. CCT measurement has also proved to be crucial in patients who have
undergone laser refractive surgery.


PMID: 15510721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1108. Klin Oczna. 2004;106(1-2 Suppl):245-6.

[Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome as a risk factor of glaucomatous neuropathy].

[Article in Polish]

Misiuk-Hojło M(1), Brzecka A, Kobierzycka A, Szaliński M.

Author information: 
(1)Kliniki Okulistyki Akademii Medycznej we Wrocławiu.

The consequences of sleep apneas in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA)
syndrome may influence the function of visual system. In 21 patients with OSA
syndrome (apnea/hypopnea index--AHI 50+/-20) the detailed ophthalmologic studies,
including tonometry, biomicroscopic evaluation of the anterior segment of the
eye, automatic perimetry and stereoscopic examination of the eye fundus have been
performed. In 4 patients (19%) the signs of lesions in the optic tract have been 
found. These were: defects in visual field caused by glaucoma (primary open-angle
glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma) in 2 patients and defects in visual field
(concentric and quadrantic homonymous) caused by diffuse lesions in the
cortico-nuclear tract in 2 patients. In patients with the lesions in the optic
tract there were severe disorders of breathing during sleep: AHI >60, mean SaO2
at the end of the apneas <86% and minimal SaO2 at the end of the apneas <70%. The
authors conclude that in OSA patients there is a high risk of the lesions of the 
optic tract as a consequence of severe and repetitive hypoxemia during sleep.


PMID: 15510515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1109. Klin Oczna. 2004;106(1-2 Suppl):236-7.

[Central corneal thickness measurement in normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Wasilewicz R(1), Pecold-Stepniewska H, Pecold K.

Author information: 
(1)Kliniki Okulistyki Akademii Medycznej w Poznaniu.

PURPOSE: To evaluate corneal thickness in eyes with normal tension glaucoma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: CCT (measured by specular microscope Topcon SP2000P) was
evaluated in 70 eyes of 39 patients with diagnosed NTG, 35 women and 4 men in age
31-78 years (mean 68 years).
RESULTS: Mean central corneal thickness measured by the specular microscope
(between 11 and 1), was 523.7 microm in range 465-575 microm. Impact of CCT on
results of Goldman aplanation tonometry was detected in 55.7% of NTG
eyes--overestimated in 20% and underestimated in 35% of them. Corrected maximal
IOP > 21 mmHg, was found in 14% of NTG eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Central corneal thickness measurement should be part of routine
ophthalmological examination in glaucomatous patients (especially in NTG), being 
helpful in choice of optimal therapeutic strategy.


PMID: 15510511  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1110. Klin Oczna. 2004;106(1-2 Suppl):231-3.

[Comparison of SKP (semi-automated kinetic perimetry) and SASP (suprathreshold
automated static perimetry) techniques in patients with advanced glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Nowomiejska K(1), Paetzold J, Krapp E, Rejdak R, Zagórski Z, Schiefer U.

Author information: 
(1)Kliniki Okulistyki Uniwersytetu w Tybindze, Oddział Neurookulistyki, Tybinga, 
Niemcy.

PURPOSE: To compare the results of conventional suprathresold automated static
perimetry (SASP) and a new method of kinetic visual field examination
(semi-automated kinetic perimetry--SKP) in patients with advanced retinal nerve
fibre layer (RNFL) defects, caused by glaucoma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Nineteen patients (10 women and 9 men) suffering from
advanced open-angle glaucoma (17 patients) and low tension glaucoma (2 patients) 
were enrolled in this study. The mean age was 65.3 years (range 49.0-82.9 years).
One eye of each subject was examined with SKP and SASP, both implemented in
Octopus 101 perimeter (Haag-Streit, Koeniz, Switzerland) on the same day. The
examiner using SKP did not know the SASP results. The static visual field
examination was performed first. In order to compare visual fields results
obtained with both methods, only central 30 degree area of the visual fields was 
taken into consideration. The area obtained by creating a virtual isopter (option
of SKP software) located between the position of defective and intact visual
field regions of SASP and the area of I4e isopter obtained with SKP (stimulus
angular velocity 3 degrees/s) were measured in deg2 and compared.
RESULTS: The mean area (+/-SD) of I4e isopter obtained with SKP was 1882 deg2
(+/- 510 deg2) and the mean area of SASP 30 degree visual field was 1737 deg2
(+/- 546 deg2). This difference was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Quantitative comparison of static and kinetic perimetry is a
difficult task to perform. The SKP software offers a possibility of direct
quantitative assessment of the area of each isopters in deg2. This study shows
that the results of visual field examinations obtained with both methods in this 
group do not differ significantly between SASP and SKP.


PMID: 15510509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1111. Klin Oczna. 2004;106(1-2 Suppl):228-30.

[Quantification of isopters using semiautomated kinetic perimetry (SKP) in
glaucoma patients with advanced retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) loss].

[Article in Polish]

Nowomiejska K(1), Rejdak R, Zarnowski T, Krapp E, Paetzold J, Schiefer U,
Zagórski Z.

Author information: 
(1)I Kliniki Okulistyki Akademii Medycznej w Lublinie.

PURPOSE: To quantify the area of isopters obtained using a new technique of
kinetic visual field examination--semi-automated kinetic perimetry (SKP)--in case
of advanced retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) loss, caused by glaucoma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Forty-one subjects (19 men, 22 women; mean age 66.5 +/-
12.5 years) suffering from open-angle glaucoma (30 patients), normal tension
glaucoma (5 patients), juvenile glaucoma (2 patients) and PEX glaucoma (4
patients) were examined, using SKP program implemented in Octopus 101 instrument 
(Haag-Streit, Koeniz, Switzerland). One eye of each patient was tested using
three stimuli according to the Goldmann classification. The stimuli III4e and I4e
were obligatory. Additionally one stimulus (I3e or I2e) was used depending on the
character of the defect. The stimulus angular velocity was kept constant at the
level of 3 degrees/s. Obtained visual field (VF) results were classified
according to the Aulhorn classification into stage III (26 VF) and IV (15 VF).
The areas of isopters were measured in deg2.
RESULTS: The mean area of isopter III4e was 9860 deg2, I4e--5171 deg2, I3e--1093 
deg2, I2e--1093 deg2 in the group of Aulhorn stage III. In the group of Aulhorn
stage IV the mean area of isopter III4e was 7488 deg2, I4e--3736 deg2, I3e--1109 
deg2 and I2e--818 deg2. The mean test time was 16 min. (range 9-25 min.), 15.7
min. in the group of Aulhorn stage III and 16.5 min. in the group of Aulhorn
stage IV, respectively.
CONCLUSION: SKP seems to be an effective method for quantitative assessment and
evaluation of isopter and scotoma areas (in deg2). In this study it was
demonstrated that in case of more advanced stages of glaucomatous visual field
loss (Aulhorn stage IV), the areas of isopters appeared to be smaller.


PMID: 15510508  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1112. Klin Oczna. 2004;106(1-2 Suppl):217-21.

[Papillary blood flow and morphological parameters of the optic nerve head in
patients with normal tension glaucoma, primary open angle glaucoma and in healthy
volunteers].

[Article in Polish]

Gronkowska J(1), Karczewicz D.

Author information: 
(1)Kliniki Okulistyki Pomorskiej Akademii Medycznej w Szczecinie.

The aim of the present study was to compare selected morphological parameters of 
the optic nerve head and papillary blood flow in patients with NTG, POAG and in
healthy volunteers, as well as to find any possible correlation between selected 
morphological parameters and papillary blood flow. 21 glaucomatous and 31 normal 
eyes were diagnosed using HRT and HRF. Statistically significant differences
within many morphological parameters like cup area, cup to disc, cup shape
measure, rim volume, RFNL thickness, RFNL cross section and neuroretinal rim
blood flow appeared. Nevertheless, in glaucoma patients no statistically
significant differences between morphology and flow were found. The conclusion is
that blood flow impairment within the neuroretinal rim is connected with glaucoma
neuropathy development, nevertheless it is affected by other factors.


PMID: 15510505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1113. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2004 Sep-Oct;14(5):401-6.

Switching to latanoprost monotherapy for 24 weeks in glaucoma patients.

Takahashi I(1), Tanaka M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Urayasu
Hospital, Chiba--Japan. imk-tak@xb3.so-net.ne.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate the intraocular pressure lowering effect in glaucoma
patients switched to latanoprost therapy from isopropyl unoprostone given as
monotherapy or in combination with a beta-blocker.
METHODS: Patients with primary open angle glaucoma or normal tension glaucoma
treated with 0.12% isopropyl unoprostone as monotherapy or in combination with a 
beta-blocker were eligible for this single-center clinical study. Of the 51
patients (51 eyes) enrolled, 18 were men and 33 were women aged 62.1 +/- 12.3
years (mean +/- SD). Twenty-two patients had primary open angle glaucoma, and 29 
patients had normal tension glaucoma. Intraocular pressure was measured twice
within 3 months prior to the switch, and the mean value was taken as the
baseline. The patients were then switched to latanoprost (0.005%) monotherapy
(once-daily administration), and changes in intraocular pressure were monitored. 
One physician measured intraocular pressure after 4, 8, 16, and 24 weeks of
administration in this 24-week study.
RESULTS: The mean intraocular pressures were 16.0 +/- 2.4 mmHg at baseline, 13.7 
+/- 2.3 mmHg after 4 weeks, 13.1 +/- 2.1 mmHg after 8 weeks, 13.6 +/- 2.0 mmHg
after 16 weeks, and 13.3 +/- 2.4 mmHg after 24 weeks. A significant decrease in
intraocular pressure was noted at all time points in both groups (paired t-test, 
p < 0.0001), and the intraocular pressure lowering effect persisted through week 
24 of administration (analysis of variance, p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Switching to latanoprost monotherapy elicits further reduction in
intraocular pressure in patients with primary open angle glaucoma or normal
tension glaucoma.


PMID: 15506602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2004 Oct;32(5):518-22.

Analysis of optineurin (OPTN) gene mutations in subjects with and without
glaucoma: the Blue Mountains Eye Study.

Baird PN(1), Richardson AJ, Craig JE, Mackey DA, Rochtchina E, Mitchell P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia. pnb@unimelb.edu.au

BACKGROUND: The optineurin (OPTN) gene has been reported to possess both causal
as well as risk-associated alleles for open-angle glaucoma. However, these
findings have so far only been reported in family and clinic based studies. The
aim of this study was to investigate the spectrum of mutations and gene variants 
in OPTN that might be present in people with glaucoma from a population-based
study, the Blue Mountains Eye Study (BMES).
METHODS: A total of 108 subjects of Caucasian origin were identified at baseline 
in the BMES as having open-angle glaucoma. Blood samples were available from 27
of these, of whom 18 had high-tension glaucoma and the remaining nine had
normal-tension glaucoma. Ninety-four control subjects were chosen at random from 
the BMES, who satisfied the criteria of not having glaucoma at baseline and were 
over age 70 years. The 13 coding exons (exons 4-16 inclusive) and their
intron-exon boundaries of OPTN were screened by the use of single-strand
conformation polymorphism. Samples exhibiting mobility shifts were di-deoxy
nucleotide sequenced. The M98K polymorphism was additionally screened using the
restriction enzyme Stu1 in all cases and controls in this study.
RESULTS: The M98K risk-associated alteration was identified in 2/18 (11%)
subjects with high-tension glaucoma, 0/9 subjects (0%) with normal-tension
glaucoma and 3/94 (3.2%) controls. However, association of this variant with
disease was not significant (P = 0.2 for each phenotype) for either high-tension 
glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma. A novel variant (P556P in exon 16) was found
in one subject with open-angle glaucoma and a previously described variant (exon 
7) was found in a further subject with open-angle glaucoma and in one control. No
other OPTN variants were identified in this study cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: Cross-sectional analysis from baseline observations of the BMES
suggested that the M98K risk-associated allele appeared at a higher prevalence in
high-tension glaucoma compared with controls, although this finding was not
statistically significant.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2004.00886.x 
PMID: 15498064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1115. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging. 2004 Sep-Oct;35(5):406-14.

Blood flow studies and serological testing in the diagnostic evaluation of
glaucoma: a pilot study.

Greenfield DS(1), Bagga H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology University of Miami School of Medicine, Bascom
Palmer Eye Institute, Miami, Florida, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of hemodynamically
significant carotid artery stenosis, peripapillary blood flow, and serologic
abnormalities in a pilot study among patients with glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All subjects underwent complete eye examination, standard
automated perimetry, carotid Doppler ultrasonography, serum laboratory testing,
and scanning laser Doppler flowmetry (SLDF). Subjects were subdivided into two
groups based on glaucoma subtype (normal-tension vs primary open-angle glaucoma) 
and severity (mild vs moderate-advanced).
RESULTS: Twenty eyes of 20 patients with associated glaucomatous visual field
loss were enrolled. No significant differences in age, gender, intraocular
pressure, systemic comorbidity, number of antiglaucoma medications, and prior
filtration surgery were observed between the groups based on the type and
severity of glaucoma. The prevalence of clinically significant (> 70%) carotid
stenosis, mean peripapillary blood flow assessed by SLDF, mean erythrocyte
sedimentation rate, mean hematocrit, mean hemoglobin, and positive FTA-ABS was
similar in both groups. Severity of glaucomatous damage as determined by visual
field mean defect did not correlate with the degree of carotid artery stenosis
(R2 < 0.0001, P = .99) or peripapillary blood flow derived from mean SLDF (R2 =
0.0005, P = .92).
CONCLUSION: Data from this pilot study demonstrate that the prevalence of
hemodynamically significant carotid stenosis, peripapillary blood flow, and
serologic abnormalities are similar in patients with normal-tension and primary
open-angle glaucoma, and do not correlate with glaucoma severity.


PMID: 15497551  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. Ophthalmologe. 2005 May;102(5):502-6.

[Patient characteristics in a tertiary glaucoma center. Circumstances of
treatment and attitudes of patients].

[Article in German]

Dietlein TS(1), Jordan J, Dinslage S, Jacobi PC, Krieglstein GK.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Augenheilkunde, Universität, Köln. aia47@uni-koeln.de

BACKGROUND: In order to look for conceptual improvements in the practical
management of patients sent to our glaucoma department, we analyzed the
structures, behaviour, and knowledge about the disease in this patient group.
METHODS: Glaucoma patients who were sent for the first time to our department
were included prospectively. Before being examined 129 patients were asked to
answer a questionnaire concerning their individual characteristics, their
behaviour, and patterns of treatment.
RESULTS: Of the patients 74% had open-angle glaucoma (including normal tension,
exfoliative, and pigment glaucoma), 22% had secondary glaucoma (including
neovascular, congenital, and chronic closed-angle glaucoma), and 4% had suspected
glaucoma. Written documentation of previously performed intraocular pressure
measurements was not available for 84% of the patients. Younger patients had
significantly more knowledge about glaucoma and used more possibilities to get
information about the disease than elder patients.
CONCLUSION: Education about glaucoma disease should be optimized especially for
elder glaucoma patients. Documentation of intraocular pressure measurements is
insufficient in our patient group.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-004-1134-x 
PMID: 15490182  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1117. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2004 Sep;221(9):753-6.

[Impact of prostaglandin-F(2alpha)-analogues and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors on
central corneal thickness -- a cross-sectional study on 403 eyes].

[Article in German]

Viestenz A(1), Martus P, Schlötzer-Schrehardt U, Langenbucher A, Mardin CY.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik der Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg.
Arne.Viestenz@t-online.de

BACKGROUND: Histological changes of, in particular, collagen and extracellular
matrix after administration of topical prostaglandin F(2alpha)(PGF (2alpha))
analogues have been reported. In view of this observation, we investigated the
influence of PGF(2alpha) analogues on the central corneal thickness.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a non-randomized, controlled, cross-sectional study, 403
eyes from 208 consecutive patients were examined: 149 eyes (normals/controls) and
79 with ocular hypertension (OHT), 119 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) and 56 eyes with normal tension glaucoma (NTG). One experienced
ophthalmologist measured the central corneal thickness (CCT) using ultrasound
pachymetry (Tomey AL-2000, sequence of 5 measurements with an SD < 3 microm). The
central corneal power was measured with the Zeiss keratometer. Depending on the
topical treatment, the patients were classified into 4 groups: A) PGF(2alpha)
analogues (n = 78), B) carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (n = 26), C) combination of 
PGF (2)(alpha) analogues and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (n = 41), D) none of
these drugs (n = 258). T tests and multiple linear regression analyses were used 
for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: CCT was decreased significantly (p < 0.01 each) in eyes treated with
PGF(2alpha) analogues (group A: 529 +/- 34 microM), in comparison with the
untreated and non-glaucomatous eyes (part of group D: 542 +/- 35 microM, n =
148), untreated glaucomatous/OHT eyes (part of group D: 563 +/- 37 microM, n =
110), eyes treated with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (group B: 561 +/- 32
microm) and eyes with a topical application of both PGF (2)(alpha) analogues and 
carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (group C: 555 +/- 48 microM. No correlation was
found between CCT and diagnosis (OHT, POAG, NTG, control), gender, central
corneal power, and intraocular pressure in a multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The present findings suggest that the topical application of
prostaglandin F(2alpha) analogues onto the cornea reduces the central corneal
thickness significantly. These changes might be attributed to effects of
PGF(2alpha) analogues on the extracellular matrix of the corneal stroma via
upregulation of matrix metalloproteinases. In clinical practice, corneal thinning
under local PGF (2)(alpha) analogue treatment could result in underestimation of 
intraocular pressure levels as measured by applanation tonometry.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-81361 
PMID: 15459842  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2004 Aug;108(8):477-81.

[Short and long-term hypotensive effect of timolol-gel and latanoprost
instillation in normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Hashimoto T(1), Hara T, Takahashi Y, Kubota S, Kubota M, Tsuru T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Jichi Medical School, Tochigi, Japan.

PURPOSE: To confirm the predictive value of the results of a 4-week trial of
latanoprost alone, timolol-gel alone, or a combination of the two in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients, when compared with the hypotensive
response after a 6-month trial using the same combination of eye drops for the
same patients.
METHODS: One eye each of 45 NTG patients was used in a prospective 4-week trial
of latanoprost alone, timolol-gel alone, or a combination of the two. Patients
continued using the eye drops for 6 months, according to the results of the
trial. The correlation of the results of the 6-moth use and the baseline data,
and the baseline data and the results of the 4-week trial were evaluated by the
paired-t test.
RESULTS: The intraocular pressure(IOP)s of patients using timolol-gel alone were 
13.9 mmHg at the base line, 9.7 mmHg after the trial, and 12.0 mmHg after 6-month
use(baseline, trial: p < 0.05). IOPs when using latanoprost alone were 15.3 mmHg 
at baseline, 11.7 mmHg after the trial, and 11.5 mmHg after 6-month use(baseline:
p < 0.05, trial: p = 0.33). IOPs using timolol-gel and latanoprost in combination
were 14.8 mmHg at baseline, 11.4 mmHg after the trial, and 12.0 mmHg after
6-month use (baseline: p < 0:05, trial: p = 0.14).
CONCLUSION: The result of the 4-weeks trial of latanoprost alone or in
combination with timolol-gel can be indicative of the IOP after 6-month use.


PMID: 15457989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1119. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 Oct;88(10):1299-304.

Three dimensional analysis of the lamina cribrosa in glaucoma.

Morgan-Davies J(1), Taylor N, Hill AR, Aspinall P, O'Brien CJ, Azuara-Blanco A.

Author information: 
(1)Visual Impairment Research Group, Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND/AIM: Structural changes in the lamina cribrosa have been implicated in
the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic atrophy. The aim of this study was to
determine a measure the surface variability of the cup floor in normal subjects
and patients with glaucoma.
METHODS: A sample of age matched normal subjects (NN), patients with low tension 
glaucoma (LTG), and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) were included in the
study. The glaucoma groups were matched for the severity of the visual field
loss. Mean 10 degree topographic images of normal and glaucomatous eyes from the 
Heidelberg retina tomograph were imported into ERDAS image processing software
where topographic analysis of the cup floor could be assessed. Each image was
processed using customised spatial filters that calculated the surface depth
variation in localised neighbourhood areas across each image. The local change in
depth across the cup floor surface was determined and compared between the three 
clinical groups.
RESULTS: The depth variation in the cup floor was largest in normal subjects
followed by LTG and POAG. Highly statistically significant differences in surface
depth variability of the cup floor existed between normal and LTG (p = 0.005),
between normal and POAG (p<0.0001), and between LTG and POAG groups (p<0.0001).
The variability and skewness of depth difference across the optic cup floor were 
also significantly different between the three clinical groups.
CONCLUSION: A new parameter quantifying depth variations in the cup floor
significantly discriminated between groups of normal and glaucoma patients. This 
new parameter may contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of the
glaucomatous optic nerve damage in different types of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2003.036020 
PMCID: PMC1772339
PMID: 15377555  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1120. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 Oct;88(10):1259-62.

Coincidence of normal tension glaucoma, progressive sensorineural hearing loss,
and elevated antiphosphatidylserine antibodies.

Kremmer S(1), Kreuzfelder E, Bachor E, Jahnke K, Selbach JM, Seidahmadi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Essen, Hufelandstrasse 55,
45122 Essen, Germany. stephan.kremmer@uni-essen.de

BACKGROUND: Recently, in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) elevated
levels of antiphosphatidylserine antibodies (APSA), a subgroup of
antiphospholipid antibodies (APLA) were found. Progressive sensorineural hearing 
loss (PSHL) is associated with autoimmune diseases and also the presence of APLA.
METHODS: To investigate a possible association between NTG and PSHL, 34 patients 
(age range 31-81 years) with NTG were evaluated for evidence of audiovestibular
disorders. Besides ophthalmological standard examinations (slit lamp, IOP,
funduscopy, perimetry) scanning laser tomography and polarimetry were performed. 
From all patients' audiograms, stapedial thresholds and otoacoustic emissions
were obtained. The serological testing of patients and controls (40 healthy blood
donors older than 50 years) concerned IgG and IgM levels of antibodies against
phosphatidylserine (APSA) and beta2 glycoprotein.
RESULTS: 23 of 34 NTG patients had hearing loss (PSHL n = 11; presbyacusis n =
12). The NTG patients had significantly higher APSA levels than controls.
Elevated APSA concentrations were significantly more frequent in patients with
NTG and hearing loss compared with NTG patients with normacusis.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings show that NTG and hearing loss have a high
coincidence. The elevated APSA levels may indicate an association with similar
systemic autoimmune processes.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2003.040832 
PMCID: PMC1772360
PMID: 15377546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1121. Ophthalmic Genet. 2004 Jun;25(2):91-9.

Clinical relevance of optineurin sequence alterations in Japanese glaucoma
patients.

Umeda T(1), Matsuo T, Nagayama M, Tamura N, Tanabe Y, Ohtsuki H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine
and Dentistry, Okayama City, Japan.

PURPOSE: To study the clinical relevance of sequence alterations in the
optineurin gene (OPTN) among Japanese patients with open-angle glaucoma,
including both primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma
(NTG).
METHODS: Genomic DNA was isolated from 83 patients with open-angle glaucoma (55
with POAG and 28 with NTG) and 58 control subjects. The 13 exons of OPTN
corresponding to the coding region were amplified by polymerase chain reaction
and directly sequenced. Clinical factors were compared between glaucoma patients 
with and without a certain nucleotide change.
RESULTS: The reported heterozygous mutations, c.458G > A(Glu50Lys) in exon 4 and 
c.691_692insAG in exon 6, were not found in any glaucoma patients or control
subjects. The reported c.603T > A(Met98Lys) in exon 5 was significantly more
prevalent in the POAG (8/55, 14.5%, p=0.0147) and NTG (4/28, 14.2%, p=0.0369)
patients, and even in both the POAG and NTG patients combined (12/83, 14.4%,
p=0.0149, Fisher exact probability test), than in the control subjects (1/58,
1.7%). The rates of the reported c.1944G > A(Arg545Gln) in exon 16 were not
significantly different between open-angle glaucoma patients (3/83, 3.6%) and
control subjects (4/58, 6.8%). In addition, a heterozygous change, c.412G >
A(Thr34Thr) in exon 4 was found in 18 (21.6%) open-angle glaucoma patients and
seven (12.0%) control subjects. Another heterozygous change, c.457C >
T(Thr49Thr), in exon 4 was found only in three POAG patients. The 18 open-angle
glaucoma patients with c.412G > A showed significantly larger cup-to-disc ratios 
(p=0.0178, Mann-Whitney U test), significantly more deteriorated mean deviations 
of the visual field in the left eye at the final visit (p=0.0076), and a
significantly higher rate of surgery and/or laser history (p=0.0321, Fisher exact
probability test) than the 65 open-angle glaucoma patients without the nucleotide
change.
CONCLUSIONS: Met98Lys is a risk-associated alteration for open-angle glaucoma,
including POAG and NTG, in the Japanese population as initially reported. The
amino acid-preserving polymorphism, c.412G > A, may be a genetic risk factor for 
the progression of open- angle glaucoma in this Japanese population.

DOI: 10.1080/13816810490514298 
PMID: 15370540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1122. Ann Rheum Dis. 2004 Oct;63(10):1276-8.

Increased prevalence of ocular glaucomatous abnormalities in systemic sclerosis.

Allanore Y(1), Parc C, Monnet D, Brézin AP, Kahan A.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Cochin, Service de Rhumatologie A, 27 rue du faubourg Saint-Jacques,
75014 Paris, France. yannick.allanore@cch.ap-hop-paris.fr

Comment in
    Ann Rheum Dis. 2005 Feb;64(2):341-2; author reply 342.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases, vasospasm, and dysimmunity have been
implicated in normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence of ocular abnormalities suggestive of
glaucoma damage in systemic sclerosis (SSc).
METHODS: 61 patients with SSc (mean (SD) age 56.2 (12) years, mean (SD) disease
duration 9.9 (9) years; 41 with limited cutaneous disease) and 37 control
subjects with osteoarthritis (mean (SD) age 55.9 (12) years) were studied. They
were systematically referred to an ophthalmologist. The evaluation was based on
aplanation tonometry, ophthalmoscopy with retinal photography (evaluation of
cup/disc ratio (c/d)), and automated static perimetry (determination of mean
defects (MD)). Statistical analyses were performed with the chi(2), Mann-Whitney,
and Spearman tests.
RESULTS: The mean visual acuity and intraocular pressure were similar in both
groups. An excavation with a c/d >0.3 was found in 27 eyes from patients with SSc
and 5 eyes from controls (p = 0.009); a c/d >0.7 was found in 4 eyes from
patients with SSc and none in the controls (NS). Visual field defects (MD <-2 dB)
were found in 55 eyes from patients with SSc and in 18 eyes from controls
(p<0.0001). A concomitant c/d >0.3 and MD <-2 dB was found in 21 eyes from 12
patients with SSc but in none of the control eyes (p<0.0001).
CONCLUSION: Ocular abnormalities suggesting glaucomatous neuropathy without
ocular hypertension were dramatically more prevalent in patients with SSc. These 
abnormalities seem to be mild but justify long term follow up. They are
consistent with the vascular pathogenic hypothesis for NTG.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2003.013540 
PMCID: PMC1754752
PMID: 15361386  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1123. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2004 Jul;108(7):408-14.

[Effect of ocular hypotensive medications in preventing the progression of visual
field damage in patients with normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakagami T(1), Yamazaki Y, Hayamizu F, Tanaka C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo Japan.

PURPOSE: We investigated the effect of ocular hypotensive medications and the
risk factors for progression of visual field damage in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Sixty-four NTG patients (64 eyes) followed at least 4 years
with ocular hypotensive medications were studied regarding the probability of
visual field stability using the Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis and multiple
regression analysis with the Cox proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: Probability of visual field stability was 56% at the 76-month follow-up.
Mean intraocular pressure during the follow-up period and generalized cup
enlargement type classified according to the optic disc shape were found to have 
significant influence on the progression of visual field damage.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that ocular hypotensive medications are
effective in stabilizing the visual field. We need to pay attention to the optic 
disc shape in patients with NTG.


PMID: 15359903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2004 Jul;108(7):401-7.

[Comparison of the effects of latanoprost and timolol gel-forming solution on
diurnal variation of intraocular pressure in normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakamoto K(1), Yasuda N, Nanno M, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Metropolitan Police Hospital, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effects of latanoprost (Lat) and timolol gel-forming
solution (Tg) on the diurnal variation of intraocular pressure (IOP) in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A total of 47 NTG patients (47 eyes) were randomly assigned
to receive Lat alone (25 eyes) or Tg alone (22 eyes). IOP was measured at fixed
time points during 24 hours before and after treatment with each drug. In
addition, blood pressure and pulse rate were measured before and after treatment.
RESULTS: Lat reduced IOP significantly at all time points of measurement. Tg
reduced IOP significantly at all time points of measurement except at 22:00 and
03:00. Percent reductions in the IOP at 03:00 and in the mean diurnal IOP were
significantly greater in the Lat group than in the Tg group. In the Lat group
there was no change in diastolic pressure or pulse rate after treatment, but in
the Tg group these parameters decreased significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: Comparison of diurnal variation of IOP before and after treatment
shows that Lat is more effective than Tg in lowering IOP. In addition, Lat does
not affect blood pressure or pulse rate.


PMID: 15359902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1125. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2004 Jul;108(7):395-6.

[New informations on medical treatment for normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sawaguchi S.


PMID: 15359900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1126. J Glaucoma. 2004 Oct;13(5):400-6.

Flap and suture manipulation after trabeculectomy with adjustable sutures:
titration of flow and intraocular pressure in guarded filtration surgery.

Wells AP(1), Bunce C, Khaw PT.

Author information: 
(1)Wound Healing Research Unit, Institute of Ophthalmology and Moorfields Eye
Hospital, London. twells@eyetext.net

PURPOSE: To describe the intraocular pressure (IOP) changes resulting from
scleral flap suture and scleral flap manipulation in an experimental model of
conventional guarded filtration surgery.
DESIGN: Experimental study.
METHODS: Trabeculectomy operations were performed with adjustable sutures on 5
donor human eyes connected to a constant flow infusion and a real-time IOP
monitoring system. Three different manipulations: posterior lip massage, suture
adjustment using special forceps, and suture release, were tested on the
completed operation site.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The success in lowering IOP to the target range of 7 to 15
mm Hg within 5 interventions, the time to reach equilibrium IOP, and the
frequency of undesired outcomes.
RESULTS: Posterior lip massage, suture release, and suture adjustment lowered the
IOP after stabilization to the target range in less than 5 interventions in 9%,
14%, and 100% respectively (P < 0.001). The median time for IOP to stabilize at
the new level after each intervention after correction for the flow rates used
was 36.3 minutes for massage, 8.5 minutes for releasable sutures, and 3.7 minutes
for adjustment of sutures (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that suture adjustment may be superior to both
posterior lip massage and releasable sutures for managing IOP in the early phase 
following glaucoma surgery. Following clinical interventions that result in loss 
of anterior chamber volume, IOP checks should be made at least 40 minutes
post-intervention or at a later time afterwards if there is a clinical risk of
low aqueous production. Manipulation of the scleral flap and associated sutures
may only lower the IOP for minutes to hours if the suture tension is not
decreased.


PMID: 15354079  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1127. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2004 Jun;27(6 Pt 1):605-12.

[Sleep-related breathing disorders and normal or high-tension glaucoma: 35
patients with polysomnographic records].

[Article in French]

Batisse JL(1), Vix J, Swalduz B, Chave N, Mage F.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, Hôpital d'Instruction des Armées Desgenettes, Lyon.

PURPOSE: To look for early stage glaucoma symptoms in patients referred for
sleep-related breathing disorders or sleep apnea syndrome.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: Thirty-five patients between October 2001 and April 2002
consecutively admitted for polysomnographic evaluation were investigated. Each
patient had complete ophthalmologic examination before the nocturnal record. A
blue-on-yellow Humphrey computerized perimetry test was given, and a standard
perimetry with a color vision test if abnormalities were found. The criteria
studied were intraocular pressure, optic nerve cupping and aspect, visual field
indices and visual field aspect, which were compared to the respiratory
disturbance index. Twenty-seven subjects were included in this analysis, nine
women and 18 men.
RESULTS: In eight patients, the respiratory disturbance index was higher than 10.
All intraocular pressures were normal. Visual field defects were found in two
patients with both standard and blue-on-yellow perimetry, and in 12 patients with
only blue-on-yellow perimetry. Mean deviation and visual field aspect correlated 
well with the respiratory disturbance index (p=0.026, p=0.033). Other visual
field indices were not correlated with the respiratory disturbance index.
CONCLUSION: In this study, we found visual field alterations with blue-on-yellow 
computerized perimetry that did not exist with standard perimetry. The visual
field defects were more frequent when the respiratory disturbance index was poor.


PMID: 15343119  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1128. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2004 Sep;45(9):3122-30.

Defining the pathogenicity of optineurin in juvenile open-angle glaucoma.

Willoughby CE(1), Chan LL, Herd S, Billingsley G, Noordeh N, Levin AV, Buys Y,
Trope G, Sarfarazi M, Héon E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, The Hospital for Sick
Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: Juvenile open-angle glaucoma (JOAG) differs from primary open-angle
glaucoma in that it is usually a more severe phenotype and has an earlier age of 
onset. Optineurin was recently associated with a variant of POAG that is
characterized by intraocular pressure within normal limits: normal-tension
glaucoma. The present study tested whether OPTN sequence changes play a role in
early-onset glaucoma characterized by elevated intraocular pressure.
METHODS: Sixty-six patients with JOAG characterized by high intraocular pressure 
were screened for mutations. Mutational analysis was performed with a combination
of restriction enzyme digestion, single-strand conformation polymorphism, and
direct sequencing. The effects of select changes on exon splicing were assessed
using bioinformatic modeling approaches and RT-PCR.
RESULTS: Ten sequence changes were identified, of which H486R was strongly
suggestive of pathogenicity. H486R represents the first reported OPTN mutation
associated with JOAG. Also, L41L is proposed to confer an increased
susceptibility to the development of JOAG. Most of the other sequence changes
observed were not thought to be biologically significant. The frequency of the
previously reported M98K allele was not increased in the JOAG population studied 
but showed the previously reported skewed distribution in the POAG study
population. The changes identified were not shown to affect the splicing
machinery.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this work support the hypothesis that mutations in
OPTN are not specifically associated with low-pressure glaucoma, but can play a
role in JOAG.

Copyright Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.04-0107 
PMID: 15326130  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1129. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging. 2004 Jul-Aug;35(4):325-7.

Analysis of optic disc change using the heidelberg retina tomograph in an
acquired pit of the optic nerve.

Oh JY(1), Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Korea.

A 51-year-old woman diagnosed as having normal-tension glaucoma developed an
acquired pit of the optic nerve. The optic disc was viewed by the Heidelberg
Retina Tomograph (HRT; Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany) before and
after development of an acquired pit of the optic nerve. HRT parameters and
cross-sectional images of the optic disc were compared. Maximum cup depth at the 
site of the acquired pit of the optic nerve increased after development of the
acquired pit of the optic nerve (from 1.200 to 2.432 mm). The neuroretinal rim
area and volume in the inferotemporal octant were reduced (rim area from 0.070 to
0.010 mm2, rim volume from 0.009 to 0.001 mm3). The morphologic changes in the
optic disc were also detected topographically and reflectively.


PMID: 15305557  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2004 Jul-Aug;48(4):380-5.

Association between nocturnal blood pressure reduction and progression of visual 
field defect in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or normal-tension
glaucoma.

Tokunaga T(1), Kashiwagi K, Tsumura T, Taguchi K, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Yamanashi, Faculty of Medicine,
Yamanashi, Japan.

PURPOSE: To assess prospectively the relationship between nocturnal blood
pressure reduction (dip) and progression of the visual field defect in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) or primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The subjects studied were 38 patients with glaucoma (23
patients with NTG, 15 patients with POAG), in whom 48-h ambulatory blood pressure
monitoring was conducted, who were followed for at least 4 years, and in whom
reliable visual field tests were performed at least 5 times. The progression was 
determined by the mean deviation (MD) slope analysis system installed in the
Humphrey field analyzer Statpac program. Glaucoma patients with a dip of <10%
were assigned to the nondipper group, those with a dip of 10%-20% to the tipper
group, and those with a dip of >20% to the extreme dipper group. The dipper group
was defined as physiologic dippers, while the nondipper and the extreme dipper
groups were defined as nonphysiologic dippers, to study the relationship between 
the disturbance of the dip and progression of the visual field defect.
RESULTS: Thirteen patients showed significant progression, while 25 patients did 
not. There were no significant differences in the mean intraocular pressure and
follow-up period between the patients with progression and those without
progression. Half (7/14) of the nondippers, 20% (4/20) of the dippers, and 50%
(2/4) of the extreme dippers showed progression, indicating a tendency of
progression in the nondipper and the extreme dipper groups. The nonphysiologic
dippers had a higher incidence of progression compared with the physiologic
dippers (P = 0.05). Among the glaucoma patients in the nondipper and dipper
categories only, those with progression had significantly smaller dips (P =
0.02).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that disturbance in the physiologic dip may be 
involved in the progression of glaucoma.

Copyright Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2004

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-003-0071-6 
PMID: 15295667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2004 Jul-Aug;48(4):340-4.

Visual field damage in normal-tension glaucoma patients with or without ischemic 
changes in cerebral magnetic resonance imaging.

Suzuki J(1), Tomidokoro A, Araie M, Tomita G, Yamagami J, Okubo T, Masumoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare the pattern of visual field damage between normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients with signs indicative of ischemic changes and those NTG
patients without signs of ischemic changes, using brain magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI), in a single center, cross-sectional study.
METHODS: In 94 consecutive NTG patients who were younger than 61 years old, brain
MRI images were obtained using fluid-attenuated inversion recovery pulse
sequences. The presence of signs indicative of ischemic changes in brain MRI
images was decided separately by two neuroradiologists masked to the diagnosis
and stage of glaucoma. Visual field testing was performed using the 30-2 program 
of the Humphrey Visual Field Analyzer. Between the patients with signs indicative
of ischemic changes in brain MRI (ischemic group) and those without MRI signs
(nonischemic group), total deviation (TD) at each test point less the average of 
TDs of the 30-2 program ([TD - TD(mean)])--was compared at each test point.
RESULTS: Signs indicative of ischemic changes in brain MRI were found in 32 of
the 94 patients (34.0%). Age, blood pressure, refraction, intraocular pressure,
the average of TDs, mean deviation, and corrected pattern standard deviation were
not significantly different between the ischemic (N = 32) and nonischemic (N =
62) groups (P > 0.2). [TD - TD(mean)] in the ischemic group was significantly
smaller than that in the nonischemic group at 6 nonedge contiguous test points in
the inferior pericentral to nasal field (P = 0.005-0.047).
CONCLUSION: NTG patients with signs indicative of ischemic changes in brain MRI
had a relatively deeper depression in the inferior pericentral visual field.

Copyright Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2004

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-004-0072-0 
PMID: 15295658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2004 Jul;221(7):550-4.

[Ocular hemodynamics in normal tension glaucoma: effect of bimatoprost].

[Article in German]

Zeitz O(1), Matthiessen ET, Wiermann A, Reuss J, Richard G, Klemm M.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Klinik und Poliklinik für
Augenheilkunde, Hamburg, Germany. zeitz@uke.uni-hamburg.de

BACKGROUND: Altered ocular perfusion plays a role in the pathophysiology of
normal tension glaucoma. Prostaglandin-like substances are very effective in
lowering intraocular pressure. Less data are available regarding the influence of
these compounds on ocular perfusion. In the present study the effects of
bimatoprost, which has recently been shown to increase the vascular tone of
ciliary arteries in vitro, on the blood flow velocity are investigated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: n = 9 eyes from 9 normal tension glaucoma patients were
subjected to color Doppler imaging (CDI) before and during a 3 - 5 week therapy
with bimatoprost.
RESULTS: Bimatoprost reduces intraocular pressure from 14.0 +/- 0.4 to 11.0 +/-
0.5 mmHg (n = 9; P < 0.001). Systolic as well as diastolic blood flow velocities,
resistive index (RI) and pulsatility index (PI), measured by CDI, were unaltered 
in the presence of bimatoprost.
DISCUSSION: Bimatoprost does not influence blood flow velocities in the
retrobulbar vessels. The in vitro observation of increased vascular tone in the
presence of bimatoprost seems not to be relevant for ocular hemodynamics.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-813354 
PMID: 15273908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1133. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 Aug;88(8):1049-54.

Retinal blood flow measurements and neuroretinal rim damage in glaucoma.

Logan JF(1), Rankin SJ, Jackson AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Royal Group of Hospitals, Grosvenor Road,
Belfast BT12 6BA, Northern Ireland, UK. joanne.logan1@btopenworld.com

AIM: To assess retinal blood flow characteristics in subjects with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG), primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), and a group of controls using
the Heidelberg retina flowmeter (HRF). The vascular parameters were correlated
against structural damage of the optic nerve head, assessed using the Heidelberg 
retina tomograph (HRT).
METHODS: HRF images were obtained in 76 subjects with NTG, 58 with POAG, and 38
controls. Optic nerve head images, acquired using the HRT, were analysed with
Moorfields Regression Analysis software. The HRF variables, measured adjacent to 
a rim segment identified as "abnormal," were compared with the vascular
parameters of the "normal" rim segments. The HRF parameters of the segments
identified as normal in glaucoma subjects were compared with matched control
segments.
RESULTS: The glaucoma subjects had significantly lower retinal haemodynamics than
the control subjects. There were no significant differences in the HRF parameters
between the NTG and POAG subjects. The discs that had been identified as having
abnormal segments had lower HRF values than those with a corresponding normal
segment. The glaucoma subjects with normal rim segments had statistically
significant lower velocity, flow, and volume measurements than the controls for
each location sampled.
CONCLUSION: This study shows a relation between structural damage of the optic
nerve head and the level of retinal blood flow. The changes in the circulation
could indicate that it may be an early marker of the pathological process.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2003.034884 
PMCID: PMC1772289
PMID: 15258023  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1134. Eye (Lond). 2005 Feb;19(2):129-37.

Alphagan allergy may increase the propensity for multiple eye-drop allergy.

Osborne SA(1), Montgomery DM, Morris D, McKay IC.

Author information: 
(1)North Glasgow University Hospitals, NHS Trust, UK.
stuartosborne@doctors.org.uk

AIMS: Since its introduction in 1996, brimonidine tartrate 0.2% ophthalmic
solution (Alphagan, Allergan) twice daily has become established as an effective 
intra ocular pressure-lowering treatment. While the efficacy of Alphagan cannot
be questioned, we gained the clinical impression that the drug has an
unacceptably high rate of allergy. Of greater concern, we suspected that patients
suffering from local Alphagan allergy had a higher rate of allergy to
subsequently used topical preparations. We analysed data from a large scale study
of glaucoma patients to establish whether our suspicions were correct.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We have created a database of the entire glaucoma treatment
histories for consecutive patients attending a single consultant's clinics (DMIM)
at Glasgow Royal Infirmary between May 1999 and September 2001. All have
undergone medical treatment for primary open angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension,
or normal tension glaucoma. Patients with any other form of glaucoma, and
patients in whom a full record of treatment was not available were excluded from 
the study.
RESULTS: Alphagan was discontinued due to allergy on 73 per 100,000 patient
treatment days. This was a far higher frequency than for other preparations. In
patients allergic to both Alphagan and another preparation (Timoptol, Trusopt and
Xalatan), the mean interval between the first and second allergy was shorter when
Alphagan allergy occurred first. This was statistically significant in Timoptol
and Trusopt cross-reactivity.
CONCLUSIONS: Alphagan has high allergenicity, and may increase the likelihood of 
allergy to subsequently used preparations.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6701441 
PMID: 15254495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1135. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 2004 Jul;24(4):339-49.

An ideal ocular nutritional supplement?

Bartlett H(1), Eperjesi F.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Research Institute, School of Life and Health Sciences, Aston
University, Birmingham B4 7ET, UK. bartlehe@aston.ac.uk

The role of nutritional supplementation in prevention of onset or progression of 
ocular disease is of interest to health care professionals and patients. The aim 
of this review is to identify those antioxidants most appropriate for inclusion
in an ideal ocular nutritional supplement, suitable for those with a family
history of glaucoma, cataract, or age-related macular disease, or lifestyle
factors predisposing onset of these conditions, such as smoking, poor nutritional
status, or high levels of sunlight exposure. It would also be suitable for those 
with early stages of age-related ocular disease. Literature searches were carried
out on Web of Science and PubMed for articles relating to the use of nutrients in
ocular disease. Those highlighted for possible inclusion were vitamins A, B, C
and E, carotenoids beta-carotene, lutein, and zeaxanthin, minerals selenium and
zinc, and the herb, Ginkgo biloba. Conflicting evidence is presented for vitamins
A and E in prevention of ocular disease; these vitamins have roles in the
production of rhodopsin and prevention of lipid peroxidation respectively. B
vitamins have been linked with a reduced risk of cataract and studies have
provided evidence supporting a protective role of vitamin C in cataract
prevention. Beta-carotene is active in the prevention of free radical formation, 
but has been linked with an increased risk of lung cancer in smokers.
Improvements in visual function in patients with age-related macular disease have
been noted with lutein and zeaxanthin supplementation. Selenium has been linked
with a reduced risk of cataract and activates the antioxidant enzyme glutathione 
peroxidase, protecting cell membranes from oxidative damage while zinc, although 
an essential component of antioxidant enzymes, has been highlighted for risk of
adverse effects. As well as reducing platelet aggregation and increasing
vasodilation, Gingko biloba has been linked with improvements in pre-existing
field damage in some patients with normal tension glaucoma. We advocate that
vitamins C and E, and lutein/zeaxanthin should be included in our theoretically
ideal ocular nutritional supplement.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-1313.2004.00218.x 
PMID: 15228513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1136. J Glaucoma. 2004 Aug;13(4):299-303.

Molecular genetic analysis of optineurin gene for primary open-angle and normal
tension glaucoma in the Japanese population.

Fuse N(1), Takahashi K, Akiyama H, Nakazawa T, Seimiya M, Kuwahara S, Tamai M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University, School of Medicine, Miyagi,
Japan. fusen@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To determine whether mutations in the optineurin (OPTN) gene are
associated with the incidence of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) in the Japanese.
METHODS: Eighty-nine unrelated Japanese patients with POAG and 65 unrelated
patients with NTG were studied. Genomic DNA was extracted from leukocytes of the 
peripheral blood, and thirteen exons of the OPTN gene were amplified by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and directly sequenced.
RESULTS: Sequence alterations in exons 4 (His26Asp), 5 (Met98Lys), and 16
(Arg545Gln) were found. The His26Asp and Arg545Gln mutations were not detected in
100 ethnically matched controls. The frequency of the missense Met98Lys variant
was higher in the POAG and NTG groups than in the control group (16.9% versus 5%,
15.4% versus 5%; P = 0.009 and P = 0.029, and odds ratio 3.85 and 3.45,
respectively, for the dominant effect of the OPTN A allele). Polymorphisms in
exons 4 and 12, and in introns 6 and 7 were also detected.
CONCLUSIONS: The association of the allelic variation (Met98Lys) in the OPTN gene
and the prevalence of POAG and NTG in unrelated Japanese patients suggest that
they are involved in the pathogenesis of POAG and NTG.


PMID: 15226658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1137. J Glaucoma. 2004 Aug;13(4):291-8.

Optic disc topography as measured by confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy and
visual field loss in Japanese patients with primary open-angle or normal-tension 
glaucoma.

Nakatsue T(1), Shirakashi M, Yaoeda K, Funaki S, Funaki H, Fukushima A, Ofuchi N,
Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University Faculty of Medicine, Niigata, 
Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine whether differences in the optic disc topography and those 
in the relation between the optic disc topography and visual field indices exist 
between Japanese patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: The study included consecutive Japanese patients with POAG (n = 60) or
NTG (n = 60). Using the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT), we measured disc area,
cup area, cup-to-disc area ratio, rim area, cup volume, rim volume, cup shape
measure, and height variation contour. Each HRT parameter was measured in the
total optic disc and in its four 90 degree quadrants (superior, temporal,
inferior, and nasal). The mean deviation for the entire field and the sum of the 
total deviation values corresponding to each optic disc quadrant were calculated 
using the Humphrey full-threshold 30-2 program.
RESULTS: No significant differences were found between the POAG and NTG groups
for any HRT parameter either globally or regionally. There were no significant
differences between the two groups in the correlation coefficients between any
HRT parameter and the corresponding visual field indices either globally or
regionally.
CONCLUSION: No significant differences were apparent between Japanese patients
with POAG and NTG both in the optic disc parameters as measured by HRT and in the
degree of correlation between HRT parameter and the corresponding visual field
indices.


PMID: 15226657  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2004 May-Jun;14(3):226-35.

Regulation of optic nerve head blood flow in normal tension glaucoma patients.

Pournaras CJ(1), Riva CE, Bresson-Dumont H, De Gottrau P, Bechetoille A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
constantin.pournaras@hcuge.ch

PURPOSE: To investigate the regulation of the optic nerve blood flow (Fonh) in
response to an increase of the perfusion pressure (PPm) in normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients and in age-matched normal volunteers.
METHODS: Measurements were performed in 16 eyes of NTG patients and in 10 eyes of
age-matched controls. Laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF) was applied to calculate the 
relative flux of red blood cells at the temporal rim of the optic nerve head
(ONH) in response to increases in PPm. PPm was raised through an increase in
systemic blood pressure induced by isometric exercise. Before being tested, all
patients had 3 weeks of washout of any local medication.
RESULTS: In the NTG group, mean ophthalmic arterial blood pressure increased
during isometric exercise from 73 to 89 mmHg (22%), resulting in a 29% increase
of the PPm. This increase did not induce any significant change in mean Fonh. For
the control group, the 28% increase of PPm also did not significantly affect
Fonh. There was a trend for a greater increase in vascular resistance during
isometric exercise in the NTG than in the normal control group (47% versus 25%).
CONCLUSIONS: The LDF parameters, measured in the ONH, did not indicate an
abnormal Fonh regulation in response to an increase of the PPm in either normal
subjects or NTG patients. The maintenance of constant blood flow is achieved by
an increase in local vascular resistance. Our data show a greater percent
increase in vascular resistance in the NTG patients compared to the normal
subjects for a similar percent increase in PPm in both groups during squatting.
This suggests some alteration of the vessel tone regulatory mechanisms in NTG
patients.


PMID: 15206648  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1139. Optom Vis Sci. 2004 May;81(5):369-72.

Retinal nerve fiber loss in high- and normal-tension glaucoma by optical
coherence tomography.

Mok KH(1), Lee VW, So KF.

Author information: 
(1)Mr. and Mrs. Tung Kay Fung Ophthalmic Laser Centre, Hong Kong Adventist
Hospital, Hong Kong, China. akhmok@hkah.org.hk

PURPOSE: To compare the pattern of retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) damages in
high-tension and normal-tension primary chronic open-angle glaucoma using optical
coherence tomography (OCT).
METHODS: Age- and refractive error-matched patients with normal-tension glaucoma 
(NTG) (n = 38) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG) (n = 48) and normal subjects (n = 
48) were recruited. All subjects underwent complete eye examinations and OCT RNFL
assessments.
RESULTS: No statistically significant difference was found between eyes with HTG 
and NTG for any OCT RNFL thickness parameters (p > 0.05). Inferotemporal
thickness values were significantly lower than the superotemporal thickness
values in both glaucoma groups (p < 0.001), but no difference was observed in the
normal group. Compared with the results from normal subjects, several OCT
parameters, including average, superior, inferior, inferotemporal, and
superotemporal values, were significantly lower in patients with HTG and NTG (p <
0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: A mixture of diffuse RNFL damage (superotemporal and inferotemporal 
regions) and local damage in inferotemporal region was observed in patients with 
HTG and NTG, suggesting that HTG and NTG may undergo same pathological process.


PMID: 15181362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1140. Can J Ophthalmol. 2004 Apr;39(3):240-4.

The use of RADAAR (ratio of rim area to disc area asymmetry) in detecting
glaucoma and its severity.

Harasymowycz P(1), Davis B, Xu G, Myers J, Bayer A, Spaeth GL.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Department, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa, USA.
pavloh@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: In a previous study it was shown that the asymmetry of rim area and
disc area of fellow eyes expressed as a ratio (rim area to disc area asymmetry
ratio [RADAAR]) was associated with the diagnosis of glaucoma in patients with
highly asymmetric disease. Furthermore, this ratio was able to distinguish these 
patients from groups of glaucoma suspects and subjects without glaucoma. The
purpose of this study was to investigate whether the RADAAR correlates with the
diagnosis and severity of glaucoma in a large glaucomatous population.
METHODS: We reviewed the records of 140 randomly selected patients with
open-angle, normal-tension or pseudoexfoliative glaucoma evaluated at the
glaucoma service of a tertiary care centre in Philadelphia between January 1996
and April 2000. Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) disc area, rim area,
cup-to-disc area ratio, pattern-standard deviation and mean deviation as well as 
maximum intraocular pressure (IOP) were recorded. Disc staging and visual fields 
determined severity of glaucoma, and fellow eyes were classified as "better" or
"worse."
RESULTS: The RADAAR was significantly correlated with IOP (r = 0.23, p < 0.03),
mean deviation (r = -0.22, p < 0.02), cup-to-disc area ratio (r = 0.19, p < 0.03)
and disc stage of glaucomatous optic nerve damage (r = 0.17, p < 0.05) in "worse"
eyes. RADAAR groups were also correlated with fellow-eye differences in mean
deviation (p < 0.05) and cup-to-disc area ratio (p < 0.02).
INTERPRETATION: The RADAAR, a new HRT-derived measure of asymmetry in fellow
eyes, is associated with the diagnosis of glaucoma and its severity.


PMID: 15180140  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1141. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2004 Apr;108(4):207-12.

[The effect of substituting latanoprost 0.005% for unoprostone 0.12%].

[Article in Japanese]

Otori Y(1), Tokugawa H, Morimura H, Okada M, Goto H, Miki A, Tano Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Osaka University Medical
School, 2-2 Yamadaoka, Suita 565-0871, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of substituting latanoprost(LAT) 0.005% for
unoprostone(UNO) 0.12% after a trial of unilateral treatment.
METHODS: We treated 30 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma(n = 8), ocular
hypertension (n = 1), or normal-tension glaucoma(n = 21) with UNO for 4 weeks in 
one eye and then substituted LAT for UNO. Four weeks later we measured the
intraocular pressure(IOP) in the ipsilateral eye.
RESULTS: The mean baseline IOP level was 18.6 +/- 3.8(mean +/- standard
deviation) mmHg. The mean IOP levels(reduction rates) after UNO and LAT therapy
were 16.7 +/- 3.1 mmHg (16.6%) and 14.1 +/- 3.2 mmHg (28.9%), respectively(p <
0.001). All patients who responded to UNO also responded to LAT; however, 55% of 
those who did not respond to UNO responded to LAT.
CONCLUSIONS: If LAT is substituted for UNO, it can be predicted that 63.3% of the
patients will respond.


PMID: 15148736  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1142. J Glaucoma. 2004 Jun;13(3):189-95.

Association of magnetic resonance imaging of anterior optic pathway with
glaucomatous visual field damage and optic disc cupping.

Kashiwagi K(1), Okubo T, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Yamanashi Faculty of Medicine,
Tamaho, Yamanashi, Japan. kenjik@yamanashi-med.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate the association of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of
anterior optic pathway with glaucomatous visual field damage and optic disc
cupping.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Twenty-three healthy volunteers (controls) and 31 glaucoma 
patients (14 with primary open angle glaucoma and 17 with normal tension
glaucoma) were enrolled. All the participants showed no abnormal signs in their
intracranial space and optic tract causing optic nerve atrophy and visual field
defect, as confirmed by MRI. Multislice T1-weighted spin-echo imaging was
performed in the sagittal plane followed by the coronal plane. MRI enabled the
evaluation of the diameter of the optic nerve located in the retro-bulb space and
the height of the optic chiasm in an observer-masked fashion. The MRI data were
compared with the mean deviation (MD) score of the full threshold static visual
field test and the optic cup-disc ratio (C/D ratio).
RESULTS: The optic nerve diameter was significantly smaller in glaucoma patients 
(2.25 +/- 0.33 mm) than in controls (2.47 +/- 0.24 mm) and the height of the
optic chiasm was significantly shorter in glaucoma patients (2.12 +/- 0.37 mm)
than in controls (2.77 +/- 0.36 mm). The optic nerve diameter showed significant 
correlation with MD score (r = 0.547, P = 0.001) and C/D ratio (r = 0.407, P =
0.009). These correlations are similar to that between MD score and C/D ratio (r 
= 0.490, P = 0.001). The height of the optic chiasm showed significant
correlation with MD score (r = 0.503, P = 0.01) and low correlation with C/D
ratio (r = 0.339, P = 0.113).
CONCLUSION: Glaucoma affects the anterior visual pathway anterogradely at least
up to the optic chiasm, and these morphologic changes in the anterior visual
pathway are correlated with glaucomatous optic nerve damage. MRI of the anterior 
visual pathway may be a good tool for evaluating glaucomatous damage objectively.


PMID: 15118461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1143. J Glaucoma. 2004 Apr;13(2):158-62.

Single-dose nimodipine normalizes impaired retinal circulation in normal tension 
glaucoma.

Michalk F(1), Michelson G, Harazny J, Werner U, Daniel WG, Werner D.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Clinic (Cardiology, Angiology), Friedrich-Alexander-University
Erlangen-Nuremberg.

PURPOSE: Several studies indicate that calcium channel blockers improve the
clinical course of normal tension glaucoma (NTG), whereas the underlying
mechanism is not fully investigated. Hemodynamic improvement and neuroprotective 
effects are discussed. In this study, we measured the hemodynamic effects of
nimodipine on retinal circulation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixteen patients with NTG and clinical signs of vasospastic
hyperreactivity, such as suffering from extremely cold hands and feet, were
consecutively selected out of the local glaucoma registry. Ten healthy
age-matched volunteers were included as controls. Retinal capillary blood flow
was measured by Scanning Laser Doppler Flowmetry in both eyes before and 90 +/-
10 minutes after a single oral dose of 30 mg nimodipine.
RESULTS: Before administration of nimodipine, retinal capillary blood flow was
significantly reduced in NTG patients compared with controls (262 +/- 80 vs. 487 
+/- 164 AU, P < 0.001). Nimodipine increased retinal capillary blood flow in NTG 
patients by 91 +/- 73% (P < 0.001) to values of healthy controls (440 +/- 113 vs.
439 +/- 123 AU, P = 0.635). In controls, nimodipine did not show significant
effects.
CONCLUSIONS: In NTG patients with additional vasospastic symptoms, retinal
capillary blood is significantly reduced in comparison with healthy controls.
Single-dose nimodipine yields to a normalization of retinal circulation in NTG
patients up to values of healthy controls 90 minutes after drug administration.


PMID: 15097263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1144. J Glaucoma. 2004 Apr;13(2):114-9.

Relationship between indices of Humphrey perimetry and Frequency Doubling
Technology Perimetry in glaucoma.

Fukushima A(1), Shirakashi M, Yaoeda K, Funaki S, Funaki H, Ofuchi N, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University Faculty of Medicine, Niigata
City, Niigata, Japan. arasan@med.niigata-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To study whether the correlation between indices of Humphrey perimetry
and Frequency Doubling Technology (FDT) perimetry differs in the early and later 
stages of glaucoma.
METHODS: This study included 200 eyes of 200 patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma. The eyes were classified into the early and 
later stages by the median value (-4.51 dB) (Classification 1; n = 100 and 100,
respectively) or the average value of the maximum and minimum values (-11.90 dB) 
(Classification 2; n = 165 and 35, respectively) of mean deviation (MD) obtained 
from a set of measurements with the Humphrey Full-Threshold 30-2 program in all
eyes. The correlation between MD (H-MD) or pattern standard deviation (PSD)
(H-PSD), as obtained from another set of measurements with the Humphrey
Full-Threshold 30-2 program, and MD (F-MD) or PSD (F-PSD), as calculated by the
Full-Threshold N-30 program of FDT perimetry, were evaluated using linear
regression analysis.
RESULTS: Overall, H-MD and H-PSD significantly correlated with F-MD (r = 0.713; P
< 0.001) and F-PSD (r = 0.731; P < 0.001), respectively. In each of
Classifications 1 and 2, H-MD and H-PSD significantly correlated with F-MD and
F-PSD, respectively, both in the early and later stages. However, in each
classification, the correlation between H-MD and F-MD differed significantly
between the two stages (Classification 1; P < 0.001; Classification 2, P =
0.003), while the correlation between H-PSD and F-PSD did not differ
significantly between the two stages.
CONCLUSION: The degree of correlation between H-MD and F-MD differed between the 
early and later stages of glaucoma.


PMID: 15097256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1145. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 May;88(5):662-6.

Ocular blood flow alteration in glaucoma is related to systemic vascular
dysregulation.

Emre M(1), Orgül S, Gugleta K, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

AIMS: To investigate the source of ocular blood flow alterations in glaucoma.
METHODS: In 56 patients with open angle glaucoma, blood flow parameters were
obtained from both eyes in the ophthalmic and central retinal artery by means of 
colour Doppler imaging, as well as in the choroidal circulation and the
neuroretinal rim of the optic nerve by means of laser Doppler flowmetry. Based on
these haemodynamic parameters, a cluster analysis (two groups) was performed and 
differences with regard to risk factors were assessed between clusters.
RESULTS: Ocular blood flow data in the two clusters indicated that the two groups
(cluster 1 = 26 patient with higher blood flow values; cluster 2 = 30 patients
with lower blood flow values) differed mainly in choroidal and optic nerve blood 
flow. No differences in sex distribution, propensity to have normal tension
glaucoma, age, endothelin-1 plasma levels, visual field damage, intraocular
pressure, or systemic blood pressure parameters were observed between the two
clusters. However, 12 patients (46%) from the cluster with high ocular blood flow
values showed a vasospastic response in nailfold capillaroscopy, while such a
response was observed in 24 patients (80%) of the cluster with low ocular blood
flow values. This difference in vasospastic propensity was statistically
significant (p = 0.0121).
CONCLUSIONS: Ocular blood flow alterations in glaucoma patients seem, at least
partly, to be related to a systemic vascular dysregulation.


PMCID: PMC1772120
PMID: 15090420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1146. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 May;88(5):630-4.

Long term effect of latanoprost on intraocular pressure in normal tension
glaucoma.

Ang A(1), Reddy MA, Shepstone L, Broadway DC.

Author information: 
(1)Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, Colney Lane, Norwich NR4 7UY, UK.

AIM: To determine the long term effect of latanoprost on the intraocular pressure
(IOP) of patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Newly diagnosed patients with NTG were recruited into the study and had 
their baseline IOPs measured hourly between 8 am and 5 pm using a handheld
electronic Tonopen. Patients with fixation threatening field defects were placed 
immediately into the treatment group while those with non-fixation threatening
field defects were randomised into either the treatment group or the control
group (no treatment). Treatment consisted of once daily topical latanoprost
0.005%. After a minimum period of 6 months, the patients underwent a second
period of IOP phasing.
RESULTS: 76 newly diagnosed patients with NTG were recruited-26 had fixation
threatening disease, 25 were randomised to treatment, and 25 randomised to the
control group. The average duration of treatment was 11 months. The average and
maximum diurnal IOP for the patients randomised to treatment were statistically
significantly lower than for the control patients at follow up (p<0.05). The
treated group as a whole demonstrated a 17% decrease in the average diurnal IOP
and a 19% decrease in the maximum diurnal IOP when compared to baseline IOP. 41% 
of those treated achieved a decrease of at least 20%, but only 10% of patients
achieved a decrease of at least 30%.
CONCLUSION: Latanoprost had a sustained hypotensive effect in eyes with NTG and
41% of treated patients achieved a reasonable response. However, in the majority 
of eyes with NTG, latanoprost monotherapy may be insufficient in producing a
desirable 30% reduction in IOP.


PMCID: PMC1772121
PMID: 15090413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1147. Cornea. 2004 Mar;23(2):125-8.

Herpes simplex virus genome quantification in two patients who developed herpetic
epithelial keratitis during treatment with antiglaucoma medications.

Deai T(1), Fukuda M, Hibino T, Higaki S, Hayashi K, Shimomura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kinki University School of Medicine, Osaka-Sayama
City, Japan. deai@ganka.med.kindai.ac.jp

Comment in
    Cornea. 2004 Mar;23(2):111-2.

PURPOSE: We quantitated herpes simplex virus (HSV) DNA in tear film obtained from
2 patients who developed herpetic epithelial keratitis (HEK) during treatment
with latanoprost and a beta-blocker.
METHODS: The patient in case 1 is a 77-year-old woman with bilateral open-angle
glaucoma who had been treated with latanoprost and timolol for 11 months. She
developed HEK in the right eye followed by HEK in the left eye 1 month later.
Both eyes healed with administration of acyclovir. Ten months later, HEK recurred
in the right eye. The patient in case 2 is a 45-year-old man with bilateral
normal tension glaucoma who had been treated with latanoprost for 2 years. After 
concurrent treatment with nipradilol for 5 months, typical dendritic keratitis
developed in the left eye. In both cases, a real-time PCR assay was used to
quantify HSV-DNA in the tear film.
RESULTS: In the patient in case 1, 71 copies of the HSV genome were detected in
the tear film obtained from the right eye at the time of presentation with HEK.
After 1 week of treatment with topical acyclovir ointment, the corneal epithelial
defects healed and the number of HSV genome copies present in the tear film fell 
below the sensitivity limit of the assay. In the patient in case 2, 7.0 x 10
copies of the HSV genome were detected in the tear film from the left eye. After 
3 days of topical acyclovir ointment, it healed and the HSV genome in the tear
film became undetectable.
CONCLUSIONS: Herpetic keratitis may occur during treatment with latanoprost and
beta-blockers. The amount of HSV DNA detected in the tear film paralleled with
the activity of the corneal lesion.


PMID: 15075880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1148. Chang Gung Med J. 2004 Jan;27(1):50-5.

Central corneal thickness of normal-tension glaucoma and non-glaucoma populations
in ethnic Chinese.

Chen HC(1), Ho JD, Chang SH, Chen YH, Wu SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The variations in central corneal thickness can influence intraocular
pressure measurement. The aim of our study was to determine whether there is a
difference in the central corneal thickness between normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
and non-glaucoma populations.
METHODS: This prospective study included 33 consecutive patients with NTG and 33 
age- and gender-matched healthy subjects as control subjects. The NTG patients
were grouped according to the refractive error into group 1 (spherical equivalent
+2.5 D approximately -6.0 D) and group 2 (spherical equivalent more than -6.0 D).
Central corneal thickness was measured using a ultrasonic pachymeter. The mean
central corneal thickness of the NTG and healthy subjects were compared using the
student t-test and Nilcoxon Rank Sum test.
RESULTS: The mean (+/- SD) central corneal thickness in the healthy subjects and 
NTG patients was 554.1 (+/- 36.3) and 547.2 (+/- 31.4) microns, respectively.
There were no statistical significant differences between these two groups
(p=0.411). The median central corneal thickness in the NTG group 1 and group 2
eyes was 545, and 547.5 microns, respectively. The difference was not
statistically significant, either (p=0.799). Ten patients (30%) of NTG had high
myopia (group 2), and their median age was 38.5 years old, which was
significantly younger than that of the group 1 patients (50 years old, p =
0.0003).
CONCLUSION: This study indicated that there were no significant differences of
central corneal thickness between NTG patients and healthy subjects in our
clinic.


PMID: 15074890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. Exp Eye Res. 2004 May;78(5):901-7.

Adenylyl and guanylyl cyclase activity in the choroid.

Schmidt KG(1), Geyer O, Mittag TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Pharmacology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 
New York, NY, USA. k.g.schmidt@gmx.de

The choroid, a low-resistance vascular structure provides nourishment to and
removal of potential toxic waste products from the adjacent non-vascularized
outer layers of the retina, macula, and optic disc region and may be involved in 
the pathology of normal tension glaucoma. This study is aimed at delineating the 
biochemical pharmacology of vascular tone control in this tissue. By using a
procedure to harvest fresh choroidal tissue, we studied some basic
characteristics of the adenylyl (AC) and guanylyl cyclase (GC) enzyme systems in 
this tissue using the 3H-cAMP/32P-ATP tracer method. Compared to respective
baseline measurements (100+/-SEM%), AC activity was stimulated (p < 0.05) by
forskolin (FSK, 477+/-59%), fluoroaluminate (AlF(4), 360+/-10.3%), isoproterenol 
(ISO, 129+/-5.5%), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP, 132+/-6.1%), calmodulin
(CAM)+Mn2+ (196+/-69%), and dose-dependently by prostaglandin (PG) E2 (up to
162+/-3.6%). The antagonist drug calmidazolium inhibited the CAM-dependent
increase but also blocked basal activity (47+/-2.0%) without affecting the FSK
response. Other CAM blockers (TFP, W5) produced similar results but were not
completely selective for CAM-activated cyclase. GDPbetaS, a blocker of G-protein 
coupling to AC did not affect AC responses to FSK, ISO, and AlF4, but decreased
the response to PGE2. N-ethyl-carboxamido adenosine (NECA), which activates
adenosine A2 receptors, did not synergize with FSK or add to ISO responses and
did not activate AC by itself. In the GC system activity was stimulated (p< 0.05)
by CAM+Mn2+ (239+/-27%), by atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP, up to 143+/-1.4%)
and sodium nitroprusside (SNP, up to 179+/-1.6%). These results show that
choroidal tissue has significant activities of the adenylyl and guanylyl cyclase 
second messenger systems potentially responsive to hormones/neurotransmitters
that may control the degree of relaxation in this vascular tissue.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2004.01.008 
PMID: 15051471  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1150. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2004 Apr;82(2):158-60.

Assessment of chamber angle pigmentation during longterm latanoprost treatment
for open-angle glaucoma.

Nakamura Y(1), Nakamura Y, Morine-Shinjo S, Sakai H, Sawaguchi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ryukyu University, Faculty of Medicine, Okinawa, 
Japan. dr-ganka@med.u-ryukyu.ac.jp

PURPOSE: This study aimed to determine whether the longterm use of latanoprost is
associated with an increase in trabecular pigmentation, especially in subjects in
whom iris pigmentation has increased.
METHODS: We enrolled 50 subjects for whom treatment was to start for ocular
hypertension, primary open-angle glaucoma or normal tension glaucoma. All
subjects received latanoprost 0.005% daily. Trabecular pigmentation was
documented using gonioscopic photography of the inferior quadrant at baseline,
every 3 months for the first year and every 6 months for the second and third
years. Three glaucoma specialists evaluated the series of gonioscopic photographs
for each eye of each subject in a masked fashion. The intraocular pressure (IOP) 
was also recorded at each visit.
RESULTS: A total of 41 subjects (79 eyes) completed 3 years of follow-up, and
none showed any increase in the grade of trabecular pigmentation, including 10
subjects (20 eyes) in whom the iridial pigment increased.
CONCLUSION: Although latanoprost increased iridial pigmentation in some subjects,
we found no evidence of an increase in trabecular pigmentation over the 3 years
of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2004.00243.x 
PMID: 15043533  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1151. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2004 Apr;82(2):154-7.

Gonioscopic view of the trabeculo-Descemet's membrane after deep sclerectomy.

Vuori ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland.
marja-liisa.vuori@tyks.fi

PURPOSE: To study the appearance of the trabeculo-Descemet's membrane (TDM) after
deep sclerectomy with collagen implant (DSCI).
METHODS: All patients who underwent a successful DSCI for open-angle glaucoma
were included in a non-randomized clinical study. Gonioscopy was performed
between 6 and 12 months postoperatively in all patients.
RESULTS: Gonioscopy was performed in 42 eyes of 38 patients after a mean
follow-up time of 8.3 +/- 2.5 months after DSCI. The diagnosis was chronic
open-angle glaucoma in 16 eyes and exfoliative glaucoma in 24 eyes. One patient
had pigmentary glaucoma and one had normal tension glaucoma. None of the patients
were on glaucoma medication postoperatively. Synechias to the TDM were seen in
five eyes. Pigment accumulation to the TDM was seen in nine eyes, four of which
had capsular glaucoma, three had primary open-angle glaucoma, one had pigmentary 
glaucoma and one had normal tension glaucoma. Puncture holes at the TDM were seen
in all eight eyes in which Nd:YAG laser goniopuncture had been performed.
CONCLUSION: Postoperative changes, which may go unnoticed without routine
gonioscopy, occur at the TDM after deep sclerectomy with collagen implant.
Pigment accumulates relatively shortly after surgery. Whether or not these
changes are progressive remains unknown. Careful follow-up after deep sclerectomy
is necessary and should include routine gonioscopy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2004.00242.x 
PMID: 15043532  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1152. Eye (Lond). 2004 Oct;18(10):984-9.

A three-year prospective, randomized and open comparison between latanoprost and 
timolol in Japanese normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Tomita G(1), Araie M, Kitazawa Y, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Tokyo Graduate School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare the longitudinal effects of treatment on intraocular pressure
(IOP) and visual field performance in Japanese normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
between latanoprost and timolol.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This is an open-label, randomized, study. A total of 62 NTG
patients were prospectively, consecutively enrolled. All study subjects were
randomly assigned to 0.005% latanoprost instillation once daily in the morning or
0.5% timolol instillation twice daily for a prospective 3-year follow-up, and
underwent a routine ocular examination every month. Automated perimetry was
performed every 6 months using Humphrey field analysers. Stereophotographs of
optic discs were also obtained every 6 months.
RESULTS: Percentage of IOP reduction or the magnitude of IOP reduction showed no 
intergroup differences either at any time point (13-15%). In the visual field,
the estimated rate of change in the MD value (dB/year) was -0.34+/-0.17 (SE) for 
the latanoprost group, and -0.10+/-0.18 (SE) for the timolol group. The estimated
rate of change in MD showed no significant difference from zero in both groups,
and there were no statistical intergroup differences. No changes in the optic
nerve head topography in the vertical cup-to-disc ratio and rim area measured by 
image-analysis techniques were observed in either group. There were no patients
who dropped out due to the side effects of treatment regimens.
CONCLUSION: Both latanoprost and timolol single treatments reduced IOP by 13-15% 
at their trough effects for 3 years in Japanese NTG patients; both showed similar
effects on visual field performance.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6701373 
PMID: 15037889  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1153. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 Apr;88(4):491-3.

Normal tension glaucoma is not associated with the common apolipoprotein E gene
polymorphisms.

Lake S(1), Liverani E, Desai M, Casson R, James B, Clark A, Salmon JF.

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Eye Hospital, Radcliffe Infirmary, Woodstock Road, Oxford OX2 6HE, UK. 
stewartlake@tiscali.co.uk

BACKGROUND: /aims: In normal tension glaucoma (NTG) factors other than raised
intraocular pressure have a role in the pathogenesis of the optic neuropathy.
Because particular apolipoprotein E (ApoE) gene polymorphisms have been
associated with cell death and survival in neurological degenerative diseases,
the purpose of this study was to determine the ApoE allele frequencies in
patients with normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: The apolipoprotein E genotype of 155 patients with normal tension
glaucoma was compared to that of 349 non-affected, control subjects from the same
geographical area. A similar comparison was made between 53 patients with normal 
tension glaucoma who demonstrated progressive visual field loss, and control
subjects. The frequencies of genotypes was compared with the chi(2) test and
Mantel-Haenszel coefficent.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the frequency of ApoE alleles or 
genotypes in the normal tension glaucoma population compared to the control
group. The ApoE alleles and genotypes in NTG patients with progressive disease
were not different from the control group.
CONCLUSION: ApoE gene polymorphisms are not linked to normal tension glaucoma,
suggesting that this gene does not have a role in the pathogenesis of optic
neuropathy in this disease.


PMCID: PMC1772090
PMID: 15031162  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1154. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2004 Apr;15(2):90-2.

The role of diurnal pressure measurements in the management of open angle
glaucoma.

Wilensky JT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Illinois
College of Medicine at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA. jacowile@uic.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) is essential in 
the diagnosis and management of open-angle glaucoma, but a single measurement in 
the ophthalmologist's office may or may not reflect what the IOP is at other
times of the day or night. It is well documented that the range of the daily
fluctuations in IOP is greater in patients with glaucoma than in normal
individuals, and a report by Asrani et al. suggested that the range of the
diurnal fluctuation may be an independent risk factor for the progression of
visual field loss. There have been reports of nocturnal increases in IOP,
particularly in patients with normal tension glaucoma, and some ophthalmologists 
believe these may account for progression of visual field loss in some patients
with glaucoma. This review will analyze recent articles that report the impact of
various glaucoma therapies on the diurnal IOP curve and the use of diurnal curves
in glaucoma diagnosis.
RECENT FINDINGS: A number of recent publications document that antiglaucoma
medications with a long duration of action reduce the range of diurnal
fluctuation more than the shorter duration medications. Laser trabeculoplasty and
trabeculectomy also narrow the range of diurnal fluctuation, and at least one
recent study finds that trabeculectomy reduces the diurnal range more than
medical therapy does. Several recent studies of diurnal IOP in patients with
glaucoma have failed to document such diurnal IOP spikes, so the published data
available have not supported this hypothesis.
SUMMARY: One recent report has reconfirmed that a single IOP measurement in the
office may not accurately indicate what is happening to the IOP of a patient with
glaucoma throughout the day. Other reports have confirmed that treatment that
lowers IOP narrows the range of diurnal IOP fluctuation, and one of these reports
suggests that surgical reduction of IOL may narrow the fluctuation more than
medical reduction of IOP. The reports of IOP during the night have not provided
clear answers about what happens to IOP during sleep.


PMID: 15021217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. Ophthalmologe. 2004 Jun;101(6):589-94.

[Digital planimetry for long-term follow-up of glaucomatous optic disk injuries
in patients with normal pressure glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Nguyen NX(1), Meindl C, Horn FK, Dzialach M, Langenbucher A, Jünemann A, Mardin
CY.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen.
Nhung.nguyen@augen.imed.uni-erlangen.de

BACKGROUND: Aim of the study was to evaluate the validity of quantitative
planimetry of the optic disc with a new digital method and to assess the
correlation of the measurements with morphological changes in eyes with low
tension glaucoma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study included 40 eyes from 40 patients (age 61+/-12
years) with low tension glaucoma with a mean follow-up of 4.9+/-2.1 (range 3-9)
years. All patients underwent annually complete ophthalmological examination
including 15 degrees color optic disc photographs and automated white-white
visual fields.
RESULTS: Out of 40 eyes morphological examination showed signs of progression in 
18 eyes and in 22 eyes no morphological changes of the optic disc were detected
The digital planimetrically measured optic disc area did not vary between the
first and the last photos. The mean differences between measured values for optic
disc area between two examinations were 0.027+/-0.071 mm(2) and the reliability
coefficient (Cronbachs alpha) was 0.99. Neuroretinal rim area decreased
statistically highly significantly in eyes with morphological progression, and in
eyes without morphological changes decreased only slightly.
CONCLUSIONS: The variation of measurements of the optic disc area can be
minimized by consideration and adjustment of the individual image magnification
of the photos using digital planimetry. This method allows the quantitative
assessment even of slight changes of the neuroretinal rim area and is a useful
examination for follow-up of glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-003-0930-z 
PMID: 15014961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1156. Ophthalmologe. 2004 Sep;101(9):919-24.

[Measurement of corneal thickness in glaucoma patients].

[Article in German]

Dave H(1), Kutschan A, Pauer A, Wiegand W.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Augenheilkunde, Klinikum Nord/Heidberg, Hamburg.
augen-klinikum-nord@gmx.de

BACKGROUND: For the past 5 decades, Goldmann's applanation tonometry has been the
basis for measurement of intraocular pressure. In this process, it is assumed
that the corneal architecture-and particularly corneal thickness-does not have
significant influence on the applanation tonometry. The aim of this study was to 
assess central corneal thickness in patients with primary open angle glaucoma
(POWG), normal tension glaucoma (NDG), and ocular hypertension (OHT) compared to 
the central corneal thickness of control subjects.
METHOD: In 200 consecutive glaucoma patients corneal pachymetry was performed
with the Orbscan II system and a pachymetry map was obtained. Simultaneously,
corneal pachymetry was also performed in 200 age- and sex-matched control
subjects. To avoid diurnal variations the pachymetry measurements were performed 
at the same time of the day.
RESULTS: The central corneal thickness (CCT) distribution turned out to be a
near-Gaussian curve in patients with glaucoma and in the control subjects. The
mean CCT in glaucoma patients was 561+/-49.4 micro m with a minimum of 448 micro 
m and a maximum of 732 micro m. In control subjects the mean CCT was 555.9+/-34.6
micro m with a minimum of 480 micro m and a maximum of 635 micro m. Further
evaluation of CCT of glaucoma patients demonstrated that the CCT in patients with
POWG was 559.5+/-43.5 micro m, in patients with NDG was 530.3+/-51.1 micro m and 
with OHT was 624.2+/-25.4 micro m.
CONCLUSIONS: Central corneal thickness in patients with OHT was significantly
greater, and in patients with NDG significantly lower, compared to control
subjects. In defining the desired intraocular pressure in glaucoma patients, in
the future CCT measurements should be considered along with intraocular pressure 
measurement and visual field analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-003-0977-x 
PMID: 14999420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. Mol Vis. 2004 Feb 25;10:132-7.

Complex autoantibody repertoires in patients with glaucoma.

Grus FH(1), Joachim SC, Hoffmann EM, Pfeiffer N.

Author information: 
(1)Universitaets-Augenklinik, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Mainz,
Mainz, Germany. F@grus.de

PURPOSE: Glaucoma is one of the leading causes for blindness in the world. It is 
characterized by a progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells. An elevated
intraocular pressure cannot explain the disease in all subjects. Autoimmune
mechanisms maybe involvemed in the pathogenesis of the disease. The aim of our
study was to analyze the IgG autoantibody repertoires in sera of glaucomatous
subjects against optic nerve antigens.
METHODS: Ninety-four subjects were included in this comparative cross-sectional
study of healthy (CTRL), primary-open-angle-glaucoma (POAG), ocular-hypertension 
(OHT), and normal-tension-glaucoma (NTG) volunteers. Sera of subjects were tested
against western blots of optic nerve antigens. For each western blot, a
densitograph was built by digital image analysis and subsequently a multivariate 
analysis of discriminance was performed.
RESULTS: Complex IgG autoantibody repertoires could be found in all subjects,
even in healthy subjects. The multivariate analysis of discriminance can test for
statistical differences between the groups using the whole complex staining
pattern for the calculation. A significant difference between all groups against 
optic nerve antigens was found. The NTG group had the highest variance from
controls (p<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates immunological effects in POAG and NTG and
may provide further evidence for an involvement of autoantibodies in the
pathogenesis of both NTG and POAG. Using the techniques presented in this study, 
the differences in the complex autoantibody repertoires were assessed by means of
statistical analysis. Further studies are needed to determine whether these
changes in autoantibodies could be helpful in the diagnosis of glaucoma.


PMID: 14990890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2004 Jan;108(1):23-8.

[Long-term efficacy and safety of combined topical antiglaucoma therapy--timolol 
& unoprostone vs. betaxolol & unoprostone].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohtake Y(1), Tanino T, Kimura I, Mashima Y, Oguchi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate long-term efficacy and safety of treatment combining topical
beta-blockers and isopropyl unoprostone in primary open-angle glaucoma and
normal-tension glaucoma patients.
METHODS: A prospective, open-label, parallel-group clinical comparison trial was 
performed to evaluate efficacy and safety of treatment combining 0.5% betaxolol
and 0.12% isopropyl unoprostone (B&U) or 0.5% timolol and 0.12% isopropyl
unoprostone (T&U). Forty eyes of 40 patients, which were matched in the aging and
the stage of glaucomatous visual field defect, were studied. Twenty patients were
treated with B&U and the other twenty patients with T&U twice daily for 24
months. Goldmann intraocular pressure(IOP), Humphrey automated perimetry, blood
pressure, heart rate, and peak flow were done every six months in each group.
RESULTS: In the B&U treatment group, mean IOP was 21.2 mmHg at baseline and 18.3 
mmHg(p < 0.005) after 2 years, and in the T&U treatment group it was 21.1 mmHg at
baseline and 17.9 mmHg (p < 0.001) after 2 years. The cases in which MD value
decreased over 2 dB were one in the B&U treatment group and three in the T&U
treatment group. The average MD value was significantly improved from -7.40 dB to
-5.90 dB after 2 years with B&U treatment(p < 0.05), but there was no difference 
with the T&U treatment. None of the patients stopped combined therapy because of 
side effects, though heart rate was significantly reduced only in T&U treatment
group.
CONCLUSION: Both combined treatments were effective for IOP reduction in glaucoma
patients, and the data from the B&U treatment group suggested that B&U was more
effective in maintaining visual field than T&U.


PMID: 14969090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1159. Am J Ophthalmol. 2004 Feb;137(2):357-9.

Four cases of normal-tension glaucoma with disk hemorrhage combined with branch
retinal vein occlusion in the contralateral eye.

Kim SJ(1), Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, South Korea.

PURPOSE: To report four cases of normal-tension glaucoma with disk hemorrhage in 
one eye and branch retinal vein occlusion in the contralateral eye.
DESIGN: Observational case series.
METHODS: Four cases of normal-tension glaucoma with disk hemorrhage in one eye
and branch retinal vein occlusion in the contralateral eye were detected within a
1-year period.
RESULTS: Mean patient age was 57 +/- 10 years. Three patients had systemic
hypertension, two bilateral normal-tension glaucoma, and all four bilateral
peripapillary atrophy. There was no significant difference in intraocular
pressure between the disk hemorrhage eyes and the contralateral eyes with branch 
retinal vein occlusion.
CONCLUSION: Some normal-tension glaucoma patients with disk hemorrhage may have a
pathogenic mechanism in combination with branch retinal vein occlusion.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9394(03)00875-4 
PMID: 14962434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1160. Arch Ophthalmol. 2004 Feb;122(2):258-61.

The role of apolipoprotein E gene polymorphisms in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Ressiniotis T(1), Griffiths PG, Birch M, Keers S, Chinnery PF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Royal Victoria Infirmary, and Department of
Neurology, Medical School, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle upon
Tyne, England. tomres@doctors.org.uk

OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that genetic polymorphisms of the
apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene are associated with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG), based on the association between neurodegenerative diseases and the APOE 
genotype.
METHODS: Genomic DNA was examined from an unrelated cohort of 137 POAG patients
and 75 control subjects from the ophthalmology department of the Royal Victoria
Infirmary. The APOE allele frequency (epsilon2, epsilon3, and epsilon4 alleles)
was studied by polymerase chain reaction amplification of the related locus
(19q13.2), enzymatic digestion of the products, gel electrophoresis, and imaging 
under UV illumination. For statistical analysis, we used a logistic regression
model that included intraocular pressure as a continuous variable to study the
possible correlation between POAG and APOE allele frequency.
RESULTS: Logistic regression analysis showed no statistically significant
association between the frequency of the APOE allele and POAG for the population 
studied, irrespective of the IOP (epsilon2 odds ratio, 0.82; 95% confidence
interval, 0.12-5.79 [P =.84]; epsilon3 odds ratio, 0.39; 95% confidence interval,
0.10-1.49 [P =.17]; and epsilon4 odds ratio, 3.84; 95% confidence interval,
0.80-18.49 [P =.09]).
CONCLUSION: In our cohort, the APOE genotype does not constitute a risk factor
for developing POAG, even in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.Clinical
Relevance Apolipoprotein E polymorphisms do not appear to be contributory to
POAG.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.122.2.258 
PMID: 14769603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. Arch Ophthalmol. 2004 Feb;122(2):195-201.

Fluorescein filling defects and quantitative morphologic analysis of the optic
nerve head in glaucoma.

Plange N(1), Kaup M, Weber A, Remky A, Arend O.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik des Universitätsklinikum Aachen, Aachen, Germany.
nplange@ukaachen.de

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate absolute filling defects of the optic nerve head in
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and to
compare the filling defects with topographic analysis of the optic disc.
METHODS: Twenty-five patients with NTG, 25 patients with POAG, and 25 age-matched
controls were included. Fluorescein angiograms were performed by means of a
scanning laser ophthalmoscope. The extent of absolute filling defects of the
optic nerve head was assessed using digital image analysis of early-phase
angiograms. Topographic measurements of the optic disc were acquired using the
Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II.
RESULTS: Absolute filling defects were significantly larger (P =.001) and were
seen more often (P<.001) in patients with NTG (n = 18) and POAG (n = 19) compared
with controls (n = 3). Rim area (P =.006), rim volume (P =.007), cup-disc area
ratio (P =.008), linear cup-disc ratio (P =.005), maximum cup depth (P =.002),
cup shape measure (P =.03), and nerve fiber layer thickness (P =.008) and
cross-sectional area (P =.006) were significantly different between patients with
glaucoma and controls. Absolute filling defects were significantly correlated
with cup area (r = 0.31; P =.007), rim area (r = -0.38; P<.001), rim volume (r = 
-0.35; P =.002), cup-disc area ratio (r = 0.49; P<.001), linear cup-disc ratio (r
= 0.48; P<.001), cup shape measure (r = 0.27; P =.02), and nerve fiber layer
thickness (r = -0.33; P =.004) and cross-sectional area (r = -0.30; P =.009).
CONCLUSIONS: Fluorescein filling defects of the optic disc are present in NTG and
POAG. The extent of these filling defects is correlated with the morphologic disc
damage.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.122.2.195 
PMID: 14769596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1162. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2004 Jan;23(1):53-89.

Mitochondrial dysfunction as a cause of optic neuropathies.

Carelli V(1), Ross-Cisneros FN, Sadun AA.

Author information: 
(1)Doheny Eye Institute and Department of Ophthalmology, Keck School of Medicine 
of the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
carelli@neuro.unibo.it

Mitochondria are increasingly recognized as central players in the life and death
of cells and especially of neurons. The energy-dependence of retinal ganglion
cells (RGC) and their axons, which form the optic nerve, is singularly skewed. In
fact, while mitochondria are very abundant in the initial, unmyelinated part of
the axons anterior to the lamina cribrosa, their number suddenly decreases as the
myelin sheath begins more posteriorly. The vascular system also presents
different blood-brain barrier properties anterior and posterior to the lamina,
possibly reflecting the different metabolic needs of the optic nerve head
(unmyelinated) and of the retrobulbar optic nerve (myelinated). Mitochondrial
biogenesis occurs within the cellular somata of RGC in the retina. It needs the
coordinated interaction of nuclear and mitochondrial genomes. Mitochondria are
then transported down the axons and distributed where they are needed. These
locations are along the unmyelinated portion of the nerve, under the nodes of
Ranvier in the retrobulbar nerve, and at the synaptic terminals. Efficient
transportation of mitochondria depends on multiple factors, including their own
energy production, the integrity of the cytoskeleton and its protein components
(tubulin, etc.), and adequate myelination of the axons. Any dysfunction of these 
systems may be of pathological relevance for optic neuropathies with primary or
secondary involvement of mitochondria. Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON)
is the paradigm of mitochondrial optic neuropathies where a primary role for
mitochondrial dysfunction is certified by maternal inheritance and association
with specific mutations in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Clinical phenocopies of
this pathology are represented by the wide array of optic neuropathies associated
with vitamin depletion, toxic exposures, alcohol and tobacco abuse, and use of
certain drugs. Moreover, the recent identification of mutations in the nuclear
gene OPA1 as the causative factor in dominant optic atrophy (DOA, Kjer's type)
brought the unexpected finding that this gene encodes for a mitochondrial
protein, suggesting that DOA and LHON may be linked by similar pathogenesis.
Polymorphisms in this very same gene may be associated with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG), which might be considered a genetically determined optic
neuropathy that again shows similarities with both LHON and DOA. Exciting new
developments come from first examples of mitochondrial optic neuropathies in
animal models that are genetically determined or are the result of ingenious
engineering of mitochondrial gene expression, or from biochemical manipulations
of the respiratory complexes. Even more exciting is the first successful attempt 
to correct the LHON-related complex I dysfunction by the allotopic nuclear
expression of the recoded mitochondrial gene. There is hope that the genetic
complexities, biochemical dysfunctions, and integrated anatomical-physiological
cellular relationships will soon be precisely delineated and that promising
therapeutic and prophylactic strategies will be proposed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2003.10.003 
PMID: 14766317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Hum Mol Genet. 2004 Apr 1;13 Spec No 1:R91-102. Epub 2004 Feb 5.

Genetic dissection of myocilin glaucoma.

Gong G(1), Kosoko-Lasaki O, Haynatzki GR, Wilson MR.

Author information: 
(1)Osteoporosis Research Center, Creighton University Omaha, NE 68131, USA.
gdgong@creighton.edu

Erratum in
    Hum Mol Genet. 2004 May 1;13(9):991.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a complex disease with unknown causes.
However, in the past decade, POAG has been linked to six chromosomal regions, of 
which the gene MYOC encoding myocilin and the gene OPTN encoding optineurin have 
been identified to harbor causal mutations (disease-causing variants, DCV). POAG 
caused by DCV at MYOC has been termed "myocilin glaucoma". Clinically, DCV at
MYOC may manifest as a typical POAG, normal tension glaucoma, or ocular
hypertension without glaucoma. Individuals with the Arg46Stop mutation that
almost knocks out the entire coding sequence may have severe glaucoma or no
glaucoma. Genetically, myocilin glaucoma follows autosomal dominant, recessive or
no pattern of inheritance. DCV at MYOC cause POAG in interaction with
environmental factors and DCV at other loci. Most DCV at MYOC are relatively
young, and the Gln368Stop mutation is exclusively European in origin. The overall
frequency of DCV at MYOC is similar among African, Caucasian and Asian probands
with POAG. Because of this fact and the higher prevalence of POAG in African
descendants compared with Caucasians or Asians, the overall frequency of DCV at
MYOC is several-fold higher in the general population of African descendants,
which is in part responsible for their higher prevalence of POAG. Although the
Arg46Stop mutation was often observed in normal controls, Arg46Stop carriers tend
to have higher risk of developing POAG. Polymorphisms at several loci including
MYOC are associated with POAG, and play an important role in the pathogenesis of 
POAG.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddh074 
PMID: 14764620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1164. Am J Med Genet A. 2004 Feb 15;125A(1):1-4.

Mutations in the optineurin gene in Japanese patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma.

Toda Y(1), Tang S, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F, Iijima H, Tsukahara S, Yamagata Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Public Health, School of Medicine, Yamanashi
University, Tamaho, Yamanashi, Japan.

The optineurin gene (OPTN) was identified as a gene that causes primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG). To investigate the 
frequency of sequence changes in OPTN in Japanese glaucoma patients,
single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis and subsequent sequence analysis
were performed for genotyping OPTN in 165 unrelated Japanese patients with POAG
and 148 patients with NTG, with 196 control subjects without glaucoma as
reference subjects. Out of four mutations reported to be associated with risk and
to cause disease in Caucasian patients, sequence alterations in 458G > A and
691_692insAG were not detected in any investigated Japanese patients with
glaucoma, and alterations in 1944G > A and 603T > A, were present in similar
frequencies in glaucoma patients and control subjects. The current results
suggest that there may be certain racial differences between Japanese and
Caucasians with respect to OPTN genotypes.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.20439 
PMID: 14755458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1165. Eye (Lond). 2004 Aug;18(8):850-3.

Progression of visual field defect in a normal-tension glaucoma patient after
laser in situ keratomileusis.

Inoue K, Hashida S, Tajima Y, Wakakura M, Inoue J, Tomita G.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6701339 
PMID: 14752506  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1166. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2003 Dec;51(4):329-33.

Five-year risk of progression of ocular hypertension to primary open angle
glaucoma. A population-based study.

Thomas R(1), Parikh R, George R, Kumar RS, Muliyil J.

Author information: 
(1)L V Prasad Eye Institute, Vellore, India. ravithomas@lvpei.org

Comment in
    Indian J Ophthalmol. 2004 Sep;52(3):257-8; author reply 258-9.

PURPOSE: To report the progression of ocular hypertension (OHT) to primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG) during a 5-year follow up of a population-based sample.
METHODS: Twenty-nine patients diagnosed to have OHT and 110 randomly selected
normals from a population-based study in 1995 were invited for ocular examination
in 2000. All patients underwent a complete ophthalmic examination; including the 
daytime diurnal variation of intraocular pressure (IOP) and measurement of
central corneal thickness (CCT). The "corrected" IOP was used for analysis.
Progression to POAG was based on typical optic disc changes with corresponding
field defects on automated perimetry.
RESULTS: Twenty-five of the 29 persons with OHT who could be contacted were
examined. After correcting for CCT, two persons were reclassified as normal. Four
of 23 (17.4%; 95% CI: 1.95-32.75) had progressed to POAG. One person amongst the 
110 normals progressed to normal tension glaucoma (NTG). The relative risk of
progression amongst OHT was 19.1 (95% CI: 2.2-163.4). All those who progressed
had bilateral OHT. The mean and peak IOP in those who progressed was 25.4 mm Hg
and 29.3 mm Hg compared to 23.9 mm Hg and 25.7 mm Hg in those who did not. Those 
who progressed had more than 8 mm Hg diurnal variation. The diurnal variation was
less than 6 mm Hg in those who did not progress. No patient developed blindness
due to glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: The 5-year incidence of POAG amongst OHT in this population was 17.4%
(3.5% per year). Bilateral OHT, higher peak IOP and large diurnal variation may
be the risk factors for progression.


PMID: 14750621  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1167. Eye (Lond). 2004 Jul;18(7):697-702.

Diurnal variation in microcirculation of ocular fundus and visual field change in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Okuno T(1), Sugiyama T, Kojima S, Nakajima M, Ikeda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, Takatsuki, Osaka, Japan.

Comment in
    Eye (Lond). 2004 Jul;18(7):661-2.

PURPOSE: Diurnal variations in microcirculation of the ocular fundus in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) were examined to compare with the normal control
eyes. The correlation between progression of visual field impairment and diurnal 
variations in ocular circulation was also studied.
METHODS: The subjects were 12 patients with NTG and 12 normal controls. Blood
pressure (BP), intraocular pressure (IOP), ocular perfusion pressure (OPP), and
square blur rate (SBR), an index of microcirculation acquired by the laser
speckle method, were measured at 9 a.m. (morning), 3 p.m. (afternoon), and 9 p.m.
(night). Diurnal variations in SBR were tested using the Friedman test and
Wilcoxon signed ranks test. On the other hand, diurnal variations in BP, IOP, and
OPP were tested by the analysis of variance. The visual field was evaluated at
the same time as determining diurnal variation and again about 9 months later to 
calculate the change. The correlation between variation ratio in SBR and the
change in visual field was examined by simple regression.
RESULTS: A significant decrease (P=0.04) was found in SBR at night, as compared
with the morning value, in the optic nerve head (ONH) of NTG, although no
significant diurnal variations were found in SBR either in the choroid-retina or 
in normal control eyes. Other parameters showed no significant diurnal
variations. The larger diurnal variation was in SBR of the ONH, and the more
exacerbated visual field impairment was (r=0.59, P=0.04).
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that diurnal variations in the
microcirculation of the ONH may play a role in the progression of NTG.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6700749 
PMID: 14739923  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. Menopause. 2004 Jan-Feb;11(1):69-77.

Hormone therapy and ophthalmic artery blood flow changes in women with primary
open-angle glaucoma.

Battaglia C(1), Mancini F, Regnani G, Persico N, Volpe A, De Aloysio D.

Author information: 
(1)III Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Bologna, Bologna,
Italy. battaglia@med.unibo.it

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effects of hormone therapy (HT) on plasma viscosity and
Doppler flow parameters in normal, healthy, postmenopausal women and in women
with normal-tension and chronic, open-angle glaucoma.
DESIGN: Eight postmenopausal women with glaucoma (group I) and 15 controls (group
II) were given HT. The duration of the study was 6 months, and the women were
examined in basal condition and at the end of the treatment. All women underwent 
ultrasonographic evaluation of pelvic organs and color Doppler analysis of
uterine, internal carotid, and ophthalmic arteries. Also, plasma viscosity was
assayed.
RESULTS: The ultrasonographic analysis showed that none of the women presented
with irregular endometrial echoes, polyps, or intracavitary fluid. In addition,
endometrial thickness never exceeded the normal range (5 mm). Plasma viscosity
and Doppler parameters significantly improved during therapy. However, the
ophthalmic artery mean improvements of pulsatility index (-43% v -28%; P =
0.001), peak systolic blood flow velocity (+35% v +24%; P = 0.026), and
time-averaged maximum velocity (+44% v +32%; P = 0.031) were significantly more
evident in the control group than in the glaucoma group.
CONCLUSIONS: Although, in people with glaucoma, vasospasm can increase the risk
of visual loss by inducing a retrobulbar blood flow reduction, HT seems to
beneficially affect the ocular vascularization.

DOI: 10.1097/01.GME.0000079741.18541.92 
PMID: 14716185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1169. Vestn Oftalmol. 2003 Nov-Dec;119(6):3-5.

[Determination of individually endurable intraocular pressure (pressure of
target) in primary glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Shmyreva VF, Shmeleva-Demir OA, Mazurova IuV.

On the basis of ocular perfusion pressure a new method was suggested for
determining an individually endurable intraocular pressure (IOP), i.e. pressure
of target. A total of 390 eyes (232 patients with primary open-angle and
normal-tension glaucoma) were examined before and after conservative and surgical
treatment. The pressure of target was found, in a progressing worsening of visual
functions, to be significantly lower versus the stabilized glaucoma, which was
due to a low ocular perfusion pressure. The maximally tolerable IOP in a
progressing glaucomatous optic neuropathy concomitant with a normalized IOP
amounts to 13-15 mm Hg; while, in the stabilized glaucoma it can exceed the mean 
statistic norm. The pressure of target was shown to be a non-permanent value,
which changes depending on the dynamics of the ophthalmic perfusion pressure and 
IOP. The sensitivity of the suggested method is 77.4%. It can be used in
prognosticating the glaucomatous-process clinical course and in choosing an
optimal tactics for the treatment of open-angle and normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 14708161  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. J Glaucoma. 2004 Feb;13(1):66-72.

Increased expression of matrix metalloproteinases in mononuclear blood cells of
normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Golubnitschaja O(1), Yeghiazaryan K, Liu R, Mönkemann H, Leppert D, Schild H,
Haefliger IO, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Bonn, Germany.

PURPOSE: Glaucomatous optic neuropathy involves tissue remodeling by matrix
metalloproteinases (MMPs). In this study we investigated MMP gene expression in
circulating leukocytes isolated from normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients in
comparison to healthy controls.
METHODS: Blood samples were collected from 6 glaucoma patients and 6 age- and
sex-matched healthy controls. Leukocytes were separated using Ficoll-Hypaque
gradient. mRNA pools were used for subtractive hybridization to identify genes
with altered expression. The subtracted genes were sequenced and individual mRNA 
pools were quantified using semiquantitative RT-PCRs. Target PCR products were
confirmed using sequence-based restriction analysis. In this study we focused on 
MMPs.
RESULTS: MMP-9 and MT1-MMP (MMP-14) were subtracted as upregulated genes in the
group of NTG patients. Upregulation of these genes was confirmed by RT-PCR and
Western-blot analysis in all 6 patients. The expression of the tissue inhibitor
of matrix metalloproteinases TIMP-1 was slightly enhanced in patients as compared
with controls. Expression of MMP-2 was not detected in leukocytes either in
glaucoma patients or in healthy subjects.
CONCLUSION: A simultaneous upregulation of both MMP-9 and MT1-MMP gene expression
and only slightly enhanced expression of TIMP-1 suggest an increased enzymatic
matrix metalloproteinase activity delivered by mononuclear blood cells in these
patients.


PMID: 14704547  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1171. J Glaucoma. 2004 Feb;13(1):9-14.

Correlation between a disc hemorrhage and peripapillary atrophy in glaucoma
patients with a unilateral disc hemorrhage.

Ahn JK(1), Kang JH, Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the correlation between a disc hemorrhage and
peripapillary atrophy in glaucoma patients with a unilateral disc hemorrhage.
METHODS: The 44 glaucoma patients (7 with primary open-angle glaucoma and 37 with
normal-tension glaucoma) with a unilateral disc hemorrhage from June 1997 to
November 2002 were selected randomly and included sequentially. The topographic
measurements were performed using Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) within 3
months of detecting the disc hemorrhage. The zone beta parameters of the
peripapillary atrophy were analyzed by the Atrophy Zone Analysis software. The
intraocular pressure, refractive error, visual field parameters, and optic disc
parameters were compared between both eyes. Univariate and multivariate
regression analysis were performed.
RESULTS: The area, angular and radial extent of the zone beta, and the ratio of
the zone beta area to the disc area were significantly greater in the hemorrhagic
eyes than in the contralateral eyes (P < 0.001). The prevalence of peripapillary 
atrophy was significantly higher in the hemorrhagic eyes (84%) than in the
contralateral eyes (66%) (P = 0.034, chi2 test). The rim area and the rim volume 
of the hemorrhagic eyes were significantly smaller than those of the
contralateral eyes (P = 0.02, < 0.001, respectively). In multivariate regression 
analysis, the peripapillary atrophy area was the independent significant factor
associated with disc hemorrhage (P = 0.03, Odds Ratio = 1.51). The refractive
error, intraocular pressure, Mean Deviation (MD), and Corrected Pattern Standard 
Deviation (CPSD) of the visual fields in both eyes were similar.
CONCLUSION: The area and extent of the peripapillary atrophy was significantly
greater and more prevalent in the eyes with a disc hemorrhage than in the
contralateral control eyes. Peripapillary atrophy is closely associated with a
disc hemorrhage in glaucoma patients irrespective of small neuroretinal rim area 
and volume.


PMID: 14704537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1172. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2003 Nov-Dec;13(9-10):752-8.

Analysis of autoantibody repertoires in sera of patients with glaucoma.

Joachim SC(1), Grus FH, Pfeiffer N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Mainz, Mainz, Germany.

PURPOSE: Glaucoma is the second cause of blindness worldwide. It is usually
considered a neurodegenerative disease. There is evidence that an autoimmune
mechanism is involved in the development of glaucoma in some patients. The aim of
this study was to analyze the IgG autoantibody repertoires in sera of glaucoma
patients and healthy subjects.
METHODS: A total of 82 patients were divided into four groups: healthy volunteers
without any ocular disorders (CO, n = 30), patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG, n = 19), ocular hypertension (OHT, n = 16), and normal tension
glaucoma (NTG, n = 17). All groups were matched for age and gender. The sera of
these patients were tested against Western blots of retinal antigens.
Immunodetection was done using 4-chloro-1-naphthol staining. The autoantibody
patterns were digitized and subsequently analyzed by multivariate statistical
techniques.
RESULTS: All patients showed different, complex staining patterns of
autoantibodies against retinal antigens. There was an increase in the number of
peaks in sera of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) compared to
healthy subjects (CO). Including all peaks the analysis of discriminance revealed
a statistically significant difference between the patterns of POAG compared to
all other groups (p < 0.01). Sera of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) had no
statistically different autoantibody pattern compared to those of control
subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we demonstrated a difference in the IgG autoantibody 
patterns of primary open-angle glaucoma patients compared to healthy subjects.
However, the patterns were not significantly different in normal tension glaucoma
compared to control subjects.


PMID: 14700094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Ophthalmic Res. 2003 Nov-Dec;35(6):345-50.

Variants of the myocilin gene in Japanese patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Izumi K(1), Mashima Y, Obazawa M, Ohtake Y, Tanino T, Miyata H, Zhang Q, Oguchi
Y, Tanaka Y, Iwata T.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Sensory Organs, National Tokyo Medical Center,
Higashigaoka, Tokyo, Japan.

Myocilin (MYOC) mutations are associated with juvenile- and adult-onset primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The purpose of this study was to determine whether
MYOC gene mutations are associated with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). The
prevalence of MYOC mutations was determined in 80 Japanese NTG patients and 100
control subjects. In addition, the expression of mutant MYOC was determined by
transforming COS-1 cells with five myocilin variants (R158Q, D208E, I360N, A363T,
and I477S) and examining whether myocilin was present in the cultured cells
and/or the culture medium by western blotting. Six different nucleotide sequence 
variants, R46Stop, R76K, R158Q, D208E, A488A, and one in the 3' non-coding
region, were identified in 80 NTG patients. Variants in codon 46 (R46Stop), codon
158 (R158Q), and codon 488 (A488A) were not found in the 100 normal controls. The
frequency of other sequence changes (R76K, D208E, and 3' non-coding) in NTG
patients did not differ significantly from the frequencies in the control
subjects. COS-1 cells transfected with the wild type, R158Q, or D208E variants
secreted myocilin into the culture medium. On the other hand, the detected
myocilin was significantly reduced in the medium of cells transfected with the
I360N, A363T, or I477S variants that were previously identified as mutations for 
POAG. Definitive evidence of MYOC variants associated with NTG was not found.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 74075 
PMID: 14688426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2003 Oct;107(10):597-601.

[Serial topographic changes at the optic disc in normal-tension glaucoma viewed
with scanning laser tomography].

[Article in Japanese]

Kato A(1), Sugiyama K, Kono Y, Uchida H, Tomita G, Yamamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, 40
Tsukasa-machi, Gifu 500-8705, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate topographic changes in normal-tension glaucoma using serial 
optic disc images obtained by scanning laser tomography.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Fifty-six eyes of 30 patients with normal-tension glaucoma 
were imaged using the Heidelberg Retina Tomography (HRT) four or more times
during follow-up periods of more than 3 years. Disc progression was determined by
regression analysis of global and segmental changes in optic disc parameters.
Visual field progression was determined by Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA) program 
30-2 and was compared with disc progression.
RESULTS: The global parameters of the optic disc showed progression in 21 of 56
eyes(37.5%). Progression was found in 30 eyes(53.6%) at the superotemporal
segment, in 24 eyes(42.9%) at the temporal segment, in 27 eyes(48.2%) at the
inferotemporal segment, in 21 eyes(37.5%) at the superonasal segment, in 23
eyes(41.1%) at the nasal segment, and in 27 eyes(48.2%) at the inferonasal
segment. The visual field showed progression in 19 eyes (33.9%). The progression 
in the optic disc parameters did not necessarily agree with that in the visual
field.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucomatous disc changes over time can be determined with HRT using
regression analysis.


PMID: 14598711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. Vestn Oftalmol. 2003 Sep-Oct;119(5):14-6.

[A differentiated approach to the treatment of normal-pressure glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Grigor'eva EG.

Seventy patients with normal pressure glaucoma (NPG) were treated on the
differential basis with respect to a pathogenetic disease type. The suggested
complex therapy of the ischemic variation improves both the microcirculation in
the optic nerve disk (OND) by administering different-effect drugs in long
courses and the systemic hemodynamics (practitioners of needed skills are
involved). The use of local antihypertensive drug to reduce the intraocular
pressure to an individual tolerable value is important in the treatment of
patients with tension-ischemic glaucoma. The process stabilized in 75.8 +/- 3.9% 
of patients in the main group and in 47 +/- 8.5% of patients in the control group
(p < 0.05) after a follow-up of up to 2.5 years.


PMID: 14598486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1176. Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Nov;136(5):920.

Factors that predict the benefit of lowering intraocular pressure in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Cantor LB.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Nov;136(5):820-9.


PMID: 14597048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1177. Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Nov;136(5):904-10.

Evaluation of optineurin sequence variations in 1,048 patients with open-angle
glaucoma.

Alward WL(1), Kwon YH, Kawase K, Craig JE, Hayreh SS, Johnson AT, Khanna CL,
Yamamoto T, Mackey DA, Roos BR, Affatigato LM, Sheffield VC, Stone EM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine,
Iowa City, Iowa 52242, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate the association of sequence variations in the optineurin 
(OPTN) gene in patients with open-angle glaucoma.
DESIGN: Prospective case control study.
METHODS: The OPTN gene was screened for sequence variations using a combination
of single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis and automated DNA
sequencing. A total of 1,299 subjects (1048 glaucoma patients and 251 controls)
were screened for variations in the four portions of the gene that had been
previously associated with glaucoma. A subset of these subjects (376 patients and
176 controls) was screened for variations in the entire coding sequence.
Twenty-four percent of the patients and 35% of the controls were Japanese,
whereas the remainder were predominantly Caucasian. Allele frequencies were
compared with the Fisher exact test.
RESULTS: The OPTN sequence variations were not significantly associated with any 
form of high-tension open-angle glaucoma. One proband with familial
normal-tension glaucoma was found to harbor the previously reported Glu50Lys
variation. Another previously reported change, Met98Lys, was associated with
normal-tension glaucoma in Japanese but not in Caucasian patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides some additional evidence for the association of 
the Glu50Lys OPTN sequence variation with familial normal tension glaucoma.
However, because familial normal-tension glaucoma is so rare, this change seems
to be responsible for less than 0.1% of all open-angle glaucoma. The Arg545Gln
variation is likely to be a nondisease-causing polymorphism. The Met98Lys change 
may be associated with a fraction of normal-tension glaucoma in patients of
Japanese ethnicity.


PMID: 14597044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1178. Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Nov;136(5):820-9.

Factors that predict the benefit of lowering intraocular pressure in normal
tension glaucoma.

Anderson DR(1), Drance SM, Schulzer M; Collaborative Normal-Tension Glaucoma
Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami School of Medicine, 900 NW 17
Street, Miami, FL 33136, USA. danderson@med.miami.edu

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Nov;136(5):920.

PURPOSE: To study whether the benefit of lowering of intraocular pressure (IOP)
varies according to certain traits.
DESIGN: Randomized clinical trial, secondary analysis.
METHODS: Visual field data were analyzed from 144 subjects (144 eyes) randomized 
not to receive IOP-lowering treatment or to have the IOP lowered by 30%. Survival
analyses were applied to compare times to progression between groups. Changes in 
mean deviation global index over time were compared with multilevel random
effects models.
RESULTS: By univariate analysis, the most readily demonstrated treatment benefit 
occurred in patients without baseline disk hemorrhage, of female gender, with
family history of glaucoma, without family history of stroke, without personal
history of cardiovascular disease, and with mild disk excavation; IOP lowering
benefited females with migraine (P <.05) but perhaps without eliminating all
migraine-associated risk.
CONCLUSIONS: It is suggested that different factors may contribute to the
glaucomatous optic neuropathy in different cases of normal tension glaucoma,
interacting with IOP to different degrees and, thereby, affecting the magnitude
of benefit of IOP lowering. Further study is required to establish interactions
that would have implications for understanding the disease mechanisms in
glaucomatous cupping, for guiding development of new treatment modalities, and
for making clinical decisions regarding prognosis and management of individual
patients.


PMID: 14597032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1179. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2003;(4):CD002222.

Interventions for normal tension glaucoma.

Sycha T(1), Vass C, Findl O, Bauer P, Groke I, Schmetterer L, Eichler H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Vienna, Medical School,
Allgemeines Krankenhaus Wien, Währinger-Gürtel 18-20, Vienna, Austria, A-1090.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;(2):CD002222.

BACKGROUND: Normal tension glaucoma is a clinical condition in which the optic
nerve is pathologically excavated and the visual field is disturbed. Nevertheless
it has been assumed that intraocular pressure plays a role in the progression of 
visual field defects in this disease, but other, mainly vascular factors, have
been discussed as well.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review is to assess the effects of medical and 
surgical treatments for normal tension glaucoma.
SEARCH STRATEGY: Trials were identified from the Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group
trials register), MEDLINE, EMBASE and BIOSIS Previews. Bibliographies of
identified trials were searched to find additional trials. In addition,
investigators and pharmaceutical companies were contacted. Date of last search:
January 2001.
SELECTION CRITERIA: This review includes randomised controlled trials in which
medical or surgical interventions were compared to no treatment, placebo or other
treatment in people with normal tension glaucoma. Two reviewers independently
assessed the full text copies of the possibly relevant trials. Trial quality was 
assessed according to the methods set out in Section 6 of the Cochrane Reviewers'
Handbook (Clarke 2000).
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data were extracted by two reviewers and results
were compared for differences. Discrepancies were resolved by discussion. The
heterogeneity of interventions, follow-up periods and outcomes did not allow for 
statistical combinations of the study results.
MAIN RESULTS: According to the selection criteria on visual field loss, eight
studies were included in this review. Only three studies focussed on patient
relevant outcomes. In one trial a beneficial effect of lowering intraocular
pressure was found, but only if data were corrected for cataract development. In 
two small studies a beneficial effect on visual field loss of brovincamine, a
calcium antagonist was reported.
REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: In one study the effect of intraocular pressure lowering 
on visual field outcome was only significant when data were corrected for
cataract development. The results for calcium antagonists are promising, but
larger trials have to be performed. Studies that focussed on reduction of
intraocular pressure or haemodynamic variables are not necessarily relevant for
the outcome in people with normal tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002222 
PMID: 14583947  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1180. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2003 Aug-Sep;13(7):611-5.

Effect of brimonidine on intraocular pressure in normal tension glaucoma: a short
term clinical trial.

Gandolfi SA(1), Cimino L, Mora P.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Research and Care Center, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
s.gandolfi@rsadvnet.it

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of 0.2% brimonidine eye drops given 
twice daily in normal tension glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixteen consecutive patients fulfilling eligibility
criteria (glaucomatous optic neuropathy associated with visual field defect in at
least one eye, intraocular pressure (IOP) < or = 18 mmHg (average of the two
highest readings of the round-the-clock curve, including one reading at midnight 
in supine position), no prior glaucoma therapy, angle wide open, visual acuity
20/40 or better) were enrolled in this prospective, randomized,
placebo-controlled clinical trial with crossover design, lasting 30 days for each
treatment phase plus 15-day washout in between. Main outcome was IOP (average of 
the two highest readings of the round-the-clock curve).
RESULTS: Mean IOP was significantly reduced by brimonidine (from 17.1 +/- 0.7 mm 
Hg to 13.9 +/- 2.2 mmHg, p<0.001 (paired Student t-test)). At the end of the
30-day brimonidine phase, 4 of 16 subjects showed a > or = 30% IOP decrease over 
baseline.
CONCLUSIONS: In the short term, 0.2% brimonidine eye drops can induce a
significant IOP decrease in eyes with normal tension glaucoma.


PMID: 14552594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1181. Mol Vis. 2003 Sep 22;9:460-4.

Polymorphisms in OPA1 are associated with normal tension glaucoma.

Powell BL(1), Toomes C, Scott S, Yeung A, Marchbank NJ, Spry PG, Lumb R,
Inglehearn CF, Churchill AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: [corrected] To confirm whether specific polymorphisms in intron 8 (IVS8)
of the OPA1 gene are found more commonly in patients with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) compared to normal controls.
METHODS: This is a cohort study of 61 patients with NTG, 49 known healthy
controls and 119 individuals from the general population. The DNA sequence was
determined at the +4 and +32 positions of IVS8 of the OPA1 gene. Hardy-Weinberg
equilibrium was confirmed in our population by comparing the allele frequencies
in two additional genes, TP53 and TYRP1. Genotypes for the NTG and control groups
were compared for statistically significant differences.
RESULTS: There were no differences in the OPA1 genotypes of the NTG and control
groups at the +4 location, as had been suggested in a previous study, but a
significant difference was observed at the +32 location of IVS8. The CC genotype 
was found in 28% of NTG patients compared to 13% of controls (p=0.006). The TC
genotype was more prevalent in the control population (p=0.02) but this
difference did not reach statistical significance when the Bonferroni adjustment 
was made for multiple analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: We have refined the previously reported association between OPA1
sequence changes and NTG by identifying a specific CC genotype at position +32 in
IVS8 of the OPA1 gene that acts as a marker for NTG. At the current time, NTG is 
frequently diagnosed late when loss of neurons has already caused significant and
irreversible peripheral field loss. If a test could be designed to identify those
people at risk of developing NTG, then careful screening might detect earlier
signs of disease allowing commencement of treatment before significant field loss
has occurred.


PMID: 14551537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1182. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2003 Sep;107(9):530-4.

[Effect of latanoprost on diurnal variations of intraocular pressure in
normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakamoto K(1), Yasuda N, Nanno M, Kinohira Y, Murai K, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Metropolitan Police Hospital, 2-10-41
Fujimi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-0071, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To study the effect of instillation of latanoprost on the diurnal
variation in the intraocular pressure(IOP), blood pressure, and pulse rate in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma(NTG).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The diurnal variation in the IOP was determined in 23 eyes 
in 23 NTG patients after a washout period of 4 weeks or longer. The diurnal
variation in IOP was then remeasured after latanoprost monotherapy of 8 weeks or 
longer. The IOP was measured by the Goldmann applanation tonometer at 10:00,
13:00, 16:00, 19:00, 22:00, 01:00, 03:00, 07:00, and 10:00 before and after
treatment, and the IOP at each time point, mean diurnal IOP, maximum IOP, minimum
IOP, and range of variation in IOP were compared before and after treatment. The 
blood pressure and pulse rate before and after treatment were also measured and
compared.
RESULTS: The IOP decreased significantly at all time points. The treatment caused
significant decreases in the mean diurnal IOP, maximum IOP, minimum IOP, and
range of variation in IOP. There were no differences in the blood pressure and
pulse rate before and after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost significantly decreases the IOP throughout the day in
NTG patients, and has no effects on the blood pressure and pulse rate. It is
therefore useful in the treatment of NTG.


PMID: 14531313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1183. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2003 Oct;81(5):543-5.

Kearns-Sayre syndrome, abnormal corneal endothelium and normal tension glaucoma.

Zarnowski T, Jaksch M, Rejdak R, Zagórski Z.


PMID: 14510810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1184. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2003 Aug;107(8):433-9.

[A comparison of visual field and optic disc appearance depending on the peak
intraocular pressure in patients with normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa K(1), Tanino T, Ohtake Y, Kimura I, Miyata H, Mashima Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the clinical differences between the two groups depending
on the peak intraocular pressure(IOP) in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma(NTG).
METHODS: We studied 96 eyes of 48 NTG patients who were hospitalized for diurnal 
IOP measurement. Then we selected the eye whose peak IOP was higher than the
other, or the right eye if the peak IOP of both eyes was equal. We divided these 
eyes into a "high-teen" group (peak IOP > or = 16 mmHg) and a "low-teen"
group(peak IOP < or = 15 mmHg). We compared these two groups by age, gender,
refraction, IOP, visual field defect, optic disc appearance, and tomograph. We
used a Humphrey C 30-2 program to estimate the visual field defect and classified
the optic disc into four types according to Nicolela's criteria. 22 eyes were
imaged with Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) to obtain topographic parameters of
the optic disc.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in age, gender, refraction, optic 
disc appearance, or tomograph between two groups. The trough and variation range 
of diurnal IOP were significantly larger in the high-teen group(p < 0.01). The
value of mean deviation(MD) given by STATPAC was statistically lower in the
high-teen group(p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with NTG, the visual field damage tended to be greater
in the high-teen group than in the low-teen group. We surmise that the IOP might 
influence the progression of visual field defect in NTG.


PMID: 13677295  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1185. Arch Ophthalmol. 2003 Aug;121(8):1181-3.

Lack of association of mutations in optineurin with disease in patients with
adult-onset primary open-angle glaucoma.

Wiggs JL(1), Auguste J, Allingham RR, Flor JD, Pericak-Vance MA, Rogers K,
LaRocque KR, Graham FL, Broomer B, Del Bono E, Haines JL, Hauser M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether mutations in the optineurin gene contribute to
susceptibility to adult-onset primary open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: The optineurin gene was screened in 86 probands with adult-onset primary
open-angle glaucoma and in 80 age-matched control subjects. Exons 4 and 5,
containing the recurrent mutations identified in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma, were sequenced in all individuals studied, while the remaining exons
were screened for DNA sequence variants with denaturing high-performance liquid
chromatography.
RESULTS: The recurrent mutation, Met98Lys, previously found to be associated with
an increased risk of disease was found in 8 (9%) of 86 probands. We also found
the Met98Lys mutation in 10% of individuals from a control population of similar 
age, sex, and ethnicity. Consistent segregation of the mutation with the disease 
was not demonstrated in any of the 8 families. No other DNA changes altering the 
amino acid structure of the protein were found.
CONCLUSION: The mutations in the optineurin gene associated with normal-tension
glaucoma are not associated with adult-onset primary open-angle glaucoma in this 
patient population. Clinical Relevance Genetic abnormalities that render the
optic nerve susceptible to degeneration are excellent candidates for genetic
factors that could contribute to adult-onset primary open-angle glaucoma.
Mutations in optineurin have been associated with normal-tension glaucoma, but
are not associated with disease in patients with adult-onset primary open-angle
glaucoma. This result may indicate that normal-tension glaucoma is not
necessarily part of the phenotypic spectrum of adult open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.121.8.1181 
PMCID: PMC1361284
PMID: 12912697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1186. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2003 Jul;107(7):375-9.

[Diurnal variation of intraocular pressure in normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Kano K(1), Kuwayama Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Koseinenkin Hospital, 4-2-78 Fukushima,
Fukushima-ku, Osaka 553-0003, Japan.

PURPOSE: Measurement of diurnal variation of intraocular pressure(IOP) is
important for precise diagnosis of normal-tension glaucoma(NTG). We studied
diurnal variation of IOP of NTG using a self-measuring tonometer.
METHODS: A total of 159 patients(318 eyes) who were diagnosed as having NTG in
Osaka Koseinenkin Hospital between 1994 and 2002 measured their own diurnal
variation of IOP at home every 3 hours (8 times a day) using a prototype
self-measuring non-contact air-puff tonometer(Hometonometer).
RESULTS: The maximum IOP, the minimum IOP, and the range of diurnal variation of 
IOP were 16.8 +/- 2.0 mmHg(mean +/- standard deviation), 12.8 +/- 1.7 mmHg, and
4.0 +/- 1.3 mmHg, respectively. Maximum IOP occurred most frequently at
noon(24.3%), 9:00 am(21.4%), and 6:00 am(17.4%). In 69.2% of eyes, maximum IOP
was found during outpatient clinic hours(9:00 am to 6:00 pm). Minimum IOP
occurred most frequently at midnight(34.1%), 3:00 am(22.8%), and 9:00 pm(17.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: Approximately 30% of NTG patients have maximum IOP outside of
outpatient clinic hours, and therefore measuring IOP in the early morning is
important for determining the precise diurnal variation of their IOP. We hope
that a safe self-measuring tonometer with which patients can measure their own
IOP will be come commercially available soon, so that we can provide them with
more individualized glaucoma treatment using the appropriate combination of
medicines.


PMID: 12894744  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1187. Eye (Lond). 2003 Jul;17(5):628-36.

Role of cyclooxygenase and haemoxygenase products in nitric oxide-independent
vasodilatation in the porcine ciliary artery.

Quinn S(1), O'Brien C, McLoughlin P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Anatomy and Physiology, Conway Institute for Biomolecular 
and Biomedical Research, University College Dublin, Ireland.

PURPOSE: Vascular endothelial cell dysfunction has been noted in patients with
normal pressure glaucoma. Although nitric oxide (NO) accounts for a large
proportion of vasorelaxation in the posterior ciliary artery, considerable
relaxation remains unexplained. We investigated the roles of haemoxygenase (HO)
and cyclooxygenase (COX), which produce the vasodilators carbon monoxide (CO) and
prostacyclin, respectively, in NO-independent endothelium-dependent
vasodilatation in porcine posterior ciliary arteries.
METHODS: Isolated vascular rings were mounted in a Mulvaney-Halpern small vessel 
myograph for the measurement of isometric tension development. Vasodilator
responses to bradykinin (BK) were elicited in each ring on three separate
occasions following preconstriction with prostaglandin F(2alpha): first in the
absence of inhibitors, second in the presence of the NO synthase inhibitor
N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10(-3) M), and third in the presence of 
L-NAME and either a COX (indomethacin, 10(-6) M) or an HO inhibitor (tin
protoporphyrin-IX 10(-5) M). Results were expressed as a percentage of the
maximal relaxation in the presence of L-NAME alone.
RESULTS: Incubation with indomethacin (n=6), in the presence of L-NAME,
significantly reduced (P<0.01) maximum BK-induced relaxation (-103.5+/-8.8%)
compared to paired rings in the presence of L-NAME alone (-130.8+/-8.8%). HO
inhibition did not reduce NO-independent, BK-induced relaxation when compared to 
paired control vessels.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that in the presence of L-NAME, a COX product
accounts for a significant proportion of NO-independent vasodilatation. In
contrast, endogenous CO production does not have a functionally significant role 
in the porcine ciliary artery. Eye (2003) 17, 628-636. doi:10.1038/sj.eye.6700437

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6700437 
PMID: 12855973  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1188. Eye (Lond). 2003 Jul;17(5):593-8.

Comparison of ambulatory blood pressure values in patients with glaucoma and
ocular hypertension.

Yazici B(1), Usta E, Erturk H, Dilek K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Uludag University School of Medicine, Bursa,
Turkey. byazici@uludag.edu.tr

PURPOSE: To compare systemic arterial blood pressure (BP) and nocturnal
hypotension in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), high-tension glaucoma
(HTG), and ocular hypertension.
METHODS: Systemic BP was recorded by a portable automated BP monitoring device
every 20 min during the day and every 30 min at night in patients with NTG
(n=18), HTG (n=22), and ocular hypertension (n=19). Mean systolic, diastolic, and
mean arterial BPs were calculated for 24 h, during the day and at night. The mean
and maximum nocturnal dip rates were determined for each patient. The number of
readings that declined below 90 mmHg for systolic BP and below 60 and 50 mm Hg
for diastolic BP was recorded for each group. Statistical significance was set at
P<0.05.
RESULTS: Minimum, maximum, and mean values of the systolic, diastolic, and mean
arterial BPs were not significantly different among groups. There was no
difference among groups in the nocturnal dip percentages of systolic and
diastolic BPs. The number of systolic BP readings below 90 mmHg was significantly
higher in the NTG group compared with the other groups (P<0.001, chi(2) test).
CONCLUSION: There may not be any difference among NTG, HTG, and ocular
hypertension patients in terms of mean ambulatory BP values. On the other hand,
when each individual's ambulatory reading is reviewed, readings may reveal that
excessive and repetitive nocturnal drops occur more frequently in some patients
with NTG. These hypotensive episodes may be related to the development of
glaucomatous damage.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6700436 
PMID: 12855965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1189. Int J Mol Med. 2003 Aug;12(2):259-61.

Identification of a new GLC1A mutation in a sporadic, primary open-angle glaucoma
in Japan.

Ikezoe T(1), Takeuchit S, Komatsu N, Okada M, Fukushima A, Ueno H, Koeffler HP,
Taguchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kochi Medical School, Okohcho, Nankoku, Kochi
783-8505, Japan. ikezoet@med.kochi-ms.ac.jp

Glaucoma is a major cause of blindness characterized by progressive degeneration 
of the optic nerve and elevated intraocular pressure. Recent studies have
revealed a genetic basis for a substantial proportion of cases of familial
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and the gene causing the abnormality has been 
identified. Sequence variations that meet the criteria for a probable
disease-causing mutation have been found in the American and European
populations. In this study, we examined 58 cases of sporadic glaucoma from Japan 
to clarify the relationship between the mutations of the GLC1A gene and sporadic 
glaucoma in Japan. We have examined 33 POAG, 17 primary closed-angle glaucomas, 6
normal-tension glaucomas and 2 steroid-induced glaucomas for mutation of the
GLC1A gene using polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation
polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) analysis and direct DNA sequencing studies. We identified
a previously unreported GGT right curved arrow GAT transition at codon 451 in
exon 3, resulting in a glycine to asparagine substitution in one POAG patient. No
other mutations of the GLC1A gene were found in other types of glaucoma. These
findings further emphasize the importance of GLC1A mutation in the development of
POAG.


PMID: 12851728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1190. Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jul;136(1):41-6.

Plasma homocysteine is elevated in patients with exfoliation syndrome.

Vessani RM(1), Ritch R, Liebmann JM, Jofe M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, New
York 10003, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare plasma homocysteine concentrations among patients with
exfoliation syndrome, exfoliative glaucoma, normal-tension glaucoma, and normal
control subjects without vascular or inflammatory ocular disease or glaucoma.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
METHODS: We tested 25 patients with exfoliation syndrome, 50 with exfoliative
glaucoma, 25 with normal-tension glaucoma, and 24 control subjects. Fasting
plasma homocysteine concentrations were measured by fluorescence polarization
immunoassay. Patients using vitamin supplements or medications known to alter
serum homocysteine were excluded.
RESULTS: Homocysteine levels were higher in both exfoliatin groups compared with 
controls (exfoliation syndrome: P =.003; exfoliative glaucoma: P =.009); levels
in normal-tension glaucoma were higher than but not significantly different from 
those in controls (P =.2). Hyperhomocysteinemia was present in 16 of 25 (64%)
exfoliation syndrome patients, 28 of 50 (56%) exfoliative glaucoma patients, 13
of 25 (52%) normal-tension glaucoma patients, and 7 of 24 (29.2%) controls (P
=.005). Multiple logistic regression analyses comparing exfoliation syndrome and 
exfoliative glaucoma patients with controls indicated that elevated plasma
homocysteine concentration was a significant risk factor for exfoliation
syndrome, in both those patients (odds ratios per 1.0 micromol/l increase in
plasma homocysteine concentrations = 1.47; 95% confidence interval [CI] =
1.08-2.0) and in exfoliative glaucoma patients (odds ratio = 1.3; 95% CI =
1.07-1.6). Although exfoliative glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma patients
were not significantly different with respect to hyperhomocysteinemia, logistic
regression modeling of exfoliative glaucoma vs normal-tension glaucoma patients
showed that an increased homocysteine concentration was a significant risk factor
for exfoliation syndrome in the presence of glaucoma (odds ratio per 1.0
micromol/l increase in homocysteine = 1.2, 95% CI = 1.0-1.4). These relationships
were not affected by adjustment for potential confounding due to sex, history of 
hypertension, or other factors.
RESULTS: Elevated plasma homocysteine, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, 
is more common in exfoliation syndrome and exfoliative glaucoma patients than
healthy controls. Patients with exfoliation syndrome may benefit from measurement
of homocysteine levels.


PMID: 12834668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1191. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jun;51(2):133-8.

Pulsatile ocular blood flow among normal subjects and patients with high tension 
glaucoma.

Agarwal HC(1), Gupta V, Sihota R, Singh K.

Author information: 
(1)Dr. R P Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, New Delhi, India.

PURPOSE: To estimate pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) among normal subjects and
to compare various parameters in eyes of primary open angle glaucoma with high
intraocular pressure (IOP).
METHODS: POBF was estimated in 95 eyes of 95 normal subjects above the age of 40 
years and in 35 eyes of 35 primary open angle glaucoma patients using the OBF
system (OBF Labs Ltd., UK). Correlation of age, gender, IOP, pulse amplitude,
pulse volume and pulse rate with POBF was studied. POBF values were measured in
glaucomatous patients before IOP control and one month later after control of IOP
to < 22 mmHg.
RESULTS: The mean POBF among normal subjects was 1382.2 +/- 413 ml/min (range
636-2291 m/min). Females had a significantly higher mean POBF (1512 +/- 347
ml/min) than males (1193 +/- 312 ml/min). The mean IOP among normal subjects was 
12.6 mmHg and in glaucoma patients, 29.1 mmHg. Mean POBF in glaucomatous eyes
with initially elevated IOP was 718.9 +/- 322.6 ml/min, which improved after IOP 
control to 1129 +/- 291 ml/min. IOP had a strong (P < .01) negative correlation
with POBF (r = -0.667)
CONCLUSIONS: POBF among eyes of normal subjects in this study is higher than
reported among Caucasian eyes. Primary open angle glaucoma eyes with high IOP
have significantly reduced ocular blood flow. Therapy aimed at lowering IOP has a
positive effect onocular haemodynamics.


PMID: 12831143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1192. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2003 Jul;241(7):541-5. Epub 2003 Jun 18.

A comparison of optic disc topographic parameters in patients with primary open
angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma, and ocular hypertension.

Kiriyama N(1), Ando A, Fukui C, Nambu H, Nishikawa M, Terauchi H, Kuwahara A,
Matsumura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kansai Medical University, 10-15 Fumizono,
Moriguchi, 570-8507 Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) findings have been employed to
quantitatively assess the topography of optic discs. We measured topographic
parameters of optic discs in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG),
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), and ocular hypertension (OH) using an HRT in order
to determine whether HRT topographic parameters can be used to differentiate
those conditions.
METHODS: Seventeen eyes in 17 patients with POAG, 23 eyes in 23 patients with
NTG, and 15 eyes in 15 patients with OH were examined using an HRT, and the
results were analyzed by age, refractive error, and topographic parameters.
RESULTS: Among the HRT parameters, the mean values for rim area, rim volume, cup 
disk area ratio, and classification showed significant differences among POAG,
NTG, and OH eyes. The mean values for cup area, cup volume, mean RNFL thickness, 
and RNFL cross section area showed significant differences between POAG and NTG
eyes, and NTG and OH eyes, however, not between POAG and OH eyes. Cup shape
measure showed significant differences between POAG and OH, and NTG and OH eyes, 
but not between POAG and NTG eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that POAG is distinguishable from NTG and OH
based on evaluations of rim area and rim volume. Patients with NTG tend to have
larger cupping, smaller rims, and thinner retinal nerve fiber layers as compared 
to POAG and OH patients. Thus, HRT topographic parameters are useful to
differentiate patients with POAG, NTG, and OH.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-003-0702-0 
PMID: 12819980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1193. Hum Genet. 2003 Aug;113(3):276-9. Epub 2003 Jun 17.

The association between Japanese primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension
glaucoma patients and the optineurin gene.

Tang S(1), Toda Y, Kashiwagi K, Mabuchi F, Iijima H, Tsukahara S, Yamagata Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, School of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
Tamaho, Yamanashi 409-3898, Japan.

Glaucoma represents one of the most common eye diseases and is characterized by
progressive loss of visual fields. In the more advanced stages bilateral
blindness may result, due to optic nerve atrophy and an excavated optic nerve
head. Open-angle glaucoma is one of the main disease subsets, which may be
further divided into high tension primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal
tension glaucoma (NTG). Recently, the optineurin ( OPTN) gene was identified as a
causative factor for NTG. Alterations in this gene were found in Caucasian
families with NTG. In particular, c.458G>A, c.691-692insAG and c.1944G>A were
shown to be risk factors. Since NTG is reported to be the most common form of
glaucoma in Japan, and to identify if the OPTN gene plays a role in POAG, the
DNAs from 148 unrelated Japanese patients with NTG, 165 patients with POAG and
196 unrelated controls who were not suffering glaucoma were investigated by
appropriate genotyping techniques. No glaucoma-specific mutations were found in
the OPTN gene in Japanese glaucoma patients. However, some novel
single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the exons and introns are reported in
this paper for the first time.

DOI: 10.1007/s00439-003-0964-y 
PMID: 12811537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1194. Ophthalmologica. 2003 Jul-Aug;217(4):284-7.

Effect of hospitalization on intraocular pressure in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma.

Kashiwagi K(1), Kohno K, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Yamanashi Faculty of Medicine,
Tamaho, Japan. kenjik@res.yamanashi-med.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of hospitalization on intraocular pressure
(IOP) in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: The study was conducted in 52 patients with a definite diagnosis of NTG.
The correlation between IOP measured from 9.00 a.m. to 12.00 p.m. on an
outpatient basis within 3 months each prior to and after hospitalization
(ambulatory IOP) and IOP measured during the same time period after admission
(inpatient IOP) was investigated in NTG patients.
RESULTS: Inpatient IOP (13.9 +/- 2.4 mm Hg) was significantly lower than
ambulatory IOP (15.2 +/- 2.1 mm Hg), with a difference of 1.3 +/- 2.0 mm Hg (p < 
0.01). The difference between inpatient IOP and ambulatory IOP was negatively
correlated with inpatient IOP (r = 0.58, p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: These results revealed that hospitalization decreased IOP in NTG
patients, with the decrease being particularly pronounced in cases of low
ambulatory IOP. Interpretation of inpatient IOP should be carefully included in
glaucoma treatment.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 70636 
PMID: 12792135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1195. J Glaucoma. 2003 Jun;12(3):226-31.

Optic disc hemorrhage in Asian glaucoma patients.

Gazzard G(1), Morgan W, Devereux J, Foster P, Oen F, Seah S, Khaw PT, Chew P.

Author information: 
(1)Singapore National Eye Center, Republic of Singapore. gus.gazzard@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To assess the prevalence of optic disc hemorrhage in Asian patients with
established glaucoma using a recently described, highly sensitive detection
method.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients entering a trial of glaucoma filtering surgery in
Southeast Asia (The Singapore 5FU Study) were assessed for the presence or
absence of optic disc hemorrhage using stereo flicker chronoscopy of
stereophotograph pairs.
RESULTS: A total of 167 patients (117 males and 50 females) were assessed, of
whom 128 were Chinese. Primary open-angle glaucoma was diagnosed in 90 patients, 
primary angle-closure glaucoma in 69 patients, and pseudoexfoliative or pigment
dispersion glaucoma in 7 patients. Five eyes of 5 patients had disc hemorrhage at
enrollment (5/167), a rate of 2.99%. Four patients with disc hemorrhage had
primary open-angle glaucoma and 1 had primary angle-closure glaucoma. There were 
no significant differences in global visual field indices, AGIS scores, or
intraocular pressures between eyes with and without disc hemorrhage. All disc
hemorrhages were seen in eyes prior to trabeculectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of disc hemorrhage in the current study was
comparable to that seen in primary open-angle glaucoma in clinic-based studies of
white patients, but far less than that reported in normal-tension glaucoma
studies. Hemorrhages were more common in primary open-angle glaucoma than primary
angle-closure glaucoma.


PMID: 12782840  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1196. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2003 Jun;81(3):253-9.

Relationship between optic nerve head microcirculation and visual field loss in
glaucoma.

Yaoeda K(1), Shirakashi M, Fukushima A, Funaki S, Funaki H, Abe H, Tanabe N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Niigata University, Niigata 
City, Japan. arasan@med.niigata-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To study the relationship between optic nerve head blood flow velocity
and visual field loss in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and
normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: This study included 44 eyes of 44 patients with POAG and 44 eyes of 44
patients with NTG. To evaluate optic nerve head blood flow velocity, the square
blur rate (SBR) was measured by means of laser speckle flowgraphy. The
correlation between SBR and Humphrey visual field indices was evaluated with
linear regression analysis.
RESULTS: In the NTG group, the average SBR at the superior and inferior temporal 
neuroretinal rim was positively correlated with mean deviation (MD) (r = 0.349, p
= 0.020). The SBR at the superior or inferior temporal neuroretinal rim was
positively correlated with the sum of the total deviations in the corresponding
hemifields (r = 0.299, p = 0.049; r = 0.354, p = 0.019, respectively). The
correlations between SBR and MD did not differ statistically between the NTG and 
POAG groups; however, no significant correlation between SBR and visual field
indices was observed in the POAG group.
CONCLUSION: These results suggested that the change in the circulation of the
optic nerve head may be related to visual field damage in the NTG group but may
be less involved in visual field damage in the POAG group.


PMID: 12780404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1197. Br J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jun;87(6):731-6.

Colour Doppler imaging and fluorescein filling defects of the optic disc in
normal tension glaucoma.

Plange N(1), Remky A, Arend O.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik des Universitätsklinikum Aachen, Pauwelsstrasse 30, 52057 Aachen, 
Germany. nplange@ukaachen.de

AIM: To investigate the relation between blood flow parameters of the retrobulbar
vessels measured by means of colour Doppler imaging (CDI) and fluorescein filling
defects of the optic nerve head in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG)
and control subjects.
METHODS: 29 patients with NTG and 29 age and sex matched control subjects were
included in this study. Blood flow velocities-peak systolic velocity (PSV), end
diastolic velocity (EDV), and resistive indices (RI) of the ophthalmic artery
(OA), the central retinal artery (CRA), and of the temporal and nasal short
posterior ciliary arteries (TPCA, NPCA)-were measured with CDI. Fluorescein
angiograms were performed with a scanning laser ophthalmoscope. The extent of
absolute fluorescein filling defects of the optic nerve head in relation to the
optic nerve head was assessed.
RESULTS: The PSV of the OA, the PSV and EDV of the CRA, and of the TPCA and NPCA 
were significantly reduced in NTG (p<0.05). The RI of the CRA, the TPCA and NPCA 
were significantly increased in NTG (p<0.01). The optic nerve head fluorescein
filling defects were significantly larger in NTG (p<0.01). The filling defects
were significantly negatively correlated (p<0.05) with the PSV and EDV of the CRA
(PSV(CRA): r = -0.41; EDV(CRA): r = -0.34), with the PSV and EDV of the NPCA
(PSV(NPCA): r = -0.34; EDV(NPCA): r = -0.38), and with the EDV of the TPCA (r =
-0.29). A significant positive correlation (p<0.05) was found with the RI of both
PCAs (RI(NPCA): r = 0.28; RI(TPCA): r = 0.29).
CONCLUSION: Patients with NTG had reduced blood flow velocities and higher
resistive indices in most retrobulbar vessels. Optic nerve head fluorescein
filling defects were larger compared to controls. The filling defects were
correlated with end diastolic velocities and resistive indices of the PCAs and
with blood flow velocities of the CRA. Capillary loss of the optic nerve head may
be related to higher downstream resistance and reduced blood flow velocities of
the retrobulbar vessels.


PMCID: PMC1771692
PMID: 12770971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1198. Br J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jun;87(6):695-8.

Comparison of localised nerve fibre layer defects in normal tension glaucoma and 
primary open angle glaucoma.

Woo SJ(1), Park KH, Kim DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

AIM: To compare the pattern of localised nerve fibre layer (NFL) defects in
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: 50 NTG eyes and 36 POAG eyes, all with localised NFL defects, were
enrolled. On retinal NFL photography, the proximity of the defect to the centre
of the fovea (angle alpha) and the sum of the angular width of the defects (angle
beta) were determined. Angle alpha was the angle made by a line from the centre
of the fovea to the disc centre and a line from the disc centre to the disc
margin, where the nearest border of the defect met. The patterns of localised NFL
defects in NTG and POAG were compared with angles alpha and beta. Independent t
test was used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Angle alpha in NTG (35.1 (SD 20.0) degrees ) was significantly smaller
than that of POAG (45.9 (21.9) degrees ) (p=0.02), while angle beta in NTG (49.0 
(31.9) degrees ) was significantly larger than that of POAG (33.1 (23.9) degrees 
) (p=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The pattern of NFL defects in NTG was different from that in POAG.
Localised NFL defects in NTG were closer to the fovea and wider in width than
those in POAG.


PMCID: PMC1771704
PMID: 12770963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1199. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2003 May;220(5):330-3.

[Therapy of normal tension glaucoma: effect of brinzolamide on ocular
haemodynamics].

[Article in German]

Klemm M(1), Zeitz O, Reuss J, Matthiessen ET, Richard G.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Klinik und Poliklinik für
Augenheilkunde, Hamburg.

BACKGROUND: Altered ocular perfusion plays a role in the pathophysiology of
normal tension glaucoma. Dorzolamide, a locally applied inhibitor of carbonic
anhydrase, is thought to increase ocular blood flow. Less data are available
regarding the influence exercised on ocular perfusion by brinzolamide, another
and different, locally administered, inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: n = 15 eyes of 8 normal tension glaucoma patients were
subjected to colour Doppler imaging and Langham-OBF (LOBF) before and during a
therapy for 3 - 5 weeks with brinzolamide.
RESULTS: Brinzolamide reduces intraocular pressure from 15.8 +/- 0.9 to 12.6 +/- 
0.9 mm Hg (n = 15; P < 0.05). Systolic as well as diastolic blood flow
velocities, resistive (RI) and pulsatility index (PI), measured by CDI, remained 
unchanged in the presence of brinzolamide. LOBF values are also not influenced by
brinzolamide (1014 + 115 before vs. 1113 +/- 178 microl under therapy; n = 15; n.
s.).
DISCUSSION: Brinzolamide does not exercise any impact on ocular haemodynamics.
This is different from the properties of dorzolamide that had been reported
previously.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-39432 
PMID: 12766822  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1200. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2003 Apr;13(3):260-5.

Peripheral vasospasm and nocturnal blood pressure dipping--two distinct risk
factors for glaucomatous damage?

Pache M(1), Dubler B, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the relationship between peripheral vasospasm and circadian 
blood pressure rhythm in patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Nail-fold capillaroscopy, combined with a cold provocation test, and
24-hour blood pressure monitoring was carried out in 130 patients with POAG (M:F 
58:72; mean age 60 +/- 14 years), 99 with high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and 31 with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Peripheral blood flow parameters were compared for
patients with a nocturnal fall in mean systemic blood pressure (MBP) of less than
10% (non-dippers), patients with a nighttime MBP fall of 10-20% (dippers), and
patients with a nighttime MBP fall of more than 20% (over-dippers).
RESULTS: Patients with POAG showed a significantly lower blood flow velocity both
at baseline (p < 0.01) and after cold provocation (p < 0.02) and a significantly 
higher percentage of cold-induced blood-flow standstill (p < 0.0001) in the
nail-fold capillaroscopy than normal controls. The numbers of non-dippers (50),
dippers (66) and over-dippers (14) did not differ between the HTG and NTG group. 
There were no significant differences between non-dippers, dippers, and
over-dippers in peripheral blood flow parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that vasospasm and low blood pressure may be
distinct risk factors for glaucomatous damage. It also appears that screening for
vascular dysregulation and systemic hypotension should not be restricted to NTG
patients alone.


PMID: 12747647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1201. Med J Malaysia. 2002 Dec;57(4):487-9.

Septooptic dysplasia.

Ang CS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universiti Putra Malaysia, Asrama Jururawat, Hospital Kuala Lumpur, Jalan
Pahang, 50586 Kuala Lumpur.

The term septooptic dysplasia was coined in 1956 by de Morsier, who pointed out
the association of optic nerve hypoplasia and absence of the septum pellucidum.
Patients with this condition may present with clinical features of
hypopituitarism, decreased visual acuity and neurodevelopmental disabilities that
lead to this diagnosis. The case that is presented here is unusual in that this
patient was initially diagnosed as having low tension glaucoma during a routine
screening examination and was treated for glaucoma for over a year before he was 
discovered to have septooptic dysplasia, also known as de Morsier's syndrome.


PMID: 12733175  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1202. Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 May;135(5):715-7.

A case of occult macular dystrophy accompanying normal-tension glaucoma.

Nakamura M(1), Kanamori A, Seya R, Maeda H, Negi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organ Therapeutics, Division of Ophthalmology, Kobe University
Graduate School of Medicine, Japan. manakamu@med.kobe-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jan-Feb;50(1):75-8.

PURPOSE: To present a case of occult macular dystrophy accompanying
normal-tension glaucoma.
DESIGN: Observational case report.
METHODS: Visual function and ophthalmoscopic and electroretinographic findings in
a 56-year-old man suffering from gradually progressive photophobia and visual
dysfunction were followed up over 4 years.
RESULTS: Best-corrected visual acuity was below 20/200, and intraocular pressures
remained in the low teens in both eyes. A wedge-shaped visual field defect in the
right eye, corresponding to the enlarged disk cupping, and a relative central
scotoma in the left were detected. Ophthalmoscopy and fluorescein angiography
detected no apparent abnormality at the macular region in either eye. Severely
attenuated multifocal electroretinographic responses were recorded from only the 
central areas, with normal full-field responses.
CONCLUSION: Clinicians must look for additional pathologic conditions in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma who have unexplained central visual dysfunction.


PMID: 12719086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1203. Br J Ophthalmol. 2003 May;87(5):604-8.

Agreement between frequency doubling perimetry and static perimetry in eyes with 
high tension glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma.

Kogure S(1), Toda Y, Crabb D, Kashiwagi K, Fitzke FW, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yamanashi Medical University, Japan.
skogure@res.yamanashi-med.ac.jp

AIMS: To investigate the agreement in results between frequency doubling
technology (FDT) and the conventional automated static perimeter in eyes with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and high tension glaucoma (HTG).
METHODS: 72 eyes of 36 patients, who had two or more experiences with the
Humphrey field analyser (HFA) program C30-2, were examined with the screening
C-20-1 program of FDT. The result of FDT at each of the 17 stimulus points was
graded as one of four categories. 58 out of 76 test points of HFA were assigned
to one of the 17 clusters corresponding to FDT test points. Each cluster was
represented as the lowest (scotoma of HFA) or the highest (threshold of HFA)
probability symbol of total deviation (TD) of the HFA test points included in the
cluster. The agreement between scotoma/threshold of HFA and FDT results was
evaluated for NTG and HTG.
RESULTS: In a total of 65 eyes, the Spearman coefficients between the FDT and HFA
(threshold/scotoma of HFA) were 0.599 and 0.515 (p<0.0001), respectively. In the 
HFA mean deviation matched 20 HTG eyes and 20 NTG eyes, the number of points with
abnormal FDT results were 102 and 62 in eyes with HTG and NTG, respectively. The 
eyes with HTG had more abnormal FDT results than NTG eyes (p=0.0014, Mann-Whitney
U test). The kappa coefficient between FDT and threshold of HFA in eyes with HTG 
and NTG was 0.288 and 0.520, respectively, and the agreement between FDT and
scotoma of HFA was 0.480 and 0.439, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The best agreement of the results of FDT and HFA was observed in
eyes with NTG using threshold of HFA. The eyes with HTG showed lower agreement
with more abnormal points in FDT results, which suggests enough sensitivity of
FDT in eyes with NTG, and higher sensitivity of FDT in eyes with HTG.


PMCID: PMC1771682
PMID: 12714404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1204. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2003 Apr;14(2):86-90.

Collaborative normal tension glaucoma study.

Anderson DR(1); Normal Tension Glaucoma Study.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Opthalmology, University of Miami School of Medicine, Miami,
Florida 33101-6880, USA. danderson@med.miami.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Before this study was done, there was a difference of opinion 
concerning whether intraocular pressure (IOP) was involved in producing optic
nerve damage when there was glaucomatous damage to the optic nerve and
characteristic visual field loss, even though the IOP was in the statistically
normal range. This article reviews the findings of a collaborative study aimed at
finding the answer to this question.
RECENT FINDINGS: The level of pressure influences the course of normal tension
glaucoma, as evidenced by a slower rate of incident visual field loss in cases
with 30% or more lowering of intraocular pressure. The rate of progression
without treatment is highly variable, but often slow enough that half of the
patients have no progression in 5 years. A faster rate occurs in women, in
patients with migraine headaches, and in the presence of disc hemorrhages. Some
patients may experience greater benefit from lowering of IOP than others, but
further research is needed to be able to identify those most likely to benefit.
SUMMARY: As a group, patients with normal tension glaucoma benefit from lowering 
of IOP. Variable rate of deterioration, as well as lack of progression in a
substantial number in 5 years, suggest that treatment should be individualized
according to the stage of disease and rate of progression. Traits that help
predict risk and rate of progression and response to treatment are beginning to
become known and, when fully known, will help guide management decisions.


PMID: 12698048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1205. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2003 Mar;13(2):162-75.

Four years later: a clinical update on latanoprost.

Ravinet E(1), Mermoud A, Brignoli R.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Hospital Jules Gonin, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: Almost five years have elapsed since the introduction of latanoprost on 
several markets and considering the large number of publications dealing with it,
the authors felt that it was worth re-evaluating the drug.
METHODS: The criterion used to select trials for inclusion in the review was: all
articles mentioning the drug in common electronic data-bases; these were then
screened and considered, on the basis of methodological quality.
RESULTS: Experimental data suggest that latanoprost acts by remodeling the
extracellular matrix in the ciliary muscle, thus increasing the flow of aqueous
humor through the ciliary muscle bundles of the uveoscleral pathway. POAG:
Latanoprost persistently improves the pulsatile ocular blood flow in primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG). Recent trials confirmed the greater IOP-lowering efficacy 
of latanoprost vs. timolol, dorzolamide, brimonidine and unoprostone. Trials
lasting up to 24 months showed that latanoprost is effective in long-term
treatment of POAG and ocular hypertension (OH), with no signs of loss of efficacy
when compared to timolol or dorzolamide. Latanoprost provides better control of
circadian IOP. Non-responders to beta-blockers should preferably be switched to
latanoprost monotherapy before a combination therapy is started. The possibility 
of a fixed combination of latanoprost and timolol has been explored, with
promising results. NTG: Latanoprost is effective in normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), lowering IOP, improving pulsatile ocular blood flow and increasing ocular 
perfusion pressure. OTHER GLAUCOMAS: Latanoprost may provide effective IOP
control in angle-closure glaucoma after iridectomy, in pigmentary glaucoma,
glaucoma after cataract extraction and steroid-induced glaucoma. However,
latanoprost was effective in only a minority of pediatric cases of glaucoma and
is contraindicated in all forms of uveitic glaucoma.
SAFETY: In the articles reviewed, new or duration-related adverse events were
reported.


PMID: 12696636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1206. Sleep. 2003 Mar 15;26(2):161-2.

Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, normal tension glaucoma, and nCPAP therapy--a
short note.

Kremmer S(1), Niederdräing N, Ayertey HD, Steuhl KP, Selbach JM.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Hospital Essen, Hufelandstr. 55, 45122 Essen, Germany.
stephan.kremmer@uni-essen.de


PMID: 12683474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1207. Oftalmologia. 2002;52(1):81-6.

[Laser in glaucoma treatment ; 1-year personal experience].

[Article in Romanian]

Apostol S(1), Filip M, Stefan C, Paraschiv M.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica de Oftalmologie Ama Optimex, Bucureşti.

THE AIM OF THE PAPER: The paper establishes the role of the laser treatment in
the complex treatment of glaucoma and realizes a comparison between our clinical 
results and the results from the literature.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Along a period of one year, we have treated a number of 117
glaucoma patients: Open angle glaucoma (POAG), angle closure glaucoma (ACG),
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and symptomathic narrow anterior chamber. The
complex treatment consists of medication, laser and/or surgery. To treat the
patients, we have used the VISULAS 532 Combi laser, manufactured by Zeiss.
RESULTS: The results are presented in a synthetic way for different pathological 
entities and different methods of laser treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: In glaucoma, laser treatment represents a step between the medical
treatment and surgery and is a very good alternative when the medication in
inefficient or is not well tolerated. Our results are, in majority, similar with 
those from the literature.


PMID: 12677807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1208. J Glaucoma. 2003 Apr;12(2):164-6.

Normal-tension glaucoma.

Anderson DR(1), Graham S, Pillunat L.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Miami, Florida 33136, USA.


PMID: 12671472  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1209. J Glaucoma. 2003 Apr;12(2):156-63.

Autonomic system activity and 24-hour blood pressure variations in subjects with 
normal- and high-tension glaucoma.

Riccadonna M(1), Covi G, Pancera P, Presciuttini B, Babighian S, Perfetti S,
Bonomi L, Lechi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Scienze Biomediche e Chirurgiche, Medicina Interna C, OC
Mantova, Italy.

PURPOSE: As suggested by findings of abnormal responses to posture in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), cardiovascular autoregulation may also be
defective in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Both 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and the
head-up tilt test were performed in 17 subjects with NTG and in 13 subjects with 
high-tension POAG (ht-POAG). These groups were compared with 17 age-matched
healthy individuals. Subjects undergoing cardiovascular therapy were excluded.
RESULTS: No significant differences in diurnal and nocturnal blood pressure and
heart rate were found between the groups. A significant reduction in diurnal
heart rate variability was found in NTG (12.1 +/- 2.8 bpm) compared with the
ht-POAG (15.0 +/- 2.4 bpm, P < 0.01) and control groups (15.8 +/- 3.0 bpm, P =
0.01]). Nocturnal diastolic blood pressure variability was also reduced in NTG
(6.9 +/- 2.2 mm Hg) compared with controls (8.6 +/- 2.3 mm Hg, P < 0.05]) as was 
heart rate variability (6.3 +/- 1.4 vs 8.3 +/- 2.6 in ht-POAG, P < 0.05),
suggesting blunted blood pressure and heart rate modulation in NTG subjects.
Spectral analysis of short-term heart rate variability showed a significant
reduction of total power in the supine position (1064 +/- 600 in NTG vs 1688 +/- 
889 ms2 in controls, P < 0.05]). This was not accompanied either by a
physiological reduction in total power or in a high-frequency component during
the passive orthostatic stimulus. These differences tend to become more prominent
in the clinically more severe forms of NTG (as identified by scores based on the 
extent of optic disk excavation, visual field damage, and progression of
disease). This would suggest a correlation between the extent of autonomic
disorder and severity of glaucoma. The alpha index (root-square of low-frequency 
heart rate to low-frequency blood pressure ratio) was lower in the supine
position in NTG subjects (8.1 +/- 3.1 vs 10.6 +/- 3.3 ms/mm Hg in controls, P <
0.05), confirming the reduced baroreflex sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: The results confirm the hypothesis that dysfunction of autonomic
control of the cardiovascular response may be a contributing pathogenetic factor 
in NTG, inducing a chronic ischemia of the optic nerve.


PMID: 12671471  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1210. Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Apr;135(4):499-503.

Characteristics of visual field progression in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma with optic disk hemorrhages.

Kono Y(1), Sugiyama K, Ishida K, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu, Japan. 
ykono-gif@umin.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To study the characteristics of visual field progression in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) with optic disk hemorrhages.
DESIGN: Observational study.
METHODS: Fifty-eight eyes of 58 untreated patients with NTG who had at least five
reliable visual fields of the Humphrey Field Analyzer (central 30-2) within the
follow-up period of more than 24 months were enrolled. Of these, 27 eyes had
optic disk hemorrhages in their clinical courses. Pointwise linear regression
analysis was done using total deviation values of the fields at each of 74 test
locations in each patient. Progression was defined as the points of negative
slopes with P <.01. A whole visual field was concentrically divided into three
clusters: the areas within 10 degrees, 10 to 20 degrees, and 20 to 30 degrees.
Percentages of the progressed points of the three clusters and a whole field were
compared between the groups with and without optic disk hemorrhages.
RESULTS: No significant differences were found in patients' backgrounds,
including initial mean deviation values, follow-up periods, and the number of
visual field examinations between the 27 patients with optic disk hemorrhages and
the 31 without. The group with optic disk hemorrhages showed significantly higher
percentages of progressed points within the 10-degree area compared with the
group without optic disk hemorrhages (mean +/- SD: 13.1 +/- 13.7%; 5.1 +/- 8.5%, 
respectively; P =.0086, Student t test), whereas no significant differences were 
found in the other two clusters or in a whole field.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with NTG with optic disk hemorrhages tend to show visual
field progression in areas within 10 degrees.


PMID: 12654367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1211. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan-Feb;13(1):24-31.

Comparative analysis of the effects of dorzolamide and latanoprost on ocular
hemodynamics in normal tension glaucoma patients.

Harris A(1), Migliardi R, Rechtman E, Cole CN, Yee AB, Garzozi HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis 46202, USA. alharris@indiana.edu

PURPOSE: To compare the effects of latanoprost (Xalatan) and dorzolamide
(Trusopt) on ocular hemodynamics in normal-tension glaucoma patients.
METHODS: A randomized, single-masked, parallel design study was conducted. After 
a 4-week washout period, 20 normal tension glaucoma patients, recruited from a
single university-based ophthalmology clinic, received either latanoprost once
daily or dorzolamide 3 times daily for 4 weeks. The subjects were examined at
baseline and post-treatment. Outcome measures included heart rate (HR), blood
pressure (BP), logMar visual acuity (VA), contrast sensitivity (CS), intraocular 
pressure (IOP), color Doppler imaging (CDI), and fluorescein angiography with the
Rodenstock scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO). CDI measurements of the
retrobulbar vessels included peak systolic velocity, end diastolic velocity, and 
the calculated resistance index. Arterio-venous passage time (AVP) in the
superior and inferior temporal retina was calculated from the SLO angiograms.
RESULTS: Neither dorzolamide nor latanoprost had any statistically significantly 
effect on HR or BP. Both drugs significantly lowered IOP without altering
calculated ocular perfusion pressure (p<0.05). There was no statistically
significant difference in any CDI measurement. Dorzolamide significantly
decreased AVP time in the superior retina (p=0.011), while latanoprost did not
(p=0.62).
CONCLUSIONS: Dorzolamide, unlike latanoprost, significantly reduced AVP times in 
the superior temporal retina in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.


PMID: 12635671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1212. Klin Oczna. 2002;104(3-4):207-10.

[Retinal nerve fiber layer analysis and evaluation of eye blood flow in patients 
with glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Karczewicz D(1), Modrzejewska M, Kuprjanowicz L.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry Okulistyki z Klinika i Zakładem Patofizjologii Narzadu Wzroku
Pomorskiej Akademii Medycznej w Szczecinie.

PURPOSE: The aim of this research was to evaluate the changes of blood flow
velocity in ocular arteries (ophthalmic artery, central retinal artery and short 
posterior ciliary arteries) and the amount of ocular nerve fibers in patients
with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The research was done on 17 patients with diagnosed POAG and
13 patients with NTG. No ocular surgery was performed on any of these patients
prior to our examinations. The blood flow measurements were made with ACUSON
Color Doppler USG 128*P10 type with 7.5 MHz sector phased probe. Parameters of
diastolic velocity (Vr), systolic flow velocity (Vs), Golsing pulsation index
(PI) and pourcelate resistivity index (RI) were registered, together with the
instant spectrography of examined artery. Quantitative retinal nerve fiber layer 
(RNFL) measurements were obtained by scanning laser polarimetry GDx (software
version 1.0.14). RNFL was measured automatically in each of 256x 256 pixels and
results were compared to the age-, sex- and race-norms. Approximately 150 wide
field of view was used. Average thickness, Superior Maximum, Inferior Maximum,
maximum modulation and GDx Number were analysed. All results were compared to age
norms. Student's t test was used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: In patients with POAG a statistically significant decrease of Vs in
ophthalmic artery was detected in 27% of eyes, in central retinal artery in 51%
of eyes and in short posterior ciliary arteries in 45% of eyes. In patients with 
NTG a statistically significant decrease of Vs was detected in ophthalmic artery 
in 27% of eyes, in central retinal artery in 65% of eyes and in short posterior
ciliary arteries in 53% of eyes. RNFL analysis in eyes with POAG showed a
decrease in avg. thickness in 80% of analysed eyes, decrease of Superior Maximum 
in 84% of analysed eyes, decrease of Inferior Maximum in 77.4% of analysed eyes, 
decrease in maximal modulation in 87% of analysed eyes and increase of GDx Number
in 77% of analysed eyes. RNFL analysis in patients with NTG showed a decrease in 
av. thickness in 73% of analysed eyes, decrease of Superior Maximum in 80.7% of
analysed eyes, decrease of Inferior Maximum in 65.7% of analysed eyes, decrease
in maximal modulation in 61.5% of analysed eyes and increase of GDx Number in
57.6% of analysed eyes.


PMID: 12608301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1213. Klin Oczna. 2002;104(3-4):201-6.

[Evaluation analysis of blood flow of peripapillary area in glaucoma patients
using scanning laser Doppler flowmetry].

[Article in Polish]

Nizankowska MH(1), Jamrozy-Witkowska A, Asejczyk M.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki Akademii Medycznej we Wrocławiu.

PURPOSE: To evaluate capillary blood flow and velocity in retinal peripapillary
area in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG),
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEXG) and age matched control group (C) using
scanning laser Doppler flowmetry (Heildelberg Retina Flowmeter).
MATERIAL AND METHOD: One randomly selected eye of 17 POAG patients (mean age 59.3
+/- 2.6), 18 NTG patients (mean age 56.4 +/- 2.4), 17 PEXG patients (63.3 +/-
2.8) and 15 healthy subjects (mean age 55.8 +/- 3.8) underwent examination with
scanning laser Doppler flowmetry. The measurements were performed at the superior
and inferior temporal peripapillary retinal area. The measured parameters were
capillary blood flow and velocity of the moving erythrocytes. Each image was
analysed using the program AFFPIA. This software calculates the hemodynamic
parameter flow of each pixel. Comparison of value obtained from patients and
control participants were made using Student's t test.
RESULTS: Scanning laser Doppler flowmetry results showed a significant reduction 
in blood flow at the superior and inferior temporal peripapillary area in POAG
and NTG patients compared to control group (p < 0.04). The POAG and NTG patients 
had also significantly decreased velocity at the inferior temporal peripapillary 
retinal area compared to control group. No statistical difference was found
between blood flow and velocity in POAG compared with NTG. When compared with the
control participants, patients with PEXG showed significant decreases in the mean
blood flow at the inferior temporal quadrant (p < 0.05), while the differences in
the mean flow and velocity at the superior quadrant between those groups were not
statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate a reduction in ocular blood flow at the
temporal peripapillary retinal area in patients with POAG and NTG compared to age
matched control participants. The peripapillary retinal microcirculation is not
significantly altered in patients with PEXG compare with POAG and JNC. The blood 
flow parameters in the capillaries are lower in JNC retinas, the difference
however is not significant. Further clinical investigation is required having
groups homogeneous with respect to stage of glaucoma and controlled for factors
known to effect perfusion pressure.


PMID: 12608300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1214. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2003 Feb;241(2):75-80. Epub 2003 Jan 25.

Optic disc excavation in the atrophic stage of Leber's hereditary optic
neuropathy: comparison with normal tension glaucoma.

Mashima Y(1), Kimura I, Yamamoto Y, Ohde H, Ohtake Y, Tanino T, Tomita G, Oguchi 
Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, 160-8582, Tokyo, Japan. mashima@sc.itc.keio.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Abnormal optic disc excavations are reportedly seen in patients with 
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), a mitochondrial dysfunction disease. 
We examined the disc morphology in the eyes of patients with LHON at the atrophic
stage and compared it to that in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: We studied 15 LHON patients with the 11778 mutation, 15 patients with
NTG, and 25 normal subjects. The optic disc morphology was analyzed by Heidelberg
retinal tomography (HRT). Ten parameters of the optic disc obtained by HRT were
evaluated, including the diagnostic classification of glaucoma.
RESULTS: Six of the nine morphological HRT parameters of the LHON patients, the
exceptions being disc area, mean cup depth, and maximum cup depth, differed
significantly from those of the normals. NTG patients had a significantly greater
mean and maximum cup depth than LHON patients. The HRT glaucoma diagnostic
software classified 22 (73%) of the 30 optic discs in LHON patients as
glaucomatous.
CONCLUSION: The optic discs at the atrophic stage of LHON eyes have glaucoma-like
morphological changes. However, the cups were significantly deeper in NTG than
LHON. The similarity in the optic disc findings in LHON and NTG suggests that
alterations in mitochondrial function may be related to optic disc excavations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-002-0598-0 
PMID: 12605258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1215. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan-Feb;47(1):22-7.

Study of retinal nerve fiber layer thickness within normal hemivisual field in
primary open-angle glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma.

Matsumoto C(1), Shirato S, Haneda M, Yamashiro H, Saito M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo, Japan

PURPOSE: To determine if nerve fiber layer thickness (NFLT) in glaucoma patients 
decreases before the development of visual field loss, and if there is a
difference in the thinning of NFLT between primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes.
METHODS: Thirty patients (33 eyes) with POAG and 31 patients (31eyes) with NTG,
who had visual field defects localized in either the upper or the lower hemifield
verified by Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA), were measured for NFLT by scanning
laser polarimetry (Nerve Fiber Analyzer). Twenty-three normal subjects (23 eyes) 
matched in refraction and age with the glaucoma patients were recruited as the
control group. The total deviation (TD) in each hemifield obtained by HFA and the
180 degrees NFLT of each corresponding hemifield was calculated. Relationships
between the TD of the normal or abnormal visual hemifield and the NFLT of the
corresponding hemifield were compared among the POAG, NTG, and control groups.
RESULTS: The NFLT of the corresponding normal hemifield was decreased both in the
POAG group and in the NTG group when compared with the corresponding measurements
in control subjects. In POAG eyes, thinning of the NFLT in the corresponding
normal hemifield was more remarkable if the TD of the abnormal hemifield was
greater, but this tendency was not observed in NTG eyes.
CONCLUSION: NFLT is already decreased when the visual field is still normal both 
in POAG eyes and in NTG eyes. However, the pattern of retinal nerve fiber layer
damage in POAG may differ from that in NTG.


PMID: 12586174  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1216. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan-Feb;47(1):1-5.

Comparison of Yatabe-Guilford personality test results in retinitis pigmentosa
and glaucoma patients.

Igarashi Y(1), Sato E, Ito A, Miyauchi O, Ikejiri M, Hanawa T, Tsuyama Y, Mizota 
A, Fujimoto N, Adachi-Usami E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Graduate School of Medicine,
Chiba University, Chiba, Japan

PURPOSE: To determine the psychological state and personality traits of patients 
with retinitis pigmentosa (RP) or glaucoma so that a closer and better
relationship can be developed with the patients.
METHODS: The Yatabe-Guilford personality test was administered to 75 RP patients 
and 42 glaucoma patients. The latter group included 29 cases of primary
open-angle glaucoma, 6 of primary angle-closure glaucoma, and 7 of normal-tension
glaucoma. The patients were being treated at the Department of Ophthalmology,
Chiba University Hospital. As controls, 47 age-matched volunteers were tested.
RESULTS: A comparison of these three groups showed that the proportions of
patients with cyclic tendency, rhathymia, and lack of cooperativeness traits were
significantly higher in the RP group than in the glaucoma group. The lack of
cooperativeness value was especially higher in the RP than in the glaucoma group 
and the control group (Fisher exact test, P <.05). On the other hand, the
nervousness value was significantly higher in the glaucoma group than in the RP
group and than in controls (Fisher exact test, P <.05). Factors of sex, age, type
of disease, corrected visual acuity, and central visual fields did not influence 
the profiles of the RP and glaucoma groups.
CONCLUSION: RP patients had relatively well-stabilized personalities and were
optimistic, while glaucoma patients tended toward nervousness in comparison with 
RP patients and controls.


PMID: 12586170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1217. Ophthalmology. 2003 Feb;110(2):359-62; discussion 362-4.

Effect of Ginkgo biloba extract on preexisting visual field damage in normal
tension glaucoma.

Quaranta L(1), Bettelli S, Uva MG, Semeraro F, Turano R, Gandolfo E.

Author information: 
(1)Centro Glaucoma, Clinica Oculistica Università di Brescia, 25123 Brescia,
Italy. Quaranta@med.unibs.it

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) on preexisting
visual field damage in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-masked cross-over
trial.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-seven patients with bilateral visual field damage resulting 
from NTG.
INTERVENTION: Patients received 40 mg GBE, administered orally, three times daily
for 4 weeks, followed by a wash-out period of 8 weeks, then 4 weeks of placebo
treatment (identical capsules filled with 40 mg fructose). Other patients
underwent the same regimen, but took the placebo first and the GBE last. Visual
field tests, performed at baseline and at the end of each phase of the study,
were evaluated for changes.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Change in visual field and any ocular or systemic
complications.
RESULTS: After GBE treatment, a significant improvement in visual fields indices 
was recorded: mean deviation (MD) at baseline versus MD after GBE treatment,
11.40 +/- 3.27 dB versus 8.78 +/- 2.56 dB (t = 8.86, P = 0.0001, chi-square
test); corrected pattern standard deviation (CPSD) at baseline versus CPSD after 
GBE treatment, 10.93 +/- 2.12 dB versus 8.13 +/- 2.12 dB (t = 9.89, P = 0.0001,
chi-square test). No significant changes were found in intraocular pressure,
blood pressure, or heart rate after placebo or GBE treatment. Any ocular and
systemic side effects were recorded for the duration of the trial.
CONCLUSIONS: Ginkgo biloba extract administration appears to improve preexisting 
visual field damage in some patients with NTG.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(02)01745-1 
PMID: 12578781  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1218. J Neurol. 2003 Feb;250(2):201-6.

Glaucomatous visual field defects in patients with migraine.

Comoğlu S(1), Yarangümeli A, Köz OG, Elhan AH, Kural G.

Author information: 
(1)Ankara Numune Training and Research Hospital, Neurology Clinic, Ankara,
Turkey.

PURPOSE: To investigate the visual fields in patients with migraine in terms of
glaucomatous visual field defects.
METHOD: Patients who attended our Neurology outpatient clinic complaining of
headache and were diagnosed as migraine were enrolled in the study. Each patient 
was questioned for the frequency, side, localisation and severeness of the pain
as well as the onset and the duration of the symptoms, the existence of aura, the
description of the aura - if present -, additional systemic problems, and family 
history of migraine and glaucoma. Detailed ophthalmological examinations and
computerised visual field (VF) analysis were then performed on each patient in
our Ophthalmology Clinic. The findings of 77 patients (61 female, 16 male) were
evaluated and statistical comparisons were carried out between the group of
patients with glaucomatous-like VF defects and the group without significant
defects.
RESULTS: VF tests revealed glaucomatous-like defects in 48 (62.3 %) patients.
Intraocular pressure (IOP) levels were within normal limits in all cases. There
were no statistically significant differences between the groups with and without
VF defects in terms of sex, the localisation and severeness of pain, the
existence and the description of aura, and family history of glaucoma, as well as
the duration of migraine, IOP and cup/disc ratio. The glaucomatous group was
significantly older, with a significantly higher age of onset for migraine. Risk 
of having glaucomatous-like defects was higher in patients who had migraine
attacks once a month or less frequently. A tendency of pain and VF defects to
develop ipsilaterally was noticed.
DISCUSSION: A possible relationship between the pathophysiology of migraine,
visual field defects and glaucomatous optic neuropathy is emphasized and VF
screening for normal tension glaucoma is recommended in patients with migraine.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-003-0975-6 
PMID: 12574951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1219. Yan Ke Xue Bao. 2001 Jun;17(2):85-7.

[Phacoemulsification in patients with cataract and overfiltering bleb after
antiglaucoma surgery].

[Article in Chinese]

Lin M(1), Ge J, Liu Y, Zhuo Y, Guo Y.

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Sciences,
Guangzhou 510060, China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of phacoemulsification in patients with cataract,
overfiltering bleb, and low-tension after antiglaucoma surgery.
METHODS: Phacoemulsification and implantation of a foldable intraocular len was
performed in six patients(7 eyes) with overfiltering bleb, low-tension, and
cataract. The complications, blebs, intraocular pressures(IOP), and visual acuity
were observed postoperatively.
RESULTS: No severe complication was found. The overfiltering blebs constricted
and their walls became thicker three months after the operation. The visual
acuity and IOP were improved (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Phacoemulsification may be another way to treat the patients with
cataract and overfiltering bleb, low-tension after antiglaucoma surgery.


PMID: 12567757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1220. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan;241(1):19-23. Epub 2002 Dec 17.

The negative correlation between age and intraocular pressures measured
nyctohemerally in elderly normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Okada K(1), Tsumamoto Y, Yamasaki M, Takamatsu M, Mishima HK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of OphthalmologyHiroshima University School of Medicine, 1-2-3
Kasumi, Minami-ku, 734-8551, Hiroshima, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the correlation between age and intraocular pressure (IOP)
measured every 3 h for 24 h in older normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: Ninety consecutive patients suspected of having NTG on the basis of both
visual field defect and disc appearance were hospitalized for measurement of
nyctohemeral IOP every 3 h over a 24-h period with a Goldmann tonometer after a
4-week wash-out of any existing medication. Sixty-nine patients (76.7%) were
diagnosed as having NTG. Sixty-nine eyes of 69 subjects were enrolled for this
prospective, cross-sectional study. They were divided into two groups by age
(cut-off between 59 and 60 years: group 1, under 60 years; group 2, over 60
years). The correlations between age and the mean, maximum and minimum IOP and
IOP variation of the eight nyctohemeral IOP measurements nyctohemerally were
evaluated for each group. The times of day at which the maximum and minimum IOPs 
were observed were recorded.
RESULTS: Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 28 patients (age: 50.2+/-6.1 years) and 42
patients (age: 70.3+/-6.1 years) ( P<0.0001), respectively. Neither mean, maximum
or minimum IOP nor the IOP variation was significantly different between the
groups (all P values > or =0.115). The mean, maximum and minimum IOP in group 2
were all correlated with age ( n=41; r=-0.516, P=0.0004; r=-0.434, P=0.004;
r=-0.522, P=0.0004, respectively), while none of those in group 1 was correlated 
with age (all P values > or =0.303).
CONCLUSION: The IOPs of the elder NTG patients have a negative correlation with
age while those of the younger ones have no relation to age.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-002-0597-1 
PMID: 12545288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1221. Br J Ophthalmol. 2003 Feb;87(2):149-52.

The phenotype of normal tension glaucoma patients with and without OPA1
polymorphisms.

Aung T(1), Okada K, Poinoosawmy D, Membrey L, Brice G, Child AH, Bhattacharya SS,
Lehmann OJ, Garway-Heath DF, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK. aung_tin@yahoo.co.uk

AIM: Polymorphisms in OPA1, the gene responsible for autosomal dominant optic
atrophy, were recently found to be strongly associated with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG). The aim of this study was to determine whether OPA1 polymorphisms
affect the phenotype of NTG patients.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed of 108 well characterised NTG
patients who had been genotyped for OPA1 variations, and who had previously
undergone automated perimetry and Heidelberg retina tomography (HRT). 25 NTG
patients had the at-risk OPA1 genotype (IVS 8 +4 C/T; +32 T/C) and 83 NTG
patients did not. Differences between groups were sought in a wide range of
structural, psychophysical, and demographic factors. These included sex, age at
diagnosis, family history of glaucoma, history of ischaemic risk factors and
vasospasm, laterality of glaucoma, presenting and highest diurnal intraocular
pressure (IOP), initial cup-disc (CD) ratio, baseline visual field global
indices, and optic disc parameters as measured by HRT. For a subgroup of patients
with at least 5 years of follow up and 10 visual field tests, pointwise linear
regression analysis (PROGRESSOR for Windows software) was applied to the visual
field series.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the two groups with respect to
sex, age at diagnosis, family history of glaucoma, history of ischaemic risk
factors and vasospasm, or laterality of glaucoma. The comparison of IOP, CD ratio
and visual field global indices, MD and CPSD in the two groups showed no
significant difference. There were no differences in the mean values for any of
the HRT parameters analysed. For the subgroup of patients with at least 5 years
of follow up, there was also no significant difference in the number of patients 
with progressing locations, the mean number of progressing locations per subject,
the mean slope of the progressing locations or the mean slope for whole visual
field.
CONCLUSIONS: The absence of phenotypic differences in normal tension glaucoma
patients with and without the OPA1 polymorphisms IVS 8 +4 C/T; +32 T/C suggest
that these OPA1 polymorphisms do not underlie any major phenotypic diversity in
these patients.


PMCID: PMC1771514
PMID: 12543739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1222. Surv Ophthalmol. 2002 Nov-Dec;47(6):547-61.

Myocilin glaucoma.

Fingert JH(1), Stone EM, Sheffield VC, Alward WL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, The University of Iowa
Hospitals and Clinics, 200 Hawkins Drive, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.

Genetic factors have long been implicated in the pathophysiology of primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Recently, myocilin, a gene of unknown function, was
associated with both juvenile open-angle glaucoma (JOAG) and POAG. Forty-three
different myocilin mutations have been reported in open-angle glaucoma patients, 
and several large studies have suggested that as a group these mutations are
associated with 3-4% of POAG in patient populations worldwide. Support for the
pathogenicity of the individual myocilin mutations has been obtained from in
vitro assays, statistical methods, and conservation of gene sequence arguments.
Several of these myocilin mutations were observed in multiple patients allowing
the identification of mutation-specific glaucoma phenotypes (maximum intraocular 
pressure and age at diagnosis). Associations between myocilin and other forms of 
open-angle glaucoma have been explored. At present there is no evidence to link
myocilin mutations and steroid-induced ocular hypertension or normal-tension
glaucoma. Clinical vignettes of POAG patients from four generations of a family
harboring the TYR437HIS myocilin mutation are presented, highlighting the
benefits of elucidating the genetics of glaucoma.


PMID: 12504739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1223. Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan;135(1):102-3.

A paradoxical ocular effect of brimonidine.

Mushtaq B(1), Sardar J, Matthews TD.

Author information: 
(1)Birmingham and Midland Eye Centre, Birmingham University Hospital Selly Oak,
United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: We report an unusual paradoxical effect of brimonidine.
DESIGN: Observational case report.
METHODS: A 70-year-old woman with bilateral normal tension glaucoma was treated
with topical brimonidine and followed in an outpatient setting. The main outcome 
measured was intraocular pressure (IOP) in mm Hg.
RESULTS: Brimonidine was observed to cause IOP elevation, confirmed on
rechallenge, scoring 8 (strong probability) on an adverse drug reaction
probability score.
CONCLUSION: Under certain circumstances topical brimonidine can cause paradoxical
raised IOP necessitating vigilance in follow-up of patients on topical
brimonidine.


PMID: 12504711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1224. Br J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan;87(1):48-53.

Optic disc morphology of patients with OPA1 autosomal dominant optic atrophy.

Votruba M(1), Thiselton D, Bhattacharya SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Institute of Ophthalmology, UCL, Bath
Street, London EC1V 9EL, UK. m_votruba@altavista.co.uk

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan;87(1):2-3.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Patients with autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA) are
genetically heterogeneous, but all have disc pallor. A degree of cupping in ADOA 
can make the distinction from normal tension glaucoma (NTG) clinically difficult.
This study aimed to clarify the features of the optic nerve of patients with ADOA
at the OPA1 locus.
METHODS: 29 patients (58 eyes), from 12 families, were identified in a
prospective observational study of patients with ADOA examined by a single
observer between 1995 and 1998, in whom genetic analysis showed either evidence
for linkage to chromosome 3q28 or mutations in the ADOA gene, OPA1. All of the
patients had disc and fundal photographs available for retrospective analysis.
Clinical data collected included disc appearance, intraocular pressure, Snellen
visual acuity, Hardy-Rand-Rittler colour vision plates, and Humphrey 30-2 visual 
fields.
RESULTS: Mean age at time of examination was 37 years and mean visual acuity was 
6/24. Disc morphology showed temporal disc pallor in 30 eyes (52%) and total disc
pallor in 28 eyes (48%). At least one disc showed a cup to disc ratio of more
than 0.5 in 18 patients (28 discs, 48%). The temporal neuroretinal rim always
showed pallor and shallow shelving (or saucerisation) was seen in 46 eyes (79%). 
Only 12 discs (21%) had deep excavation and baring of blood vessels. All of the
patients had normal intraocular pressure and no family history of glaucoma. There
was a temporal grey, pigmentary crescent in 12 patients (18 eyes, 31%) and
peripapillary atrophy in 20 patients (40 eyes, 69%), but disc margin haemorrhages
were not seen. There was no maculopathy or retinopathy.
CONCLUSION: The optic disc morphology, described for the first time in this
genetically homogeneous population of patients with OPA1 ADOA, shows a
distinctive absence of a healthy neuroretinal rim and shallow saucerisation of
the optic disc cup, with frequent peripapillary atrophy.


PMCID: PMC1771445
PMID: 12488262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1225. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2002 Dec;80(6):627-31.

A comparison of glaucoma patients identified through mass screening and in
routine clinical practice.

Grødum K(1), Heijl A, Bengtsson B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Opthalmology, Malmö University, Malmö, Sweden.
kirsti.grodum@oftal.mas.lu.se

PURPOSE: To study differences between glaucoma patients identified through a
population screening and glaucoma patients diagnosed in routine clinical practice
(self-selected patients).
METHODS: A total of 402 individuals with newly detected open-angle glaucoma were 
identified through a large population screening programme that ran from October
1992 to January 1997. The screening programme was attended by a total of 32918
citizens of Malmö, Sweden, aged between 57 and 79 years. Citizens who had visited
the Eye Department of Malmö University Hospital in the year before the screening 
of their birth cohort were not invited to participate (n = 4117). Among the
latter, we identified 354 patients with open-angle glaucoma through a
retrospective examination of patient records.
RESULTS: At detection, 52.9% of the glaucoma patients identified through
screening had normal tension glaucoma (NTG), defined as intraocular pressure
(IOP) < 21 mmHg in both eyes, compared to 13.5% of the self-selected patients (p 
< 0.0001). Mean IOP at the time of diagnosis was 22.9 mmHg in the screened group 
and 32.5 mmHg in the self-selected group. Pseudoexfoliation was present in 16.4% 
of the screened group and 44.0% of the self-selected group (p < 0.01). Bilateral 
disease was present in 40.1% of the screened group and 34.6% of the self-selected
group (p = 0.1160). Median MD (mean deviation from the age-corrected normal
visual field) in the worse eye was -8.0 dB in the screened group and -16.2 dB in 
the self-selected group (p < 0.0001). Visual acuity was lower in the
self-selected group, which was also on average slightly more myopic. Of the
patients detected through screening, 62% had seen an ophthalmologist previously, 
17% within the preceding 2-year period.
CONCLUSIONS: Normal tension glaucoma was four times as common in patients
identified through population screening as in self-selected patients, suggesting 
that patients with NTG are easily overlooked in clinical practice. Even though
the patients detected through population screening had lower mean IOP, lower
prevalence of pseudoexfoliation, better visual fields and a lower incidence of
bilateral disease than self-selected patients, many still had considerable
damage. Special efforts, such as glaucoma screening, are needed if manifest
glaucoma, and especially NTG, is to be detected at an earlier stage than it
currently is.


PMID: 12485284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1226. Oftalmologia. 2002;53(2):46-51.

[Clinical aspects in ischemic optic neuropathy].

[Article in Romanian]

Varga M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Spitalul Judeţean Braşov-Secţia Oftalmologie.

THE PURPOSE OF THE PAPER: Clinical evaluation of the patients suffering of
Ischaemic Optic Neuropathy (ION) for the establishment of a quick and accurate
diagnosis and a therapeutical strategy.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: There have been taken into study 56 patients whose
epidemiological, aetiological aspects and clinical manifestations were followed
up from the beginning and during the evolution.
RESULTS AND DEBATES: In ION aetiology there have been found: atherosclerosis +
systemic hypertension (87.4%); giant cell arteritis (7.2%); normal-tension
glaucoma (3.6%) and systemic hypotension (1.8%). Diabetes mellitus and
dislipidemia have been found in 21.4% of cases. In most of the cases the visual
acuity was quickly reduced affecting only one eye, in two of the cases it was
bilaterally affected.
CONCLUSIONS: ION affects old people, without any differences between sexes, whose
predominant aetiology is atherosclerosis associated with hypertension. ION are
serious illnesses, the visual deficit persists or get worse even if an
appropriate treatment is made. The establishment of the aetiology, arteritical or
atherosclerotical, has a great clinical importance for the therapeutics strategy.


PMID: 12474442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1227. Clin Exp Optom. 2000 May-Jun;83(3):185-189.

The management of normal tension glaucoma.

Sack J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Investigative and Research Unit, The Royal Victorian Eye and Ear
Hospital, 32 Gisbourne Street, East Melbourne, Victoria, 3002, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To outline the difficulties in making management decisions associated 
with normal tension glaucoma. To suggest treatment strategies according to the
clinical presentation of the disease. METHOD: Literature review and findings
based on clinical experience. CONCLUSIONS: The treatment of normal tension
glaucoma involves many difficult decisions including whether to intervene and, if
so, when and how to treat. Providing the patient with information is essential to
gain co-operation and confidence. At present, the treatment objectives are to
prevent further visual field loss by reduction of intraocular pressure by 30 per 
cent or more. This may be achieved by using medical or surgical regimens.
Recently, there has been emphasis on the use of neuroprotective drugs that may
act independently of the effect of intraocular pressure lowering. The balance
between protecting vision and iatrogenic damage is not always easy.


PMID: 12472451  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1228. Clin Exp Optom. 2000 May-Jun;83(3):161-172.

Normal tension glaucoma: diagnostic features and comparisons with primary open
angle glaucoma.

Gutteridge IF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences, The University of Melboune,
Parkville, Victoria, 3052, Australia.

BACKGROUND: A significant proportion of patients diagnosed under the broad
classification of open angle glaucoma actually has normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
It has many clinical features that overlap with primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG), yet there is a question of whether it has a different aetiology in which 
intraocular pressure plays less of a role. METHODS: The epidemiology and clinical
features of normal tension glaucoma are reviewed with particular reference to
possible differences from primary open angle glaucoma, which might permit
differentiation. The pathophysiology is discussed, outlining recent research in
cell death (apoptosis), axonal damage and neuroprotection. DISCUSSION AND
CONCLUSION: There is considerable evidence that NTG develops with little
contribution from the effect of intraocular pressure. However, the clinical
diagnosis of NTG is often one of exclusion and the differentiation of NTG from
POAG remains difficult because many clinical signs are suggestive but not
definitive of NTG. More accurate diagnosis may be possible when individual
patients exhibit a greater number of signs. Some evidence suggests that NTG with 
relatively high pressures (greater than 15 mmHg) is more likely to progress than 
NTG with relatively low pressures. Clinicians must be particularly alert to the
possibility of NTG because IOP, a clinical marker for some glaucomas, is absent.


PMID: 12472448  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1229. Am J Ophthalmol. 2002 Dec;134(6):922-4.

Bradykinin sensitivity in primary open-angle glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma
patients.

Hirooka K(1), Shiraga F, Hasegawa E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kagawa Medical University, Miki, Kagawa, Japan.
kazuyk@kms.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To report the reaction after intradermal injection of bradykinin in
nonglaucoma, primary open-angle glaucoma, and normal-tension glaucoma subjects.
DESIGN: Prospective comparative study.
METHODS: The study participants were 14 healthy control subjects, 16 patients
with primary open-angle glaucoma, and 15 patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
In each participant, the wheal response to intradermal injection of 10 microg
bradykinin in the volar forearm was measured by a masked observer.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the wheal response to bradykinin 
between control subjects and primary open-angle glaucoma patients (P =.73) and
between primary open-angle glaucoma patients and normal-tension glaucoma patients
(P =.09). However, there was a significant difference in the wheal response to
bradykinin between control subjects and normal-tension glaucoma patients (P
=.04).
CONCLUSIONS: These in vivo structure-activity studies may suggest abnormalities
of the tissue kallikrein-kinin system in normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 12470771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1230. Arch Ophthalmol. 2002 Dec;120(12):1636-43.

The severity and spatial distribution of visual field defects in primary
glaucoma: a comparison of primary open-angle glaucoma and primary angle-closure
glaucoma.

Gazzard G(1), Foster PJ, Viswanathan AC, Devereux JG, Oen FT, Chew PT, Khaw PT,
Seah SK.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Singapore National Eye Centre, 11 Third Hospital Ave,
Singapore.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the characteristics of visual field defects in primary
angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Subjects with primary glaucoma aged 30 years and older were
prospectively considered for inclusion. Automated static white-on-white perimetry
was performed. A minimum of 2 reliable tests was required with a mean deviation
(MD) within 2 dB on 2 tests. Subjects with previous symptomatic angle-closure,
normal-tension glaucoma, visually significant cataract, or previous intraocular
surgery were excluded.
RESULTS: Of 234 subjects assessed, 129 had POAG, and 105 had PACG. The MDs (POAG 
group, -13.3 dB; PACG group, -18.0 dB) indicated more severe visual loss in
subjects with PACG. In subjects with POAG, the superior hemifield was more
severely affected than the inferior. This was less pronounced in subjects with
PACG. Following stratification by MD, the difference between hemifields was
marked in the mild (-10 dB<or=MD) and moderate (-20 dB<or=MD<-10 dB) subgroups
but was not present in the severe (MD<-20 dB) subgroup. We detected differences
between POAG and PACG in retinal sensitivity between the superior and inferior
hemifields, independent of severity of damage.
CONCLUSIONS: The pattern of visual field loss was different in the 2 diseases.
This may give insight into the pattern of visual loss in predominantly
pressure-dependent glaucomatous optic neuropathy.


PMID: 12470136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1231. Ophthalmology. 2002 Dec;109(12):2241-7.

Changes in intraocular pressure and ocular perfusion pressure after latanoprost
0.005% or brimonidine tartrate 0.2% in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Liu CJ(1), Ko YC, Cheng CY, Chiu AW, Chou JC, Hsu WM, Liu JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate and compare the effects of latanoprost 0.005% once daily
and brimonidine tartrate 0.2% twice daily in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: A randomized, open-label, crossover study.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-eight NTG patients with progressive visual field
defects/optic disc excavation, new disc hemorrhage, or field defects that
threatened fixation.
INTERVENTION: Patients were randomly allocated to one of two groups. Patients in 
group 1 were treated with latanoprost, lubricant, and brimonidine for 4 weeks
each, whereas patients in group 2 were treated with brimonidine, lubricant, and
latanoprost for 4 weeks each.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intraocular pressure (IOP), pulse rate, and blood pressure
were measured at 8 am, 12 noon, and 4 pm after each 4-week treatment. Ocular
perfusion pressure (OPP) was calculated.
RESULTS: Latanoprost and brimonidine reduced the average IOP by 3.6 +/- 1.9 mmHg 
(P < 0.001) and 2.5 +/- 1.3 mmHg (P < 0.001), respectively, with a significant
difference between the two regimens (P = 0.009). Both drugs significantly reduced
IOP at each time point. Latanoprost decreased IOP significantly more than did
brimonidine at 8 am (11.7 +/- 2.2 mmHg vs. 13.7 +/- 2.1 mmHg, P = 0.004) and 4 pm
(11.4 +/- 2.1 mmHg vs. 13.2 +/- 2.9 mmHg, P = 0.004), but IOP was equal between
the two agents at 12 noon (11.5 +/- 2.6 mmHg vs. 11.5 +/- 2.3 mmHg, P = 0.967).
IOP was maintained at 12 mmHg or lower in 18 (66.7%) of 27 patients after
treatment with latanoprost and in 9 (33.3%) of 27 patients after treatment with
brimonidine. Latanoprost monotherapy reduced IOP by 30% in 8 patients (29.6%),
but brimonidine monotherapy did not reduce IOP by that much in any of the
patients. OPP increased after latanoprost treatment (P < 0.001) but did not
increase after brimonidine treatment (P = 0.355). There was no significant change
in pulse rate or blood pressure.
CONCLUSIONS: Both latanoprost and brimonidine reduce IOP in NTG patients.
Brimonidine has a peak IOP-lowering effect equal to that of latanoprost but
produces a higher mean diurnal IOP than does latanoprost because of its shorter
effect. Latanoprost might favorably alter optic disc blood perfusion by
increasing OPP.


PMID: 12466165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1232. Mol Vis. 2002 Nov 12;8:431-5.

Increased plasma levels of 20S proteasome alpha-subunit in glaucoma patients: an 
observational pilot study.

Wunderlich K(1), Golubnitschaja O, Pache M, Eberle AN, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: Several reports have shown that proteasome levels may change during
pathological processes. Here we investigated whether altered gene expression of
the alpha-subunit of 20S proteasomes in leukocytes of glaucoma patients at the
level of mRNA, shown by us earlier, is reflected by the level of protein
synthesis.
METHODS: Western blot analysis was performed to determine the protein levels of
the 20S proteasome alpha-subunit in leukocytes of 12 glaucoma patients (6 HTG and
6 NTG) and 6 healthy controls.
RESULTS: Plasma levels of the 20S proteasome alpha-subunit showed a 3.4+/-0.47
(mean+/-SD; p<0.0001) fold increase in glaucoma patients when compared to healthy
controls. In addition, normal tension glaucoma patients revealed a more
pronounced alpha-subunit expression (p<0.05) when compared to patients with high 
tension glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: During the pathological process of glaucoma, proteasome protein
levels increase. This indicates that proteasome protein levels may be a
diagnostic or eventually a prognostic marker for glaucomatous damage.


PMID: 12447166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1233. Hum Mutat. 2002 Dec;20(6):479-80.

Novel mutations in the MYOC/GLC1A gene in a large group of glaucoma patients.

Michels-Rautenstrauss K(1), Mardin C, Wakili N, Jünemann AM, Villalobos L, Mejia 
C, Soley GC, Azofeifa J, Ozbey S, Naumann GO, Reis A, Rautenstrauss B.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Schwabachanlage 10, Friedrich-Alexander
University (FAU) of Erlangen-Nurnberg, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany.

Mutations at the myocilin (MYOC) gene within the GLC1A locus have been revealed
in 2-4% of patients suffering primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) worldwide. In
our ongoing glaucoma study six hundred eighty two persons have been screened for 
MYOC mutations. The first group consisted of 453 patients from a long-term
clinical study diagnosed either with juvenile OAG (JOAG), POAG, ocular
hypertension (OHT) or normal tension glaucoma (NTG) plus 22 cases of secondary
glaucoma. This group, and additional 83 healthy controls, is part of a long term 
study with repeated clinical examinations at the University of Erlangen-Nurnberg.
An additional sample of 124 glaucoma patients or at risk persons referred from
other sources were included in the mutation screening. Five novel mutations,
namely Gly434Ser, Asn450Asp, Val251Ala, Ile345Met and Ser393Asn, could be
identified as cause of preperimetric POAG, JOAG, normal tension POAG and POAG.
Myocilin mutations were identified similar with previous reports with other
ethnic populations at the rate of 11/341 (3.2%) probands.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.9092 
PMID: 12442283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1234. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2002 Dec;13(6):362-70.

Is normal tension glaucoma actually an unrecognized hereditary optic neuropathy? 
New evidence from genetic analysis.

Buono LM(1), Foroozan R, Sergott RC, Savino PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neuro-Ophthalmology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson Medical
College, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Normal tension glaucoma and dominant optic atrophy share many overlapping
clinical features, and differentiating between these two diseases is often
difficult. The gene responsible for dominant optic atrophy is the OPA1 gene
located on chromosome 3. This gene encodes for a protein product that is involved
in mitochondrial metabolic function. Recent genetic linkage analysis of patients 
with normal tension glaucoma has shown an association with polymorphisms of the
OPA1 gene. This association suggests that normal tension glaucoma may actually be
a hereditary optic neuropathy with a pathophysiology based in mitochondrial
dysfunction.


PMID: 12441838  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1235. Ophthalmology. 2002 Nov;109(11):2072-7.

Myopia and advanced-stage open-angle glaucoma.

Mayama C(1), Suzuki Y, Araie M, Ishida K, Akira T, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y, Funaki
S, Shirakashi M, Abe H, Tsukamoto H, Okada K, Mishima HK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the University of Tokyo School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of myopic refraction on the central visual
field in patients with advanced open-angle glaucoma (OAG).
DESIGN: Multicenter cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Three hundred thirteen OAG eyes (176 eyes of 176 primary open-angle
glaucoma [POAG] patients and 137 eyes of 137 normal-tension glaucoma [NTG]
patients) with clear ocular media and a mean deviation (MD) <-15 dB. Patients
with a recorded maximum intraocular pressure (IOP) of 22 mmHg or greater were
classified as POAG, and those with an IOP of 21 mmHg or less were classified as
NTG.
METHODS: Multiple regression analysis was used to study the influence of
refraction on 12 central test points of the C30-2 Humphrey program, and the
differences in visual field defects between POAG and NTG eyes were examined using
logistic discriminant analysis. In the multiple regression analysis, total
deviation (TD) of the 12 test points was graded and used as the dependent
variable, and MD and the spherical equivalent refraction were the explanatory
variables. In the logistic discrimination analysis, TD, MD, and refraction were
covariants that determined the OAG subtypes.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: TD values of the 12 central test points (C30-2 program).
RESULTS: Higher myopic refraction was significantly associated with more damage
at a point just temporal and inferior to the fixation point in POAG eyes, whereas
it was significantly associated with less damage at test points just temporal and
superior to the fixation point in NTG eyes. After correcting for the influence of
refraction, POAG eyes had significantly more damage at a test point just temporal
and inferior to the fixation point, whereas NTG eyes had significantly more
damage at those test points nasal and inferior to the fixation point.
CONCLUSIONS: High myopia constitutes a threat to the remaining lower cecocentral 
visual field and is one of the factors that interfere with the quality of vision 
in advanced OAG with high IOP but not low IOP.


PMID: 12414417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1236. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 2002;236:49.

Evaluation of central corneal thickness in patients affected by ocular
hypertension, primary open-angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma.

Quaranta L(1), Battelli S, Plutino G, Gandolfo E.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic Glaucoma Centre, University of Brescia.


PMID: 12390138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1237. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 2002;236:9-11.

Normal tension glaucoma.

Wilson MR(1), Creighton MS.

Author information: 
(1)University School of Medicine, Omaha, NB, USA.


PMID: 12390107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1238. Br J Ophthalmol. 2002 Nov;86(11):1299-302.

Plasma vascular endothelial growth factor, soluble VEGF receptor FLT-1, and von
Willebrand factor in glaucoma.

Lip PL(1), Felmeden DC, Blann AD, Matheou N, Thakur S, Cunliffe IA, Lip GY.

Author information: 
(1)Haemostasis, Thrombosis and Vascular Biology Unit, University Department of
Medicine, City Hospital, Birmingham, UK.

AIM: To investigate plasma indices of vascular permeability (vascular endothelial
growth factor, VEGF-also an index of angiogenesis, as well as the soluble
receptor for VEGF, sFlt-1) and endothelial damage/dysfunction (von Willebrand
factor, vWf) in glaucoma.
METHODS: Citrated plasma was assayed for VEGF, sFlt-1, and vWf (all ELISA) in a
cross sectional study of 50 patients (20 male; mean age 63.9 years, SD 10.5) with
glaucoma: 26 had normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and 24 had primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG), who were compared with 26 healthy controls (mean age 73.4 years,
SD 9.2).
RESULTS: Median (interquartile range, IQR) levels of VEGF were significantly
elevated in patients with NTG and POAG compared to healthy controls
(Kruskal-Wallis test, p<0.001). Similarly, mean (SD) vWF levels were abnormal in 
NTG and POAG compared to healthy controls (one way ANOVA, p<0.001). Median levels
of sFlt-1 were significantly lower in patients with NTG and POAG, when compared
to healthy controls (Kruskal-Wallis test, p<0.001; p<0.05 with Tukey's post hoc
test for controls v POAG). There were no significant differences in VEGF, sFlt-1 
or vWf levels between the NTG and POAG groups (Tukey's test, all p=NS). In both
NTG and POAG groups, there was a significant correlation between VEGF and sFlt-1 
(Spearman, NTG: r=0.6517, p=0.001; POAG: r=0.6017, p=0.008). There were no
significant correlations between VEGF and sFlt-1, or with vWf among the controls.
CONCLUSIONS: The pathogenesis of optic nerve damage in both NTG and POAG may be
associated with abnormal vascular permeability and endothelial
damage/dysfunction, as indicated by abnormal plasma VEGF and vWf levels in these 
patients.


PMCID: PMC1771371
PMID: 12386093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1239. Br J Ophthalmol. 2002 Nov;86(11):1236-9.

Effect of latanoprost 0.005% and brimonidine tartrate 0.2% on pulsatile ocular
blood flow in normal tension glaucoma.

Liu CJ(1), Ko YC, Cheng CY, Chou JC, Hsu WM, Liu JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan 
National Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
jlliu@vghtpe.gov.tw

AIM: To determine the effect of brimonidine tartrate 0.2% and latanoprost 0.005% 
on pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) in patients with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG).
METHOD: NTG patients with progressive optic neuropathy, new disc haemorrhage, or 
field defects that threatened fixation were enrolled into a randomised,
investigator masked, crossover study. Group I patients received 4 weeks each of
latanoprost, lubricant, and brimonidine, while group II patients received 4 weeks
each of brimonidine, lubricant, and latanoprost. Diurnal POBF was measured at
baseline and after each 4 week treatment.
RESULTS: 25 patients completed the study and had reliable POBF measurement at
each visit. There was no significant diurnal change in baseline POBF (p = 0.768).
Latanoprost increased POBF by 213 (SD 257) micro l/min (22.8%, p <0.001) while
brimonidine increased it by 97 (183) micro l/min (10.4%, p = 0.014). POBF
increased at 8 am (p = 0.004), 12 noon (p = 0.002), and 4 pm (p <0.001) with
latanoprost, while it increased only at 8 am (p = 0.016) with brimonidine. After 
adjusting for the factor of IOP, neither latanoprost nor brimonidine increased
POBF significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost increases the mean POBF that is related to its IOP
lowering effect. The increase in POBF noted after brimonidine is within the range
of long term variation and may not be attributable to the drug effect.


PMCID: PMC1771377
PMID: 12386077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1240. Mol Vis. 2002 Oct 14;8:389-93.

The apolipoprotein epsilon4 gene is associated with elevated risk of normal
tension glaucoma.

Vickers JC(1), Craig JE, Stankovich J, McCormack GH, West AK, Dickinson JL,
McCartney PJ, Coote MA, Healey DL, Mackey DA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania, Australia.
James.Vickers@utas.edu.au

PURPOSE: Inheritance of a particular apolipoprotein E gene polymorphism, the
epsilon4 allele, has been associated with elevated risk for Alzheimer's disease
and a poor outcome following head injury. The neuronal injury associated with
Alzheimer's disease and brain injury may have a number of similarities with the
nerve cell changes associated with glaucoma. Thus, we have investigated the
association of inheritance of apolipoprotein E allelic isoforms (epsilon2,
[epsilon]3, and epsilon4) with relative risk for different forms of glaucoma.
METHODS: Apolipoprotein E genotype was examined in a Tasmanian population sample 
comprised of glaucoma sufferers with elevated or normal intraocular pressure and 
compared to a control sample of elderly Tasmanians without glaucoma.
RESULTS: Approximately twice as many normal tension (38.0%) and high tension
(34.2%) glaucoma cases possessed an epsilon4 allele compared to control cases
(18.9%). The odds of epsilon4 carriers having normal tension glaucoma were
significantly greater than for epsilon3 homozygotes (odds ratio 2.45, 95%
confidence interval [1.02-5.91]) even after adjusting for age and gender (odd
ratio 2.87 [1.02-8.05]). The increased odds of high tension glaucoma among
[epsilon]4 allele carriers were not significant (adjusted odds ratio 1.53
[0.64-3.68]).
CONCLUSIONS: The data indicate that, in the Tasmanian population, inheritance of 
the [epsilon]4 allele is associated with elevated risk for glaucomatous changes
that are not related to increased intraocular pressure.


PMID: 12379839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1241. Clin Exp Optom. 2001 Mar;84(2):56-70.

Perspectives on migraine: prevalence and visual symptoms.

Gutteridge IF(1), Cole BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 374 
Cardigan St, Carlton, VIC, 3053, Australia.

About 20 per cent of women and 10 per cent of men experience migraine at some
time in their lives, of whom about one half to two thirds will have had a
migraine attack in the previous 12 months. Prevalences of this order have been
found in a survey of patients in an Australian optometric practice. Between one
third and one half of migraineurs experience sensory or motor aura. Visual aura
are by far the most common of the aura. A high proportion (more than 40 per cent)
of migraineurs presenting for routine optometric examination will not have had
their headache or aura formally diagnosed. Optometrists can give reassurance by
providing a formal diagnosis and, when appropriate, they can refer their migraine
patients to sources of advice on how the frequency and severity of their attacks 
might be ameliorated. The diagnosis of migraine is straightforward when the
migrainous episode and any associated aura follow a classical pattern. However,
diagnosis is often challenging, especially for aura occurring without headache,
when the aura are atypical, when the first attack of migraine occurs after the
age of 50 years, when there are persistent visual field losses or when there are 
pupillary anomalies or extra-ocular muscle palsy and diplopia associated with the
migraine. Unusual presentations must be approached with care, using a good
knowledge of the diversity of migraine, careful history taking and a thorough
ocular and visual examination. As visual field losses can be associated with
migraine and migraine may be a risk factor for low-tension glaucoma, visual field
examination is often indicated for patients with a history of migraine. In some
cases of migraine, referral for neurological work-up will be necessary before
concluding that the headache and visual symptoms can be attributed to migraine.


PMID: 12366332  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1242. Clin Exp Optom. 2001 Jul;84(4):190-194.

Daytime variation of pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) in normal Chinese.

Lam AK(1), Wong S, Lam CS, To CH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Radiography, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong.

BACKGROUND: Pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) measurement is a new parameter to 
aid the understanding of the aetiology of low-tension glaucoma. There has been
one study reporting the diurnal variation of POBF. However, that study involved
eight subjects only. This study investigated the daytime variation of POBF with a
greater sample size. METHODS: Twenty-four young Chinese subjects (12 males and 12
females) were recruited. The mean age of our subjects was 23.6 years and only the
right eye was analysed. All the subjects were screened for glaucoma and the POBF 
was measured at three-hourly intervals from 9:00 am to 9:00 pm with an OBF
tonometer (OBF Labs, UK, Ltd). The Goldmann intraocular pressure (IOP) and 'erect
arm' systemic blood pressure (BP) were also measured. RESULTS: The IOP was found 
to be higher in the daytime, reaching the highest at noon (mean of 14.29 mmHg)
and gradually reduced to the lowest at 9:00 pm (mean of 12.99 mmHg). The change
was marginally significant (repeated measures ANOVA, P = 0.05). The POBF
demonstrated a trend to increase from 9:00 am, mean of 605.5 &mgr;l/min, to 9:00 
pm, 720.1 &mgr;l/min (repeated measures ANOVA, P < 0.01). Student-Newman-Keuls
post hoc test indicated that the difference was mainly due to the comparisons
between the 9:00 am and 9:00 pm results and the 9:00 am and 6:00 pm results. The 
pulse amplitude did not vary significantly. The mean blood pressure also
demonstrated a significant variation (repeated measures ANOVA, P < 0.01). In the 
analysis of covariance, no significant effects of mean blood pressure on POBF and
pulse amplitude were revealed. CONCLUSIONS: The variation in POBF was due to
factors other than systemic blood pressure. Practitioners should consider POBF
variation in repeated measurements, for example when monitoring the medical
treatment for glaucoma. Further study on POBF variation is required over a
complete circadian cycle.


PMID: 12366314  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1243. Arch Ophthalmol. 2002 Oct;120(10):1268-79.

Reduction of intraocular pressure and glaucoma progression: results from the
Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial.

Heijl A(1), Leske MC, Bengtsson B, Hyman L, Bengtsson B, Hussein M; Early
Manifest Glaucoma Trial Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Malmö University Hospital, SE-20502 Malmö,
Sweden. anders.heijl@oftal.mas.lu.se

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 2002 Oct;120(10):1371-2.
    JAMA. 2002 Nov 27;288(20):2607-8.
    Optom Vis Sci. 2002 Dec;79(12):741-2.

OBJECTIVE: To provide the results of the Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial, which
compared the effect of immediately lowering the intraocular pressure (IOP), vs no
treatment or later treatment, on the progression of newly detected open-angle
glaucoma.
DESIGN: Randomized clinical trial.
PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred fifty-five patients aged 50 to 80 years (median, 68
years) with early glaucoma, visual field defects (median mean deviation, -4 dB), 
and a median IOP of 20 mm Hg, mainly identified through a population screening.
Patients with an IOP greater than 30 mm Hg or advanced visual field loss were
ineligible.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomized to either laser trabeculoplasty plus
topical betaxolol hydrochloride (n = 129) or no initial treatment (n = 126).
Study visits included Humphrey Full Threshold 30-2 visual field tests and
tonometry every 3 months, and optic disc photography every 6 months. Decisions
regarding treatment were made jointly with the patient when progression occurred 
and thereafter.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Glaucoma progression was defined by specific visual field 
and optic disc outcomes. Criteria for perimetric progression were computer based 
and defined as the same 3 or more test point locations showing significant
deterioration from baseline in glaucoma change probability maps from 3
consecutive tests. Optic disc progression was determined by masked graders using 
flicker chronoscopy plus side-by-side photogradings.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up period of 6 years (range, 51-102 months),
retention was excellent, with only 6 patients lost to follow-up for reasons other
than death. On average, treatment reduced the IOP by 5.1 mm Hg or 25%, a
reduction maintained throughout follow-up. Progression was less frequent in the
treatment group (58/129; 45%) than in controls (78/126; 62%) (P =.007) and
occurred significantly later in treated patients. Treatment effects were also
evident when stratifying patients by median IOP, mean deviation, and age as well 
as exfoliation status. Although patients reported few systemic or ocular
conditions, increases in clinical nuclear lens opacity gradings were associated
with treatment (P =.002).
CONCLUSIONS: The Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial is the first adequately powered
randomized trial with an untreated control arm to evaluate the effects of IOP
reduction in patients with open-angle glaucoma who have elevated and normal IOP. 
Its intent-to-treat analysis showed considerable beneficial effects of treatment 
that significantly delayed progression. Whereas progression varied across patient
categories, treatment effects were present in both older and younger patients,
high- and normal-tension glaucoma, and eyes with less and greater visual field
loss.


PMID: 12365904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1244. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2002 Jul;197(3):125-32.

Clinical roles of serum autoantibody against neuron-specific enolase in glaucoma 
patients.

Maruyama I(1), Ikeda Y, Nakazawa M, Ohguro H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hirosaki University School of Medicine, Japan.
imaruyam@hirosaki-u.ac.jp

In our recent papers, we found the presence of serum autoantibody against neuron 
specific enolase (NSE) in some glaucoma patients and suggested that this antibody
might have significant roles in pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. In
order to evaluate further the clinical roles of serum autoantibody against NSE in
glaucoma, serum autoantibody against NSE was examined by western blot analysis
and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in 4 patients with ocular
hypertension (OH) and 242 patients with glaucoma (normal tension glaucoma [NTG], 
73 cases; primary open angle glaucoma [POAG], 169 cases), and the relationships
between the titers of anti-NSE antibody and clinical characteristics were
evaluated. The titers of anti-NSE antibody showed a regular decreasing pattern
with deteriorating visual field losses and glaucoma stages in POAG, especially
early and late stages. However, no systematic pattern was observed in NTG.
Although maximum and mean intraocular pressures (IOP)s and progression of visual 
field losses showed no correlation with the levels of serum anti-NSE antibody
titers in either POAG or NTG, the anti-NSE antibody titers were relatively higher
in NTG with visual field deterioration than in those without it. The present
observations suggest that serum autoantibody against NSE may be clinically useful
for diagnosing early stages of POAG, and for monitoring glaucoma progression of
NTG.


PMID: 12365552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1245. Br J Ophthalmol. 2002 Oct;86(10):1089-92.

Pulsatile ocular blood flow: the effect of the Valsalva manoeuvre in open angle
and normal tension glaucoma: a case report and prospective study.

Khan JC(1), Hughes EH, Tom BD, Diamond JP.

Author information: 
(1)AMD Study, Box 261, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 2QQ, UK.

AIM: A case of severe normal tension glaucoma is reported in a trumpet player,
along with a study investigating the association between glaucoma and raised
intrathoracic pressure, using measurements of pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF).
METHODS: Three patient groups were studied; normals (n = 34), untreated primary
open angle glaucoma (POAG) (n = 20), and untreated normal tension glaucoma (NTG) 
(n = 22), with a total of 76 patients who underwent measurements of POBF using
the OBF pneumotonometer at rest and while forcibly exhaling through a mouthpiece 
connected to a mercury manometer (30 mm Hg) (Valsalva manoeuvre).
RESULTS: POBF fell during Valsalva in all groups with the greatest predictor
being the resting value of POBF. There was no evidence of significant differences
in the mean change in POBF occurring during the Valsalva manoeuvre for the three 
groups studied before or after adjusting for the sex, the resting POBF, and the
resting IOP of the patients (p = 0.294 and p = 0.542, respectively). However,
statistically significant associations were found between the change in POBF and 
sex (p = 0.049), resting POBF (p<0.0001) and resting IOP (p = 0.032). Males had a
greater drop, on average, in POBF during Valsalva manoeuvre than females after
adjusting for the other factors. Additionally, there was a significant difference
in the mean change in IOP during Valsalva for the three groups (p = 0.002), with 
the difference occurring between the normal and POAG groups (p<0.005). The POAG
group had, on average, a drop in IOP during Valsalva, while the other two groups 
had an increase in IOP. Also noted was a significant difference in the
distributions of the risk factors among the three groups (p = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates no difference between groups with respect to
resting or Valsalva POBF, but does demonstrate a possible trend with respect to
IOP, with a drop in IOP occurring during Valsalva in the POAG group. There is,
however, much variability in the data left unexplained by our models. Thus,
unfortunately, we cannot advise our trumpet player whether his NTG is directly
related to his trumpet playing.


PMCID: PMC1771331
PMID: 12234884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1246. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2002 Aug;106(8):481-7.

[Photopic negative response of eyes with normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Gotoh Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Iwate Medical University School of Medicine, 19-1
Uchimaru, Morioka 020-8505, Japan.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the behavior of the
photopic negative response(PhNR) of cone-induced electroretinogram (cone ERG) in 
patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Cone ERGs were recorded from 30 eyes of 30 patients with NTG according
to the recording conditions of the International Society for Clinical
Electrophysiology of Vision protocol which is now widely used in clinics. The
amplitudes and implicit times of the PhNRs were measured and compared with normal
controls. I further attempted to find a correlation between the PhNR amplitude
loss and the cupping/disc ratio representing a loss of the nerve fiber layer and 
severity of visual field defbct.
RESULTS: The PhNR amplitudes recorded from patients with NTG were significantly
reduced compared with those from normal subjects (p < 0.05). However, the PhNR
amplitude loss did not correlate with the cupping/disc ratio or the severity of
visual field defect.
CONCLUSIONS: The Results suggested that the PhNR amplitude qualitatively
reflected ganglion cell loss in patients with NTG even under recording conditions
which are widely used in the clinical field.


PMID: 12229198  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1247. Ophthalmologe. 2002 Aug;99(8):613-6.

[The relationship between retrobulbar blood flow velocity and glaucoma damage. An
intraindividual comparison].

[Article in German]

Breil P(1), Krummenauer F, Schmitz S, Pfeiffer N.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsaugenklinik, Langenbeckstrasse 1, 55131 Mainz.
breil@mail.uni-mainz.de

BACKGROUND: Glaucomatous optic nerve damage is thought to be influenced by ocular
perfusion. The aim was to investigate if a difference in visual field and
Heidelberg retinal tomography (HRT) between two eyes of an individual glaucoma
patient is reflected in different blood flow velocities in retrobulbar vessels.
METHODS: Data from 53 patients including 26 normal tension glaucoma patients
(NTG) and 27 high tension glaucoma patients (HTG) were evaluated retrospectively.
In 38 patients asymmetric glaucomatous damage (AGD) could be demonstrated by both
structural (HRT) and functional measures (static or Goldmann perimetry). In 15
patients there was symmetric glaucomatous damage (SGD). To discriminate between
AGD and SGD we used a score for HRT and visual field. Color Doppler imaging (CDI)
was performed with a Siemens Quantum 2000.
RESULTS: No significant differences were found when comparing group means of
intraindividual deviation of CDI in patients with AGD vs. SGD. Overall analysis
of CDI values in NTG vs. HTG eyes also showed no significant differences.
Nevertheless we measured decreased blood flow velocities for NTG compared to HTG 
eyes especially in short posterior ciliary arteries, peak systolic and end
diastolic velocities.
CONCLUSIONS: A simple correlation between retrobulbar blood flow velocities and
glaucomatous damage could not be found. However, color Doppler images can give
important additional information in the diagnosis of glaucoma, especially normal 
tension glaucoma.


PMID: 12227273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1248. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2002 Jun;25(6):641-54.

[Ocular hypertension and glaucoma: the contribution of large studies to daily
practice].

[Article in French]

Bron A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, CHU, Hôpital Général, 21000, Dijon.

Official guidelines to manage and treat various clinical presentations of
glaucoma and ocular hypertension are not currently in wide use. Several
well-designed clinical trials have been published recently which can provide
ophthalmologists with therapeutic recommendations. In the field of ocular
hypertension, three major and historic studies are reported and discussed in this
review. A more recent study undertaken in Sweden and the design of the Ocular
Hypertension Treatment Study (OHTS) are reviewed as well, although the final
results of this important trial have not yet been published. The conclusions of
the Collaborative Normal Tension Study Group (CNTSG) have been expected for a
long time since this disease is difficult to manage; a 30% reduction in baseline 
intraocular pressure avoids further deterioration of the visual field in most
patients. Other studies have dealt with different strategies in open angle
glaucoma. The Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS) has investigated
different therapeutic sequences in advanced glaucoma while the Collaborative
Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study (CIGTS) and the Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial
(EMGT), still in progress, have evaluated the efficacy and safety of surgery
versus medical treatment and treatment versus no treatment, respectively, in new 
and low-grade glaucoma. These long-term studies have led to a better approach to 
ocular hypertension, normal tension glaucoma, initial glaucoma, and advanced
glaucoma. This review presents the characteristics of these clinical studies,
points out the problems linked to giving a fair and practical interpretation, and
attempts to draw useful guidelines for daily clinical practice.


PMID: 12223955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1249. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2002 Oct;30(5):334-7.

The corneal thickness and intraocular pressure story: where are we now?

Lee GA(1), Khaw PT, Ficker LA, Shah P.

Author information: 
(1)City Eye Centre, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. mdglee@hotmail.com

A review of the current literature was conducted regarding the effect of corneal 
thickness on the diagnosis of glaucoma, and the influence of excimer laser
refractive surgery on intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement with Goldmann
applanation tonometry. In general, normals and primary open angle glaucoma
patients have a similar distribution of corneal thickness; however, there is a
wide variation, ranging from 427 to 716 micro m. Normal tension glaucoma patients
have a tendency towards thinner corneas than normals; however, there is an
overlap of thickness measurements of more than two-thirds in 95% of patients.
There is a trend for ocular hypertensives to have thicker corneas than normals,
but again there is an overlap of about one-third in 95% of patients. The general 
trend after excimer laser refractive surgery is for a decrease in IOP, with a
mean fall in IOP measured of 0.63 mmHg per dioptre correction. There is, however,
a large scatter of values with some patients having the same or lower IOP
post-laser, but with other patients measuring higher pressures. Corneal thickness
can influence IOP measurement by Goldmann applanation tonometry; however, the
magnitude of the effect is subject to much individual variation.


PMID: 12213156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1250. Am J Ophthalmol. 2002 Sep;134(3):460-1.

Eye-rubbing optic neuropathy.

Pecora L(1), Sibony P, Fourman S.

Author information: 
(1)EyeSight Associates, Endicott, New York, USA. jpecora@stny.rr.com

Erratum in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Aug;136(2):following 403.

PURPOSE: To describe a patient whose "normal tension glaucoma" appears to have
been produced by a long-standing habit of repetitive, bilateral eye rubbing.
DESIGN: Observational case report.
METHODS: A 46-year-old man presented with a "haze" over the left eye and had
progressive bilateral optic neuropathy associated with bilateral normal
intraocular pressure, pathological cupping of the optic disks, and nerve fiber
bundle visual field defects.
RESULTS: Over a 4-year period, vision in the left eye deteriorated to no light
perception. Progressive deterioration in the right eye stopped only after the
patient ceased a 20-year habit of forceful rubbing of his eyes. After that, the
decline in vision was terminated and both visual acuity and visual field were
stabilized over an 8-year follow-up.
CONCLUSION: It may be appropriate to include "eye rubbing" in the differential
diagnosis of unexplained progressive optic neuropathy in presumed normal tension 
glaucoma.


PMID: 12208269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1251. Surv Ophthalmol. 2002 Aug;47 Suppl 1:S116-24.

Medical treatment of normal tension glaucoma.

Hoyng PF(1), Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Netherlands Ophthalmic Research Institute, Meibergdreef 47, 1105 BA Amsterdam,
The Netherlands.

Normal-tension glaucoma was previously thought to be pressure insensitive, as
medical treatment hardly reduced intraocular pressure and it did not prevent
visual field loss. In the last decade, however, evidence has shown that the
treatment of normal-tension glaucoma by lowering intraocular pressure can slow
the deterioration of visual fields, hence the glaucomatous process. It was shown 
that a reduction of IOP of at least 30% is needed to induce a favorable
alteration in the course of normal-tension glaucoma. New agents, such as
prostaglandin analogs, the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist brimonidine, and
carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, have become available and may be of use in the
treatment of normal-tension glaucoma. Monotherapy with prostaglandin analogs may 
meet the target of a reduction of IOP with 30%, but combination therapy will be
needed in many cases. Few studies have been performed with brimonidine,
travoprost, and bimatoprost, and it is suggested that more attention should be
given to studies with these agents, as about 30% of patients with open angles and
glaucomatous visual field defects have normal-tension glaucoma. Although
neuroprotection is the goal of the future, no hard data are available yet which
demonstrate that treatment with these agents will indeed result in preservation
of visual fields.


PMID: 12204707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1252. Curr Eye Res. 2002 Jan;24(1):6-11.

An immunohistochemical study of endothelin-1 converting enzyme in the human eye.

Wollensak G(1), Löffler B, Beyermann B, Ihling C.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic Dresden, Dresden, Germany. gwollens@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: The important role of ET-1 in vasoconstriction has been shown for the
vasoregulation in the retina, choroid and optic nerve. ET-1 induced
vaso-constriction, however, can be treated effectively at the level of
endothelin-1 converting enzyme (ECE-1) by ECE-1 inhibitors because ECE-1 converts
biologically almost inactive big endothelin to endothelin-1 (ET-1), the most
potent vasoconstrictor known. The purpose of this study was to clarify the
anatomical distribution of ECE-1 in the human eye.
METHODS: 11 post-mortem eyes were fixed in 4% formalin and embedded in paraffin. 
4 microm thin sections were analyzed immuno-histochemically using a self-produced
monoclonal primary antibody against human ECE-1 and a polyclonal alpha-actin
antibody for comparison.
RESULTS: ECE-1 -IR was demonstrated in the corneal epithelium, vascular smooth
muscle and endothelial cells, and in the non-vascular smooth muscle cells of the 
ciliary body, the dilator and sphincter muscle of the iris.
CONCLUSIONS: A strong immunoreactivity for ECE-1 can be found in the blood
vessels of the retina, optic nerve and choroid. Therefore, it should be possible 
to treat ET-1-induced vaso-constriction in the eye using ECE-1 inhibitors,
especially in diseases like hypertensive vasculopathy, vasospasm, vaso-occlusions
or low tension glaucoma.


PMID: 12187489  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1253. Br J Ophthalmol. 2002 Sep;86(9):981-4.

Ocular pulse amplitude in patients with open angle glaucoma, normal tension
glaucoma, and ocular hypertension.

Schwenn O(1), Troost R, Vogel A, Grus F, Beck S, Pfeiffer N.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik der Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz/ Department of
Ophthalmology, Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany.
Schwenn@augen.klinik.uni-mainz.de

BACKGROUND/AIM: Intraocular pressure (IOP) is not a fixed constant value but
rather has pulsatile components associated with cardiac action. The SmartLens
dynamic observing tonometer (odc, Ophthalmic Development Company AG, Zurich,
Switzerland) can measure and record simultaneously IOP and ocular pulse amplitude
(OPA). It was the aim of this study to evaluate OPA in patients with primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG) and high IOP, normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and ocular
hypertension (OHT). Furthermore, the authors examined whether there were any
correlations with blood pressure.
METHODS: 80 subjects were divided into four groups (n=20): 20 patients each with 
POAG, NTG, and OHT and 20 volunteers without any ocular pathology except for
cataract served as a control group.
RESULTS: The OPA of the POAG group was not statistically significant different
from the control group and from the OHT group. However, OPA was statistically
significant lower (p<0.01) in the NTG group compared with all other groups. The
OPA of the OHT group was slightly higher compared to the healthy volunteers
(p=0.09) and to the POAG patients (p=0.09). No statistically significant
correlations with blood pressure could be detected. A logistic regression model
was established which identified OPA as an independent risk factor for NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: The study demonstrated a decrease in OPA of patients suffering from 
NTG. Thus, measuring of OPA by the SmartLens dynamic observing tonometer could be
helpful in the detection of NTG patients.


PMCID: PMC1771281
PMID: 12185121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1254. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2002 Jul;21(4):359-93.

The impact of ocular blood flow in glaucoma.

Flammer J(1), Orgül S, Costa VP, Orzalesi N, Krieglstein GK, Serra LM, Renard JP,
Stefánsson E.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland. josef.flammer@uhbs.ch

Two principal theories for the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic neuropathy
(GON) have been described--a mechanical and a vascular theory. Both have been
defended by various research groups over the past 150 years. According to the
mechanical theory, increased intraocular pressure (IOP) causes stretching of the 
laminar beams and damage to retinal ganglion cell axons. The vascular theory of
glaucoma considers GON as a consequence of insufficient blood supply due to
either increased IOP or other risk factors reducing ocular blood flow (OBF). A
number of conditions such as congenital glaucoma, angle-closure glaucoma or
secondary glaucomas clearly show that increased IOP is sufficient to lead to GON.
However, a number of observations such as the existence of normal-tension
glaucoma cannot be satisfactorily explained by a pressure theory alone. Indeed,
the vast majority of published studies dealing with blood flow report a reduced
ocular perfusion in glaucoma patients compared with normal subjects. The fact
that the reduction of OBF often precedes the damage and blood flow can also be
reduced in other parts of the body of glaucoma patients, indicate that the
hemodynamic alterations may at least partially be primary. The major cause of
this reduction is not atherosclerosis, but rather a vascular dysregulation,
leading to both low perfusion pressure and insufficient autoregulation. This in
turn may lead to unstable ocular perfusion and thereby to ischemia and
reperfusion damage. This review discusses the potential role of OBF in glaucoma
and how a disturbance of OBF could increase the optic nerve's sensitivity to IOP.


PMID: 12150988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1255. Am J Ophthalmol. 2002 Aug;134(2):186-9.

Attempted eyelid closure affects intraocular pressure measurement in open-angle
glaucoma patients.

Jamal KN(1), Gürses-Ozden R, Liebmann JM, Ritch R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, New
York 10003, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of attempted eyelid closure on intraocular
pressure (IOP) measurements in normal-tension (NTG) and high-tension (HTG)
open-angle glaucoma patients.
DESIGN: Prospective clinical trial.
METHODS: Forty randomly selected eyes of 40 patients underwent corneal pachymetry
and IOP measurements using both Goldmann applanation tonometry and Tono-pen XL
(Mentor, Inc., Norwell, Massachusetts, USA). Intraocular pressure was measured by
the same examiner holding the eyelids open, both with and without the subject
simultaneously attempting forced eyelid closure. Subjects were seated during all 
measurements and waited 5 minutes between measurements with each instrument; the 
order of measurement was randomized.
RESULTS: Twenty NTG and 20 HTG eyes were enrolled. The mean age was 63.0 +/- 13.0
years (range, 31-80 years). The average corneal thickness was 540 +/- 32 microm
(range, 480-608 microm) in NTG patients and 552 +/- 40 microm (range, 449-610
microm) in HTG patients (P =.07, analysis of variance [ANOVA]). Using Goldmann
applanation tonometry, IOP measurement in eyes with NTG increased by 3.9 +/- 2.0 
mm Hg with attempted eyelid closure (P <.0001, paired t test; range, 2-11 mm Hg).
With the Tono-pen XL, IOP measurements increased 4.2 +/- 2.7 mm Hg (P <.0001,
paired t test; range, 1-14 mm Hg). With attempted forced eyelid closure, the
Goldmann applanation measurement in eyes with HTG increased 4.1 +/- 2.1 mm Hg (P 
<.0001, paired t test; range, 1-9 mm Hg). Using the Tono-pen XL, measurements
increased 4.5 +/- 2.0 mm Hg (P <.0001, paired t test; range, 2-11 mm Hg).
CONCLUSION: Attempted eyelid closure during tonometry is a significant and common
source of error in eyes with glaucoma and may influence the clinical management
and decision-making in the treatment of NTG and HTG.


PMID: 12140024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1256. Ophthalmologe. 2002 Jun;99(6):432-7.

[Multifocal ERG with 30 Hz flicker stimulation in glaucoma patients and normal
probands].

[Article in German]

Velten IM(1), Horn FK, Korth M.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Schwabachanlage 6, 
91054 Erlangen.

BACKGROUND: It was the aim of the present study to investigate the value of
multifocal ERG with 30 Hz flicker stimulation for glaucoma diagnosis.
METHODS: Multifocal ERGs with 30 Hz flicker stimulation were recorded with a mean
luminance of 50 cd/m2 and a contrast of 99% from the central 60 degrees of the
retina which were stimulated by 61 hexagons. From 30 patients with primary and
secondary open-angle and low-tension glaucomas with reproducible visual field
losses and glaucomatous optic disc atrophy and 21 normal subjects, one eye was
included in the study. The first harmonic wave, the basewave and the ratio of
these two parameters were ana-lysed. The responses of seven neighbouring hexagons
were averaged for the intraocular comparison between areas with and without
perimetric defects and for the comparison between glaucomas and normal subjects.
RESULTS: In the glaucoma group, the ratio of the first harmonic wave and the
basewave was significantly lower in an area within a perimetric defect than
outside the defect (p < 0.001) when compared intraocularly. The extent of ERG
changes however did not correlate with the extent of perimetric defects.
Comparing the glaucoma with the normal group, the ratio of the first harmonic and
the basewave was significantly lower in an area within the perimetric defect in
the glaucoma group than in corresponding areas of the normal group (p = 0.002).
The first harmonic and the basewave did not differ significantly.
DISCUSSION: These results show that the method is not appropriate to objectively 
indicate visual field losses although it statistically separates glaucomas from
normal subjects.


PMID: 12125410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1257. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2002 Jun;240(6):448-56. Epub 2002 May 28.

Pattern of retinal nerve fiber layer damage in Korean eyes with normal-tension
glaucoma and hemifield visual field defect.

Kook MS(1), Lee SU, Sung KR, Tchah H, Kim ST, Kim KR, Kang W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan, College
of Medicine, 388-1 Pungnapdong, Songpa-gu, 138-736 Seoul, Korea.
mskook@www.amc.seoul.kr

PURPOSE: To evaluate quantitatively the pattern of retinal nerve fiber layer
(RNFL) damage in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) with hemifield dominant 
visual field defects using scanning laser polarimetry.
METHODS: Prospectively, 40 consecutive eyes from 40 patients with NTG and
hemifield defect based on the findings of examination using the Humphrey Field
Analyzer underwent RNFL thickness measurements. Twenty normal eyes from 20
subjects matched in age and refractive error formed a control group.
RESULTS: Symmetry, calculated as the ratio of superior to inferior RNFL
thickness, showed no statistically significant difference between the study group
and the control group ( P=0.50). Overall, 27.5% (11/40 eyes) showed an "abnormal"
symmetry index that indicated focal RNFL change. The affected ratio, calculated
as the ratio of RNFL thickness in the quadrant corresponding to the hemifield of 
visual field defect to that of the temporal quadrant was significantly lower in
the study group than in the control group ( P<0.0001). A similar finding was
noted for the unaffected ratio.
CONCLUSION: Despite strict selection of the eyes with visual field defect
confined to one hemifield, a mixture of both focal and diffuse RNFL damage was
noted, with a common occurrence of symmetrical RNFL thinning in both upper and
lower quadrants based on scanning laser polarimetry.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-002-0472-0 
PMID: 12107511  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1258. Hum Genet. 2002 May;110(5):513-4. Epub 2002 Apr 10.

Investigating the association between OPA1 polymorphisms and glaucoma: comparison
between normal tension and high tension primary open angle glaucoma.

Aung T(1), Ocaka L, Ebenezer ND, Morris AG, Brice G, Child AH, Hitchings RA,
Lehmann OJ, Bhattacharya SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Institute of Ophthalmology, University
College London, Bath Street, London EC1V 9EL, UK. aung_tin@yahoo.co.uk

OPA1, the gene responsible for autosomal dominant optic atrophy, represents a
good candidate gene for glaucoma, as there are similarities in the clinical
phenotype and OPA1 is expressed in the optic nerve. Single nucleotide
polymorphisms on intervening sequence (IVS) 8 of the OPA1gene (genotype IVS8+4
C/T;+32T/C) were recently found to be strongly associated with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG). In order to investigate whether this association exists in
patients with high-tension glaucoma (HTG), 90 well-characterized HTG patients
were examined for the presence of these OPA1polymorphisms by PCR amplification
followed by bi-directional sequencing. Five out of 90 HTG subjects (5.6%; 95% CI 
1.8-12.5) were found to carry the OPA1 genotype IVS 8+4 C/T; +32 T/C, compared
with 32/163 (19.6%; 95% CI 13.8-26.6) NTG subjects [chi(2)=9.2, P=0.002, OR 4.1
(95% CI 1.6-11.1)], and 7/186 (3.8%; 95% CI 1.5-7.6) control subjects
[chi(2)=0.47, P=0.49, OR 1.5 (95% CI 0.5-4.9)]. These results indicate that
unlike NTG, the OPA1 genotype IVS8+4 C/T,+32T/C is not significantly associated
with high-tension primary open angle glaucoma, and suggest genetic heterogeneity 
between the conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00439-002-0711-9 
PMID: 12073024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1259. Ophthalmologica. 2002 May-Jun;216(3):180-4.

Normal-tension glaucoma is associated with sleep apnea syndrome.

Mojon DS(1), Hess CW, Goldblum D, Boehnke M, Koerner F, Gugger M, Bassetti C,
Mathis J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuro-Ophthalmology and Strabismus, Kantonsspital St. Gallen,
Switzerland. daniel.mojon@kssg.ch

INTRODUCTION: In normal-tension glaucoma, optic nerve damage occurs without
elevated intraocular pressures, hence vascular and pathogenic mechanisms other
than intraocular pressure effects have been postulated. However, the exact
cause(s) remain unknown. We have looked for an association between normal-tension
glaucoma and sleep apnea syndrome, a disease characterized by repetitive upper
airway obstructions during sleep, inducing hypoxia and sleep disruption with the 
risk of late cardiovascular and neurological sequelae.
METHODS: We performed overnight polysomnography in 16 consecutive Caucasian
patients with normal-tension glaucoma. The respiratory disturbance index (RDI)
during night sleep was used to diagnose and grade obstructive sleep apnea.
Patients with an RDI of 10 or more were diagnosed as having obstructive sleep
apnea.
RESULTS: We observed the following prevalences of obstructive sleep apnea in
normal-tension glaucoma patients: 0% (0 of 2) for the group of patients younger
than 45 years, 50% (3 of 6) for the age group 45-64 years, and 63% (5 of 8) for
the group older than 64 years. Prevalences in the middle and older age group were
significantly higher than in a historic control group (p < 0.025 for both,
binomial test).
CONCLUSION: Normal-tension glaucoma patients constitute a high-risk population
for sleep apnea syndrome. Therefore, they should be screened for sleep apnea
syndrome, and, if necessary, be treated to avoid late cardiovascular and
neurological sequelae.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 59625 
PMID: 12065854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1260. Am J Ophthalmol. 2002 Jun;133(6):758-63.

Validity of a new disk grading scale for estimating glaucomatous damage:
correlation with visual field damage.

Bayer A(1), Harasymowycz P, Henderer JD, Steinmann WG, Spaeth GL.

Author information: 
(1)The William Anna Goldberg Glaucoma Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas
Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107-5598, USA.
atillabayer@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 May;135(5):749-50; author reply 750.

PURPOSE: To determine the correlation of a new disk grading system, the disk
damage likelihood scale (DDLS), with the visual field damage in patients with
glaucoma.
DESIGN: Observational case series.
METHODS: Charts of 75 patients (150 eyes) with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG), 41 patients (82 eyes) with low-tension glaucoma (LTG), and 25 patients
(50 eyes) with pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (PXFG) were reviewed retrospectively.
DDLS stages and vertical disk sizes were recorded. A masked observer staged the
Humphrey field analyzer (program 24-2) visual fields using the
Hodapp-Parrish-Anderson (HPA) visual field staging system. Mean deviation (MD)
and pattern standard deviation (PSD) values were obtained. The correlation of
DDLS with the visual field parameters and HPA staging system were evaluated.
Findings were assessed by the Pearson and Spearman correlation coefficients.
RESULTS: In the 282 eyes studied, the DDLS was strongly correlated with both MD
(Pearson r = - 0.695, P <.001) and PSD (Pearson r =.703, P <.001). The HPA visual
field staging system was also strongly correlated with the DDLS (Spearman r
=.711, P <.001). These relationships continued to be significant when the three
diagnostic groups (POAG, LTG, PXFG) were evaluated separately (P <.001) and also 
for small (< 1.5 mm) and average size (1.5-2.0 mm) disks. Large disks (> 2.0 mm) 
were not evaluated, because there was an insufficient number of cases.
CONCLUSION: DDLS, a new system for estimating glaucomatous disk damage, strongly 
correlates with the degree of glaucomatous visual field damage.


PMID: 12036666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1261. Hum Mol Genet. 2002 May 15;11(11):1333-42.

Protein localization in the human eye and genetic screen of opticin.

Friedman JS(1), Faucher M, Hiscott P, Biron VL, Malenfant M, Turcotte P, Raymond 
V, Walter MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada
T6G-2H7.

The opticin (OPTC) gene encodes a protein that is a member of the small
leucine-rich repeat protein (SLRP) family. OPTC is located on chromosome 1q31-q32
within an age-related macular degeneration (AMD) susceptibility locus. We have
developed an affinity-purified N-terminal anti-opticin antibody and used it to
examine opticin expression in human eye tissues. The antibody was also used for
opticin protein localization in human eye sections. Immunoblots of human eye
tissues detected a predominant band of approximately 62 kDa in size in iris,
trabecular meshwork/ciliary body, retina, vitreous, and optic nerve.
Immunohistochemical experiments revealed that opticin is specifically localized
in human cornea, iris, ciliary body, vitreous, choroid and retina. Due to
opticin's protein profile in the eye, we have also screened OPTC for mutations in
individuals with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) or AMD. We identified four sequence variations, all of which were observed 
in normal controls except for the Arg229Cys change. Three amino acid
substitutions (Ile182Thr, Arg229Cys and Arg325Trp) were in residues conserved in 
dog, mouse, pig and human. The Arg229Cys alteration was present in a homozygous
state in one individual with neovascular AMD. Examination of the other AMD
afflicted family members showed that the OPTC Arg229Cys variant did not segregate
with the disorder within the family. The protein localization pattern of opticin 
and our preliminary screen of AMD patients suggest that a larger AMD patient
screen may be warranted.


PMID: 12019215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1262. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2002 Apr;219(4):284-8.

Effect of palmitoleic acid on bradykinin-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation
in isolated pig ciliary artery.

Morf T(1), Bény JL, Flammer J, Haefliger IO.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Ocular Pharmacology and Physiology, University Eye Clinic Basel,
Basel.

BACKGROUND: Endothelial-dependent relaxation has been reported to be impaired in 
some normal tension glaucoma patients. The present study investigates whether the
gap junction uncoupling agent palmitoleic acid (PA) affects bradykinin-induced
endothelium-dependent relaxation in isolated pig ciliary artery.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In a myograph system (isometric force measurement), vessels
precontracted with the thromboxane A2 agonist U 46619 ( approximately 0.1
micrometer) were relaxed by increasing concentrations (cumulative) of bradykinin 
(0.003 - 3 micrometer). Experiments were repeated in the presence of 100
micrometer L-NAME (inhibitor of nitric oxide formation) and/or 100 micrometer PA.
Some experiments were conducted in vessels with a non-functional endothelium
(intentionally and mechanically damaged). All experiments were conducted in the
presence of 10 microM indomethacin (cyclooxygenase inhibitor).
RESULTS: In a concentration-dependent manner, bradykinin evoked a relaxation (101
+/- 2 %) that was abolished in vessels with a non-functional endothelium (maximal
relaxation: 7 +/- 1 %, p < 0.001). In the presence of L-NAME, relaxations induced
by bradykinin were almost completely inhibited (maximal relaxation: 25 +/- 5 %, p
< 0.001). Relaxations evoked by bradykinin were not significantly affected by PA 
(either in the presence or in the absence of L-NAME).
CONCLUSIONS: The bradykinin-induced relaxation, known to be associated in porcine
ciliary arteries with an electrical coupling between endothelial and smooth
muscle cells, appears to be unaffected by the gap junction uncoupling agent
palmitoleic acid. Further investigations are needed to understand the physiology 
of the endothelium-dependent ocular blood flow modulation that is considered to
be dysregulated in some glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-30674 
PMID: 12022019  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1263. Ophthalmology. 2002 May;109(5):1009-17.

Short wavelength automated perimetry, frequency doubling technology perimetry,
and pattern electroretinography for prediction of progressive glaucomatous
standard visual field defects.

Bayer AU(1), Erb C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eberhard-Karls-University, Tuebingen, Germany.
andreasubayer@yahoo.de

PURPOSE: To evaluate the clinical use of a test battery of short wavelength
automated perimetry (SWAP), frequency doubling technology perimetry (FDT), and
pattern electroretinography (PERG) in predicting progressive glaucomatous visual 
field defects on standard automated perimetry (SAP).
STUDY DESIGN: A prospective, longitudinal, observational case series.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred and fifty-two patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG) with bilateral glaucomatous visual field defects on SAP were followed at
6-month intervals over a period of 30 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Short wavelength automated perimetry, FDT, and PERG
results were compared between POAG eyes with and without progressive field loss
on SAP. These two groups were used to evaluate whether PERG, SWAP, and/or FDT is 
predictive of future progression of field loss on SAP.
RESULTS: Using the criteria of progressive field loss on SAP defined by the
Collaborative Normal Tension Glaucoma Study, 54 eyes (study group) of 54 POAG
patients showed progressive defects, whereas 84 eyes (control group) of 84 POAG
patients showed no progression. Only 11.1% (6 of 54) of the eyes with a
progression of field loss on SAP showed no increase of deficits on the three
functional tests before progression. Short wavelength automated perimetry
detected early progressive defects on SAP in 43 of the 54 eyes (79.6%). Of these 
54 POAG eyes, FDT showed progressive deficits in 40 eyes (74.1%), whereas PERG
amplitude P1N2 showed progressive deficits in 35 eyes (64.8%) before progression 
of field loss on SAP. A test battery consisting of SWAP and PERG P1N2-amplitude
was able to detect 88.9% of eyes before a prediction of field loss on SAP. When
comparing the results of the two functional tests, SWAP and FDT in the 84 eyes
without progression of field loss on SAP between baseline and at 30 months, SWAP 
and FDT showed progressive deficits in 34.5% and 35.7%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: All three tests (SWAP, FDT, and PERG) have been successful in
detecting glaucoma eyes with a future progression of standard visual field
defects. A test battery of SWAP and PERG P1N2-amplitude improved the power to
predict these progressive defects on SAP. It remains to be seen whether the
long-term follow-up in POAG eyes will improve the false-positive rate of SWAP and
FDT.


PMID: 11986111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1264. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2002 Apr;106(4):201-7.

[Two families with primary open-angle glaucoma associated with myocilin gene
mutations].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi H(1), Ohtake Y, Kubota R, Kimura I, Miyata H, Miyata K, Tanino T,
Mashima Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Myocilin is a gene that causes primary open-angle glaucoma(POAG). We 
found a family with normal tension glaucoma(NTG) whose members had an Asp 208 Glu
mutation, and a family with POAG whose members had an Ile 360 Asn mutation in
myocilin.
CASE: In the family with the Asp 208 Glu mutation, the proband, a 31-year-old
male, was diagnosed as having NTG. His mother had the same mutation and was also 
diagnosed as having NTG, but a sister with the same mutation showed no
glaucomatous changes. We also found this mutation in normal controls. In the
family with the Ile 360 Asn mutation, the proband, a 67-year-old female, was
diagnosed as having POAG. Four members of this family showed different phenotypes
including POAG, ocular hypertension, and normal. We found no cases with the same 
mutation in the controls.
CONCLUSION: Since the Asp 208 Glu mutation was found in NTG, the pathogenesis of 
glaucoma with myocilin mutation might be more complex and it may be related to
weakness of the optic nerve head. On the other hand, the mutation may be a
polymorphism. The Ile 360 Asn mutation was considered to be disease-causing.
However, both late-onset glaucoma cases and non-glaucomatous cases were observed 
in this family. The implications of the mutation and other risk factors remain to
be discussed.


PMID: 11979979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1265. Nurs Stand. 2000 Oct 11-17;15(4):35-8.

Spirometry for patients prescribed topical beta-blockers.

Snape JP(1), Waldock A.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Outpatients Department, Torbay Hospital, Andrew Waldock, MD, USA.

AIM: To evaluate the effects of four glaucoma medications on the
cardio-respiratory system.
METHOD: All newly diagnosed glaucoma (primary open-angle glaucoma--POAG--or
normal tension glaucoma) patients were recruited into a 12-month prospective
audit.
RESULTS: The study has resulted in glaucoma patients having a spirometry lung
function test before being prescribed beta-blocker eye drops. The results of this
study demonstrate a high level of both systemic and ocular side-effects caused by
these topical glaucoma medications.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms the findings of previous studies, which have
shown topical beta-blockers to be harmful to older people with glaucoma and
'hidden' reversible airways disease. It also shows the consequences of using
topical beta-blockers on patients who have previously undiagnosed respiratory and
cardiac disease.

DOI: 10.7748/ns2000.10.15.4.35.c2929 
PMID: 11971492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1266. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2002 Jan;25(1):39-41.

[Eye tension and open angle glaucoma in a Burkina Faso hospital].

[Article in French]

Daboue A(1), Meda ND, Ahnoux-Zabsonre A.

Author information: 
(1)Travail du service d'ophtalmologie du Centre Hospitalier National Sanou Souro 
de Bobo Dioulasso Burkina Faso.

PURPOSE: Studying the correlation between high intraocular pressure and glaucoma 
in black African patients.
PATIENTS: and method: This study was retrospective and was based on 235 patients,
i.e. 470 eyes examined from April 1993 to december 1998 for elevated eye
pressure, at the Sanou Souro hospital of Bobo-Dioulasso, Burkina Faso. For each
subject, we noted visual acuity, age, sex, ocular tonus, the result of optical
disc examination with the three-mirror glass, and the visual field examined with 
Goldmann perimetry. We excluded infants, young children, glaucoma with normal
pressure, and patients with incomplete files.
RESULTS: The patients were from 14 to 80 years old, with 18.3% 40 years-old or
less. Male subjects predominated with a sex ratio of 2.26. Visual acuity was lost
in 191 eyes (40.6%) and optic disk excavation was total in 214 eyes (45.5%). The 
Goldmann perimetry visual field test revealed defects in 390 eyes (83%). Ocular
tension, optic disk excavation of the glaucomatous type, and visual field defects
were associated in 70.4% of the cases.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that in 70.4% of the cases, there was a correlation 
between high intraocular pressure and glaucoma. This glaucoma is acute and
appears in young subjects. Efforts will be made to alert our population and
detect glaucoma precociously.


PMID: 11965116  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1267. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2002 Jan;240(1):2-6.

Long-term results of cataract surgery combined with trabeculotomy.

Hoffmann E(1), Schwenn O, Karallus M, Krummenauer F, Grehn F, Pfeiffer N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz, Germany. 
hoffmann@augen.klinik.uni-mainz.de

BACKGROUND: There are different surgical approaches for cataract and concomitant 
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). In a retrospective study we examined the
long-term results of cataract extraction combined with trabeculotomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1990 and 1997, 194 eyes with cataract and POAG were
operated on in a combined manner. Eighty-eight eyes received a trabeculotomy
(TT), in 82 eyes a trabeculectomy was added to the trabeculotomy (TT+TE) and in
24 eyes, in which probing of Schlemm's canal was impossible, standard
trabeculectomy (TE) was performed. Pre- and postoperative intraocular pressure
(IOP), glaucoma medication, and the intra- and postoperative complications of all
patients were analyzed.
RESULTS: Hyphema was the most common complication in the TT group (20.5%). Fibrin
reaction occurred in 27.8% of all cases. There was no statistically significant
difference in postoperative IOP between the TT group and the TT+TE group. A
statistically significant decrease in IOP compared to preoperatively lasted 60
months in the TT group. In eyes with a preoperative IOP < or = 20 mmHg, none of
the three procedures reduced IOP significantly (<20% of the preoperative IOP). In
the first 2 years after operation 50% of the patients had no need for
antiglaucomatous medication.
CONCLUSIONS: Cataract surgery combined with TT resulted in few complications. In 
low-tension glaucoma the combination with TT is not sufficient to decrease the
IOP. In patients with higher preoperative IOP, however, cataract surgery combined
with TT could be--on the basis of a postoperative observation time of 72
months--a suitable method for lowering the IOP sufficiently. Furthermore, the use
of antiglaucomatous substances was reduced by this combined procedure.


PMID: 11954776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1268. Int Ophthalmol. 2001;23(4-6):271-4.

Arterial narrowing as a predictive factor in glaucoma.

Angelica MM, Sanseau A, Argento C.

PURPOSE: To evaluate whether retinal arteriolar widths change in normal patients 
and in different glaucoma types. We measured the arteriolar width at the merge in
the optic nerve (MD), at the edge of the optic nerve (ED) and at the
peripapillary area (1 disc diameter distance) (disc distance D). HRT software
1.11, Interactive Means program was used. One hundred forty three eyes of
seventy-two patients divided in four subgroups normal, low-tension glaucoma
(LTG), primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and ocular hypertensive (OH). No
statistically significant was found in each studied group. The normal patients
showed no changes in the retinal arteriolar width compared with all the glaucoma 
groups.


PMID: 11944850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1269. Arch Ophthalmol. 2002 Apr;120(4):471-8.

Glaucoma in Zulus: a population-based cross-sectional survey in a rural district 
in South Africa.

Rotchford AP(1), Johnson GJ.

Author information: 
(1)International Centre for Eye Health, Institute of Ophthalmology, 11-43 Bath
St, London EC1V 9EL, England. rotchford@supanet.com

OBJECTIVES: To determine the prevalence and the main types of glaucoma in a
representative adult population in rural Zululand, and to describe the
distribution of glaucoma-related variables in healthy subjects and those with
glaucoma.
DESIGN: A population-based, cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Hlabisa district, Northern KwaZulu-Natal Province, South Africa.
PARTICIPANTS: Resident individuals of Zulu ethnic origin, 40 years or older.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Glaucoma was diagnosed by means of strict objective
criteria, based on binocular indirect ophthalmoscopic optic disc appearances
validated by results of disc photography and threshold visual field testing.
RESULTS: From an eligible sample of 1115 subjects, 1005 (90.1%) were examined in 
the survey. The adjusted prevalence of glaucoma of all types was 4.5%, and
primary open-angle glaucoma accounted for 2.7%. Secondary glaucoma occurred with 
an adjusted prevalence of 1.7%, of which the principal contributors were
exfoliative and aphakic glaucoma. The prevalence of primary angle-closure
glaucoma was low. Normal tension (intraocular pressure, < or =21 mm Hg) was
measured in 16 (57.1%) of 28 cases of primary open-angle glaucoma. Age- and
sex-adjusted prevalence of bilateral blindness was 3.2%, which was exclusively
due to glaucoma in 9 (22.0%) of 41 cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary and secondary glaucoma constitute a significant public
health problem in rural Zululand. The prevalence and types of glaucoma vary among
different black populations.


PMID: 11934321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1270. Ophthalmology. 2002 Apr;109(4):766-70.

Long-term follow-up of visual field progression after trabeculectomy in
progressive normal-tension glaucoma.

Shigeeda T(1), Tomidokoro A, Araie M, Koseki N, Yamamoto S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, 7-3-1
Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term effects of trabeculectomy on the progression
of visual field damage in patients with progressive normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG).
DESIGN: Retrospective, noncomparative, interventional case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-three patients with NTG who had significant progression of
visual field damage preoperatively and underwent trabeculectomy using
antimetabolites.
METHODS: Visual field testing using the Humphrey Visual Field Analyzer was
periodically performed before and for at least 5 years after surgery (mean, 6
years). The time course of the mean deviation (MD) and mean of total deviations
(TD(mean)) in four separate subfields, superior and inferior cecocentral and
superior and inferior arcuate fields, were analyzed using a linear mixed effects 
model.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intraocular pressure (IOP), preoperative and postoperative
regression coefficients of the time course of MD or TD(mean) in the four
subfields, corresponding to the rate of progression of visual field damage.
RESULTS: IOP significantly decreased from 16.2 +/- 1.8 mmHg preoperatively to
approximately 11 mmHg during the postoperative follow-up period (P < 0.001). The 
preoperative regression coefficient of MD change was significantly negative
(-1.05 [95% confidence interval, -1.28 to -0.82] dB/year, P < 0.001). After
surgery, it increased significantly to -0.44 (95% confidence interval, -0.64 to
-0.24) dB/year (P < 0.001), but the postoperative value was still significantly
negative (P < 0.001). In the superior cecocentral, superior and inferior arcuate 
fields, preoperative regression coefficients of TD(mean) change were
significantly negative (P < 0.001) and significantly increased after surgery (P <
0.01). In the inferior cecocentral field, the preoperative regression coefficient
was not significantly different from 0 (P = 0.72) and did not change
significantly after surgery (P = 0.15).
CONCLUSIONS: Trabeculectomy was statistically associated with slowing further
progression of visual field damage in patients with progressive NTG. The
progression, however, did not completely stop over the 6-year postoperative
follow-up period.


PMID: 11927438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1271. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2002 Mar;106(3):143-8.

[Effect of tonometry on a glaucoma population study].

[Article in Japanese]

Katsushima H(1), Sone A, Takeda A, Okazaki H, Adachi J, Funahashi K, Maruyama I.

Author information: 
(1)Katsushima Eye Clinic, 3-1 Odori, Nishi 14, Chuo-ku, Sapporo 060-0042, Japan.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the influence of tonometry in 
detecting the occurrence of glaucoma.
METHODS: The subjects, 845 out of 3,488 residents aged 40 years or older, were
examined according to standard protocols, including tonometry, slit lamp
examination, fundus photography, and automatic perimetry as a recall examination.
The intraocular pressure in each subject was measured by both Goldmann
applanation tonometer(GAT) and noncontact tonometer CT-70 (NCT).
RESULTS: The mean +/- standard deviation intraocular pressure measured by GAT was
15.52 +/- 2.57 mmHg, and 15.03 +/- 2.90 mmHg by NCT. There was a statistically
significant correlation(p < 0.0001). The difference between pairs of measurements
by GAT and NCT was 0.50 +/- 1.93 mmHg. There was no influence of tonometry in
detecting the incidence of glaucoma, which was 4.14%; primary open-angle glaucoma
0.59%, normal tension glaucoma 2.6%, primary angle-closure glaucoma 0.47%, and
other types of glaucoma 0.48%. The detection of ocular hypertension was
different, and was 2.13% with GAT and 2.72% with NCT.
CONCLUSION: In our study, the influence of tonometry in detecting the incidence
of glaucoma was very small. A noncontact tonometer is considered to be useful for
glaucoma population study.


PMID: 11925950  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1272. Arch Ophthalmol. 2002 Mar;120(3):348-52.

Partial antagonism of endothelin 1-induced vasoconstriction in the human choroid 
by topical unoprostone isopropyl.

Polska E(1), Doelemeyer A, Luksch A, Ehrlich P, Kaehler N, Percicot CL, Lambrou
GN, Schmetterer L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Allgemeines Krankenhaus Wien, Waehringer 
Guertel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: There is increasing evidence that reduced ocular blood flow plays a
role in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. In patients with normal-tension glaucoma,
ocular blood flow abnormalities may be associated with dysfunction of the
endothelin 1 (ET-1) regulation system.
OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that unoprostone, a topical docosanoid, may
affect ET-1--induced vasoconstriction in the human choroid.
METHODS: In a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-masked, 2-way crossover
design, ET-1 (2.5 ng/kg per minute for 150 minutes) was administered
intravenously to 24 healthy individuals. Thirty minutes after the start of ET-1
infusion, 1 drop of unoprostone or placebo was instilled into the right eye.
After another 30 minutes, 2 drops of unoprostone or placebo was topically
administered. This procedure was continued and the dose was increased further
until 4 drops of unoprostone or placebo was reached. Subfoveal and pulsatile
choroidal blood flow were assessed using laser Doppler flowmetry and laser
interferometric measurement of fundus pulsation amplitude, respectively.
RESULTS: Administration of exogenous ET-1 decreased choroidal blood flow (mean
+/- SEM, 17% +/- 2%; P<.001) and fundus pulsation amplitude (mean +/- SEM, 19%
+/- 2%; P<.001). This effect was significantly blunted when topical unoprostone
was coadministered (mean +/- SEM decrease in choroidal blood flow, 7% +/- 2%; P
=.04 vs. placebo; mean +/- SEM decrease in fundus pulsation amplitude, 12% +/-
2%; P<.001 vs. placebo).
CONCLUSION: There is a functional antagonism between ET-1 and topical unoprostone
in the choroidal vasculature.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Our findings of a functional antagonism between ET-1 and
topical unoprostone in the choroidal vasculature may be important in vascular eye
diseases associated with increased ET-1.


PMID: 11879139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1273. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1998 Jan;34(1):39-41.

[A study of motion perception in primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang J(1), Wu D, Fitzke FW.

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Sciences,
Guangzhou 510060.

OBJECTIVE: To study the characteristics of the motion perception (MP) in primary 
open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHOD: Forty-one patients with POAG (67 eyes) and 56 (112 eyes) normal subjects 
were examined by the motion perception (MP) software in PC compatible computer.
RESULTS: The total abnormal rate of MP was 89.5% in POAG, and 81.6% in the early 
stage of POAG. By using the grade correlation analysis, there is positive
correlation of the abnormal degree of MP with C/D, ocular tension, and corrected 
loss variance (CLV) of visualfield, negative correlation of the abnormal degree
of MP with visual acuity and visualfield mean sensitivity (MS), and no
correlation of the abnormal degree of MP with age and short-term fluctuation (SF)
of visualfield in the POAG patients.
CONCLUSION: The examination of MP is a newly reliable and simple test for the
diagnosis of the early POAG.


PMID: 11877150  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1274. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2001 May;37(3):193-6.

[The retinal nerve fiber layer defect and its related clinical features in early 
primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Li M(1), Li M, Fu P, Liu L, Wang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, First Hospital of Peking University, Beijing
100034, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the distribution of diffuse and local
retinal-nerve-fiber-layer defects (RNFLD) and their clinical features in early
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHOD: The types of RNFLD in 81 cases with POAG and 70 cases with NTG were
observed, the distribution of diffuse and local RNFLD were analyzed, and the
maximum untreated intraocular pressure (IOP) and the history of optic disc
hemorrhage between the two types of RNFLD in the two glaucomatous groups were
compared.
RESULTS: RNFLD appeared in 78 of 81 cases with POAG, 50 of them were diffuse and 
28 were local; 27 of diffuse and 43 of local RNFLD were found in 70 cases with
NTG. The IOP was (28.78 +/- 5.41) mm Hg in the diffuse and (26.2 +/- 5.2) mm Hg
in the local type in POAG (t = 2.04, P < 0.05), and (19.2 +/- 1.9) mm Hg and
(17.8 +/- 2.0) mm Hg, respectively in NTG (t = 2.94, P < 0.05). The incidence of 
disc hemorrhage was 10/78 and 18/70 in POAG and NTG, respectively (chi(2) = 4, P 
< 0.05). That was 3/50 in the diffuse and 7/28 in the local type in POAG (chi(2) 
= 4.22, P < 0.05), and 3/27 and 15/43, in NTG respectively (chi(2) = 4.91, P <
0.05). There were no statistic differences in the diffuse type between the POAG
and NTG groups (chi(2) = 0.15, P > 0.05), and neither were in the local type
(chi(2) = 1.31, P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The diffuse RNFLD tends to be distributed in POAG, while the local
RNFLD tends to be distributed in NTG. The maximum IOP in the eye with diffuse
RNFTD is higher than that in the eye with local RNFLD, either in POAG or NTG
group. The occurrence of disc hemorrhage is higher in the eye with local RNFLD
than that in the eye with diffuse RNFLD in the two groups respectively. There are
differences in clinical features between the two types of RNFLD in early POAG and
NTG.


PMID: 11864420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1275. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2002 Jan-Feb;46(1):13-7.

Clinical significance of serum antibody against neuron-specific enolase in
glaucoma patients.

Ikeda Y(1), Maruyama I, Nakazawa M, Ohguro H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kyoto Prefectural University School of Medicine, 
Kyoto, Japan.

PURPOSE: In a recent study, we found the presence of serum autoantibody against
neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in glaucoma patients. The purpose of the present
paper is to investigate further the clinical significance of the presence of the 
serum antibody against NSE in glaucoma patients.
METHODS: Serum autoantibody against NSE was examined by Western blot analysis in 
143 patients with glaucoma (normal tension glaucoma [NTG], 45 cases; primary open
angle glaucoma [POAG] 98 cases). Clinical characteristics including visual
acuity, visual field, intraocular pressure (IOP), and optic disc features were
compared between the serum autoantibody-positive and the serum
autoantibody-negative patients.
RESULTS: Maximum IOP in the serum anti-NSE antibody-positive patients was
significantly lower than that in the negative patients (P <.05). However, no
statistical differences were observed in visual field loss, disc cupping, or
other clinical factors. During the clinical course, rates of the presence of
anti-NSE antibody were significantly higher in the early stages of POAG (P
<.0001) with visual field deterioration than without it. Although it was not
statistically significant, the positive rates of serum anti-NSE antibody were
relatively higher in the later stages of POAG and NTG with visual field
deterioration than without it.
CONCLUSION: The present observations suggest that the presence of serum
autoantibody against NSE may be clinically useful for predicting the progression 
of visual field loss in POAG patients.


PMID: 11853708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1276. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2000 Nov;36(6):438-41.

[Corneal thickness and intraocular pressure in cases with ocular hypertension and
glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu L(1), Suzuki Y, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Center of the Second Affiliated Hospital, the University of Zhejiang,
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relationship between central corneal thickness
(CCT) and intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with ocular hypertension (OH),
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal
subjects and the importance of CCT in the diagnosis of glaucoma.
METHODS: The CCT was measured in 79 cases with NTG, 61 POAG, 73 OH and 50 normal 
subjects with an ultrasonic pachymeter. One eye in one subject randomly selected 
was used for inter-group comparison. The maximum IOP measured by Goldmann
applanation tonometer without ocular hypotensive therapy during the follow-up was
corrected with CCT by using Ehlers' method.
RESULTS: The CCT of OH subjects (582 +/- 32) microm was significantly thicker
than that of other groups (P < 0.001), while no differences were seen in CCT
among normal, NTG and POAG groups, the thickness being (552 +/- 36) microm, (548 
+/- 33) microm and (550 +/- 33) microm respectively. The corrected maximum
pressure was significantly lower than that in the untreated ones in all the
groups, and <or= 21 mm Hg in 100%, 97%, 55% and 50% of the eyes in the normal,
NTG, OH and POAG subjects, respectively. In the normal subjects, the CCT was
positively correlated with the IOP (r = 0.423, P = 0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: There is a large variation in CCT of normal subjects, which is
significantly positively correlated with IOP. The CCT is significantly thicker in
OH subjects, which should be considered as an important variable in follow-up. No
significant differences in CCT are shown among NTG, POAG and normal groups. It is
suggested that CCT has little influence on the diagnosis of NTG and POAG.


PMID: 11853644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1277. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2001 Nov;37(6):414-7.

[Evaluation of optic disc in open-angle glaucoma with hemifield defect by
Heidelberg retinal tomography].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu L(1), Kunimatsu S, Suzuki Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Second Affiliated Hospital, Medical College of
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310009, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether the glaucomatous optic disc change demonstrated
by Heidelberg retinal tomography (HRT) is consistent to the distribution of the
visual field defects and whether Heidelberg retinal tomography, (HRT) parameters 
in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG) are
different.
METHOD: Sixty-four eyes of 64 patients with open angle glaucoma (27 of POAG, 37
of NTG) and hemifield abnormality detected by Humphery Field Analyzer (HFA) were 
tested by HRT. The HRT parameters and the visual field results were divided into 
two parts (0 degree-180 degrees and 180 degrees-360 degrees) for the
corresponding analysis.
RESULTS: Comparing with the half disc corresponding to the intact hemifield, the 
half disc corresponding to the defective hemifield has significantly higher
values of cup/disc area ratio and cup shape measure, but has significantly lower 
values of rim area, the thickness and cross-section area of the retinal nerve
fiber layer. No significant differences were found between NTG and POAG eyes in
the HRT parameters of the half disc corresponding to the defective hemifield.
CONCLUSIONS: The optic disc changes detected by HRT are consistent to the
distribution of the visual field defects, cup/disc area ratio, cup shape measure,
rim area, mean thickness and cross-section area of the retinal nerve fiber layer,
and they are the relatively sensitive parameters. That the HRT parameters of NTG 
and POAG are similar suggests they possibly have certain similar mechanisms in
the development of glaucomatous neuropathy.


PMID: 11840745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1278. Br J Ophthalmol. 2002 Feb;86(2):196-202.

Agreement in assessing optic discs with a digital stereoscopic optic disc camera 
(Discam) and Heidelberg retina tomograph.

Sung VC(1), Bhan A, Vernon SA.

Author information: 
(1)Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat Centre, Queen's Medical Centre, University Hospital,
Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK.

AIMS: To assess the intraobserver agreement, interobserver agreement, and the
agreement between a digital stereo optic disc camera (Discam) and Heidelberg
retina tomograph (HRT) in measuring area cup-disc ratio (ACDR) and radial
cup-disc ratio (RCDR) by two observers.
METHODS: The optic discs of 78 eyes of 39 people (17 cases of primary open angle 
glaucoma, eight normal tension glaucoma, two ocular hypertension, and 12 normal
subjects) were imaged with Discam and HRT. Two observers independently drew the
disc margins on the HRT mean topography images and the disc and cup margins on
the Discam images. ACDR and the RCDR at various angles were measured with the two
systems. Intraobserver agreement, interobserver agreement, and the agreement
between the two systems were assessed by 95% tolerance limit of changes (TC) and 
intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC).
RESULTS: Eight eyes were excluded due to poor image quality (six Discam and two
HRT). 70 eyes were analysed. The intraobserver ACDR agreement was almost perfect 
in both systems (ICCs = 0.97 and 0.92, and TCs = 11.0% and 15.1% in HRT and
Discam respectively). The interobserver ACDR agreement was almost perfect in HRT 
(ICC = 0.97) and substantial in Discam (ICC = 0.79), (TCs = 10.5% and 24.5%
respectively). The ACDR agreement between the two systems was substantial in
observer A (ICC = 0.67) and moderate in observer B (ICC = 0.53), (TCs = 24.8% and
46.7% respectively). The HRT measured the ACDR significantly larger than the
Discam (p <0.001), and the differences were significantly larger in the
glaucomatous group (p <0.001). RCDR agreement between the two systems was fair to
substantial in observer A (ICC = 0.36 to 0.74) and slight to moderate in observer
B (ICC = 0.12 to 0.45). Both observers achieved the best RCDR agreement between
the two systems at the inferior optic disc position.
CONCLUSION: There is almost perfect intraobserver agreement in each system. The
interobserver agreement was better with the HRT than the Discam. There was
substantial variation in ACDR and RCDR agreement between the two systems measured
by the two observers. The variation in ACDR and RCDR measurements between the two
systems may be too large for interchangeable use in a clinical setting.


PMCID: PMC1771020
PMID: 11815347  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1279. Hum Genet. 2002 Jan;110(1):52-6. Epub 2001 Nov 23.

A major marker for normal tension glaucoma: association with polymorphisms in the
OPA1 gene.

Aung T(1), Ocaka L, Ebenezer ND, Morris AG, Krawczak M, Thiselton DL, Alexander
C, Votruba M, Brice G, Child AH, Francis PJ, Hitchings RA, Lehmann OJ,
Bhattacharya SS.

Author information: 
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore. tin11@pacific.net.sg

Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is a major form of glaucoma, associated with
intraocular pressures that are within the statistically normal range of the
population. OPA1, the gene responsible for autosomal dominant optic atrophy
represents an excellent candidate gene for NTG, as the clinical phenotypes are
similar and OPA1 is expressed in the retina and optic nerve. Eighty-three
well-characterized NTG patients were screened for mutations in OPA1 by
heteroduplex analysis and bi-directional sequencing. Sequences found to be
altered in NTG subjects were examined for variations in 100 population controls. 
A second cohort of 80 NTG patients and 86 population controls was subsequently
screened to determine whether the initial findings could be replicated. A single 
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) on intervening sequence (IVS) 8 (IVS8 + 4 C/T) was 
found to be strongly associated with the occurrence of NTG in both cohorts
(chi(2)=7.97, P=0.005 in the first cohort, chi(2)=9.93, P=0.002 in the second
cohort; odds ratio 3.1 (95% CI: 1.8-5.6). A second SNP (IVS8 + 32 T/C) appeared
to be associated with disease in the first cohort (chi(2)=4.71, P=0.030), but
this finding could not be replicated in the second cohort. In the combined
cohort, the compound at-risk genotype IVS8 + 4 C/T, + 32 T/C was strongly
associated with the occurrence of NTG (chi(2)=22.04, P=0.00001 after correcting
for testing four genotypes). These results indicate that polymorphisms in the
OPA1 gene are associated with NTG and may be a marker for the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00439-001-0645-7 
PMID: 11810296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1280. J Med Assoc Thai. 2001 Oct;84(10):1383-8.

Ocular diseases and blindness in elderly Thais.

Singalavanija A(1), Metheetrairut A, Ruangvaravate N, Tuchinda R, Wanumkarng N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol
University, Bangkok, Thailand.

The prevalence of ocular disease and blindness in 2,092 Thai subjects, aged 60
years and over, in 33 communities in the vicinity of Siriraj Hospital, Bangkok
was studied. The subjects were examined by a team which consisted of 3-4
ophthalmologists, 6 nurses and a trainee health officer. The history, visual
acuity and ocular tension were recorded. The anterior and posterior segments of
the eye were assessed by using a portable slit lamp biomicroscope, and a direct
and indirect ophthalmoscope. The examination revealed disease of the lens in 1656
cases (79.16%), cornea 852 cases (40.72%), lid 516 cases (24.67%), conjunctiva
462 cases (22.08%), retina 300 cases (14.34%), glaucoma 128 cases (6.12%) and of 
the optic nerve in 39 cases (1.86%) respectively. There were 66 cases of
blindness (3.15%) and 743 cases of low vision (35.5%). The causes of blindness
were cataract, glaucoma, late age-related maculopathy, optic atrophy and corneal 
opacity.


PMID: 11804245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1281. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2001 Dec;105(12):866-83.

[The dawn of neuroprotective therapy for glaucomatous optic neuropathy].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, 40
Tsukasa-machi, Gifu 500-8705, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Neuroprotective therapy for glaucoma can be defined as treatment of
the recalcitrant disease via direct modification of the molecular mechanism
involving retinal ganglion cell death. I and my collaborators, at the dawn of the
neuroprotective era, elaborated and conducted the following investigations in
order to pursue our final goal, i.e., substantial improvement of the quality of
life of glaucoma patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: 1. Investigation of in traocular pressure (IOP) independent 
prognostic factors in glaucomatous optic neuropathy. Clinical investigation along
with multivariate analyses revealed that some IOP-independent factors including
optic disc hemorrhage and compromised retrobulbar hemodynamics are associated
with the development and progression of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. 2.
Glaucoma therapy other than ocular hypotensive therapy. A long-term follow-up
study demonstrated that calcium-channel blockers are efficacious in stabilizing
the visual field in normal-tension glaucoma. 3. Establishment of animal models
for glaucomatous optic neuropathy. Experimental animal models were created to
conduct neuroprotective research for glaucomatous optic neuropathy: an IOP
elevation model and an optic nerve crush model in the rat. In addition, a system 
was constructed for electrophysiological study in the rat to quantitatively
investigate neuroprotective effect on the retina and the optic nerve. 4.
Neuroprotective effects of several agents on experimental optic neuropathies.
Several agents were studied for their neuroprotective effects on optic
neuropathies induced in the rat. Some apoptosis-modifying agents were found to
possess neuroprotective effects against optic neuropathy.
CONCLUSIONS: IOP-independent prognostic factors exist in glaucomatous optic
neuropathy. Glaucomatous optic neuropathy can be stabilized by IOP-unrelated
therapy like calcium-channel blockers, at least in a subset of the disease.
Modification of the apoptosis mechanism can protect retinal ganglion cells from
damage caused by optic neuropathy in the rat models. All of the present studies
suggest that neuroprotective therapy will probably become the treatment of choice
in the near future for glaucomatous optic neuropathy.


PMID: 11802458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1282. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2001 Dec;105(12):828-42.

[Open-angle glaucoma clinical presentation and management].

[Article in Japanese]

Kitazawa Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine.

Both primary open-angle and normal-tension glaucoma belong to an identical
spectrum of diseases. Clinical presentations of primary open-angle or
high-tension glaucoma (POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) were studied in an
attempt to determine prognostic, clinical factors and define the appropriate
management. Clinical data obtained from 826 primary open-angle and normal-tension
glaucoma patients were analyzed. In addition, the results of laboratory studies, 
including the immunological assay of heat shock protein (hsp) and gene analyses
which were undertaken to identify risk factors at the molecular level, are
discussed. 1. The identified prognostic factors were disk hemorrhage,
peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy (PPA), maximum intraocular pressure (IOP),
the recovery rate of skin temperature after exposure to cold, family history of
glaucoma, systemic systolic channel blood pressure, and oral administration of
Ca(2+)-channel antagonists. 2. Disk hemorrhage was observed in 30.5% of NTG
patients and 15.4% of POAG patients. Cumulative probability of hemorrhagic events
was 16.9% in POAG and 38.4% in NTG patients at the end of a 14.8-year follow-up. 
3. The hazard ratio of disk hemorrhage decreased with the increase of IOP(26%/5
mmHg) and was 1.46 times higher in females than in males. Disk hemorrhage was
closely associated with PPA: PPA becomes greater in association with the
progression of glaucomatous optic neuropathy in both POAG and NTG. No such
correlation was noted in primary angle-closure glaucoma. 4. Color Doppler imaging
analyses and the hourly determination of ocular perfusion pressure (OPP)
indicated a difference in retrobulbar hemodynamics between OPP-mean deviation
concordant and OPP-mean deviation discordant patients: a circulatory disturbance 
causally unrelated to OPP seems to be involved in the OPP-mean deviation
discordant patients. 5. The oral administration of Ca(2+)-channel antagonists was
shown to favorably influence retrobulbar hemodynamics in NTG patients. 6. Serum
antigen titer to hsps(hsp 27, alpha B crystallin, human & bacterial hsp 60) was
higher in both POAG and NTG patients than in normal subjects. None of the
hsp-antigens was correlated to any morphometric parameters of the optic disk or
any global indices of the visual field. 7. Myocilin mutation was noted in only
0.5% of POAG patients and 2.37% of NTG patients. The very low rate of occurrence 
precludes the value of mutation of the gene as a prognostic factor in open-angle 
glaucoma(OAG). 8. IOP reduction achieved by mitomycin-C trabeculectomy is
effective in maintaining visual function in OAG eyes. 9. Brovincamine fumarate is
effective in inhibiting the progression of glaucomatous field loss in NTG.


PMID: 11802456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1283. Br J Ophthalmol. 2002 Jan;86(1):70-4.

Specificity and sensitivity of glaucoma detection in the Japanese population
using scanning laser polarimetry.

Funaki S(1), Shirakashi M, Yaoeda K, Abe H, Kunimatsu S, Suzuki Y, Tomita G,
Araie M, Yamada N, Uchida H, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Niigata,
Japan. shigeo@muse.ocn.ne.jp

AIMS: To investigate the usefulness of the scanning laser polarimeter (GDx; GDx
Nerve Fiber Analyzer) for glaucoma detection in the Japanese population, and to
investigate the difference in the thickness of retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL)
between normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: 69 eyes of 69 normal subjects and 115 eyes of 115 chronic open angle
glaucoma patients (60 NTG and 55 POAG patients) were studied. The thickness of
RNFL was measured with GDx. An eye was diagnosed as glaucomatous, if at least one
original GDx variable showed p <5%. The difference in thickness of RNFL between
the NTG and POAG groups was then investigated.
RESULTS: 46 normal eyes (66.7%) were diagnosed as not glaucomatous (no variables 
showing p <5%), and 93 glaucomatous eyes (46 NTG and 47 POAG eyes) (80.9%) were
diagnosed as glaucomatous. Actual values of average thickness, ellipse average,
superior average, and superior integral were significantly lower in the POAG
group than those in the NTG group.
CONCLUSIONS: New variables which elucidate focal RNFL defects or early changes
are needed to improve the moderate detection ability found in this present study.
The pattern of the change in RNFL may differ in NTG and POAG groups.


PMCID: PMC1770972
PMID: 11801507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1284. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi (Taipei). 2001 Oct;64(10):575-80.

Color Doppler imaging of retrobulbar hemodynamics after topical carteolol in
normal tension glaucoma.

Chen MJ(1), Ching J, Chou K, Chiou HJ, Hsu WM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taiwan, ROC.
diany@ms18.hinet.net

BACKGROUND: Carteolol is a nonselective adrenergic blocking agent. The aim of
this study was to evaluate the effect of topical carteolol on retrobulbar
hemodynamics in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Twelve NTG patients received twelve-week topical treatment of 2%
carteolol. Color Doppler imaging (CDI) was used to evaluate the hemodynamic
effects before and after drug therapy. Measurements were obtained from the
central retinal artery (CRA), the lateral posterior ciliary artery (LPCA) and the
medial posterior ciliary artery (MPCA). From each vessel, peak systolic velocity 
(PSV), end-diastolic velocity (EDV), resistance index (RI) and Gosling's
pulsatility index (PI) were collected and analyzed.
RESULTS: After topical carteolol treatment for twelve weeks, mean resistance
index reduced significantly from 0.83 to 0.74 in the CRA (p = 0.03), from 0.74 to
0.68 in the LPCA (p = 0.09). Moreover, mean pulsatility index of the LPCA
decreased from 1.45 to 1.26 (p = 0.08).
CONCLUSIONS: Twelve weeks of 2% carteoiol treatment may decrease the vascular
resistance in NTG patients possibly due to the intrinsic sympathomimetic activity
(ISA) of carteolol.


PMID: 11791944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1285. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2001 Dec;79(6):560-6.

Refractive error and glaucoma.

Grødum K(1), Heijl A, Bengtsson B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Malmö University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.

Comment in
    Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2002 Apr;80(2):230-1.

PURPOSE: To study the association between refractive error, glaucoma damage and
IOP in a large population.
METHODS: We examined 32,918 citizens of the city of Malmö, Sweden, 57-79 years of
age, searching for individuals with undetected glaucoma. Refraction was measured 
with autorefractors. Glaucoma damage was defined as reproducible visual field
defects with the Humphrey Full Threshold 24-2 program.
RESULTS: Glaucoma prevalence was clearly associated with refractive state,
increasing gradually with increasing myopia. This was seen both in males and
females and persisted over the full age range. Glaucoma was significantly more
common in myopic than in hyperopic eyes with low IOP readings (p=0.024). The
overrepresentation of glaucoma in myopic eyes declined with increasing IOP and no
relationship was observed in eyes with IOP > or =31 mmHg.
CONCLUSION: In this large population, the prevalence of glaucoma increased with
increasing myopia. The association between myopia and glaucoma was strong at
lower IOP levels, and weakened gradually with increasing IOP. Our findings
indicate that myopia is an important risk factor for glaucoma and particularly
for normal tension glaucoma.


PMID: 11782219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1286. Ophthalmology. 2002 Jan;109(1):3.

Normal-tension glaucoma.

Gutiérrez C, Fernández-De-Arévalo B, Villada Casaponsa JR.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2001 Feb;108(2):247-53.


PMID: 11772562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1287. Ophthalmology. 2002 Jan;109(1):2-3.

Normal-tension glaucoma history.

Lichter PR.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2003 Jan;110(1):10.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2001 Feb;108(2):247-53.


PMID: 11772560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1288. Am J Ophthalmol. 2001 Nov;132(5):618-25.

Morphometric characteristics of optic disk with disk hemorrhage in normal-tension
glaucoma.

Liou SY(1), Sugiyama K, Uchida H, Gu ZB, Yamamoto T, Tomita G, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the morphometric characteristics of the optic disk in eyes
with and without disk hemorrhage in normal-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: This was a prospective study conducted at Gifu University Hospital of 50
eyes of 50 patients with normal-tension glaucoma (12 men, 38 women; age, 56.5 +/-
14.1 years) who had developed new disk hemorrhage at the time of enrollment and
58 eyes of 58 patients with normal-tension glaucoma (20 men, 38 women; age, 56.7 
+/- 12.4 years) with no history of disk hemorrhage during the follow-up period of
more than 2 years. Age and global indexes of the visual field were matched. We
morphometrically compared the optic disk with and without hemorrhage using a
scanning laser tomograph. Global and sector analyses were made of the optic disk 
structural parameters.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the global values of the disk
parameters between the disk hemorrhage and the nonhemorrhage groups. However, the
inferotemporal values for the rim area, rim volume, mean retinal nerve fiber
layer thickness, and retinal nerve fiber layer cross-section area in the disk
hemorrhage group were significantly smaller than those in the nonhemorrhage group
(P <.05). In the disk hemorrhage group, moreover, the values for the rim area,
rim volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer cross-section area in the
inferotemporal sector with hemorrhage were significantly smaller than those in
the same sector without hemorrhage (P <.05).
CONCLUSION: Localized damage of the disk rim and retinal nerve fiber layer at the
inferotemporal sector was prominent in eyes with disk hemorrhage.


PMID: 11704022  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1289. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2001 Nov;42(12):2843-8.

Optic cup enlargement followed by reduced optic nerve head circulation after
optic nerve stimulation.

Sugiyama T(1), Hara H, Oku H, Nakatsuji S, Okuno T, Sasaoka M, Ota T, Ikeda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, Takatsuki, Japan.
opt017@poh.osaka-med.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To investigate changes in optic nerve head (ONH) circulation, visual
evoked potentials (VEPs), and ONH cupping after stimulation of the optic nerve.
METHODS: Electrodes were fixed above the optic chiasma in rabbits under general
anesthesia. Screw-type electrodes for VEP recording were fixed on the dura. ONH
circulation, intraocular pressure (IOP), and blood pressure (BP) were measured
after the passage of a current of 0.1 mA for 0.1 second (weak stimulation), 1 mA 
for 1 second (moderate), 5 mA for 10 seconds (strong), or 25 mA for 10 seconds
(severe). Normalized blur (NB), indicative of tissue blood flow and velocity, was
measured in the ONH after each stimulation, by using a laser speckle circulation 
analyzer. Changes in VEP and ocular fundus were also recorded. The ratio of cup
area (CA) to disc area (DA) was measured before and 4 weeks after stimulation.
After all experiments, the ONH was histologically examined.
RESULTS: Weak stimulation increased NB in ONH for 10 minutes, whereas strong or
severe stimulation significantly decreased NB for a longer time, in a
dose-dependent manner. BP showed no significant change, except with severe
stimulation. IOP was not significantly changed. VEP amplitude was reduced 30
minutes after strong stimulation. The CA-to-DA ratio was significantly increased 
4 weeks after strong stimulation. In some rabbits, disc hemorrhage occurred,
followed by enlargement of disc cupping, with slight gliosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Electrical stimulation of the optic nerve changed ONH circulation
and VEPs and increased disc cupping. This technique warrants further
investigation as an experimental model for normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 11687527  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1290. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1999 Apr;79(4):260-3.

[The relationship between ophthalmic nerve lesion in glaucoma and ocular and
systemic haemodynamic disturbance].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu L(1), Yuan S, Yang W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tong Ren Hospital, 100730.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the relationship between the optic nerve lesion in glaucoma
and ocular and systemic haemodynamic disturbance.
METHODS: The color Doppler imaging was used to study blood velocity in the
ophthalmic, the central retinal and the short posterior ciliary arteries in 34
patients with primary open angle glaucoma, 31 patients with low tension glaucoma 
and 90 healthy controls. The peak systolic velocity(PSV), the end diastolic
velocity (EDV) and resistive index (RI) in each artery were measured, moreover
the nailfold microcirculation and blood viscosity in each patient were examined.
RESULTS: Compared with the control group, the PSV and EDV of the central retinal 
arteries were significantly lower while the RI of the central retinal arteries
was significantly higher in both POAG and LTG patients. The RI of the short
posterior ciliary arteries however was significantly higher in POAG. Nailfold
microcirculation shows that some important parameters, including flow pattern,
loop surrounding, morphological weighted value, total weighted value and
capillary deformity rate in the two glaucoma groups were higher, whereas the flow
velocity was lower than in the control group. The plasm viscosity and the whole
blood viscosity (low spear) were higher than normal. According to our
measurements, the nailfold microcirculation and blood viscosity was worse at the 
end stage of glaucoma than at early stage. The correlative analysis between
measurement results of color doppler imaging and microcirculation and
heamorrheology showed that nailfold microcirculation morphological weighted value
was negatively correlated with the EDV of the central retinal artery and
positively correlated with the RI of the central retinal artery in LTG patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The abnormity of ocular haemodynamics and systemic microcirculation 
and blood viscosity is one important factor of optic nerve damage in glaucoma.


PMID: 11601052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1291. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2001 Sep;218(9):621-5.

[Primary open angle glaucoma in cornea plana masked by false normal applanation
tonometry (Goldman) - a case report].

[Article in German]

Hafner A(1), Seitz B.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik der Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Schwabachanlage 
6, 91054 Erlangen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Cornea plana is a rare syndrome, which leads to a flat corneal
curvature due to a reduced sclero-corneal angle. Depending on the regularity of
the corneal astigmatism the frequently resulting hyperopia may be difficult to
compensate for. Because of the flatness of the cornea the anterior chamber is
also flat, the anterior chamber angle can be restricted, and the applanatory
intraocular pressures (IOPs) are measured too low. A primary open angle glaucoma 
is therefore not diagnosed for a long time, until changes of the optic nerve head
occur. Patient and methods We report on a 66-year-old male with cornea plana.
Although his intraocular pressure (IOP), measured with an applanation tonometer
(Goldmann), had always been normal (< 21 mm Hg), he suffered from an increasing
glaucomatous atrophy of the optic disc. We carried out a complete
ophthalmological investigation, including keratometry and corneal topography
analysis (TMS-1, Tomey). Furthermore, visual field was determined (G1, Octopus)
and the optic nerve heads were documented and analysed by papillometry. A 48-hour
tension profile was worked out for both eyes including applanation and Schiötz
tonometry. Results The central refractive power of the cornea was 31 diopters and
the cornea seemed to be flattened on slit lamp evaluation. The glaucomatous
atrophy of the optic disc was more pronounced in the OD than in the OS
(OD=neuroretinal rim loss in the upper part, at the bottom and in the lateral
part of the optic disc, OS=laterally distinct neuroretinal rim loss). While the
anterior parts of the eye were shortened (depth of the anterior chamber was
OD/OS=1.9 mm), a macrophthalmus posterior was stated (axial length OD=25.78 mm,
OS=25.72 mm). However, the IOPs were measured below 21 mm Hg by applanation
during the entire tension analysis, comparable values measured with the Schiötz
tonometer showed values above 21 mm Hg. We converted the applanatory IOP values
according to the flat corneal power, as described in literature (addition of 1 mm
Hg to the applanatory values per 3 diopters decreased corneal power). The tension
analysis now showed increased values, as expected after observation of the
glaucomatous excavated optic nerve head. Conclusion In patients with cornea plana
applanatory IOPs are measured too low. Therefore in case of very flat corneas a
mathematical correction of the applanatory IOP should be carried out, in order to
diagnose a primary open angle glaucoma early enough.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-17641 
PMID: 11590471  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1292. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2001 Sep-Oct;45(5):503-9.

Comparison of detectability of visual field abnormality by frequency doubling
technology in primary open-angle glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma.

Horikoshi N(1), Osako M, Tamura Y, Okano T, Usui M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kasumigaura Hospital, Tokyo Medical University,
Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare the effectiveness of frequency doubling technology (FDT) in
detecting abnormalities in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Twenty-nine POAG patients (29 eyes) and 27 NTG patients (27 eyes) were
studied. All subjects underwent testing with program C-20 of FDT with appropriate
corrective lenses.
RESULTS: No significant differences were observed between the two groups in mean 
age, mean deviation (MD), and pattern standard deviation (PSD) measured by the
Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA). The correlation between MD values determined by
HFA (x) and FDT (y) is represented by y = 0.60x - 2.7 (r = 0.78, P <.01) in the
POAG group and y = 0.59x + 0.6 (r = 0.81, P <.001) in the NTG group. Although the
average MD measured by FDT was significantly lower in the POAG group than in the 
NTG group (P <.05), no significant difference was found in average PSD between
the two groups. In early glaucoma cases (MD > or = -5 dB by HFA), a larger
proportion of cases in the POAG group than in the NTG group had lower
significance level of MD determined by FDT than by HFA (P <.02). At many test
points on the temporal periphery in the FDT, the mean sensitivity was lower in
the POAG group than in the NTG group; whereas no significant differences among
HFA test points were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Frequency doubling technology detected visual field abnormalities in
POAG cases more sensitively than in NTG cases. This finding indicates that the
pathogenesis of My-cell damage is rather different in POAG and NTG.


PMID: 11583674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1293. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Oct;85(10):1167-70.

Study of retinal nerve fibre layer thickness in eyes with high tension glaucoma
and hemifield defect.

Kook MS(1), Sung K, Kim S, Park R, Kang W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine,
Songpa-gu, Seoul, 138-736, Korea. mskook@www.amc.seoul.kr

AIM: To quantitatively evaluate retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) difference in
areas of apparently normal appearing visual field in eyes with high tension
glaucoma (HTG) and hemifield defects using scanning laser polarimetry.
METHODS: 40 eyes from 40 patients with HTG with superior or inferior hemifield
defects based on the Humphrey field analyser (HFA) underwent RNFL thickness
measurements. 20 normal eyes from 20 subjects matched in age and refractive error
were selected as a control group. The RNFL thickness was measured with a scanning
laser polarimeter. Mean RNFL thickness was evaluated in four quadrants (superior,
inferior, nasal, and temporal). A superior or inferior quadrant in the defined
ring of scanning laser polarimetry corresponds to inferior or superior hemifield 
in HFA.
RESULTS: The mean RNFL thickness in the unaffected quadrant (the quadrant
corresponding to the hemifield with apparently normal visual field based on HFA) 
of the HTG group was significantly thinner than the average RNFL thickness of the
corresponding quadrant of the control eyes. The RNFL thickness of the unaffected 
quadrant in the eyes with HTG was reduced and statistically similar to that of
the affected quadrant. Symmetry, calculated as the ratio of superior to inferior 
RNFL thickness, showed no statistical difference between the study and control
group.
CONCLUSION: Changes in RNFL are present in the apparently normal hemifield in the
eyes with HTG. The thickness of the RNFL is reduced symmetrically in both
superior and inferior quadrants based on the GDx parameters.


PMCID: PMC1723743
PMID: 11567958  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1294. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2001 Jul;239(6):437-40.

Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy mitochondrial DNA mutations in normal-tension
glaucoma.

Opial D(1), Boehnke M, Tadesse S, Lietz-Partzsch A, Flammer J, Munier F, Mermoud 
A, Hirano M, Flückiger F, Mojon DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Bern, Switzerland.
daniel.mojon@kssg.ch

BACKGROUND: in Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, increased optic nerve cupping
has been reported by several authors. Recently, a mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)
mutation at nucleotide 11778 typically associated with Leber's hereditary optic
neuropathy (LHON) was identified in a patient treated for glaucoma but lacking
typical signs of LHON. The question arises: should all normal-tension glaucoma
patients be further evaluated for LHON?
METHODS: we screened 54 unselected patients with normal-tension glaucoma (age
range 20-96 years, 16 men and 38 women) for the primary mtDNA LHON mutations at
nucleotides 3460, 11778 and 14484.
RESULTS: none of the patients harboured the mtDNA mutations at nucleotides 3460, 
11778 or 14484 (95% confidence intervals for each mutation ranged from 0% to
5.3%).
CONCLUSIONS: primary LHON mtDNA mutations are rare or absent in unselected
normal-tension glaucoma patients. Therefore, unselected normal-tension glaucoma
patients should not be screened for these mutations. It is probable that only
normal-tension glaucoma patients with atypical features (rapid progression, early
deep central scotoma, pallor of neuroretinal rim, elevated disc, peripapillary
teleangiectasia) or a positive family history of visual loss compatible with a
matrilinear transmission should be further evaluated.


PMID: 11561792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1295. Ophthalmology. 2001 Sep;108(9):1595-602.

Disc excavation in dominant optic atrophy: differentiation from normal tension
glaucoma.

Fournier AV(1), Damji KF, Epstein DL, Pollock SC.

Author information: 
(1)University of Ottawa Eye Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
afournier@cheo.on.ca

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2002 Nov;109(11):1947; author reply 1947.

OBJECTIVE: In patients with dominant optic atrophy (DOA, Kjer type), excavation
of the optic nerve develops, and these patients may be misdiagnosed as having
normal tension glaucoma (NTG). This study examined disc morphologic features in
patients with DOA and explored features that help distinguish this condition from
NTG.
DESIGN: Noncomparative, observational case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with DOA who were seen at the Duke University Eye Center
between 1987 and 1996 and who had bilateral optic nerve photographs.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of the results of visual acuity testing,
visual field testing by Goldmann perimetry, color vision testing, intraocular
pressure measurement, and observation of bilateral optic nerve photographs.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Appearance of the optic disc and peripapillary zone in
patients with DOA.
RESULTS: Nine patients were identified. The mean age at the time of evaluation
was 28 years (range, 11-62 years). Most patients had a mild to moderate reduction
in visual acuity. Color vision as tested with Hardy-Rand-Rittler plates was
reduced (4.0/10 +/- 4.2/10). A cup-to-disc ratio of more than 0.5 was observed in
at least one eye of eight patients. A temporal wedge-shaped area of excavation
was observed in 14 of the 18 eyes studied. Moderate to severe temporal pallor was
observed in all of the eyes. Pallor of the remaining (noncupped) neuroretinal rim
was also observed consistently, ranging from mild to moderate. A gray crescent
and some degree of peripapillary atrophy were noted in all eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Several clinical features, including early age of onset,
preferential loss of central vision, sparing of the peripheral fields, pallor of 
the remaining neuroretinal rim, and a family history of unexplained visual loss
or optic atrophy, help to distinguish patients with DOA from those with NTG.


PMID: 11535456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1296. Clin Exp Immunol. 2001 Aug;125(2):211-5.

Antiphosphatidylserine antibodies are elevated in normal tension glaucoma.

Kremmer S(1), Kreuzfelder E, Klein R, Bontke N, Henneberg-Quester KB, Steuhl KP, 
Grosse-Wilde H.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Erkrankungen des vorderen Augenabschnittes, Universitätsklinikum
Essen, Germany. stephan.kremmer@uni-essen.de

The two main entities of open-angle glaucoma are primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Both diseases may be associated with
autoimmune processes. Therefore, IgG and IgM antibodies to phospholipids (APL)
and their subspecies cardiolipin (ACL), phosphatidylserine (APS) and
beta2-glycoprotein (beta2GP) were determined in 43 NTG patients, 40 POAG patients
and 40 healthy controls in a prospective study. The most prominent observation
was the increase in APS concentrations in NTG patients (IgG 20.6 +/- 2.7 U/ml,
IgM 24.4 +/- 3.4 U/ml) compared with POAG patients (IgG 8.8 +/- 1.2 U/ml, IgM
11.0 +/- 1.7), and controls (IgG 7.7 +/- 1.3 U/ml, IgM 12.8 +/- 1.5 U/ml). APS
may be important due to their binding specificity to phosphatidylserine molecules
which become accessible during apoptosis; this in turn may lead to local
thrombosis.


PMCID: PMC1906120
PMID: 11529911  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1297. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2001 Jul;105(7):488-93.

[The ability of frequency doubling technology to detect abnormality of visual
function in early glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamashiro H(1), Tanaka M, Saito M, Shirato S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Medical University, 6-7-1 Nishishinjyuku,
Shinjyuku-ku, Tokyo 160-0023, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the ability of the Frequency Doubling Technology(FDT)
threshold test in detecting abnormality of visual function in early glaucoma
patients.
SUBJECTS AND METHOD: The C-20 full threshold test of FDT was performed on 34
normal-tension glaucoma(NTG) patients and 39 primary open-angle glaucoma(POAG)
patients with visual field defects limited to the upper or lower hemi-field as
detected by Humphrey Field Analyzer(HFA) and on 79 normal control subjects. Optic
disk findings and FDT results corresponding to the intact hemi-field were
evaluated. FDT abnormalities in normal subjects were calculated as false positive
rates in FDT.
RESULT: The sensitivity and specificity of FDT, calculated based on optic disk
findings, were 75.0% and 61.1% in POAG, and 61.1% and 66.7% in NTG, respectively,
while the false positive rate in normal subjects was 11.4%.
CONCLUSION: FDT can detect glaucomatous functional abnormality earlier than HFA.


PMID: 11510115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1298. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jul-Aug;45(4):388-96.

Systemic circulatory parameters. comparison between patients with normal tension 
glaucoma and normal subjects using ambulatory monitoring.

Kashiwagi K(1), Hosaka O, Kashiwagi F, Taguchi K, Mochizuki J, Ishii H, Ijiri H, 
Tamura K, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yamanashi Medical University, Yamanashi
Prefecture, Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare circadian changes of systemic circulation in patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and normal subjects.
METHODS: Forty-three patients with NTG and 226 normal subjects were enrolled in
this study. Circulatory parameters, including blood pressure (BP) and pulse rate 
(PR), were measured in all subjects for 49 hours using an ambulatory monitoring
system. In addition to a comparison between NTG patients and normal controls, the
same parameters were compared between NTG patients who had progressive field
defects and NTG patients who had stable field defects.
RESULTS: The BP in NTG patients was significantly higher than in normal subjects.
The nocturnal dip of BP in NTG patients was similar to the dip in normal
subjects. However, the BP dip in NTG patients showing progressive visual field
defects was significantly smaller than in patients with NTG showing stable visual
field defects. Blood pressure fluctuation in sleep in the "progressive" patients 
was significantly greater than in the "stable" patients. Patients with NTG whose 
random BP was in a normal range showed a higher BP than normal subjects. The dip 
in PR in NTG patients was significantly lower than in normal subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: An insufficient physiological nocturnal BP dip or a greater
nocturnal fluctuation in BP may disturb the microcirculation of, and/or may
directly damage, the optic nerve, resulting in increasing field loss in NTG.


PMID: 11485772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1299. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2001 Apr-Jun;11(2):139-44.

Nerve fiber layer assessment with scanning laser polarimetry in glaucoma patients
and glaucoma suspects.

Ozdek SC(1), Onol M, Hasanreisoğlu B.

Author information: 
(1)Gazi University, School of Medicine, Ophthalmology Department, Ankara, Turkey.
ozdek@turnet.net.tr

PURPOSE: To investigate whether scanning laser polarimeter can differentiate
glaucoma and suspected glaucoma patients from normals.
METHODS: Polarimetric measurements were obtained using the nerve fiber analyzer
(NFA)-I from 80 eyes of patients with glaucoma with mostly moderate glaucomatous 
optic nerve damage (37 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma, 21 with normal
tension glaucoma, 17 with pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, 3 with angle closure
glaucoma, and 2 with juvenile glaucoma), 53 eyes of patients suspected of
glaucoma based on disc appearance, and from age-matched healthy volunteers as
control groups. Ratios (superior/nasal, inferior/nasal, superior/inferior) were
used for assessing nerve fiber layer (NFL) thickness. Student's t-test and linear
regression analysis were used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Both the glaucoma patients and glaucoma suspects had significantly lower
NFL ratios (mean S/N 2.34 +/- 0.47, I/N 2.46 +/- 0.52, S/I 0.94 +/- 0.18) than
the control groups (respectively 2.88 +/- 0.48, 2.88 +/- 0.48, 1.00 +/- 0.13)
(p<0.05). There was an ample overlap between the patient groups and the normals. 
The superior and inferior NFL ratios in glaucoma patients gradually decreased as 
the mean defect in visual field increased (linear regression analysis, p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The NFL of glaucomatous eyes and eyes suspected of glaucoma based on
disc appearance was significantly less thick than normals. NFA-I detects
pathological abnormalities in some patients with glaucomatous optic nerve damage 
and normal visual fields as measured by conventional achromatic computerized
perimetry. NFA-I, however, is unable to distinguish these patients from normals, 
at least using these parameters, because of the considerable overlap.


PMID: 11456014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1300. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2001 Apr;193(4):293-9.

Normal tension glaucoma and primary open angle glaucoma associated with increased
platelet aggregation.

Matsumoto M(1), Matsuhashi H, Nakazawa M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hirosaki University School of Medicine, Japan.
mitsu-ma@gc4.so-net.ne.jp

On purpose of the present study was to evaluate platelet aggregation and
fibrinolytic systems in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) or primary
open angle glaucoma (POAG). For platelet aggregation, we
photoelectrophotometrically investigated adenosine diphosphate (ADP) or
collagen-induced platelet aggregation in consecutively selected patients with
glaucoma (22 patients with NTG and 13 patients with POAG) and 42 glaucoma free
control subjects with normal ocular findings. The aggregation patterns of the
patients' platelets reacted abnormally to ADP 1 microM or collagen 0.5 microg/ml 
as evidenced by secondary aggregation were compared with those of control
subjects. For blood coagulative and fibrinolytic systems, we measured prothrombin
time, activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, thrombin-antithrombin
III complex (TAT), alpha2 plasmin inhibitor-plasmin complex. Seventeen of 22
patients (77%) with NTG and 5 of 13 patients (38%) with POAG showed abnormal
secondary aggregation. A significant difference was observed between the two
groups. No control subjects showed abnormal secondary aggregation. In the
fibrinolytic test, all the parameters examined showed within normal ranges,
although the log10(TAT) value was higher in NTG than in POAG. Results of the
present study suggested that increased platelet aggregation as defined by ADP or 
collagen induced abnormal secondary aggregation in vitro is frequently associated
with glaucoma patients and this tendency is more apparent in NTG than that in
POAG.


PMID: 11453537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1301. J Glaucoma. 2001 Jun;10(3):177-83.

Sleep disorders: a risk factor for normal-tension glaucoma?

Marcus DM(1), Costarides AP, Gokhale P, Papastergiou G, Miller JJ, Johnson MH,
Chaudhary BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta 30912, USA.
dmarcus@mail.mcg.edu

PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence of sleep-related symptoms and sleep-related 
breathing disorders by polysomnography in patients with normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This comparative case series included 23 patients with NTG,
14 NTG suspects, and 30 comparison patients without NTG. A sleep history was
obtained and determined to be positive or negative. Polysomnography was offered
for patients with a positive sleep history. Prevalence of a positive sleep
history and prevalence of sleep disorders were the main outcome measures.
RESULTS: The NTG, NTG suspect, and comparison groups did not differ with respect 
to age, body mass index, systemic disease, gender, or race. Thirteen (57%) of 23 
patients with NTG, 6 (43%) of 14 NTG suspects, and 1 (3%) of 30 comparison
patients had a positive sleep history (P = 0.001). Nine of 13 patients with NTG
and four of six NTG suspects with a positive sleep history chose to undergo
polysomnography. Seven (78%) of nine patients with NTG and all four NTG suspects 
undergoing polysomnography were diagnosed with a sleep disorder. Five patients
with NTG had sleep apnea and two had sleep hypopnea. Two NTG suspects had sleep
apnea; one had sleep hypopnea; and one had upper airway resistance syndrome. The 
one comparison patient with a positive sleep history had upper airway resistance 
syndrome by polysomnography.
CONCLUSIONS: Sleep-disturbed breathing may be a risk factor for NTG. Although we 
do not provide evidence for a cause-and-effect relationship, various physiologic 
factors produced by sleep-disturbed breathing may play a significant role in the 
pathogenesis of this optic neuropathy. We recommend obtaining a sleep history
from patients with NTG and performing polysomnography in those patients with
sleep disturbance symptoms.


PMID: 11442179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1302. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jul;85(7):868-71.

Intraocular pressure measurement at the choroid surface: a feasibility study with
implications for implantable microsystems.

Rizq RN(1), Choi WH, Eilers D, Wright MM, Ziaie B.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering Department, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
55414, USA. raed.rizq@bsci.com

AIMS: To demonstrate that a sensor, which is inserted through the sclera and
placed in intimate contact with the choroid, can reliably detect changes in the
intraocular pressure (IOP).
METHODS: A manometer was used to control the IOP of three cadaver eyes in steps
of 7 mm Hg. A piezoresistive pressure sensor was used to measure the pressure at 
the choroid through a 2.5 mm diameter hole that was surgically removed from the
sclera. Data were collected for two configurations; with the sensor: (i) rigidly 
attached to a miniature positioning stage, and (ii) sutured to the sclera.
RESULTS: Both configurations accurately tracked the manometer pressure from 10 mm
Hg to 47 mm Hg. For the fixed sensor cases, the average difference between the
pressure measured at the choroid and in the anterior chamber was 0.8 mm Hg for
the three eyes. For the sutured sensor case, the average difference was 2.1 mm
Hg-although a significant portion of this was attributed to an initial offset.
The standard deviations at each pressure level for all of the choroid
measurements were under 1.0 mm Hg.
CONCLUSIONS: Small changes in IOP can be accurately measured by a sensor in
contact with the surface of the choroid, for both a fixed sensor configuration
and for a sensor sutured to the sclera. These results are the first step in the
realisation of a surgically implantable microsensor to monitor IOP for patients
suffering from low tension and other difficult to manage forms of glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC1724025
PMID: 11423464  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1303. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jul;85(7):792-5.

Central corneal thickness measurements in patients with normal tension glaucoma, 
primary open angle glaucoma, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma, or ocular hypertension.

Ventura AC(1), Böhnke M, Mojon DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Inselspital, University of Bern, Switzerland.
draventura@oftalmo.epm.com.br

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Recent studies have revealed patients with ocular hypertension
to have thicker than normal central corneas and those with normal tension
glaucoma to have thinner than normal ones, as determined by ultrasonic
pachymetry. Since corneal thickness measurements and applanation tonometric
estimates of intraocular pressure (IOP) correlate positively, monitoring of the
former parameter have served as the basis for adjusting readings pertaining to
the latter, with the consequence that many patients have had to be reclassified. 
With a view to validating these pachymetric studies, the central corneal
thickness was determined in patients with normal tension glaucoma, primary open
angle glaucoma, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma, or ocular hypertension, as well as
that of normal subjects, using optical low coherence reflectometry, which is a
new and more precise method than ultrasonic pachymetry.
METHODS: 34 patients with normal tension glaucoma, 20 with primary open angle
glaucoma, 13 with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma, and 12 with ocular hypertension,
together with 21 control subjects, were included in this observational,
concurrent case-control study. One eye per individual was randomly selected for
investigation. IOP was measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry and central
corneal thickness by optical low coherence reflectometry.
RESULTS: Central corneal thickness was significantly higher (p < or =0.001) in
patients with ocular hypertension than in normal individuals or in subjects with 
either normal tension glaucoma, primary open angle glaucoma, or pseudoexfoliation
glaucoma, there being no significant differences between the latter four groups. 
Patients with ocular hypertension were also significantly younger (p < or =0.003)
than those within any of the three glaucomatous groups.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms that a significant number of patients with ocular
hypertension have normal IOPs after the appropriate adjustments have been made
for deviations from normal in their central corneal thickness. The accurate
measurement of this latter parameter is important not only for individual patient
care, in permitting more precise estimations of IOP, but also for clinical
studies, in assuring a more reliable classification of subjects.


PMCID: PMC1724054
PMID: 11423450  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1304. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2001 Apr;218(4):263-8.

[Normal tension glaucoma, sleep apnea syndrome and nasal continuous positive
airway pressure therapy--case report with a review of literature].

[Article in German]

Kremmer S(1), Selbach JM, Ayertey HD, Steuhl KP.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Augenheilkunde, Abt. für Erkrankungen des vorderen
Augenabschnitts, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Hufelandstr. 55, 45122 Essen.
stephan.kremmer@uni-essen.de

BACKGROUND: In the pathogenesis of glaucoma, besides an elevated intraocular
pressure (IOP), cardiovascular risk factors, such as arterial hypotension and
hypertension, vasospasms, autoregulatory defects, atherosclerosis, and diabetes
mellitus are of increasing importance, especially in normal tension glaucoma.
Recently, there have been several reports of an additional risk factor:
obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.
METHODS: Literature review (Medline) and case report.
RESULTS: The authors report on a 8 1/2 years follow-up of a 60-year-old patient
with normal tension glaucoma. Despite successful pharmacological and surgical
lowering of intraocular pressure a progressive glaucomatous damage with optic
nerve atrophy and increasing visual field defects occurred. As a result of
intensive investigations of possible cardiovascular risk factors, an obstructive 
sleep apnea syndrome was diagnosed. Since the beginning of therapy with nCPAP
(nasal continuous positive airway pressure) more than 3 1/2 years ago, no further
progression of glaucomatous optic nerve damage or visual field defects have been 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: In clinical practice, obstructive sleep apnea syndrome often is
underdiagnosed. In patients suffering from glaucoma and obstructive sleep apnea
syndrome, intraocular pressure lowering therapy may not be enough, whereas an
additional nCPAP-therapy potentially could prevent the beginning/progression of
glaucomatous optic nerve damage.


PMID: 11392272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1305. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2001 Apr;218(4):214-21.

[Absolute filling defects of the optic disc in fluorescein angiograms in
glaucoma--a retrospective clinical study].

[Article in German]

Plange N(1), Remky A, Arend O.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik der RWTH Aachen, Pauwelsstr. 30, 52057 Aachen.

BACKGROUND: Analysis of clinical importance of the size of filling defects in
fluorescein angiograms in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG), ocular hypertension and subjects with physiological excavations
in comparison to visual field loss, optic nerve head morphology and hemodynamics.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 75 patients (POAG, NTG, ocular hypertension) and 10 healthy
subjects with physiological excavations were included in this study. In digitized
video fluorescein angiograms (Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscope) the size of absolute
filling defects of the optic disc was quantified in the early venous phase and
expressed by percentage of the optic disc. Visual fields were obtained by
conventional static perimetry (Humphrey 24-2) and graded in stages of glaucoma
visual field defects (Aulhorn I-V). Optic disc excavations were evaluated as
cup-to-disc-area-ratios.
RESULTS: The filling defects correlated with the visual-field loss stages of
Aulhorn and the visual field indices MD (mean deviation), PSD (pattern standard
deviation) and CPSD (corrected pattern standard deviation). There was no
correlation with the index SF (short-term fluctuation) and with systemic
hemodynamics (blood pressure, perfusion pressure) or the IOP. Absolute filling
defects correlated with the cup-to-disc-area-ratio in NTG. The absolute filling
defects were larger in patients with glaucoma (POAG, NTG) in comparison to
patients without glaucomatous visual field loss (ocular hypertension,
glaucoma-like discs). No difference of filling defects was found in the glaucoma 
group (POAG, NTG). Patients with NTG had larger excavations and lower systolic
blood pressures than patients with POAG.
CONCLUSION: The size of fluorescein filling defects may be useful as a parameter 
for the evaluation of an ischemic lesion of the optic nerve head. Absolute
filling defects may differentiate POAG from ocular hypertension and NTG from
glaucoma-like discs without field defects. The results support the hypothesis
that in POAG and NTG disturbances of the circulation result in similar filling
defects of the optic disc and visual field loss.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-14916 
PMID: 11392265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1306. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2001 Apr;218(4):209-13.

[Transitory intrathoracic and -abdominal pressure elevation in the history of 64 
patients with normal pressure glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Krist D(1), Cursiefen C, Jünemann A.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik der Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Schwabachanlage 
6, 91054 Erlangen. Doreen.Krist@augenimed.uni-erlangen.de

BACKGROUND: As one pathogenetic factor in normal-tension glaucoma an individually
elevated sensitivity of lamina cribrosa regarding intraocular pressure
fluctuations is postulated. Aim of this study was to evaluate patients with
normal-tension glaucoma for the exposure to potential, clinically undetected
transient elevations of intraocular tension due to increased intrathoracic and
-abdominal pressure.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A survey of 64 patients of the "Erlanger Glaucoma registry"
with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and 64 patients with primary open angle
glaucoma (pOAG) as control group were performed with regard to activities
respectively diseases causing intrathoracic or -abdominal pressure elevation (1. 
weight lifting, 2. playing high resistance wind instruments, 3. chronic
asthma/cough, 4. obstruction of the urinary system, 5. constipation). Both groups
were matched regarding age (median: 61 years), sex (24 male, 40 female), visual
field defects (mean defect: NTG 4.4; pOAG 4.7), visual acuity (median 1.0 +/-
0.2) and systemic diseases (diabetes mellitus, hypertension, cardiac disease).
RESULTS: Among patients with NTG there were 45% (29/64 patients) with activities 
respectively diseases causing intrathoracic or intraabdominal pressure elevation 
in their medical history compared to 11% (7/64) among patients with pOAG. Male
patients with normal-tension glaucoma showed with 62% the highest frequency of
such activities (among them 4/24 high resistance wind instrument playing, 5/24
urinary system obstructions, 4/24 long time weight lifting). Female patients with
normal-tension glaucoma most frequently presented with a history of weight
lifting (11/40).
CONCLUSION: Patients with glaucomatous optic nerve atrophy without evident
intraocular pressure elevation compared to patients with pOWG more frequently
report activities or diseases causing intrathoracic/-abdominal pressure elevation
in their medical history. This may suggest an additional pathomechanism in
normal-tension glaucoma. Therefore patients may be adviced on these potential
risk factors.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-14915 
PMID: 11392264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1307. Am J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jun;131(6):699-708.

Risk factors for progression of visual field abnormalities in normal-tension
glaucoma.

Drance S(1), Anderson DR, Schulzer M; Collaborative Normal-Tension Glaucoma Study
Group.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institue, Miami, Fl 33101-6880, USA.

PURPOSE: To uncover risk factors for the highly variable individual rates of
progression in cases of untreated normal-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Visual field data were assembled from 160 subjects (160 eyes) enrolled
in the collaborative normal-tension glaucoma study during intervals in which the 
eye under study was not receiving intraocular pressure-lowering treatment during 
prerandomization and postrandomization intervals. Analyses included multivariate 
analysis of time-dependent Cox proportional hazard, Kaplan-Meier analysis of
"survival" without an increment of visual field worsening, and comparison of
slopes of change in mean deviation global index over time.
RESULTS: Most migraine occurred in women, but analysis demonstrated that gender
and presence of migraine contribute separately to the overall risk. The risk
ratio for migraine, adjusted for the other variables was 2.58 (P =.0058), for
disk hemorrhage was 2.72 (P =.0036), and for female gender 1.85 (P =.0622). The
average fall in the mean deviation index was faster in nonmigrainous women than
in nonmigrainous men (P =.05). Suggesting genetic influence, Asians had a slower 
rate of progression (P =.005), and the few black patients enrolled had a tendency
for faster progression. However, self-declared history of family with glaucoma or
treated for glaucoma did not affect the rate of progression. Neither age nor the 
untreated level of intraocular pressure affected the rate of untreated disease
progression, despite their known influence on prevalence.
CONCLUSIONS: Whereas risk factors for prevalence help select populations within
which to screen for glaucoma, the factors that affect the rate of progression
help decide the expected prognosis of the individual's untreated disease and
thereby the frequency of follow-up and aggressiveness of the therapy to be
undertaken.


PMID: 11384564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1308. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2001 Feb;239(2):81-6.

An evaluation of the effect of unoprostone isopropyl 0.15% on ocular hemodynamics
in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Beano F(1), Orgül S, Stümpfig D, Gugleta K, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic Basel, PO Box, 4012 Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Because intraocular pressure-lowering agents should have a good
safety profile with regard to ocular hemodynamics, the innocuousness of
unoprostone isopropyl 0.15% with regard to ocular hemodynamics in vasospastic
patients with normal-tension glaucoma was assessed in a pilot study.
METHODS: Corneal temperature as a parameter of ocular blood flow and choroidal
and optic nerve blood flow as assessed by means of laser Doppler flowmetry
techniques were evaluated in 12 vasospastic normal-tension glaucoma patients in a
prospective, randomized, observer-masked, two-period crossover,
placebo-controlled pilot trial.
RESULTS: Statistical analysis in 2 x 2 two-way analysis of variance models with
two treatments (placebo and unoprostone isopropyl) and two assessments (baseline 
and after 1 week of treatment) as within-subject factors disclosed a lack of
difference between eyes, between the treatment (placebo/unoprostone isopropyl)
periods, and between baseline and after 1 week of treatment in corneal
temperature, choroidal blood flow, and optic nerve blood flow. The differences
between the results at baseline and after 1 week of treatment in these parameters
were not significantly different between the placebo treatment period and the
unoprostone isopropyl treatment period, and this was comparable in fellow eyes
for all the parameters.
CONCLUSION: Unoprostone isopropyl did not induce any alterations in ocular
hemodynamics in this pilot study with vasospastic normal-tension glaucoma
patients.


PMID: 11372549  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1309. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jun;85(6):696-701.

Glaucoma surgery with or without adjunctive antiproliferatives in normal tension 
glaucoma: 2 Visual field progression.

Membrey WL(1), Bunce C, Poinoosawmy DP, Fitzke FW, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, City Road, London EC1V 2PD, UK.

BACKGROUND: Reduction of intraocular pressure by 20-30% with glaucoma drainage
surgery slows disease progression in normal tension glaucoma (NTG). It is not
clear whether adjunctive antiproliferative agents are necessary or safe in eyes
at low risk for scarring.
METHOD: 61 eyes of 61 white patients with NTG who had undergone a primary guarded
fistulising procedure were reviewed. 20 eyes had no antiproliferatives (nil), 29 
had peroperative 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and 12 had peroperative mitomycin C
(MMC). Pointwise linear regression analysis (PROGRESSOR for Windows software) was
applied to their visual field series starting with the first visual field
following surgery and adding subsequent visual fields one at a time. Progression 
of visual field loss was defined as the appearance of a regression slope 1 dB per
year or more with a significance of p<0.01 at one or more visual field locations 
which remained consistent with the addition of two of three successive visual
fields. Time updated covariate analysis was used to determine the relation
between variables that changed with time, such as IOP, and the risk of
progression.
RESULTS: The median percentage IOP reduction was 24.4 for the nil group, 38.0 for
the 5-FU group, and 47.5 for the MMC group (p=0.001). There was a statistically
significant relation between percentage change in IOP and risk of visual field
progression in the subsequent 6 month period for all patients analysed as one
group, hazard ratio = -0.021 (p=0.002). There was a statistically significantly
increase in the risk of visual field progression for the MMC group compared with 
the 5-FU group, hazard ratio = 1.51 (p=0.02).
CONCLUSION: In NTG patients, the IOP reduction produced by drainage surgery
reduces the risk that visual field progression may be reduced after drainage
surgery; this is related to the level of IOP reduction. The percentage drop in
IOP during a given time is related to the risk of subsequent visual field
progression. However, the use of MMC is associated with a greater risk of visual 
field progression despite a greater fall in IOP. This visual field deterioration 
may be related to the functional loss produced by late postoperative
complications which have been reported at a higher rate in this group. The use of
adjunctive perioperative 5-FU should maintain a suitable target IOP with
preservation of visual function without the additional complications and
associated visual deterioration seen with adjunctive MMC.


PMCID: PMC1724011
PMID: 11371491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1310. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jun;85(6):638-9.

Should antiproliferatives be used in filtering surgery of normal tension
glaucoma?

Alm A.


PMCID: PMC1723989
PMID: 11371477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1311. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jan;45(1):117.

Study on the Progression of Visual Field Defect and Clinical Factors in
Normal-Tension Glaucoma.

Tanaka C(1), Yamazaki Y, Yokoyama H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan

Purpose: We investigated the relationship between the progression of visual field
defect and clinical factors in patients with normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG).Subjects and Methods: Forty-eight eyes of 48 NTG patients undergoing more
than 5-year follow-up were enrolled in this study. Their visual field defects
ranged between Aulhorn's classification stage 2 and 4, and mean deviation (MD)
more than -10 dB measured by Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA). End points of this
follow-up study were defined as follows: in HFA STATPAC 2 glaucoma change
probability analysis, more than 5 points which significantly deteriorated at P
<.05 were found at 2 consecutive examinations (Criterion 1) or a significant
decrease in MD value at P <.025 was encountered at one examination or in MD value
at P <.05 at consecutive examinations (Criterion 2).Results: During the follow-up
period, 18 eyes of 48 patients satisfied Criterion 1 and 21 eyes Criterion 2.
There were no significant differences in clinical factors between patients with
progression and without progression. By multiple logistic regression analysis,
minimum flow velocity of central retinal artery (CRA) showed significant relation
(odds ratio for a 1 cm/sec rise = 0.2215; 95% confidence interval: 0.0530-0.9253)
to progression of visual field defect in Criterion 1, and minimum flow velocity
of CRA (odds ratio for a 1 cm/sec rise = 0.2099; 95% confidence interval:
0.0506-0.8712) and cholesterol (odds ratio for a 1 cm/dl rise = 1.0332; 95%
confidence interval: 0.4096-2.6064) showed significant relation in Criterion
2.Conclusion: These results suggests that vascular risk factors of ocular blood
flow may play a role in the progression of visual field defects in NTG patients.


PMID: 11341910  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1312. Am J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jan;131(1):154.

Changes in optic nerve head blood flow and retrobulbar hemodynamics following
calcium-channel blocker treatment of normal-tension glaucoma. Tomita G,*(1) Niwa 
Y, Shinohara H, Hayashi N, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y. Int Ophthalmol 1999;23: 3-10.

[No authors listed]


PMID: 11341882  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1313. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2001 Apr;105(4):244-50.

[Comparison of detectability of visual field abnormality by frequency doubling
technology in primary open-angle glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Horikoshi N(1), Osako M, Tamura Y, Okano T, Usui M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kasumigaura Hospital, Tokyo Medical University,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare the effectiveness of frequency doubling technology(FDT) in
detecting abnormalities in primary open-angle glaucoma(POAG) and normal-tension
glaucoma(NTG).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Twenty-nine POAG patients (29 eyes) and 27 NTG-patients(27 
eyes) were studied. All subjects underwent testing with program C-20 of FDT with 
appropriate corrective lenses.
RESULTS: No significant differences were observed between the two groups in mean 
age, mean deviation(MD), and pattern standard deviation(PSD) measured by the
Humphrey Field Analyzer(HFA). The correlation between MD values determined by
HFA(x) and FDT(y) is represented by y = 0.60x - 2.7 (r = 0.78, p < 0.01) in the
POAG group and y = 0.59x + 0.6 (r = 0.81, p < 0.001) in the NTG group. No
significant difference was found in the average PSD between the two groups. In
early glaucoma cases (MD > or = -5 dB by HFA), a larger proportion of cases in
the POAG group than the NTG group had a lower significance level of MD determined
by FDT than by HFA (p < 0.02). At many test points on the temporal periphery in
FDT the mean sensitivity was lower in the POAG group than in the NTG group;
whereas no significant differences among HFA test points were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: FDT detected visual field abnormalities in POAG cases more
sensitively than in NTG cases. This finding indicates that the pathogenesis of
My-cell damage is different in POAG and NTG.


PMID: 11329948  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1314. Yan Ke Xue Bao. 1997 Sep;13(3):113-5.

Color Doppler imaging in the study of retrobulbar hemodynamic changes of primary 
angle-closure glaucoma.

Nong T(1), Ninghua F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, General Hospital of Nanjing Military Area,
Nanjing 210002, China.

PURPOSE: To investigate the hemodynamic changes of ophthalmic and central retinal
artery (OA, CRA) in Primary Angle-closure Glaucoma (PACG) and the effects of
intraocular pressure (IOP) on the retrobulbar hemodynamics.
METHODS: The hemodynamic changes of OA, CRA in PACG were explored with color
Doppler imaging (CDI) technique. Peak systolic blood flow velocity (PSV),
end-diastolic blood flow velocity (EDV), pulsatile and resistive indices (PI, RI)
were recorded and compared with those of the normal subjects. There were 20
patients (40 eyes) with PACG who were divided into two groups according to their 
IOP levels: ocular hypertension (15 eyes) and normal tension (25 eyes).
RESULTS: Compared with the normal subjects, the hypertension group of PACG showed
significant reduction in the EDV and increases in PI, RI of CRA; normal tension
group of PACG also showed remarkable increase in RI of CRA. The ocular
hypertension was significantly correlated with the RI and not with the EDV by the
analysis of multiple linear regression (the partial correlation coefficient for
IOP vs RI was 0.388, p = 0.0234, for IOP vs EDV was 0.053, p = 0.7688). Compared 
with the normal group, there might be a trend of reduction in the EDV of the OA
in PACG group.
CONCLUSION: Intraocular pressure elevated is a major cause of the vascular
resistance increased in PACG, which will make the end-diastolic blood flow of CRA
decreased. There exists an abnormal vascular resistance in the normal tension
eyes of PACG.


PMID: 11326859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1315. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2001 Apr;17(2):131-49.

Effects of lomerizine, a novel Ca2+ channel blocker, on the normal and
endothelin-1-disturbed circulation in the optic nerve head of rabbits.

Toriu N(1), Sasaoka M, Shimazawa M, Sugiyama T, Hara H.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacology Group, R&D Laboratories, Nippon Organon K.K., Osaka, Japan.
t_nobuko@f7.dion.ne.jp

We examined the effects of lomerizine, a new diphenylmethylpiperazine Ca2+
channel blocker, on the normal circulation in the optic nerve head and long
posterior ciliary artery, and on endothelin-1-induced hypoperfusion in the optic 
nerve head in anesthetized rabbits using a hydrogen gas clearance method and
laser Doppler flowmetry. These effects were compared with those of nilvadipine
and pranidipine. Lomerizine (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) significantly increased
tissue blood flow in the optic nerve head and the putative blood flow in the long
posterior ciliary artery with smaller reduction of blood pressure (0.3 mg/kg,
i.v.) and without change in heart rate. On the other hand, nilvadipine (0.003 and
0.01 mg/kg, i.v.) and pranidipine (0.003 and 0.01 mg/kg, iv.) each significantly 
increased blood flow and lowered blood pressure. Moreover, lomerizine (0.1 and
0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) and nilvadipine (0.01 mg/kg, i.v.), when administered 5 min
before an endothelin-1 injection (10(-6) M, 100 microl), inhibited the
hypoperfusion in the optic nerve head. These results suggest that lomerizine
improves the ocular circulation with minimal cardiovascular side effects.
Therefore, lomerizine may have clinical potential for the treatment of eye
diseases associated with local circulatory disturbances, such as normal-tension
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1089/10807680151125456 
PMID: 11324981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1316. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2001 Feb;17(1):19-25.

Intraocular pressure-lowering efficacy of latanoprost in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma or primary open-angle glaucoma.

Tamada Y(1), Taniguchi T, Murase H, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu-shi,
Japan.

We investigated the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering potential of latanoprost 
in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) or primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG). This prospective study included 59 NTG and 20 POAG patients treated with 
the following four dosing regimens of latanoprost: patients on no previous
medication received latanoprost as initial therapy (Group 1, n=31), patients on
beta-blocker therapy received latanoprost as adjunctive therapy (Group II, n=9), 
patients on unoprostone monotherapy were switched to latanoprost monotherapy
(Group III, n=14), and patients previously on dual therapy with isopropyl
unoprostone and beta-blocker were switched to a combined treatment of latanoprost
and beta-blocker (Group IV, n=25). IOP significantly decreased 8 weeks after
initiation of latanoprost therapy by 19.9% in Group I, 20.5% in Group II, 16.6%
in Group III, and 12.2% in Group IV. In Groups I and II, there was a significant 
positive correlation between the magnitude of IOP reduction induced by
latanoprost and the IOP level before latanoprost therapy. The IOP level before
latanoprost therapy is a contributing factor in the IOP-lowering efficacy of
latanoprost. Latanoprost is more effective in lowering IOP than isopropyl
unoprostone.

DOI: 10.1089/108076801750125612 
PMID: 11322634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1317. J Glaucoma. 2001 Apr;10(2):95-101.

Ability of peripapillary atrophy parameters to differentiate normal-tension
glaucoma from glaucomalike disk.

Park KH(1), Park SJ, Lee YJ, Kim JY, Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the ability of peripapillary atrophy (PPA) parameters to 
differentiate normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) from glaucomalike disk (GLD).
METHODS: Thirty-three eyes of 33 patients with GLD that had no evidence of visual
field defect and retinal nerve fiber layer defect and 33 eyes of 33 patients with
NTG, matched with age and intraocular pressure, were enrolled. The participants
were selected from the database of patients referred from a routine health
checkup because of high cup-to-disk ratio (>0.5). Topographic measurements for
the optic disk were performed using the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT). The
extent of PPA (zone beta) was measured with Atrophy Zone Analysis software of
HRT. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves (GraphROC version 2.0) were
used to compare the new formula including PPA parameters with that of the HRT
discriminant analysis formula in differentiating NTG from GLD.
RESULTS: The area of zone beta, atrophy-to-disk area ratio, and angular and
radial extent of zone beta were significantly larger in NTG (P < 0.01). Multiple 
logistic regression analysis showed that rim area and corrected radial extent of 
zone beta are variables that show significant difference between NTG and GLD (P <
0.05). The area under the ROC curve for the new formula including rim area and
corrected radial extent of zone beta (0.8655) was significantly larger than that 
for the HRT discriminant analysis formula (0.7351) (P = 0.0128).
CONCLUSION: The PPA measurement obtained by HRT can be a useful additional tool
to differentiate NTG from GLD after the first screening by disk photograph in a
routine health checkup.


PMID: 11316103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1318. Clin Genet. 2001 Apr;59(4):263-8.

Analysis of myocilin gene mutations in Japanese patients with normal tension
glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Mabuchi F(1), Yamagata Z, Kashiwagi K, Tang S, Iijima H, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Department of Ophthalmology, Yamanashi Medical 
University, Yamanashi, Japan.

The myocilin gene was identified as a gene (MYOC) that caused primary open-angle 
glaucoma (POAG). Although a normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patient with the
myocilin gene mutation was previously reported, no study using large numbers of
patients with NTG has been reported. Single-strand conformation polymorphism
analysis and subsequent sequence analysis were performed for genotyping the
myocilin gene in 114 unrelated Japanese patients with NTG. One hundred and
nineteen patients with POAG and 100 control subjects without glaucoma were
studied as reference subjects. Five amino acid sequence changes of the myocilin
were identified: Arg46Stop (one NTG), Arg76Lys (four NTG, 10 POAG, seven
control), Arg158Gln (one NTG, one POAG, one control) found in only Japanese,
Asp208Glu (four NTG, three POAG, one control), Pro481Ser (one control). Pro481Ser
was novel. Arg76Lys always occurred with 1-83 from G to A in the promoter as it
was reported in Chinese. Although some Japanese patients with NTG had sequence
changes of the myocilin gene, there were no apparent specific mutations in
patients with NTG.


PMID: 11298682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1319. Ophthalmology. 2001 Apr;108(4):738-49.

Redefining papillorenal syndrome: an underdiagnosed cause of ocular and renal
morbidity.

Parsa CF(1), Silva ED, Sundin OH, Goldberg MF, De Jong MR, Sunness JS, Zeimer R, 
Hunter DG.

Author information: 
(1)Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, 600 N. Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21287-9237, USA.

PURPOSE: To report ocular and renal findings specific to the inheritable entity
called papillorenal (also known as renal-coloboma) syndrome and relate these to a
common cause.
DESIGN: Observational case series and genetic study.
PARTICIPANTS: Two unrelated probands presenting with absent central retinal
vessels and 11 available family members.
TESTING: Doppler ultrasonographic imaging of the optic nerves and kidneys,
fluorescein angiography, and genetic testing for PAX2 mutations were performed.
In selected cases, indocyanine green angiography, scanning laser ophthalmoscope
perimetry, Retinal Thickness Analyzer measurements, visual evoked potentials, and
magnetic resonance imaging were also performed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Better defined characteristics of the papillorenal
syndrome.
RESULTS: Numerous cilioretinal vessels were present with rudimentary or absent
central retinal vessels. Superonasal visual field defects, typical for
papillorenal syndrome, corresponded to inferotemporal areas of anomalous retinal 
and choroidal perfusion and hypoplastic retina. Renal hypoplasia was discovered
in two affected members of one family (with previously unsuspected renal failure 
in one case), and recurrent pyelonephritis was discovered in four affected
members of the other family. No PAX2 mutations were detected.
CONCLUSIONS: In the papillorenal syndrome, the hereditary absence of central
retinal vessels may be missed, leading to confusion with isolated coloboma,
low-tension glaucoma, and morning glory anomaly. Greater awareness of this
syndrome will avoid unneeded glaucoma therapy, allow earlier recognition of renal
diseases, and allow genetic counseling. We propose that the papillorenal syndrome
is a primary dysgenesis that causes vascular abnormalities predominantly
affecting the eye, kidney, and urinary tract, leading to hypoplasia of these
structures. The absence of defects in the PAX2 gene in these families suggests
that mutations in other genes may also be responsible for this syndrome.


PMID: 11297491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1320. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2001 Mar;105(3):177-82.

[Blood flow in retinal vessels of normal-tension glaucoma with or without a
history of optic disc hemorrhages].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi S(1), Tomita G, Sugiyama K, Sato Y, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, 40
Tsukasa-machi, Gifu 500-8705, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate blood flow in retinal vessels of normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) with or without a history of optic disc hemorrhages (DH) and compare it
with that in non-glaucomatous eyes using scanning laser fluorescein video
angiography.
METHODS: We enrolled 14 eyes of 14 NTG patients with a history of DH (DH (+)
group), 12 eyes of 12 NTG patients without history of DH (DH (-) group), and 10
eyes from 10 non-glaucomatous patients matched for age, intraocular pressure, and
systemic blood pressure. No statistically significant difference was observed
between the DH (+) and DH (-) groups of NTG in the global indices of the Humphrey
visual field. Fluorescein angiography was performed using a scanning laser
ophthalmoscope with an argon blue laser. A series of approximately 100
consecutive video images at 1/2 second intervals from just before the dye
appearance in the central retinal artery was loaded into an external personal
computer system. Based on this acquired image series, we obtained fluorescein
filling curves for 10 x 10 pixel measuring areas placed on each of the
superior-temporal and inferior-temporal branch retinal arteries and veins at 1/5 
papillary diameter from the disc edge. In each vessel, time to the highest
fluorescein intensity (peak time, sec) and the time constant of the filling curve
(tau, sec) were obtained. Time difference between the peak times in vein and
artery (peak time difference) was also calculated.
RESULTS: Statistically significant differences were observed among the three
groups in the peak time of inferior-temporal artery and vein, and
superior-temporal vein (ANOVA, p < 0.01). Also there were statistically
significant differences in the tau of all vessels (ANOVA, p < 0.05). No
statistically significant differences were observed in the peak time differences.
By multivariate analysis, the DH (+) and DH (-) groups of NTG showed
significantly longer peak times and tau s than did the non-glaucomatous eyes (p <
0.05). However, no statistically significant differences were observed in any
parameters between the DH (+) and DH (-) groups of NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: In NTG, dye filling rate in both the central retinal arteries and
veins seems to be delayed. However, this delay does not differ between DH (+) and
DH (-) groups.


PMID: 11280877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1321. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2001 Feb;29(1):41-3.

Ockham's glaucoma.

Whiting MA(1), Walland MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
fishw@smartchat.net.au

The combination of characteristic optic nerve head cupping, arcuate visual field 
loss and ocular hypertension would usually be thought sufficient to diagnose
glaucoma. Only in the absence of elevated intraocular pressure, when normal
tension glaucoma may be suspected, would intracranial imaging normally be
performed to exclude occult pathology. A case is presented which illustrates the 
continuing need for vigilance, and an open mind, years after an apparently
straight-forward diagnosis has been made.


PMID: 11272785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1322. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Apr;85(4):403-9.

The b-wave of the dark adapted flash electroretinogram in patients with advanced 
asymmetrical glaucoma and normal subjects.

Velten IM(1), Horn FK, Korth M, Velten K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and University Eye Hospital, University of
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Schwabachanlage 6, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany.
isabel.velten@augen.imed.uni-erlangen.de

AIMS: To evaluate whether the b-wave of the dark adapted flash electroretinogram 
(ERG) is affected by glaucomatous damage.
METHODS: ERGs were recorded in 35 patients aged 33-65 years with advanced
asymmetrical glaucomas (interocular difference of perimetric defects (mean
deviation) >2 dB between the two fellow eyes of the glaucoma patients, primary
and secondary open angle and low tension glaucomas) and 17 normal subjects
matched for age and sex using white flashes of a xenon discharge tube in a
Ganzfeld stimulator. After 30 minutes of dark adaptation luminance response
functions were obtained using flashes of increasing scotopic luminance (highest
9.4 cd/s/m2, lowest 5.5 log units below it). The parameters Vmax, n, and K of the
Naka-Rushton equation were computed from the measurement values based on the
usual fitting procedure. These parameters, together with b-wave amplitudes and
implicit times for all flash intensities, were compared interocularly and between
the normal subjects and those with glaucoma. Correlations were computed between
interocular differences of the mean deviation and interocular differences of
Vmax, n, K, b-wave amplitudes, and implicit times between the two fellow eyes of 
the patients with asymmetrical glaucomatous damage.
RESULTS: Implicit times were significantly longer (p<0.005) in the glaucoma
patients than in the normal group for flash intensities of 9.4, 5.3, 1.7, 0.53,
and 0.17 cd/s/m2. b-Wave amplitudes did not differ significantly between the two 
study groups. Comparing the two fellow eyes of each patient with glaucoma, Vmax
was significantly higher in the less damaged eye than in the more damaged eye.
The interocular differences in the mean deviation correlated significantly with
the interocular differences in the b-wave amplitudes, implicit times, and Vmax.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that glaucomas can lead to
electrophysiologically measurable damage of the inner nuclear layer.


PMCID: PMC1723928
PMID: 11264127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1323. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Apr;85(4):397-402.

The a-wave of the dark adapted electroretinogram in glaucomas: are photoreceptors
affected?

Velten IM(1), Korth M, Horn FK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and University Eye Hospital, University of
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Schwabachanlage 6, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany.
isabel.velten@augen.imed.uni-erlangen.de

AIMS: To evaluate whether the a-wave of the dark adapted flash electroretinogram 
(ERG) is affected by glaucomatous damage.
METHODS: ERGs were recorded in 20 patients (age 33-65 years) with advanced
glaucomas (primary and secondary open angle and low tension glaucomas) and 20
normals using a ganzfeld stimulus. After 30 minutes of dark adaptation and pupil 
dilatation to at least 7.5 mm in diameter, luminance response functions were
obtained presenting white flashes of increasing scotopic luminance (the highest
flash intensity being 9.4 cd/s/m2, the lowest being 5.75 log units below it) with
an interflash interval of 5 seconds. For each scotopic luminance, the responses
of four flashes were averaged. The a-wave's amplitude was measured at 10, 11, and
12 ms. Within the glaucoma group, correlations between the interocular
differences of the a-wave's amplitude and the mean deviation of a static
perimetry (Octopus 500 perimeter, program G1) were computed for all flash
intensities. Between normals and glaucomas, the a-wave's amplitude was compared
for all flash intensities (paired t test).
RESULTS: Within the glaucoma group, the interocular differences of the a-wave's
amplitudes correlated significantly with the differences of the MD for flash
intensities of 9.4, 5.3, 1.7, and 0.5 cd/s/m2. The a-wave's amplitude was
significantly lower in the glaucoma compared with the normal group (p <0.005) for
flash intensities of 9.4 and 5.3 cd/s/m2.
CONCLUSION: These electrophysiological results imply that also the outer retinal 
structures, especially the photoreceptors, may be affected by glaucomatous
damage.


PMCID: PMC1723933
PMID: 11264126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1324. Curr Eye Res. 2000 Nov;21(5):867-76.

Altered gene expression in lymphocytes of patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Golubnitschaja-Labudova O(1), Liu R, Decker C, Zhu P, Haefliger IO, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: In glaucoma there is a loss of retinal ganglion cells. There is
evidence that this loss can occur by apoptosis. The signal transduction leading
to retinal ganglion cell apoptosis in glaucoma is not yet clear. The present
study compares the gene expression in lymphocytes of normal tension glaucoma
patients (NTG-patients) with the one of healthy controls.
METHODS: Subtractive hybridization was used to compare mRNA in lymphocytes of six
vasospastic NTG-patients with six age and sex matched healthy subjects.
RESULTS: Genes coding for p53-protein, NTP (neural thread protein) and 20 S
proteasome subunit XAPC7 were overexpressed, whereas those coding for XPGC
(Xeroderma pigmentosum gene), the survivin protein as well as one type of ABC
transport protein were underexpressed.
CONCLUSION: In comparison to healthy controls, patients with vasospastic NTG seem
to over- as well as under-express certain genes in their lymphocytes.


PMID: 11262608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1325. Arch Ophthalmol. 2001 Mar;119(3):387-94.

Enhanced disruption of the blood-aqueous barrier and the incidence of
angiographic cystoid macular edema by topical timolol and its preservative in
early postoperative pseudophakia.

Miyake K(1), Ota I, Ibaraki N, Akura J, Ichihashi S, Shibuya Y, Maekubo K, Miyake
S.

Author information: 
(1)Shohzankai Medical Foundation, Miyake Eye Hospital, 1070-Kami 5,
Higashiozone-cho, Kita-ku, Nagoya, 462-0823, Japan. miyake@spice.or.jp

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of timolol maleate with preservative and
its preserved (PV) and nonpreserved vehicles (NPV) (benzalkonium chloride) on the
blood-aqueous barrier and angiographic cystoid macular edema (CME) in early
postoperative pseudophakia.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with ocular hypertension, normal tension glaucoma,
and primary open-angle glaucoma who underwent surgery for cataracts. The study
included a double-masked trial for timolol, PV, and NPV and a single-masked trial
on the effect of diclofenac sodium and fluorometholone acetate on all three. The 
patients were divided into 6 groups, each of which were simultaneously
administered the following different combinations of compounds: timolol and
diclofenac (group A), timolol and fluorometholone (group B), PV and diclofenac
(group C), PV and fluorometholone (group D), NPV and diclofenac (group E), and
NPV and fluorometholone (group F). The 6 groups were then compared using a laser 
flare cell meter to determine the degree of disruption of the blood-aqueous
barrier and fluorescein angiography to investigate angiographic CME. The
differences in mean daily fluctuations in intraocular pressure were compared on
the preoperative baseline day and for 5 weeks postoperatively. Twice daily
administration of 0.5% timolol maleate or the vehicles was started 2 days before 
surgery, and continued until 5 weeks after surgery. Diclofenac or fluorometholone
drops were instilled in the eyes 4 times preoperatively, on the day of surgery,
and 3 times daily for 5 weeks postoperatively.
RESULTS: The flare amount was higher on the third and seventh days in group B
than in group D, but was the same after the seventh day. The incidence of
angiographic CME was the same between both groups. These 2 factors were
significantly lower in group F. These 2 factors were also significantly lower in 
the 3 groups that received diclofenac instead of fluorometholone, with no
difference among these groups. The intraocular pressure decline was significant
in groups that received timolol compared with groups that received PV or NPV.
CONCLUSIONS: Timolol and its preservative, benzalkonium chloride, cause
disruption of the blood-aqueous barrier in early postoperative pseudophakia and
increased incidence of angiographic CME. The concurrent administration of
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug such as diclofenac prevents these adverse
effects without interfering with the drop in intraocular pressure caused by
timolol. The addition of benzalkonium chloride to timolol contributes
considerably to these adverse effects.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The present results suggest the cause of similar
complications produced by other antiglaucoma eyedrops containing similar
preservatives.


PMID: 11231772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1326. Ophthalmologica. 2001 Mar-Apr;215(2):108-12.

Comparative study of retinal nerve fiber layer loss in normal-tension glaucoma
and chronic open-angle glaucoma.

Matsuno K(1), Kurimoto Y, Umihira J, Hoya T, Yoshimura N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shinshu University School of Medicine, Matsumoto,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To clarify whether loss of the retinal nerve fiber layer in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) differs from that in chronic open-angle glaucoma
(COAG).
METHODS: Using a scanning laser polarimeter, retinal nerve fiber layer thickness 
(RNFLT) was measured in 21 patients with NTG, 21 patients with COAG and 21 normal
controls. The three groups were matched for age, and the NTG and COAG groups were
matched for visual field loss.
RESULTS: The mean RNFLT was significantly less in the NTG than in the control
group and less in the COAG than in the controls and NTG group. Although the
correlations between the parameters of RNFLT and homotopic visual field
measurements were significant in COAG, none of the correlations were significant 
in NTG.
CONCLUSIONS: The present results suggest that loss of the retinal nerve fiber
layer in NTG differs from that in COAG.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 50839 
PMID: 11244340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1327. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 2000;(232):41-2.

Corneal thickness in glaucoma: an important parameter?

Brusini P(1), Miani F, Tosoni C.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Unit, S: Maria della Misericordia, Udine.

Central corneal thickness was measured by pachometry in 49 patients with primary 
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 41 with ocular hypertension (OHT), 14 with normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) and 48 normal subjects. The mean corneal thickness of the 
OHT patients was significantly greater than that of the normal control group. The
NTG patients, on the other hand, had a cornea on average thinner than the
normals. These differences may cause misclassification of normals with a thick
cornea as ocular hypertensive eyes or, contrarywise, cause those normals whose
IOP is underestimated because of a thin cornea to be classed as NTG patients.


PMID: 11235530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1328. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 2000;(232):27-9.

Morphometric differences between optic discs in high tension and normal tension
glaucomas.

Iester M(1), Mickelberg FS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Colombia, Vancouver,
Canada.


PMID: 11235520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1329. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 2000;(232):12-3.

Ocular pressure increase by ibopamine discloses aqueous humour outflow changes in
normal tension eyes.

Virno M(1), De Gregorio F, Pannarale MR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, La Sapienza University, Rome.


PMID: 11235512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1330. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jan;85(1):118-9.

Familial thrombophilia and normal tension glaucoma.

Backhouse OC, Menage MJ, Mcverry BA.


PMCID: PMC1723688
PMID: 11201950  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1331. Ophthalmology. 2001 Feb;108(2):247-53.

Natural history of normal-tension glaucoma.

Anderson DR(1), Drance SM, Schulzer M; Collaborative Normal-Tension Glaucoma
Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Research Foundation, San Francisco, California, USA.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2002 Jan;109(1):3.
    Ophthalmology. 2002 Jun;109(6):1041-2.
    Ophthalmology. 2002 Jan;109(1):2-3.

OBJECTIVE: A recently reported randomized study described the role of intraocular
pressure (IOP) in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) pathogenesis and the effect of
therapeutic lowering of IOP. This is a report of an analysis of the natural
course of NTG during the time eyes were not receiving therapy, either in the time
interval awaiting randomization or after being randomly assigned not to receive
treatment to lower the IOP.
DESIGN: Analysis of prospectively collected data on the long-term course of a
cohort of untreated subjects with normal-tension glaucoma, a subset of subjects
enrolled in a randomized controlled clinical trial. RANDOMIZATION AND SUBJECT
SELECTION: If the field defect in the study eye threatened the point of fixation,
the subject was randomly assigned to start on treatment immediately or to be
observed without treatment until progression was documented. Otherwise, an eye
was randomly assigned only when and if, subsequent to enrollment, it showed
visual field progression, progression of optic disc cupping, or a new disc
hemorrhage.
PARTICIPANTS: Data were collected for this report on 160 subjects observed
without treatment among a total enrollment of 260. They consist of 49 subjects
who were randomly assigned on enrollment not to receive therapy, 24 followed
without treatment for a time until later being randomly assigned to treatment, 31
similarly followed without treatment and who were later randomly assigned to be
followed for an additional time without treatment, and 56 who enrolled but were
never randomly assigned.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Visual field data were used in this report only from the
interval during which the eye had not been assigned to receive therapy and were
analyzed by two measures of progression: the "survival" time to meeting a
criterion of confirmed localized progression and the rate of change in the mean
deviation (MD) index over time.
RESULTS: The four subgroups just described were similar at baseline, except that 
the average MD index was slightly better for the 56 eyes that never progressed
during the period of follow-up. By Kaplan-Meier analysis of all untreated
subjects combined, approximately one third showed localized progression within 3 
years and about half within 5 to 7 years. Of subjects followed for 3 years or
more, 62 of 109 did not show a statistically significant negative slope of MD
regressed over time, whereas the others showed a statistically significant MD
decline, mainly between -0.2 and -2 db per year.
CONCLUSIONS: Some cases of NTG progress more rapidly than others. Although
approximately half of cases showed a confirmed localized visual field
deterioration by 7 years, the change is typically small and slow, often
insufficient to measurably affect the MD index.


PMID: 11158794  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1332. Ophthalmology. 2001 Feb;108(2):245-6.

The "not quite" natural history of normal-tension glaucoma.

Caprioli J, Maguire M.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2002 Jun;109(6):1041-2.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 1997 Jul;104(7):1131-7.


PMID: 11158793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1333. Eye (Lond). 2000 Feb;14 ( Pt 1):64-6.

Ocular sequelae of pneumatic drills.

Mansour AM(1), Uwaydat SH, Khouri AS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, American University of Beirut, Lebanon.

PURPOSE: To determine the ocular sequelae of rock-drilling.
METHODS: Nineteen rock-drillers and 20 age-, sex- and race-matched control
subjects underwent ocular examination in a prospective manner.
RESULTS: Subepithelial corneal opacities were found in 12 drillers (63%) and none
of the controls; pigmented trabecular meshwork was noted in 13 drillers (68%) and
1 control (5%); low-tension glaucoma was diagnosed in 1 driller (5%); vitreous
liquefaction was present in 17 of 17 drillers (100%) examined by a retina
specialist and 9 of 20 controls (45%).
CONCLUSIONS: The sequelae of drilling include corneal scars from projectile
pieces of drilled stone as well as vibration-induced pigment deposition in the
trabecular meshwork and vitreous liquefaction. Wearing of safety glasses is
recommended.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2000.14 
PMID: 10755103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1334. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2000 Nov;238(11):922-6.

Scanning laser polarimetry, retinal nerve fiber layer photography, and perimetry 
in the diagnosis of glaucomatous nerve fiber defects.

Kremmer S(1), Ayertey HD, Selbach JM, Steuhl KP.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Hospital, Hufelandstrasse 55, 45122 Essen, Germany.
stephan.kremmer@uni-essen.de

BACKGROUND: Retinal nerve fiber layer defects are part of early glaucomatous
damage. In the present study, we compared the ability of retinal nerve fiber
layer photography (NFP) and scanning laser polarimetry (SLP) to detect nerve
fiber layer defects in glaucoma patients.
METHODS: Besides ophthalmological standard examinations, we performed NFP (Zeiss 
Ikon fundus camera 30 degrees, green filter), SLP (GDx, 1.0.14 and 2.0.09, LDT)
and automated perimetry (Oculus, Twinfield, 30 degrees) in 150 glaucoma patients 
[74 with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and 76 with normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG)]. The perimetric results were evaluated according to a modified Aulhorn
classification. NFP and SLP were graded according to Quigley.
RESULTS: In POAG, 42% of NFP and 5% of SLP were not evaluable. In NTG, 24% of NFP
and 4% of SLP were not evaluable. In POAG, NFP and SLP revealed a direct
agreement in 54.5%, and in NTG, 55%; there was a small difference of one stage in
39.5% (POAG) and 41% (NTG). In POAG, NFP/SLP showed agreement with perimetric
results in 35%/30% of cases and differences of one stage in 56%/58%. In NTG,
NFP/SLP agreed with perimetry in 52%/48% of cases and differed by only one stage 
in 32%/39%. Larger deviations were found in less than 13% of the cases.
CONCLUSIONS: NFP and SLP mostly showed good agreement or little deviation as to
grading of nerve fiber layer damage. In clinical use, SLP has advantages over NFP
because a higher rate of good-quality images can be obtained and pupils do not
have to be dilated. Additionally, SLP measurements provide quantitative data and 
a large normative data base exists.


PMID: 11148817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1335. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jan;85(1):56-62.

Slope analysis of the optic disc in eyes with ocular hypertension and early
normal tension glaucoma by confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope.

Dong J(1), Chihara E.

Author information: 
(1)Sensho-kai Eye Institute, Uji, Kyoto, Japan. jdong@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp

AIMS: To determine whether quantitative differences in sector based slope can
differentiate between eyes with ocular hypertension with and without glaucomatous
disc changes and eyes with normal tension glaucoma with glaucomatous disc
changes.
METHODS: Seventy six eyes with ocular hypertension or early glaucomatous disc
changes were consecutively categorised into three groups: 22 eyes with ocular
hypertension and no glaucomatous disc changes (OHND); 35 with ocular hypertension
and glaucomatous disc changes (OHD); and 19 with normal ocular tension and
glaucomatous disc changes (NTD). Twenty eyes served as controls. The average
total slope angle and sector based slope angle of the cup, total contour area,
effective area, neuroretinal rim area, half depth area, cup to disc ratio,
contour variation, mean contour depth, average depth, volume below, half depth
volume, and contour tilt were evaluated with a confocal scanning laser
ophthalmoscope.
RESULTS: The earliest changes in eyes with OHND or OHD started in the slope at
the nasal inferior sector (p<0.05), followed by the superior and temporal
superior sectors (p<0.05). The mean slopes in eyes with NTD and OHD were steeper 
than in controls (p<0.05). Statistically significant differences were found
between controls and disease groups in the half depth area, mean contour depth,
and half depth volume. The cup to disc ratios in eyes with OHD and NTD were
greater than in eyes with OHND; the volume below was greater in eyes with NTD
than in eyes with OHND and OHD.
CONCLUSIONS: The steep slope in the nasal inferior section is the first indicator
of glaucomatous nerve defects in many eyes. The half depth parameters, half depth
area, and half depth volume may be useful for distinguishing ocular hypertension 
with and without glaucomatous disc changes.


PMCID: PMC1723693
PMID: 11133713  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1336. Doc Ophthalmol. 2000 Jul;101(1):35-49.

The multifocal ERG in open angle glaucoma--a comparison of high and low contrast 
recordings in high- and low-tension open angle glaucoma.

Palmowski AM(1), Allgayer R, Heinemann-Vemaleken B.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsaugenklinik, Homburg, Germany. auapal@med-rz.uni-sb.de

High and low contrast multifocal ERG (MF-ERG) recordings were obtained from the
right eyes of 24 patients with OAG (high-tension OAG: n=16, low-tension OAG: n=8)
and compaired to those recorded from 18 healthy volunteers. High contrast MF-ERG 
recordings were obtained at a mean luminance of 100 cd/m2 with a contrast of 99%,
while low contrast MF-ERGs were obtained at a mean luminance of 100 cd/m2 with a 
contrast of 50%. During MF-ERG recordings the central 50 degrees of the retina
were stimulated by 103 hexagons. A MF-ERG recording lasted eight minutes, a
M-sequence of 2(15) was used. The first order response component (KI, mean focal 
flash response) and the first and second slice of the second order response
component (mean focal two flash interaction of flashes one, KII. 1, or two,
KII.2, base intervals apart) were analyzed for group differences. Group
differences were found mainly in latency measures. These included a delay in the 
central response average of the first positive peak, P1, in KII.2 (p < or = 0.05)
in OAG high contrast recordings. Low contrast recordings showed a significant
delay in the central response average of the first negative peak, Nl, in KII.2 as
well as in the peripheral response average of N1 in KI and of P1 in KII.2
(p<0.05) in OAG. Amplitudes were only affected significantly in KI of the low
contrast recordings. Here the amplitude N1P1 was significantly higher in high
tension (n=16) than in low tension (n=8) OAG patients. However, an overlap in all
of the response parameters tested allowed only group differences to be
characterized. Under these stimulus conditions, neither high contrast recordings 
nor low contrast recordings seem sensitive enough to reliably recognize early
glaucomatous retinal dysfunction.


PMID: 11128967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1337. Ophthalmologica. 2001 Jan-Feb;215(1):34-8.

The relationship between intraocular pressure and glaucoma in a defined
population. Data from the Egna-Neumarkt Glaucoma Study.

Bonomi L(1), Marchini G, Marraffa M, Morbio R.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Oculistica, Università degli studi di Verona, Verona, Italy.
oculist@borgotrento.univr.it

PURPOSE: To provide data on the prevalence of ocular hypertension and glaucoma
and on the diagnostic validity of tonometry.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional, population-based study, 4,927 subjects over 40 
years of age were examined. Each subject underwent a complete ocular examination 
as part of the Egna-Neumarkt Glaucoma Study. These examinations were carried out 
by trained, quality-controlled ophthalmologists, according to a predetermined
standard protocol that included a medical interview, applanation tonometry,
computerized perimetry, optic nerve head examination and other ocular
measurements. The following data were recorded: mean IOP, prevalence of ocular
hypertension, primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma.
Sensitivity, specificity and the predictive value of the tonometric test, as well
as the distribution of IOP in the different groups were also determined.
RESULTS: The overall prevalence of ocular hypertension, hypertensive primary
open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma corresponded to 2.1, 1.4 and
0.6%, respectively. Other types of glaucoma accounted for a further 0.9%. The
sensitivity and specificity of the tonometric test in recognizing glaucoma
(cut-off between 21 and 22 mm Hg) were, respectively, 80.1 and 97.8%. The
predictive values of the positivity and negativity of the test were 52.1 and
99.4%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of ocular hypertension and glaucoma was similar to
that found in several recent epidemiological studies. Tonometry alone is
obviously not sufficient to ascertain or to exclude the presence of glaucoma; its
diagnostic validity however is high and should never be underestimated. An
elevated IOP is the main risk factor for glaucoma, with the degree of risk
increasing as the level of IOP increases.

DOI: 50823 
PMID: 11125267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1338. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2000 Oct;217(4):219-24.

[Central corneal thickness in normal eyes, patients with ocular hypertension,
normal-pressure and open-angle glaucomas--a clinical study].

[Article in German]

Velten IM(1), Bergua A, Horn FK, Jünemann A, Korth M.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg.
isabel.velten@augen.imed.uni-erlangen.de

Comment in
    Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2001 Jun;218(6):466-7.

BACKGROUND: The relation between Goldmann applanation tonometry and central
corneal thickness (CCT) was investigated in several studies during the last
thirty years. It was the aim of the present study to evaluate CCT in normals,
patients with ocular hypertension, low-tension, and open-angle glaucomas.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: CCT was measured in 135 normal eyes, 137 with ocular
hypertension, 65 with low-tension, and 94 with primary and secondary open-angle
glaucomas using the AL-11000-pachymeter (Tomey). The results were compared using 
the unpaired t-test.
RESULTS: CCT was significantly higher in the patients with ocular hypertension
(586 +/- 43 microns) than in the normal group (566 +/- 37 microns, p < 0.0001),
in low-tension glaucomas (555 +/- 46 microns, p < 0.0001), and in open-angle
glaucomas (558 +/- 31 microns, p < 0.0001). The latter three groups did not
differ significantly. There was no significant correlation between CCT and age,
the actually measured IOP, the highest IOP in the patient's history, or the
spherical equivalent.
CONCLUSIONS: Only patients with ocular hypertension showed a significant
difference in CCT compared with normals. Pachymetry thus should be conducted in
those patients to avoid overestimation of the IOP by applanation tonometry. In
most of the patients with low-tension and open-angle glaucomas however, CCT
regarded without other parameters (e.g. corneal or scleral rigidity) plays a
minor role in detection of elevated IOP according to the results of this study.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-10352 
PMID: 11098456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1339. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2000 Nov-Dec;44(6):643-7.

Central corneal thickness of normal tension glaucoma patients in Japan.

Wu LL(1), Suzuki Y, Ideta R, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo, School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare central corneal thickness (CCT) of patients with normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) with that of age-matched normal subjects, patients with
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and ocular hypertension (OH) subjects in Japan.
METHODS: Central corneal thickness was measured in 79 NTG, 61 POAG, 73 OH, and 50
normal subjects with an ultrasonic pachymeter. One eye for 1 subject randomly
selected in each group was used for inter-group comparison. The relationship
between CCT and the maximum intraocular pressure (IOP) measured by Goldmann
applanation tonometer with no ocular hypotensive medication (NTG, OH, and normal 
subjects) or under medication (POAG patients) was analyzed.
RESULTS: The CCT of OH subjects (582 +/- 32 microm; mean +/- SD) was
significantly greater than that of the other groups (P <.001), while no
difference was seen in CCT among normal (552 +/- 36 microm), NTG (548 +/- 33
microm) and POAG (550 +/- 33 microm) subjects. In normal subjects, CCT and the
maximum IOP were significantly correlated but the correlation coefficient was
small (r = 0.420, P <.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Central corneal thickness shows no significant difference among NTG,
POAG, and normal subjects in Japan, while it is significantly greater in OH
subjects. The CCT has little influence on the diagnosis of NTG in Japan.


PMID: 11094181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1340. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 Nov;130(5):670-2.

Normal-tension glaucoma with reversed ophthalmic artery flow.

Hashimoto M(1), Ohtsuka K, Ohtsuka H, Nakagawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sapporo Medical University, School of Medicine,
Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan.

PURPOSE: To describe a case of normal-tension glaucoma with bilateral complete
occlusion of the internal carotid artery.
METHODS: A 58-year-old man who had a 2-year history of normal-tension glaucoma in
the left eye presented with ocular ischemic syndrome. To evaluate the orbital
circulation, cerebral angiography and color Doppler imaging were performed.
RESULTS: Cerebral angiography showed bilateral complete occlusion of the internal
carotid artery and collateral blood supply through the right and left ophthalmic 
arteries, in which the flow was reversed. Moreover, color Doppler imaging
revealed lower blood flow velocities in the left central retinal and short
posterior ciliary arteries, suggesting a steal phenomenon.
CONCLUSION: Normal-tension glaucoma in the present case may be caused by chronic 
reduction of retrobulbar blood flow resulting from a steal phenomenon.


PMID: 11078851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1341. Br J Ophthalmol. 2000 Nov;84(11):1233-7.

Central corneal thickness determined with optical coherence tomography in various
types of glaucoma.

Bechmann M(1), Thiel MJ, Roesen B, Ullrich S, Ulbig MW, Ludwig K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ludwig-Maximilians- University, Munich, Germany. 
mbechman@ak-i.med.uni-muenchen.de

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Nov;85(11):1394.

AIMS: To evaluate central corneal thickness determined by optical coherence
tomography (OCT) in various types of glaucoma, and its influence on intraocular
pressure (IOP) measurement.
METHODS: Central corneal thickness (CCT) was determined by using OCT in 167
subjects (167 eyes). 20 had primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), 42 had low
tension glaucoma (LTG), 22 had ocular hypertension (OHT), 10 had primary angle
closure glaucoma (AC), 24 had pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEX), 13 had pigmentary
glaucoma (PIG), and 36 were normal.
RESULTS: CCT was significantly higher in ocular hypertensive subjects (593 (SD
35) microm, p <0.0001) than in the controls (530 (32) microm), whereas patients
with LTG (482 (28) microm, p < 0. 0001), PEX (493 (33) microm, p <0.0001), and
POAG (512 (30) microm, p <0.05) showed significantly lower readings. There was no
statistically significant difference between the controls and patients with PIG
(510 (39) microm) and AC (539 (37) microm).
CONCLUSIONS: Because of thinner CCT in patients with LTG, PEX, and POAG this may 
result in underestimation of IOP, whereas thicker corneas may lead to an
overestimation of IOP in subjects with OH. By determining CCT with OCT, a new and
precise technique to measure CCT, this study emphasises the need for a combined
measurement of IOP and CCT in order to obtain exact IOP readings.


PMCID: PMC1723313
PMID: 11049946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1342. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2000 Sep 1;44(5):573-574.

Optic Disc Blood Flow Measured by Scanning Laser-Doppler Flowmetry Using a New
Analysis Program.

Hayashi N(1), Tomita G, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Self Defense Forces Central Hospital, Gifu, Japan

Purpose: Using a new analysis program for scanning laser-Doppler flowmetry (SLDF)
by a Heidelberg retina flowmeter (HRF), we studied the relation between flow and 
visual field or disc morphology.Subjects and Methods: In 42 eyes of 21 patients
with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) the mean-flow of the HRF blood flow parameters
at the disc rim was measured and analyzed by a new analysis program for perfusion
maps (the SLDF analysis tool), to minimize the influence of large vessels or/and 
artifacts caused by small eye movements. We investigated whether difference of
the mean-flow between a pair of eyes had any relation to differences between a
pair of eyes in visual field indices and those in disc morphological measurements
of the Heidelberg retina tomograph.Results: We found statistically significant
correlations between the mean-flow and optic disc parameters (Disk Area, Cup
Area, Height Variation Contour, Cup Volume, Rim Volume, Mean RNFL Thickness). We 
found no statistically significant correlations between the mean-flow and visual 
field parameters (mean deviation, corrected pattern standard
deviation).Conclusion: The results suggested that eyes with less flow in the
optic disc rim have more advanced glaucomatous morphological changes.


PMID: 11033151  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1343. Br J Ophthalmol. 2000 Sep;84(9):1078.

Promoter mutations of myocilin gene in Japanese patients with open angle glaucoma
including normal tension glaucoma.

Suzuki R, Hattori Y, Okano K.


PMCID: PMC1723629
PMID: 11032443  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1344. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 Oct;130(4):454-60.

Retrobulbar hemodynamics in normal-tension glaucoma with asymmetric visual field 
change and asymmetric ocular perfusion pressure.

Kondo Y(1), Niwa Y, Yamamoto T, Sawada A, Harris A, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate retrobulbar hemodynamics by means of color Doppler
imaging in normal-tension glaucoma with asymmetric visual field change and
asymmetric ocular perfusion pressure.
METHODS: Forty-nine consecutive patients who met the enrollment criteria were
enrolled in a prospective study. We measured intraocular pressure at 2-hour
intervals for 24 hours and performed color Doppler imaging of the orbital
arteries, 48-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, and visual field testing.
Color Doppler parameters were compared between subjects with higher ocular
perfusion pressure in the eye that had a better mean deviation (concordant group)
and worse mean deviation (discordant group).
RESULTS: In the eyes with the better mean deviation, the end-diastolic velocity
of the ophthalmic artery was significantly slower in the discordant group
(P=.0145), while in the eyes with the worse mean deviation, the peak systolic and
end-diastolic velocities of the ophthalmic artery were significantly slower and
the resistance index of the ophthalmic artery was significantly higher in the
discordant group (P=.0395, P=.0088, and P=.0324, respectively). In the concordant
group, the end-diastolic velocity of the central retinal artery was slower in
eyes with a worse mean deviation.
CONCLUSION: Retrobulbar hemodynamics are significantly altered in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma who have better ocular perfusion pressure in the eye that
has a worse mean deviation.


PMID: 11024417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1345. Oftalmologia. 2000;50(1):37-41.

[The congener eye in patients with unilateral classical malignant glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Călugăru M.

PURPOSE: To prospectively study in a follow-up period, ranging from 5 to 20
years, "the fate" of the fellow eye in patients with unilateral classical
malignant glaucoma.
METHODS: The fellow eye of 10 patients had been thoroughly examined immediately
after the beginning of an adequate therapy of the unilateral classical malignant 
glaucoma.
RESULTS: In 6 cases the fellow eye was apparently normal and 4 cases exhibited an
intermittent primary angle-closure glaucoma. Surgery of the fellow eye was
accepted immediately by two patients; in one a peripheral iridectomy was carried 
out and in the other one a trabeculectomy. The other 8 patients initially turned 
down surgery but accepted in thereafter in a period of time ranging between 1 and
8 years. A peripheral iridectomy was performed in two cases, a trabeculectomy in 
other two and a combined procedure (trabeculectomy with pars plana aspiration of 
the aqueous trapped within the vitreous in 3 cases and the same procedure plus
lens extraction on one patient) in the remaining 4 cases, since they developed
into a primary chronic angle-closure glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Prophylactic surgery should be best done when the fellow eye is
apparently normal having an entirely open angle and both the ocular tension and
the visual function normal. The treatment of the advanced primary chronic
angle-closure glaucoma of the fellow eye consists in trabeculectomy with pars
plana aspiration associated with cataract extraction if the lens is opaque.


PMID: 11021105  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1346. Ophthalmic Res. 2000 Nov-Dec;32(6):299-304.

Serum methanol levels in subjects with or without optic nerve head disease.

Hayasaka Y(1), Hayasaka S, Hiraki S, Kadoi C, Nagaki Y, Matsumoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Toyama Medical and Pharmaceutical University,
Toyama, Japan.

We evaluated serum methanol levels in subjects with or without optic nerve head
disease. Serum methanol levels were determined using gas chromatography in 71
patients with optic nerve head disease and in 127 subjects without optic nerve
head disease. Their ages ranged from 17 to 89 years. Serum methanol levels in 127
subjects without optic nerve head disease ranged from 0.12 to 3.86 microg/ml
(mean +/- standard deviation, 1.72 +/- 0.86 microg/ml). In the subjects without
optic nerve head disease, the differences in the levels between those with
cataract versus retinal detachment, men versus women, and between each age-group 
(50-80 years) were not significant. The methanol levels in patients with optic
neuritis (n = 2), Wolfram syndrome (n = 1), Leber hereditary optic neuropathy at 
the late stage (n = 2), retinitis pigmentosa (n = 23), and primary open-angle
glaucoma (n = 16) were less than 3.86 microg/ml. Methanol levels in 1 patient
with Leber hereditary optic neuropathy at the acute stage was 5.28 microg/ml. Of 
10 patients with primary angle-closure glaucoma, 1 had a slightly elevated level 
and 9 had levels less than 3.86 microg/ml. Of 17 patients with normal tension
glaucoma, 5 had methanol levels higher than 3.86 microg/ml, and 12 patients had
levels less than 3.86 microg/ml. The present study shows that serum methanol
levels in subjects without optic nerve head disease ranged from 0.12 to 3.86
microg/ml and were much lower than the levels that produce acute ocular symptoms 
of methanol intoxication. It is possible that high serum methanol levels may play
a part in the acute stage of Leber hereditary optic neuropathy and normal tension
glaucoma in certain patients. It is unlikely that increased serum methanol levels
participate in primary angle-closure glaucoma.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 55629 
PMID: 11015042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1347. Ophthalmology. 2000 Oct;107(10):1809-15.

Mapping the visual field to the optic disc in normal tension glaucoma eyes.

Garway-Heath DF(1), Poinoosawmy D, Fitzke FW, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, England UK. Department of
Visual Science, Institute of Ophthalmology, London, England UK.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2001 Oct;108(10):1714.

PURPOSE: To establish the anatomical relationship between visual field test
points in the Humphrey 24-2 test pattern and regions of the optic nerve head
(ONH) DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Glaucoma patients and suspects from the Normal Tension Glaucoma
Clinic at Moorfields Eye Hospital.
METHODS: Sixty-nine retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) photographs with
well-defined RNFL defects and/or prominent bundles were digitized. An
appropriately scaled Humphrey 24-2 visual field grid and an ONH reference circle,
divided into 30 degrees sectors, were generated digitally. These were
superimposed onto the RNFL images. The relationship of visual field test points
to the circumference of the ONH was estimated by noting the proximity of test
points to RNFL defects and/or prominent bundles. The position of the ONH in
relation to the fovea was also noted.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The sector at the ONH corresponding to each visual field
test point, the position of the ONH in relation to the fovea, and the effect of
the latter on the former.
RESULTS: A median 22 (range, 4-58), of a possible 69, ONH positions were assigned
to each visual field test point. The standard deviation of estimations was 7.2
degrees. The position of the ONH was 15.5 degrees (standard deviation 0.9 degrees
) nasal and 1.9 degrees (standard deviation 1.0 degrees ) above the fovea. The
location of the ONH had a significant effect on the corresponding position at the
ONH for 28 of 52 visual field test points.
CONCLUSIONS: A clinically useful map that relates visual field test points to
regions of the ONH has been produced. The map will aid clinical evaluation of
glaucoma patients and suspects, as well as form the basis for investigations of
the relationship between retinal light sensitivity and ONH structure.


PMID: 11013178  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1348. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2000 Aug;238(8):669-76.

Measurement of a novel optic disc topographic parameter, "spikiness", in
glaucoma.

Morgan-Davies J(1), King AJ, Aspinall P, O'Brien CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Visual Impairment Research Group, Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh, Scotland,
UK.

BACKGROUND: Structural changes in the lamina cribrosa have been implicated in the
pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic atrophy, but not observed. This paper presents
a novel parameter of topographic variability within the optic disc, termed
"spikiness", which may reflect glaucoma-related changes in the lamina.
METHODS: Four age-matched groups of normal patients (n=12, mean age 64.8 years)
and patients with ocular hypertension (n=14, mean age 63.1), primary open-angle
glaucoma (n=11, mean age 70) and low-tension glaucoma (n=15, mean age 66.3) were 
recruited. Images of normal and glaucomatous eyes from the Heidelberg Retina
Tomograph were imported into ERDAS image processing software where the spikiness 
data (30 consecutive mean surface height values across the base of the optic cup 
in both the vertical and horizontal meridians) were extracted in a format that
facilitated further statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Significant differences in topographic variability (spikiness) existed
in the vertical (F=3.64, P=0.01) but not the horizontal meridian (F=1.25, P=0.3) 
through the optic disc. Spikiness was inversely related to Humphrey mean
deviation (P<0.05), and cup-disc ratio (P<0.004) and was directly related to
nerve fibre layer thickness (P<0.005). Of particular interest was the finding
that the spikiness measure was the only optic disc parameter to significantly
discriminate low tension glaucoma from primary open angle glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: A new measure of surface variability (topography) at the floor of the
optic cup has been described. The new index of spikiness may represent a
measurement of lamina cribrosa fragility which has been implicated, but not
previously estimated, in glaucomatous eyes.


PMID: 11011687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1349. Int Ophthalmol. 1999;23(1):3-10.

Changes in optic nerve head blood flow and retrobular hemodynamics following
calcium-channel blocker treatment of normal-tension glaucoma.

Tomita G(1), Niwa Y, Shinohara H, Hayashi N, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu-ken,
Japan. gtom-gifC@umin.u-tokyo.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Because calcium channel blockers reduce vascular resistance, they may
have a clinical application in the treatment of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
This study investigates changes in both the optic disc blood flow and the
hemodynamics of retrobulbar vessels in NTG patients after the systemic
administration of a calcium channel blocker.
METHODS: Twelve eyes of 12 NTG patients (mean age 57.6 +/- 15.3 years) were
examined before and after a 4-week treatment with 2 mg b.i.d. oral nilvadipine,
an L-typc calcium channel blocker. By scanning laser-Doppler flowmetry (SLDF), we
obtained the velocity, flow, and volume from within a 10 x 10 pixel window placed
on the temporal rim region of the optic disc perfusion map. By ultrasound color
Doppler imaging (CDI), we measured the peak systolic velocity (PSV) and the end
diastolic velocity (EDV) of the ophthalmic artery (OA), central retinal artery
(CRA), nasal posterior ciliary artery (NPCA), and temporal posterior ciliary
artery (TPCA). We then calculated a resistance index (RI) for each vessel.
RESULTS: After treatment, the flow and velocity of the optic disc blood flow
significantly increased (P < 0.05). Nilvadipine also significantly reduced RIs of
the CRA, NPCA, and TPCA (P < 0.05), and increased both the PSV of the NPCA and
the EDVs of the CRA, NPCA, and TPCA. The percent change in velocity correlated
significantly with the percent changes of the CRA RI and NPCA RI.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral nilvadipine appears to reduce orbital vascular resistance,
which consequently increases the optic disc blood flow.


PMID: 11008892  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1350. Br J Ophthalmol. 2000 Oct;84(10):1154-8.

Comparison of visual field progression in patients with normal pressure glaucoma 
between eyes with and without visual field loss that threatens fixation.

Membrey WL(1), Poinoosawmy DP, Bunce C, Fitzke FW, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, City Road, London EC1V 2PD, UK.

AIM: To compare the frequency and site of visual field progression and changes in
visual acuity in patients with normal pressure glaucoma (NPG) with and without
pre-existing visual field loss.
METHOD: Patients with normal tension glaucoma were selected who had at least 10
visual fields over 5 or more years of follow up and no other condition that might
influence the visual field or visual acuity. Alternate left and right eyes were
selected from patients in random order. These eyes were then subdivided according
to visual field defect threatening fixation, visual field defect not threatening 
fixation, and no visual field defect (fellow eyes). Eyes were defined as showing 
a threat to fixation according to the presence of a visual field defect involving
one of more of four paracentral visual field locations. Pointwise linear
regression analysis was applied to each visual field series using PROGRESSOR
software. Progression of visual field loss was defined as the appearance of a
regression slope 1 dB per year or more with a significance of p<0.01, which
remained consistent with the addition of two of three successive visual fields to
the series. The number of patients showing progression and the number where
progression occurred in one of the four paracentral visual field locations was
noted. The number of eyes losing two or more lines of Snellen visual acuity over 
the follow up period was also noted.
RESULTS: 174 eyes of 174 patients were selected. 106 eyes had visual field loss
threatening fixation, 46 eyes had visual field loss that did not threaten
fixation, and 22 were fellow eyes with normal visual fields. The median follow up
was 7.2 years. Eight eyes (36.4%) in the "normal visual fields" group, 31 eyes
(67.4%) in the "visual field loss away from fixation" group, and 87 eyes (82.1%) 
in the "threat to fixation" group showed progression in any part of the visual
field. Two eyes (9.1%) in the "normal visual fields" group, nine eyes (19.6%) in 
the "visual field loss away from fixation" group, and 45 eyes (42.5%) in the
"threat to fixation" group showed progression at "threat to fixation". The Cox
proportional hazards regression model showed an increased risk of progression at 
any part of the visual field for female sex and a decreased risk for eyes with
normal visual fields. For progression at threat to fixation this model showed an 
increased risk with pre-existing threat to fixation. Eyes from older patients and
those that went on to have progressive visual field loss at fixation were more
likely to lose two lines of Snellen visual acuity over the follow up period.
CONCLUSION: Since 20-30% of previously field damaged eyes and over 60% without
prior field loss fail to demonstrate progressive visual field damage over a long 
follow up it is recommended that normal pressure glaucoma patients be monitored
for progression and that potentially harmful therapy be withheld until
progression is demonstrated. Although the presence of visual field loss that
threatens fixation does not constitute an increased risk of visual field
progression it does indicate an increased risk of further loss of visual field
close to fixation which is in turn associated with loss of central acuity. In the
light of this finding, patients with visual field loss that threatens fixation
should be managed more aggressively.


PMCID: PMC1723256
PMID: 11004102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1351. Hum Mutat. 2000 Sep;16(3):270.

Novel mutations in the myocilin gene in Japanese glaucoma patients.

Kubota R(1), Mashima Y, Ohtake Y, Tanino T, Kimura T, Hotta Y, Kanai A, Tokuoka
S, Azuma I, Tanihara H, Inatani M, Inoue Y, Kudoh J, Oguchi Y, Shimizu N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
rkubota@u.washington.edu

Myocilin is a gene responsible for juvenile onset primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) mapped as the GLC1A locus and, many mutations have been reported
worldwide. Some mutations were found not only in patients with juvenile onset
POAG, but also in patients with late onset POAG and in patients with normal
tension glaucoma. To investigate the mutation prevalence in Japan, we performed a
mutation analysis in 140 unrelated Japanese patients. We have identified the 10
sequence variants, of which four were highly probable for disease-causing
mutations (Arg46ter, Arg158Gln, Ile360Asn, and Ala363Thr), and six polymorphisms 
(Gln19His, Arg76Lys, Asp208Glu, Val439Val, Arg470His, and Ala488Ala). Thus,
myocilin mutations were found at the rate of 4/140 (2.9%) probands, similar to
previous reports with other ethnic populations.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1098-1004(200009)16:3<270::AID-HUMU13>3.0.CO;2-M 
PMID: 10980537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1352. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2000 Aug;104(8):590-5.

[Study on the progression of visual field defect and clinical factors in
normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanaka C(1), Yamazaki Y, Yokoyama H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: We investigated the relationship between the progression of visual field
defect and clinical factors in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Forty-eight eyes of 48 NTG patients undergoing more than
5-year follow-up were enrolled in this study. Their visual field defects ranged
between Aulhorn's classification stage 2 and 4, and mean deviation (MD) more than
-10 dB measured by Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA). End points of this follow-up
study were defined as follows: in HFA STATPAC 2 glaucoma change probability
analysis, more than 5 points which significantly deteriorated at p < 0.05 were
found at 2 consecutive examinations (Criterion 1) or a significant decrease in MD
value at p < 0.025 was encountered at one examination or in MD value at p < 0.05 
at consecutive examinations (Criterion 2).
RESULTS: During the follow-up period, 18 eyes of 48 patients satisfied Criterion 
1 and 21 eyes Criterion 2. There were no significant differences in clinical
factors between patients with progression and without progression. By multiple
logistic regression analysis, minimum flow velocity of central retinal artery
(CRA) showed significant relation (odds ratio for a 1 cm/sec rise = 0.2215; 95%
confidence interval: 0.0530-0.9253) to progression of visual field defect in
Criterion 1, and minimum flow velocity of CRA (odds ratio for a 1 cm/sec rise =
0.2099; 95% confidence interval: 0.0506-0.8712) and cholesterol (odds ratio for a
1 cm/dl rise = 1.0332; 95% confidence interval: 0.4096-2.6064) showed significant
relation in Criterion 2.
CONCLUSION: These results suggests that vascular risk factors of ocular blood
flow may play a role in the progression of visual field defects in NTG patients.


PMID: 10979301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1353. J Glaucoma. 2000 Aug;9(4):322-4.

Effect of wind instrument playing on intraocular pressure.

Aydin P(1), Oram O, Akman A, Dursun D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Baskent University, School of Medicine, Ankara,
Turkey.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of wind instrument playing on intraocular
pressure.
METHODS: In a prospective, nonrandomized clinical trial, 24 eyes of 24 wind
instrument players with no history of any ocular or systemic disease were
evaluated. The musicians were members of Bilkent Academic Symphony Orchestra of
Bilkent University in Ankara. A complete eye examination, including
best-corrected visual acuity, slit-lamp examination, and fundus examination, was 
performed. The intraocular pressure was measured before and after a 90-minute
rehearsal of a piece by Wagner. All intraocular pressure measurements were
carried out by the same researcher using Goldmann applanation tonometry. The
difference in intraocular pressure measurements before and after the 90-minute
wind instrument-playing performance was analyzed.
RESULTS: The mean intraocular pressure was 13.79 +/- 1.93 mm Hg before and 15.12 
+/- 2.44 mm Hg after the performance. Wind instrument playing significantly
increased the mean intraocular pressure by 9.6% (P = 0.0149).
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that wind instrument playing may significantly
increase intraocular pressure in healthy patients. The significance of this
finding for patients with suspected normal-tension or high-tension glaucoma needs
further evaluation.


PMID: 10958606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1354. J Glaucoma. 2000 Aug;9(4):296-302.

Reduced recovery of temporal contrast sensitivity after flicker stress in
patients with glaucoma.

Cursiefen C(1), Horn F, Jünemann AG, Korth M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen,
Germany.

PURPOSE: To compare recovery of temporal contrast sensitivity after flicker
stress between control subjects and patients with glaucoma.
METHODS: Forty-three patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and secondary
open-angle or normal-tension glaucoma of the Erlangen Glaucoma Registry and 30
healthy control subjects had their temporal contrast sensitivity measured at 37
Hz and their recovery time determined after monocular exposure to 30 seconds of
58% contrast full-field flicker. Recovery time of temporal contrast sensitivity
was measured as the time interval from cessation of flicker until twice the
threshold value was reached.
RESULTS: Patients with glaucoma had a significant reduction in temporal contrast 
sensitivity (P < 0.001). Recovery time was also significantly longer in patients 
with glaucoma (23.8 +/- 24.1 seconds) than in control subjects (7.6 +/- 2.6
seconds; P < 0.001). There was a significant positive correlation between
recovery time and mean visual field defect (0.5; P < 0.001) and a significant
negative correlation between recovery time and neuroretinal rim area of the optic
disc (0.32; P = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Recovery of temporal contrast sensitivity after flicker stress is
impaired in some patients with glaucoma. This might be the result of functional
impairment of the inner retina, outer retina, or both in glaucoma.


PMID: 10958602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1355. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2000 Jun;115(6):323-8.

[Pharmacological profiles of the potent carbonic anhydrase inhibitor dorzolamide 
hydrochloride, a topical antiglaucoma agent].

[Article in Japanese]

Kobayashi M(1), Naito K.

Author information: 
(1)Tsukuba Research Institute, Pharmacology, Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.,
Japan.

Carbonic anhydrase (CA) plays an important role in the secretion of aqueous
humor. The orally administered CA inhibitor acetazolamide lowers the intraocular 
pressure (IOP) of patients with glaucoma. However, approximately 50% of patients 
stop treatment with acetazolamide as a consequence of intolerable side effects
due to the extraocular inhibition of the enzyme. This prompted attempts to
develop a topically active CA inhibitor. Merck Research Laboratories focused on
developing a water- and solvent-soluble compound to penetrate the cornea.
Dorzolamide hydrochloride is a potent inhibitor of human CA isoenzyme II, with an
IC50 value of 0.18 nM in vitro. In contrast, its inhibitory activity against
human CA isozyme I is much weaker (IC50 value of 600 nM). Topically administered 
dorzolamide penetrated the ciliary body, inhibited its CA activity and had a
hypotensive effect in rabbits; in contrast, topical administration of
acetazolamide or methazolamide did not decrease IOP. In clinical trials,
dorzolamide administered 3 times daily was effective in lowering IOP in patients 
with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. The hypotensive effect of
dorzolamide 0.5% was similar to that of oral CA inhibitors or timolol (0.25%)
twice daily. Dorzolamide did not induce the severe systemic adverse events
associated with oral CA inhibitors. Dorzolamide was as effective as pilocarpine
or dipivefrine as an adjunctive therapy in patients receiving beta-adrenergic
antagonists. Dorzolamide also reduced IOP and accelerated retinal arteriovenous
passage time in addition to improving visual function in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 10948564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1356. Klin Oczna. 2000;102(2):115-8.

[Assessment of the retinal blood flow by DRG retina Doppler in primary open angle
glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Załuczkowska-Marcela K(1), Rusek P, Dudziński A, Filipecka I.

Author information: 
(1)I Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki Slaskiej AM, Katowice.

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to evaluate the blood flow in central retinal
artery (CRA) in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma
(NTG).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Two groups of patients were examined: I group consisted of 
15 patients (19 eyes) with POAG, II group of 16 patients (32 eyes) with NTG. The 
controls were age-matched healthy persons. Blood flow velocities and resistance
index in central retinal artery were measured by DRG Retina-Doppler.
RESULTS: We found decreased blood flow velocity in CRA in most of the patients
with NTG and in part of the patients with POAG. Significant increase of
resistance index was found only in NTG group.
CONCLUSION: Our study confirmed that assessment of the blood flow in central
retinal artery appears to be a valuable method in diagnosis of neuropathy
mechanism in glaucoma.


PMID: 10932892  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1357. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 Jun;129(6):804-6.

Increased eyelid pigmentation associated with use of latanoprost.

Kook MS(1), Lee K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ulsan University School of Medicine, Asan Medical
Center, Seoul, South Korea.

PURPOSE: To report increased eyelid pigmentation as an adverse side effect
associated with topical latanoprost.
METHOD: Case report. A 62-year-old Korean woman with normal-tension glaucoma
developed bilateral increased eyelid skin pigmentation 4 months after beginning
treatment with latanoprost in both eyes. Clinical examinations were performed,
and external photographs were taken.
RESULT: Latanoprost was discontinued. Periodic examinations revealed that the
eyelid skin pigmentation gradually diminished 1 month after the cessation of the 
drug, and decrease in pigmentation continued over 4 months of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: An increase in eyelid skin pigmentation is a possible complication of
topical latanoprost therapy, and the cessation of the drug can result in loss of 
induced pigmentation in humans.


PMID: 10926995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1358. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 Jun;129(6):796-7.

Hemorrhage of the optic disk in normal-tension glaucoma.

Shields MB.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 Jun;129(6):707-14.


PMID: 10926990  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1359. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 Jun;129(6):707-14.

Disk hemorrhage is a significantly negative prognostic factor in normal-tension
glaucoma.

Ishida K(1), Yamamoto T, Sugiyama K, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu-shi,
Japan.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 Jun;129(6):796-7.

PURPOSE: We investigated the relationship between disk hemorrhage in
normal-tension glaucoma and the progression of visual field defects and,
additionally, whether hemorrhage plays a role in the pathogenic process of the
chronic disease.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the charts of 70 patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (mean follow-up, 5.6 years) who were not medicated for
glaucoma, and we applied a regression analysis of survival data based on the Cox 
proportional hazards model. Several clinical factors were investigated to find a 
possible association with the progression of glaucomatous visual field defined by
two different definitions: one by mean deviation change and the other by glaucoma
change probability analysis.
RESULTS: Disk hemorrhage, corrected-pattern standard deviation, age, systolic
blood pressure, and pulse rate had a significant influence on the visual field
defect. The cumulative probability of progression of visual field loss was
significantly greater for patients with disk hemorrhage than for patients without
disk hemorrhage by either criterion for progression (P </=.0008, logrank test).
All eyes that had at least two occurrences of disk hemorrhage showed progression,
whereas only three of nine eyes showed progression in the nonrecurrent disk
hemorrhage group by the glaucoma change probability analysis. The difference was 
statistically significant (P <.0001, Fisher's exact probability test).
Furthermore, there was a significant relationship between the location of the
disk hemorrhage and the area of the progression of visual field loss in 65.4% of 
progressive patients with disk hemorrhage.
CONCLUSIONS: Several clinical factors other than intraocular pressure are
significantly associated with the progression of visual field loss during the
natural course of normal-tension glaucoma. Among these, disk hemorrhage is a
significantly negative prognostic factor in patients with normal-tension glaucoma
and may be a sign of progressive damage of the retinal nerve fiber layer, leading
to functional deterioration of the visual field.


PMID: 10926977  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1360. Arch Ophthalmol. 2000 Aug;118(8):1044-7.

Assessment of retinal nerve fiber layer internal reflectivity in eyes with and
without glaucoma using optical coherence tomography.

Pons ME(1), Ishikawa H, Gürses-Ozden R, Liebmann JM, Dou HL, Ritch R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, NY,
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the internal reflectivity of the retinal nerve fiber layer
in normal, ocular hypertensive, and glaucomatous eyes using optical coherence
tomography.
METHODS: All patients underwent complete ophthalmic examination and achromatic
automated perimetry. Intraocular pressure was 21 mm Hg or less for low-tension
glaucoma and normal eyes and at least 25 mm Hg on 2 separate occasions in ocular 
hypertensive and high-tension glaucoma eyes. All glaucomatous eyes had
characteristic glaucomatous optic neuropathy and associated achromatic automated 
perimetry defect. Relative retinal nerve fiber layer internal reflectivity was
measured on optical coherence tomography images using a software program of our
own design.
RESULTS: We enrolled 98 eyes (19 normal, 34 ocular hypertensive, 17 high-tension 
glaucoma, and 28 low-tension glaucoma). Relative internal reflectivity was less
in eyes with glaucoma than in normal (P<.001, t test) and ocular hypertensive
eyes (P<.001, t test). There was no difference in relative internal reflectivity 
between normal and ocular hypertensive eyes (P =.32) and between eyes with
high-tension glaucoma and low-tension glaucoma (P =.43). Internal reflectivity
correlated with mean deviation on achromated automatic perimetry (r(2) = 0.49,
P<.001, quadratic regression analysis).
CONCLUSION: Relative retinal nerve fiber layer internal reflectivity may provide 
useful information about the extent of retinal nerve fiber layer injury in
glaucoma. Arch Ophthalmol. 2000;118:1044-1047


PMID: 10922196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1361. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2000 May-Jun;44(3):263-7.

Spontaneous intraocular pressure reduction in normal-tension glaucoma and
associated clinical factors.

Oguri A(1), Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu-shi,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction in certain
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and clinical factors associated with this 
reduction.
METHODS: Fifty-four NTG patients who met the following enrollment criteria were
selected: IOP <21 mm Hg during a 24-hour pressure curve and throughout the
subsequent 12 months; examined every 1 to 4 months for at least 3 years with no
ocular hypotensive therapy. For each patient, the eye with the higher mean IOP
during the 24-hour pressure curve was selected for this study.
RESULTS: Six patients had an IOP reduction which was defined as a significant
decrease (P <.05) of IOP over time, determined by the Spearman rank correlation
coefficient method. These 6 eyes were rated positive for subsequent IOP
reduction. The IOP reduction was correlated to clinical factors by means of a
logistic multiple regression analysis (LOGIST procedure using PC-SAS), which
demonstrated that the larger difference between the maximum IOP and the minimum
IOP during the initial 24-hour pressure curve and the absence of disc hemorrhage 
showed significant correlation with IOP reduction (P =.026 and P =.013,
respectively). The odds ratios were 2.05 per 1 mm Hg increase of difference
between the maximum IOP and the minimum IOP during the initial 24-hour pressure
curve and 1.13 for the absence of disc hemorrhage.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study demonstrated that a significant reduction of IOP
over time is not uncommon in NTG patients. One ninth of the NTG patients in this 
study showed a significant IOP reduction during a 3-year follow-up period.


PMID: 10913645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1362. Br J Ophthalmol. 2000 Aug;84(8):852-5.

Ability of a confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope (TopSS) to detect early
glaucomatous visual field defect.

Ahn BS(1), Kee C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, School of Medicine,
Sungkyunkwan University, 50 Ilwon-dong, Kangnam-ku, Seoul 135-710, Korea.

AIMS: To evaluate the ability of the confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope
(TopSS) to detect early glaucomatous visual field defect using our unique
discriminant criteria.
METHODS: The optic discs of 110 eyes of normal Korean subjects were examined and 
normal values for each variable were obtained according to the size of the optic 
disc. The five most sensitive optic disc variables for discriminating glaucoma
were then applied to one eye of 80 Korean subjects with primary open angle
glaucoma or normal tension glaucoma. Only eyes with an optic disc size of 2.0-3.0
mm(2) and a contour tilt of less than 3 degrees were included. These variables
were used to develop unique discriminant criteria for detecting early
glaucomatous visual field defect and their sensitivity and specificity were
calculated in three groups of patients with visual field loss.
RESULTS: The five most sensitive variables were half the depth area, cup/disc
(C/D) ratio, total area of the neuroretinal rim (NRR), volume above, and
localised thinning of the NRR. The following criteria were used to diagnose
glaucoma: (1) total area of the NRR decreased and one of the other four variables
abnormal, and (2) total area of the NRR normal, localised thinning of the NRR,
and one of the other three variables abnormal. The sensitivity of these criteria 
was 89.7% in patients with a mildly impaired visual field and 100% in those with 
a moderately or severely impaired visual field; the specificity was 89.1%.
CONCLUSIONS: The discriminant criteria used had high sensitivity and specificity 
in the diagnosis of glaucoma and the TopSS can be useful in the early detection
of changes in the glaucomatous optic disc.


PMCID: PMC1723587
PMID: 10906090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1363. Ophthalmology. 2000 Jul;107(7):1287-93.

Vascular risk factors for primary open angle glaucoma: the Egna-Neumarkt Study.

Bonomi L(1), Marchini G, Marraffa M, Bernardi P, Morbio R, Varotto A.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Oculistica, Universita degli Studi di Verona, Verona, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of vascular risk factors on the prevalence of
primary open angle glaucoma.
DESIGN: Population-based cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Four thousand two hundred ninety-seven patients more than 40 years 
of age underwent a complete ocular examination in the context of the
Egna-Neumarkt Glaucoma Study.
INTERVENTION: Ocular examinations were performed by trained, quality-controlled
ophthalmologists according to a predefined standardized protocol including
medical interview, blood pressure reading, applanation tonometry, computerized
perimetry, and optic nerve head examination.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalences of ocular hypertension, primary open-angle
glaucoma, normal-tension glaucoma, and other types of glaucoma were determined.
Correlation coefficients were calculated for the association between systemic
blood pressure and age-adjusted intraocular pressure (IOP) and between age and
both intraocular and systemic blood pressures. Odds ratios were computed to
assess the risk of primary open-angle glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma in
relation to systemic hypertension or antihypertensive medication, blood pressure 
levels, diastolic perfusion pressure, and a number of other cardiovascular risk
factors.
RESULTS: A positive correlation was found between systemic blood pressure and
IOP, and an association was found between diagnosis of primary open-angle
glaucoma and systemic hypertension. Lower diastolic perfusion pressure is
associated with a marked, progressive increase in the frequency of hypertensive
glaucoma. No relationship was found between systemic diseases of vascular origin 
and glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data are in line with those reported in other recent
epidemiologic studies and show that reduced diastolic perfusion pressure is an
important risk factor for primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 10889099  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1364. Klin Oczna. 2000;102(1):41-3.

[The role of electrooculographic examinations in the glaucoma diagnosis].

[Article in Polish]

Mulak M(1), Misiuk-Hojło M, Kaczmarek R.

Author information: 
(1)Kliniki Okulistycznej AM we Wrocławiu.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the significance of the electrooculography in the diagnosis 
of glaucoma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We studied 31 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
(aged 22-69 years), 29 patients with normal-tension glaucoma (aged 19-77 years)
and 22 healthy controls (aged 38-65 years). We performed routine ophthalmological
examinations and electrooculography in all patients.
RESULTS: Arden's coefficient results concerning electrooculography were the
highest in control group and the lowest in primary open-angle glaucoma group, but
the differences were not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Electrooculographic examinations do not seem to be effective for
detecting glaucoma.


PMID: 10878957  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1365. J Glaucoma. 2000 Jun;9(3):262-7.

Relationship between the effect of carbon dioxide inhalation or nilvadipine on
orbital blood flow in normal-tension glaucoma.

Niwa Y(1), Yamamoto T, Harris A, Kagemann L, Kawakami H, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between the effect of carbon dioxide
(CO2) inhalation or oral nilvadipine, a calcium-channel blocker, on orbital blood
flow in patients with normal-tension glaucoma, as determined by color Doppler
imaging.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixteen patients with normal-tension glaucoma (mean age,
55.6+/-9.8 years; male:female ratio, 3:13) underwent color Doppler imaging to
measure the resistance index, and peak systolic and end-diastolic blood flow
velocities of the ophthalmic artery, central retinal artery, and nasal and
temporal short posterior ciliary arteries. Measurements were taken before and
during CO2 supplementation sufficient to increase the end-tidal CO2 partial
pressure by 10%. The color Doppler imaging measurements were repeated after 2 to 
4 weeks of treatment with 2 mg oral nilvadipine, and comparisons were made
between the effects of the two treatments.
RESULTS: Both CO2 inhalation and nilvadipine treatment significantly reduced the 
resistance index in the central retinal artery, nasal short posterior ciliary
artery, and temporal short posterior ciliary artery. There was a significant
correlation between the effects of the two treatments on the difference in the
resistance indexes of the ophthalmic artery and central retinal artery, but not
on those of the nasal or temporal short posterior ciliary artery.
CONCLUSIONS: Both CO2 inhalation and oral nilvadipine significantly reduce the
resistance index measured by color Doppler imaging in orbital vessels. The effect
of oral nilvadipine might be predicted by CO2 inhalation in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 10877378  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1366. J Glaucoma. 2000 Jun;9(3):239-46.

Circadian rhythm of autonomic nervous function in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma compared with normal subjects using ambulatory electrocardiography.

Kashiwagi K(1), Tsumura T, Ishii H, Ijiri H, Tamura K, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yamanashi Medical University, Tamaho, Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare circadian rhythm of autonomic nervous function in patients
with normal-tension glaucoma with subjects with normal eyes.
METHODS: Thirty-two patients with normal-tension glaucoma and 32 age-matched
normal subjects who had no history of systemic disorders and no currently treated
systemic disorders, especially diseases of the autonomic nervous system, were
studied. An ambulatory electrocardiogram was installed that recorded heartbeats
for 48 hours. Low-frequency and high-frequency values were calculated as markers 
of the autonomic nervous system status based on heart-rate variability using a
power-spectrum analysis.
RESULTS: The low-frequency values of patients with normal-tension glaucoma during
the spans of an active day and a resting night were significantly greater than
those of normal subjects, and this difference was emphasized during the night
resting span. However, the high-frequency values of patients with normal-tension 
glaucoma were similar to those of normal subjects. The normal subjects showed a
significant age-related decrease in all investigated parameters except the
low-frequency values during the resting span. However, the patients with
normal-tension glaucoma showed a significant age-related decrease only in
low-frequency values during the active day. Patients with normal-tension glaucoma
with progressive visual field defects showed much greater values than other
cases, although the values were not significantly different.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that a disturbance of the circadian rhythm of 
the autonomic nervous system may exist in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 10877375  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1367. Br J Ophthalmol. 2000 Jul;84(7):710-3.

Effects of glaucoma medications on the cardiorespiratory and intraocular pressure
status of newly diagnosed glaucoma patients.

Waldock A(1), Snape J, Graham CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Torbay Hospital, Torquay TQ2 7AA.
awaldock@hotmail.com

AIMS: To evaluate the short term cardiovascular, respiratory, and intraocular
pressure (IOP) effects of four glaucoma medications in newly diagnosed glaucoma
patients.
METHODS: 141 newly diagnosed glaucoma patients were recruited and underwent a
full ocular, cardiovascular, and respiratory examination, including an
electrocardiogram (ECG) and spirometry. They were prescribed one of four topical 
glaucoma medications and reviewed 3 months later. One eye of each patient was
randomly chosen for analysis, performed using analysis of variance and the chi(2)
test.
RESULTS: Latanoprost had the greatest mean IOP lowering effect in both the
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) (p = 0.005) and the "presumed" normal tension 
glaucoma (NTG) groups (p = 0.33), reducing the IOP by 8.9 mm Hg and 4.1 mm Hg
respectively. Timolol was associated with lowered pulse rates and reductions in
the spirometry measurements. 41% of patients using brimonidine complained of
systemic side effects and over 55% of patients using betaxolol complained of
ocular irritation. 28% of patients required an alteration in their glaucoma
management.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost appears to be a useful primary treatment for glaucoma
patients, in view of superior IOP control and a low incidence of local and
systemic side effects. Timolol causes a reduction in measurements of respiratory 
function, a concern in view of the potential subclinical reversible airways
disease in the elderly glaucoma population. Brimonidine is associated with
substantial, unpredictable systemic side effects and betaxolol causes ocular
irritation and weak IOP control. Spirometry is advised in all patients receiving 
topical beta blocker therapy to control their glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC1723530
PMID: 10873979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1368. Exp Eye Res. 2000 Apr;70(4):475-84.

Lomerizine, a Ca2+ channel blocker, reduces glutamate-induced neurotoxicity and
ischemia/reperfusion damage in rat retina.

Toriu N(1), Akaike A, Yasuyoshi H, Zhang S, Kashii S, Honda Y, Shimazawa M, Hara 
H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyoto 
University, Japan. hidehara@tim.hi-ho.ne.jp

We examined the effects of a new Ca2+ channel blocker, lomerizine, on the
intraocular hypertension-induced ischemia/reperfusion injury in rat retina and on
the glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in rat cultured retinal neurons, and compared
its effects with those of a Ca2+ channel blocker (flunarizine) and an
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (MK-801). Morphometric evaluation at 7
days after ischemia/reperfusion showed that treatment with lomerizine (0.1 and 1 
mg kg(-1), i.v.) prior to ischemia and again immediately after reperfusion
dose-dependently reduced the retinal damage. Treatment with MK-801 (1 mg kg(-1), 
i.v.) before ischemia significantly reduced the resulting retinal damage.
Flunarizine (0.1 and 1 mg kg(-1), i.v.) tended to reduce the retinal damage, but 
its effect did not reach statistical significance. In an in vitro study,
pretreatment with lomerizine (0.1 and 1 microM) or flunarizine (1 microM)
significantly reduced glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, the effects being
concentration dependent. Lomerizine (1 microM) also exhibited protective effects 
against both the N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate induced types of neurotoxicity.
However, lomerizine (1 microM) had little effect on the neurotoxicity induced by 
ionomycin (1 microM) application. Glutamate-induced neurotoxicity was abolished
by removing Ca2+ from the medium. These results indicate that lomerizine protects
neuronal cells against retinal neurotoxicity both in vivo and in vitro, and that 
this Ca2+ channel blocker may be useful as a therapeutic drug against retinal
diseases that cause neuronal injury, such as normal tension glaucoma (NTG).

DOI: 10.1006/exer.1999.0809 
PMID: 10865996  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1369. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2000 May;216(5):246-9.

[Nocturnal measurements of intraocular pressure in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma and sleep apnea syndrome].

[Article in German]

Goldblum D(1), Mathis J, Böhnke M, Bassetti C, Hess CW, Gugger M, Mojon DS.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Kantonsspital St. Gallen, Inselspital, Bern.

BACKGROUND: About half of all normal-tension glaucoma patients and about one
third of all primary open-angle glaucoma patients have sleep apnea syndrome. If
sleep apnea syndrome causes some cases of glaucoma, the optic nerve damage could 
result from repetitive nocturnal hypoxias or from repetitive intraocular pressure
elevations at the end of the apneas. In this study, we determined the intraocular
pressure at the end of long apneas.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In three patients having sleep apnea syndrome and
normal-tension glaucoma we recorded in a sleep laboratory during at least six
hours of sleep the respiration (oxymetry, nasal and oral air flow, and inductive 
plethysmography). The intraocular pressure was measured with a pneumatonometer at
predetermined times and compared to the values measured at the end of prolonged
apneas.
RESULTS: The intraocular pressure during normal respiration was in the first
patient 19.5 +/- 1.0 mm Hg OD and 19.3 +/- 1.7 mm Hg OS, in the second patient
25.0 +/- 4.2 respectively 25.5 +/- 4.9 mm Hg and in the third one 22 +/- 1.0
respectively 21.3 +/- 1.3 mm Hg. At the end of prolonged apneas the intraocular
pressure was in the first patient 19.0 +/- 0.0 mm Hg OD and 19.5 +/- 0.7 mm Hg
OS, in the second patient 26.5 +/- 0.6 and 26.8 +/- 0.1 mm Hg and in the third
one 20.0 +/- 0.0 respectively 21.0 +/- 0.0 mm Hg. The difference between
intraocular pressures during normal respiration and at the end of prolonged
apneas was not significant (p > 0.1 for each comparison, paired t-test).
CONCLUSIONS: We did not find an increase of intraocular pressure at the end of
prolonged apneas compared to periods of normal respiration in patients with sleep
apnea syndrome and normal-tension glaucoma. If sleep apnea syndrome causes some
cases of glaucoma, it seems more probable that the the optic nerve is damaged by 
the repetitive hypoxias. Alternatively, an unknown factor might induce both,
sleep apnea syndrome and normal-tension glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-10553 
PMID: 10863685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1370. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2000 Apr;238(4):306-14.

Quantitative analysis of visual field and optic disk in glaucoma: retinal nerve
fiber bundle-associated analysis.

Jünemann AG(1), Martus P, Wisse M, Jonas J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany. 
anselm.juenemann@augen.med.uni-erlangen.de

BACKGROUND: A study was performed to evaluate whether visual field analysis using
a perimetric nerve fiber bundle map gives information additional to global visual
field indices and cumulative defect curves for early glaucoma diagnosis.
METHODS: One hundred and four control subjects, 124 patients with ocular
hypertension (OHT), 97 patients with high-tension glaucoma without visual field
defects (preHTG) and 91 patients with open-angle glaucoma with visual field
defects [30 low-tension glaucoma (LTG), 61 high-tension glaucoma (HTG)] were
included in this study. Correlation analyses were performed between (a) global
visual field indices and total neuroretinal rim (NRR) area; (b) local mean values
of four visual field areas and the NRR area of the corresponding four optic disk 
sectors; and (c) local mean values of 10 perimetric nerve fiber bundles (PNFB
1-10) according to Weber and Ulrich (1991) and the four optic disk sectors. The
correlations were adjusted for global mean defect and total NRR.
RESULTS: There were no significant correlations between NRR area and visual field
in control subjects or in patients with OHT or preHTG for all three analyses.
Significant correlations were found between the global visual field indices and
the total NRR area for LTG and HTG. Significant correlations between local mean
defects and NRR area of corresponding optic disk sectors were found only in LTG
for the superior and inferior visual field area and the PNFB covering these
areas.
CONCLUSION: The method used for visual field analysis and sectorization of the
optic disk does not give additional information on visual field defects in
patients with normal global visual field indices and a normal cumulative defect
curve. The nerve fiber bundle-related visual field analysis allows the
topographical determination and quantification of glaucomatous damage.


PMID: 10853929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1371. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2000 Jun;41(7):1657-65.

Retinal ganglion cells recognized by serum autoantibody against gamma-enolase
found in glaucoma patients.

Maruyama I(1), Ohguro H, Ikeda Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sapporo Medical University School of Medicine,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To study pathologic roles of the presence of serum autoantibodies
against retinal ganglion cells in patients with glaucoma.
METHODS: Serum autoantibody reactions were detected by Western blot analysis
using retinal soluble fractions in 79 patients with glaucoma (normal-tension
glaucoma [NTG], 23 cases; primary open-angle glaucoma [POAG], 56 cases) and 60
age-matched healthy subjects. Clinical characteristics including visual acuity,
visual field, intraocular pressure (IOP), and optic disc features were compared
between the serum autoantibody-positive and -negative patients. The retinal
autoantigen recognized by patients' sera was identified by a combination of
in-gel digestion and Edman sequencing.
RESULTS: Western blot analysis revealed that serum autoantibody against retinal
50-kDa antigen was recognized in 20 out of 79 glaucoma patients (25.3%; 14 POAG
and 6 NTG patients) and 60 age-matched control subjects (11.7%), respectively.
Immunocytochemistry revealed that labeling of the ganglion cell layer (GCL) by
IgG from glaucoma patients (POAG: 13/56, 23.2%; NTG: 6/23, 26%) existed at a
significantly higher rate than that by IgG from control subjects (2/60, 3.3%; P <
0.05). In POAG, maximum IOP in the serum antibody positive-patients was
significantly lower than that in the antibody-negative patients (P < 0.05).
However, no statistical differences were observed in visual field loss, disc
cupping, and other clinical factors between the antibody-positive and -negative
groups in POAG and NTG. In-gel digestion of the 50-kDa band in two-dimensional
polyacrylamide gels and Edman sequence analysis of the high-performance liquid
chromatography-purified peptides identified the 50-kDa protein as gamma-enolase. 
Injection of the 50-kDa IgG from glaucoma patients or anti-gamma-enolase serum
into the vitreous cavity of Lewis rats caused reduction of the b-wave of the
electroretinogram and TdT-dUTP terminal nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive
staining within the GCL.
CONCLUSIONS: In the current study, serum autoantibody against 50-kDa protein
identified as gamma-enolase in 25% of glaucoma patients.


PMID: 10845582  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1372. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 May;129(5):668-71.

Visual field defect associated with laser in situ keratomileusis.

Bushley DM(1), Parmley VC, Paglen P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Madigan Army Medical Center, Tacoma, Washington
98431, USA. mbushley@aol.com

PURPOSE: To report a case of visual field defect associated with laser in situ
keratomileusis.
METHODS: Case report. A 28-year-old woman with high myopia (-10D) and a family
history of normal tension glaucoma underwent bilateral laser in situ
keratomileusis keratorefractive surgery. Preoperatively, both eyes had normal
intraocular pressure and visual field.
RESULTS: At the first postoperative visit 1 day after apparently uncomplicated
laser in situ keratomileusis, the patient reported a scotoma in the right eye. At
3-month follow-up, visual fields revealed the patient had developed a
near-superior altitudinal visual field defect in the right eye. The defect did
not progress over 1 year of follow-up examinations.
CONCLUSION: Increased intraocular pressure associated with the microkeratome
vacuum ring used during laser in situ keratomileusis may have precipitated optic 
nerve head ischemia and visual field defect.


PMID: 10844064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1373. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 May;129(5):613-7.

Open-angle glaucoma associated with Graves disease.

Ohtsuka K(1), Nakamura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sapporo Medical University, School of Medicine,
Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan. kohtsuka@sapmed.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To estimate the prevalence of open-angle glaucoma, including
normal-tension glaucoma, in association with Graves disease.
METHODS: In a prospective study, a complete ophthalmic examination including
applanation tonometry, exophthalmometry, automated static threshold perimetry,
and computed tomography of the orbit was performed in 104 consecutive Japanese
patients with Graves disease (age range, 11 to 86 years; mean, 42 years; 80
women, 24 men). Ocular hypertension was defined as an intraocular pressure
greater than 21 mm Hg on at least two occasions during the period of follow-up.
RESULTS: Of the 104 patients, 14 (13%) exhibited typical glaucomatous visual
field defects in automatic static threshold perimetry in the absence of
compressive optic neuropathy. The intraocular pressure in seven of the 14
patients was consistently less than 21 mm Hg during the follow-up period. Thus,
these patients were diagnosed as having normal-tension glaucoma. Of the 104
patients, 23 (22%) were diagnosed as having ocular hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of normal-tension glaucoma as well as open-angle
glaucoma and ocular hypertension was significantly higher among patients with
Graves disease than in the general population.


PMID: 10844052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1374. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 May;129(5):599-607.

Measurement of peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer volume in glaucoma.

King AJ(1), Bolton N, Aspinall P, O'Brien CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Research Unit, Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion, Edinburgh, Scotland, 
UK.

PURPOSE: To measure peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer volume in normal
subjects and patients with ocular hypertension, primary open-angle glaucoma, and 
low-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Sixty-five subjects were classified into four groups of normal subjects 
and subjects with ocular hypertension, primary open-angle glaucoma, and
low-tension glaucoma on the basis of intraocular pressure measurements, visual
field loss, and optic disk appearance. Groups were matched for sex, age, and
optic disk area. Peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer volume measurements were
made with a modification of software version 1.11 of the Heidelberg Retina
Tomograph confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope. Retinal nerve fiber layer
volume measurements were taken at 0.1-mm increments from the disk margin for a
global 360-degree assessment and at four predefined segments using two different 
reference planes. Statistical analysis was carried out using analysis of variance
with Bonferroni correction.
RESULTS: Retinal nerve fiber layer volume measurements showed a gradation from
normal to ocular hypertension and from ocular hypertension to glaucoma groups.
Mean group measurements showed statistically significant differences (P <.05) in 
peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer volume for most segmental measures
between the groups. Measurements with the default reference plane in the 0.0-mm
to 0.1-mm and 0.1-mm to 0.2-mm increments for the superotemporal segment showed
the greatest differences between groups (P <.00005).
CONCLUSION: Peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer volume measurements differ
between groups of normal subjects and patients with ocular hypertension, primary 
open-angle glaucoma, and low-tension glaucoma. This measure offers a further
method of assessment of retinal nerve fiber layer in patients with glaucoma and
glaucoma suspects.


PMID: 10844050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1375. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2000 Apr;11(2):116-20.

The optic nerve head in normal-tension glaucoma.

Tomita G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.
gtom-gif@umin.ac.jp

There is controversy over the definition, appearance, and characteristics of the 
optic nerve head in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Optic disk size is greater in 
eyes with NTG than in those with primary open-angle glaucoma. However, in an
intraindividual bilateral comparison, the eye with the larger optic disk showed
neither more marked nor less pronounced glaucomatous optic nerve damage. Optic
disk hemorrhage and peripapillary atrophy have been reported to be more frequent 
in patients with NTG. Nonuse of calcium channel blockers, peripapillary atrophy, 
and disk hemorrhage were statistically significantly associated with visual field
loss progression in NTG. However, there is a possibility that a high IOP may stop
disk hemorrhage relatively early. Histopathologic optic nerve head changes
correlated with the clinical appearance of the optic nerve head, which is
comparable in NTG and primary open-angle glaucoma. However, as novel findings,
serum antibodies to retinal proteins and retinal immunoglobulin deposition in the
ganglion cells were observed, and the level of serum autoantibodies to optic
nerve head glycosaminoglycans was higher in patients with NTG than in patients
with primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 10848217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1376. Br J Ophthalmol. 2000 Jun;84(6):586-90.

Glaucoma surgery with or without adjunctive antiproliferatives in normal tension 
glaucoma: 1 intraocular pressure control and complications.

Membrey WL(1), Poinoosawmy DP, Bunce C, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) by 20-30% with glaucoma
drainage surgery slows disease progression in normal tension glaucoma (NTG). It
is not clear whether adjunctive antiproliferative agents are necessary or safe in
eyes at low risk for scarring.
METHOD: 86 eyes of 73 white NTG patients who had undergone a primary guarded
fistulising procedure were reviewed. 25 eyes had no antiproliferatives, 36 had
peroperative 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and 25 had peroperative mitomycin C (MMC).
Their postoperative IOPs, complications, and changes in visual acuity were
recorded.
RESULTS: Eyes that had no adjunctive antiproliferative less commonly maintained a
20-30% reduction in IOP (47.4% at 2 years) compared with either the 5-FU group
(69.4%at 2 years, p=0.01) or the MMC group (64.9% at 2 years, p=0.04). Eyes that 
had adjunctive MMC more often had late hypotony (28%, p=0.02) and late bleb leak 
(12%, p<0.001). Eyes that had adjunctive MMC also more often had a two lines loss
of Snellen visual acuity (39.8% by 2 years) compared with those that had
adjunctive 5-FU (14.7% by 2 years), p=0.06.
CONCLUSION: For NTG patients at low risk of scarring trabeculectomy with
adjunctive peroperative 5-FU should maintain a suitable target IOP without the
additional sight threatening complications seen with adjunctive MMC.


PMCID: PMC1723511
PMID: 10837381  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1377. Ophthalmology. 2000 May;107(5):1004-8.

Combined exfoliation and pigment dispersion: paradigm of an overlap syndrome.

Ritch R(1), Mudumbai R, Liebmann JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York 10003,
USA. ritch@inx.net

OBJECTIVE: To describe a series of patients with combined pigment dispersion
syndrome (PDS) and exfoliation syndrome (XFS) and to introduce a concept, the
overlap syndrome, to aid in assessing multiple risk factors for glaucomatous
damage.
DESIGN: Clinic-based, cross-sectional study.
SETTING: New York Eye and Ear Infirmary.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-six patients identified from the glaucoma database as having
combined pigment dispersion syndrome-glaucoma and exfoliation syndrome-glaucoma.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quantification of patients with both pigment dispersion
syndrome-glaucoma (PDS/PG) and exfoliation syndrome-glaucoma (XFS/XFG) and its
clinical implications.
RESULTS: Among the 26 patients (all white) having both XFS/XFG and PDS/PG, the
average age was 64.3 +/- 9.8 years and 19 of 26 were men. All patients had
bilateral PDS/PG. Bilateral XFS/XFG was present in 9 of 26 patients and, of the
17 patients with unilateral involvement, the left eye was affected in 13.
CONCLUSIONS: Both XFS and PDS are common. Middle-aged patients with known PDS/PG 
should be suspected of having the onset of XFS if one eye escapes intraocular
pressure control. Patients with unilateral XFG at presentation may also have
signs of PDS/PG, often remitted. We define the term overlap syndrome to describe 
the sequential appearance over time of two or more risk factors for glaucomatous 
damage. The appearance of a new risk factor in a patient whose condition has been
stable can alter the course and prognosis of the disease. This concept should
prove useful in dealing with secondary and normal-tension glaucomas.


PMID: 10811097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1378. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2000 Mar;238(3):232-6.

The effect of mitomycin C trabeculectomy on the progression of visual field
defect in normal-tension glaucoma.

Hagiwara Y(1), Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We investigated in a prospective fashion the visual prognosis and
complications in normal-tension glaucoma following unilateral trabeculectomy with
adjunctive mitomycin C.
METHODS: Trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C was carried out unilaterally 
in 21 cases of normal-tension glaucoma. Intraocular pressure (IOP), visual
prognosis, and complications were compared between the operated eyes and the
non-operated fellow eyes. The follow-up period ranged from 2 to 7 years.
RESULTS: The IOP dropped significantly from 14.8+/-1.8 mmHg (mean +/- SD) to
9.6+/-3.9 mmHg in the operated eyes (P=0.0002, Wilcoxon signed-rank test), but
did not drop in the non-operated eyes. The mean deviation (MD) was -12.69+/-6.41 
dB preoperatively and -14.70+/-5.49 dB at the last clinic visit in the operated
eyes, whereas in non-operated eyes it was -7.85+/-5.65 dB and -11.15+/-5.62 dB,
respectively. The MD deteriorated significantly in both operated and non-operated
eyes (operated eyes P=0.0239, non-operated eyes: P=0.0002; Wilcoxon signed-rank
test). The MD slope was -0.37+/-0.60 dB/year and -0.71+/-0.89 dB/year for the
operated and non-operated eyes, respectively (P=0.5243, Mann-Whitney U-test).
Visual field deterioration was more frequently observed in the non-operated eyes 
by a pointwise definition of the progression (P<0.05, McNemar test). Visual
acuity deteriorated in 6 of the operated eyes and in 5 of the non-operated eyes. 
Cataract developed in 6 (29%) of the 21 operated eyes, while among the
non-operated eyes 4 (19%) developed cataract.
CONCLUSION: Mitomycin C trabeculectomy is effective in delaying progression of
visual field defect in normal-tension glaucoma, but complications may arise and
cause some visual disturbance.


PMID: 10796038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1379. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 Apr;129(4):517-20.

Progressive optic nerve cupping and neural rim decrease in a patient with
bilateral autosomal dominant optic nerve colobomas.

Moore M(1), Salles D, Jampol LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.

PURPOSE: To document progressive optic nerve cupping and neural rim decrease in a
patient with normal intraocular pressures and bilateral autosomal dominant optic 
nerve colobomas.
METHODS: The ophthalmology records, stereoscopic fundus photographs, and visual
fields of a 27-year-old woman with familial (autosomal dominant) optic nerve
colobomas were reviewed. The appearance of the optic nerves was documented over a
13-year period (1985 to 1998).
RESULTS: Despite repeatedly normal intraocular pressures, the patient showed
progressive optic nerve cupping and neural rim decrease in both eyes. Visual
field testing was available over a 5-year period (1993 to 1998) and was abnormal,
but no progression was seen.
CONCLUSIONS: This case of progressive cupping and neural rim decrease in a
patient with autosomal dominant optic nerve coloboma in both eyes may provide
insight into the optic nerve cupping associated with normal tension glaucoma.
Careful follow-up of patients with optic disk colobomas or patients is indicated 
to detect possible optic nerve changes or field loss.


PMID: 10764862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1380. Ophthalmic Res. 2000 Mar-Jun;32(2-3):79-86.

Evaluation of the circulation in the retina, peripapillary choroid and optic disk
in normal-tension glaucoma.

Sugiyama T(1), Schwartz B, Takamoto T, Azuma I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, Takatsuki, Japan.
opt017@poh.osaka-med.ac.jp

Computerized image analysis, including fluorescein angiography, was used to
evaluate the retinal, choroidal and optic disk blood flow in 16 patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and to correlate this measurement with visual
fields, retinal vessel width, optic disk pallor and blood pressure (BP). The
angle of the ascending slope of the fluorescein dye curve was measured as an
index of blood flow from the densitometric and time curves of the fluorescein
angiograms in the optic disk, peripapillary choroid, retinal artery and vein for 
each quadrant. While the ascending slope as well as the retinal vessel width were
most reduced in the inferior and nasal regions, the mean threshold was lowest in 
the superior and nasal quadrants. There were positive significant correlations
between artery width and threshold value, between angles of slopes and pallor. In
addition, systolic BP had a negative correlation with pallor, and diastolic BP
had a positive one with slope in the choroid. These results indicated the
probable association of a decrease in retinal, choroidal and optic disk blood
flow in the inferior and nasal quadrants as well as vessel width in the inferior 
nasal quadrant with visual field loss in the superior quadrant, and also
demonstrated an increasing blood flow for enlargement of pallor. A decrease in BP
was found to be related to reduced blood flow in choroid and optic disk
impairment.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 55594 
PMID: 10754439  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1381. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2000 Mar;104(3):148-53.

[Optic disc blood flow measured by scanning laser-Doppler flowmetry using a new
analysis program].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayashi N(1), Tomita G, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Self Defense Forces Central Hospital, Tokyo,
Japan.

PURPOSE: Using a new analysis program for scanning laser-Doppler flowmetry (SLDF)
by a Heidelberg retina flowmeter (HRF), we studied the relation between flow and 
visual field or disc morphology.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: In 42 eyes of 21 patients with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) the mean-flow of the HRF blood flow parameters at the disc rim was measured
and analyzed by a new analysis program for perfusion maps (the SLDF analysis
tool), to minimize the influence of large vessels or/and artifacts caused by
small eye movements. We investigated whether difference of the mean-flow between 
a pair of eyes had any relation to differences between a pair of eyes in visual
field indices and those in disc morphological measurements of the Heidelberg
retina tomograph.
RESULTS: We found statistically significant correlations between the mean-flow
and optic disc parameters (Disk Area, Cup Area, Height Variation Contour, Cup
Volume, Rim Volume, Mean RNFL Thickness). We found no statistically significant
correlations between the mean-flow and visual field parameters (mean deviation,
corrected pattern standard deviation).
CONCLUSION: The results suggested that eyes with less flow in the optic disc rim 
have more advanced glaucomatous morphological changes.


PMID: 10752336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1382. Ultraschall Med. 2000 Feb;21(1):32-7.

[Doppler sonography of the short posterior ciliary artery in patients with
primary open angle glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Klingmüller V(1), Schmidt KG, von Rückmann A, Koch B, Stein A.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Diagnostische Radiologie, Klinikum der Justus-Liebig-Universität
Giessen.

AIM: The area of primary damage in glaucomas is the optic nerve head. This region
is directly supplied by the peripapillary choroid and the short posterior ciliary
arteries (SPCA). This study was designed to evaluate the choroidal and SPCA
haemodynamics in high tension (HTG) and normal tension (NTG) primary open angle
glaucoma patients, as well as in healthy controls (CTL).
METHODS: 20 HTG, 12 NTG, and 32 age matched volunteers (CTL) without clinically
relevant extracranial stenosis of the carotid arteries were evaluated for ocular 
pulse amplitude (OPA; OBF-System OBF Labs, UK) and for temporal SPCA peak
systolic flow (PSV), enddiastolic flow (EDV), pulsatility (PI) and resistance
indices (RI) using a 9 MHz phased array (Elegra Advanced System; Siemens,
Germany).
RESULTS: (mean +/- SD): In the control group the PSV (cm/s) of the SPCA was 10.90
+/- 1.53; EDV (cm/s) was 3.24 +/- 0.24, PI was 1.30 +/- 0.39, RI was 0.69 +/-
0.11, OPA (mm Hg) was 2.2 +/- 0.25; IOP (mmHg) was 14.6 +/- 1.5. When compared to
CTL matched for age, sex, and refraction, NTG-patients showed the following
results: OPA was significantly (p < 0.05) reduced, dopplersonography showed a
significant (p < 0.05) reduction in diastolic flow patterns and a significant (p 
< 0.05) increase in PI and RI. In HTG-patients the parameters investigated where 
not significantly (p > 0.05) altered.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest reduced haemodynamics in the choroid and in the
SPCA of NTG patients, which may contribute to progression of the optic
neuropathy. In HTG the Doppler parameters and the OPA are not altered compared
with the control group.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-8928 
PMID: 10746282  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1383. Ophthalmology. 2000 Mar;107(3):430-4.

A comparative study of betaxolol and dorzolamide effect on ocular circulation in 
normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Harris A(1), Arend O, Chung HS, Kagemann L, Cantor L, Martin B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis 46202-5175, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether dosages of a selective beta-blocking agent
(betaxolol) and a topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (dorzolamide), sufficient 
to significantly lower intraocular pressure (IOP), have similar or disparate
impact on the retinal and retrobulbar circulation.
DESIGN: Counterbalanced crossover, with open-label use of medications.
PARTICIPANTS: Nine persons with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
INTERVENTION: After a 3-week drug washout, NTG patients were studied after 1
month of treatment with either dorzolamide or betaxolol, with determinations of
IOP and retinal and retrobulbar hemodynamics.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: At baseline and after treatment with each drug, retinal
arteriovenous passage time was determined by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy after 
fluorescein dye injection, and flow velocities in the central retinal and
ophthalmic arteries were measured with color Doppler ultrasonography imaging.
RESULTS: Betaxolol and dorzolamide each lowered IOP significantly, with these
changes apparent and maximal after 2 weeks (each P < 0.05). In contrast,
dorzolamide (but not betaxolol) accelerated arteriovenous passage of fluorescein 
dye in the inferior temporal quadrant of the retina (P < 0.05). Neither drug
affected arteriovenous passage in the superotemporal retina or any aspect of
central retinal or ophthalmic artery flow velocity after either 2 or 4 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: Although both dorzolamide and betaxolol are effective ocular
hypotensive agents and their topical instillation leaves retrobulbar hemodynamics
unaltered, dorzolamide alone accelerates inferotemporal retinal dye transit.


PMID: 10711877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1384. J Glaucoma. 2000 Feb;9(1):74-82.

Performance of a new, low-volume, high-surface area aqueous shunt in normal
rabbit eyes.

Wilcox MJ(1), Barad JP, Wilcox CC, Peebles EL, Minckler DS.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department and United States Air Force Hospital, United States Air
Force Academy, Colorado 80840, USA.

PURPOSE: This experimental study was conducted to report perfusion
characteristics of small diameter, cylindrical aqueous shunts in normal rabbit
eyes and to test the hypothesis that decreasing bleb diameter would decrease
capsular fibrosis, as evidenced by a thinner capsule forming around the implant. 
These two properties increase hydraulic conductivity of the fibrous membrane
forming around the device, resulting in a more effective filtering shunt.
METHODS: Cylindrical latex tubes with the distal portion of the sidewall removed 
were implanted under the conjunctiva. The proximal, intact end of tubing was
inserted into the anterior chamber and ligated to prevent hypotony. The ligature 
was released after 1 week to inflate the bleb. Animals were again anesthetized at
6 or 12 weeks after ligature release and in vivo perfusion experiments conducted 
using a miniperfusion system and a water manometer. Perfusion of the implant with
latex microspheres was performed before the animals were killed. Capsule
diameters were measured in situ using calipers under a dissecting microscope
after excision of orbital tissues and before fixation for histologic study.
Membrane hydraulic conductivity (outflow per unit membrane area at unitary
pressure gradient, microL/min/mm2/mmHg) was calculated using data obtained during
perfusion experiments and compared with results of other studies. Capsule
thickness was measured histologically.
RESULTS: Cylindrical filtration membranes with thin (15-20 microm) capsules
formed around latex implants. Bleb diameters consistently measured 1 mm at all
points along their length before formaldehyde fixation. Hydraulic conductivity
was measured and found to be eight times higher than that reported for capsules
around conventional implants. Decreased diameter (16:1 for Baerveldt and 13:1 for
Molteno implants) produced a proportional decrease in surface tension on the
wall. This resulted in decreased capsule thickness, from 222 microm for Baerveldt
implants in rabbit eyes and from 150 microm for Molteno implants in monkey eyes
to less than 20 microm for the shunting device studied here.
CONCLUSION: As a consequence of Laplace's law, reduction in bleb diameter reduces
surface tension on the bleb, reducing capsular fibrosis and consequently capsule 
thickness, thus increasing hydraulic conductivity. Increased hydraulic
conductivity increases the effectiveness of the filtering surface. Cylindrical
geometry allows reduced bleb volume yet maintains total surface area that is
proportional to the length of the implant, which is unlimited and customizable
for each eye by simply cutting the length of implant needed.


PMID: 10708235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1385. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc. 1999;97:297-314; discussion 314-21.

Combined exfoliation and pigment dispersion: an overlap syndrome.

Mudumbai R(1), Liebmann JM, Ritch R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, NY, USA.

PURPOSE: To describe a series of patients with combined pigment dispersion
syndrome (PDS) and exfoliation syndrome (XFS) and to introduce a concept, the
overlap syndrome, to aid in assessing multiple risk factors for glaucomatous
damage.
METHODS: A retrospective review of the records of all patients on our database
who carried a diagnosis of both PDS/pigmentary glaucoma (PG) and XFS/exfoliative 
glaucoma (XFG).
RESULTS: We identified 26 patients as having both XFS/XFG and PDS/PG. The average
age was 64.3 +/- 9.8 years and 19 of 26 were men. All patients had bilateral
PDS/PG. Bilateral XFS/XFG was present in 9 of 26 patients, and of the 17 patients
with unilateral involvement, the left eye was affected in 13.
CONCLUSION: Both XFS and PDS are common. Middle-aged patients with known PDS/PG
should be suspected of having the onset of XFS if 1 eye escapes intraocular
pressure control. Patients presenting with unilateral XFG may also have signs of 
PDS/PG, often remitted. We define an overlap syndrome as the appearance of a new 
co-morbidity for glaucomatous damage in a patient with a pre-existing risk
factor, which then changes the course, and prognosis of the disease. This concept
should be particularly useful in dealing with secondary and normal-tension
glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC1298266
PMID: 10703130  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1386. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2000 Jan-Feb;44(1):39-45.

Association between watershed zone and visual field defect in normal tension
glaucoma.

Sato Y(1), Tomita G, Onda E, Goto Y, Oguri A, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu-ken,
Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association between the watershed zone and glaucomatous 
optic nerve head (ONH) damage.
METHODS: We performed indocyanine green fluorescence angiography with a scanning 
laser ophthalmoscope in 54 eyes of 27 patients with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG).
RESULTS: We identified 7 eyes of 8 patients (14.8%) with a watershed zone not
including the ONH, 32 eyes of 20 patients (59.3%) with the watershed zone
partially including the ONH, and 10 eyes of 14 NTG patients (25.9%) with the
watershed zone including the ONH. Of the 27 NTG patients, 10 patients (37.0%) had
different types in each eye.
CONCLUSIONS: In these patients, the mean deviation of visual field indices was
greater in the eye with the watershed zone, which included a larger part of the
ONH than in the contralateral eye. Conversely, the eye with the greater mean
deviation had a watershed zone that included a larger part of the ONH. The
location of the watershed zone appeared to influence the progression of the
visual field defect.


PMID: 10698024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1387. Eye (Lond). 1999 Aug;13 ( Pt 4):524-30.

The National Survey of Trabeculectomy. I. Sample and methods.

Edmunds B(1), Thompson JR, Salmon JF, Wormald RP.

Author information: 
(1)Royal College of Ophthalmologists, London, UK. beth@RCOphth2.win-uk.net

Comment in
    Eye (Lond). 1999 Aug;13 ( Pt 4):493-4.

PURPOSE: The National Survey of Trabeculectomy was designed to evaluate current
practices of glaucoma surgery in the United Kingdom and to determine the success 
and complication rates of trabeculectomy on a national basis. This paper reports 
the survey methods, levels of consultant activity, waiting times, indications for
surgery and the demographic and clinical characteristics of the patient sample.
METHODS: Consultant ophthalmologists performing trabeculectomy in the United
Kingdom were studied. Four consecutive patients undergoing trabeculectomy under
each consultant prior to 18 June 1996 were retrospectively sampled. Patients were
followed prospectively and evaluated 6 and 12 months after surgery. Data were
collected by self-administered postal questionnaires. To determine the effects of
selection and reporting bias a validation study of 14 randomly selected units was
also conducted.
RESULTS: Three hundred and eighty-two consultants recruited 1454 eligible
patients for analysis. The mean age of patients was 69.2 years (standard
deviation 10.9) and 51.7% were male. The underlying diagnosis was primary open
angle glaucoma in 89.2%, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma in 5.4%, normal tension
glaucoma in 3.8% and pigmentary glaucoma in 1.6%. There was advanced visual field
damage in 50.5% of the cohort by the time of listing. The main indications for
surgery were failure of medication to control intraocular pressure in 57.1%,
progressive visual field loss in 26.5% and progressive optic disc damage in 4.8%.
Primary surgery was undertaken in 4.8% of patients. In 80% trabeculectomy was
performed within 3 months of listing. However, almost a third of consultants
considered individual patient's waiting time too long. Validation studies
confirmed that systematic bias did not operate in the selection of patients for
the survey or in the reporting of outcomes.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this survey are representative of current practices
of trabeculectomy by consultants throughout the United Kingdom and show
considerable variation in practice. Failure to control intraocular pressure with 
topical medications was the main indication for surgery. Advanced glaucomatous
visual field damage was present at the time of surgery in half the sample. Though
most patients were operated on within 3 months of listing, almost a third of
consultants considered the wait unacceptably long.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1999.131 
PMID: 10692924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1388. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1999 Nov-Dec;43(6):539-42.

Prevalence of normal-tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma in patients
with collagen diseases.

Yamamoto T(1), Maeda M, Sawada A, Sugiyama K, Taniguchi T, Kitazawa Y, Oyama Z,
Ichihashi N, Takagi H, Kitajima Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the prevalence of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in patients with collagen diseases and
determine whether an immunocompromised condition is present in a subset of
glaucoma patients.
METHODS: Three glaucoma specialists prospectively examined patients with collagen
diseases. The diagnostic process included applanation tonometry, slit-lamp
examination, gonioscopy, direct ophthalmoscopy, and automated static perimetry.
Twenty-four-hour intraocular pressure monitoring was done when necessary. Using
the results of a population-based survey conducted in Japan, we calculated an
expected number of cases of NTG and POAG, and compared these with the actual
number of cases.
RESULTS: Of the 153 patients with collagen diseases examined, we found 6 patients
with NTG and 2 patients with POAG. Of these 8 patients, 2 with progressive
systemic sclerosis (PSS), one with NTG, and the other, POAG, had a history of
being on systemic steroidal therapy. The prevalence of NTG and POAG was
significantly higher in women patients having collagen diseases as compared with 
normal women (P = .027).
CONCLUSION: Women patients with collagen diseases are highly susceptible to NTG
and POAG.


PMID: 10672886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1389. Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 Jan;129(1):102-4.

Migraine and tension headache in high-pressure and normal-pressure glaucoma.

Cursiefen C(1), Wisse M, Cursiefen S, Jünemann A, Martus P, Korth M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and the Institute of Medical Informatics, Biometry
and Epidemiology, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
claus.cursiefen@augen.med.uni-erlangen.de

PURPOSE: To analyze the association of normal-pressure glaucoma and migraine.
METHODS: In a prospective study, 154 patients with glaucoma (56 normal-pressure
subgroup and 98 high-pressure glaucoma subgroup), 55 patients with ocular
hypertension, and 75 control subjects were analyzed by means of a standardized
questionnaire based on International Headache Society criteria.
RESULTS: According to the questionnaire, 46 patients (17%) were classified as
suffering from migraine and 20 (7%) from tension headache (episodic and chronic).
The prevalence of headache, migraine, and tension headache did not vary
significantly among control subjects, patients with ocular hypertension, and
patients with glaucoma, but migraine was significantly more common in patients
with normal-pressure glaucoma (28%) compared with control subjects (12%; P<.05)
and patients with high-pressure glaucoma (10%; P<.01).
CONCLUSION: The results suggest an association of normal-pressure glaucoma and
migraine and a potential, common vascular etiology of both diseases.


PMID: 10653426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1390. Ophthalmology. 2000 Jan;107(1):127-33.

Increased intraocular pressure and visual field defects in high resistance wind
instrument players.

Schuman JS(1), Massicotte EC, Connolly S, Hertzmark E, Mukherji B, Kunen MZ.

Author information: 
(1)New England Eye Center, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston,
Massachusetts 02111, USA.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2001 Apr;108(4):635-6.

OBJECTIVE: In this twofold study, part 1 aimed to determine whether the playing
of high resistance wind instruments elevates intraocular pressure (IOP) and if
so, to investigate the mechanism of IOP elevation and whether its magnitude
differs while playing high resistance versus low resistance instruments. The
purpose of part 2 was to evaluate whether high resistance players have a greater 
incidence of glaucomatous changes than other musicians.
DESIGN: Three case reports and a cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Two players of high resistance instruments and one player of high
and low resistance wind instruments participated in part 1 of the study. Nine
high resistance wind players, 12 low resistance wind players, and 24 nonwind
players were recruited among professional musicians in the Boston area to
participate in part 2.
INTERVENTION: In part 1, IOP and uveal thickness changes were measured by
pneumatonometry and ultrasound biomicroscopy in two participants playing their
high resistance wind instruments (trumpet and oboe) and in a third participant
playing both high (trumpet) and low (clarinet and saxaphone) resistance
instruments. Each musician in part 2 underwent medical and musical history,
measurement of IOP, Humphrey visual field testing, slit-lamp examination,
gonioscopy, and dilated examination.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intraocular pressure and uveal thickness changes, and
visual field loss and optic nerve head appearance were the main parameters
measured in part 1 and part 2, respectively.
RESULTS: In part 1, pneumatonometry showed IOP elevation dependent on the force
of blowing, and ultrasound biomicroscopy revealed uveal thickening associated
with IOP elevation. The magnitude of IOP elevation was dependent on the amount of
expiratory resistance provided by the particular instrument. Part 2 showed that
life hours of high resistance wind instrument playing had a significant
relationship to abnormal visual field (P = 0.03) and corrected pattern standard
deviation (CPSD) scores (P = 0.007) in univariate logistic regression and
univariate linear regression, respectively. A 0.011-unit increase in CPSD for
each 1000 life hours of high resistance wind playing was found.
CONCLUSIONS: High and low resistance wind musicians experience a transient rise
in their IOP while playing their instruments as a result least in part of uveal
engorgement. The magnitude of IOP increase is greater in high resistance wind
players versus low resistance wind players. High resistance wind musicians had a 
small but significantly greater incidence of visual field loss (abnormal fields
and increased CPSD scores) than other musicians, which was related to life hours 
of playing. The cumulative effects of long-term intermittent IOP elevation during
high resistance wind instrument playing may result in glaucomatous damage, which 
could be misdiagnosed as normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 10647731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1391. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2000 Jan;19(1):87-112.

Pharmacological and ocular hypotensive properties of topical carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors.

Sugrue MF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Merck Research Laboratories, West Point, PA 19486, USA.

There was a time gap of over 40 years between the demonstrated oral effectiveness
of acetazolamide in lowering the intraocular pressure (IOP) of glaucoma patients 
and the introduction of a topical carbonic anhydrase (CA) inhibitor. This is due 
to the fact that CA-II, the isoenzyme which most likely plays an important role
in the production of aqueous humor in humans, must be essentially inhibited by
100% to elicit a pharmacological response. The lack of success with earlier
attempts to obtain a topical agent stems from an inability to attain and maintain
a sufficiently high intraocular concentration of drug to achieve the required
inhibition of CA. Dorzolamide and brinzolamide are two topical CA inhibitors
which are currently available to treat ocular hypertension and/or glaucoma.
Dorzolamide is a very potent inhibitor of CA-II and its site of action is local
within the eye. Like oral CA inhibitors, topically applied dorzolamide lowers IOP
by decreasing the production of aqueous humor. The drug is used in monotherapy as
a 2% solution administered three times daily. Its ocular hypotensive effect is
comparable to that of timolol at peak but is somewhat less at trough. The IOP
lowering effect of timolol is enhanced by the twice daily administration of 2%
dorzolamide either concomitantly or in combination. Topically applied dorzolamide
is generally well tolerated and had a low drop-out rate in clinical studies. The 
most frequent ocular adverse experience is burning and/or stinging. Corneal and
lenticular problems have generally not been encountered with long-term therapy
with dorzolamide. Topically applied dorzolamide penetrates directly to the
posterior segment of the eye and its presence is consistent with the initial
report that dorzolamide increases retinal blood flow velocity in patients with
normal tension glaucoma. The most frequent systemic adverse experience is a
transient bitter taste. Biochemical changes indicative of the systemic inhibition
of CA have not been observed in monotherapy studies lasting up to 2 years. This
is in harmony with the inability of dorzolamide at steady-state to saturate CA in
the red blood cell and the failure to detect its presence in plasma. A 1%
suspension of brinzolamide is comparable to 2% dorzolamide in lowering IOP, both 
drugs being administered three times daily. Although brinzolamide has a lower
incidence of burning/ stinging, it elicits more blurred vision.


PMID: 10614682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1392. Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 Dec;128(6):776-7.

Collaborative normal-tension glaucoma study.

Sommer A.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):487-97.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 May;127(5):625-6.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):498-505.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 May;127(5):623-5.


PMID: 10612525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1393. Br J Ophthalmol. 1999 Nov;83(11):1307-8.

Optic nerve compression by the internal carotid artery in patients with normal
tension and high tension glaucoma.

Umihira J, Oguchi K, Kurimoto Y, Matsuno K, Fukasaku K, Yoshimura N.


PMCID: PMC1722861
PMID: 10610108  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1394. J Glaucoma. 1999 Dec;8(6):363-6.

Comparative study of retinal nerve fiber layer damage in Japanese patients with
normal- and high-tension glaucoma.

Kubota T(1), Khalil AK, Honda M, Ito S, Nishioka Y, Inomata H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, 
Japan.

PURPOSE: To look for possible differences in the pattern of retinal nerve fiber
layer (RNFL) damage induced by normal- and high-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: The study included randomly selected eyes from 27 patients with
open-angle, high-tension glaucoma (mean age, 54.7 +/- 15.0 years; range 21-74
years) and from 19 age-matched patients with normal-tension glaucoma (mean age,
55.7 +/- 11.9 years; range 35-83 years). Eyes were examined using scanning laser 
polarimetry.
RESULTS: The ratio between the superior and inferior quadrant thickness, or
symmetry, was significantly lower in patients with high-tension glaucoma (1.00
+/- 0.22) than in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (1.18 +/- 0.32).
Similarly, the ratio of the superior to the nasal quadrant thickness was
significantly lower in patients with high-tension glaucoma (1.56 +/- 0.38) than
in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (1.80 +/- 0.29). No statistically
significant differences in the other parameters were detected between the two
groups.
CONCLUSION: These results show that the pattern of RNFL change is different in
patients with high- and low-tension glaucoma. The thickness of the RNFL is
reduced symmetrically in the superior and inferior quadrants in high-tension
glaucoma, whereas a more localized defect on the inferior RNFL occurs in
normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 10604294  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1395. Can J Ophthalmol. 1999 Oct;34(6):319-24.

Central corneal thickness in low-tension glaucoma.

Emara BY(1), Tingey DP, Probst LE, Motolko MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Western Ontario, London.

BACKGROUND: It is possible that the intraocular pressure (IOP) is underestimated 
in eyes whose central cornea is thinner than normal. The objective of this study 
was to determine and establish the significance of central corneal thickness in
patients with low-tension (normal-tension) glaucoma compared with those with
chronic open-angle glaucoma (COAG) or ocular hypertension and healthy eyes.
METHODS: The study was carried out from February 1998 to May 1999. Central
corneal thickness was measured by ultrasonic pachymetry and IOP was measured by
Goldmann applanation tonometry in 25 patients with low-tension glaucoma
(untreated IOP less than 21 mm Hg with evidence of optic nerve head damage and
corresponding visual field loss on automated perimetry), 80 patients with COAG
(untreated IOP 21 mm Hg or greater with evidence of optic nerve head damage and
corresponding visual field loss on automated perimetry), 16 patients with ocular 
hypertension (untreated IOP 21 mm Hg or greater, with normal optic nerve head and
no history of glaucoma or elevated IOP, and normal visual field on automated
perimetry) and 50 control subjects (untreated IOP less than 21 mm Hg with normal 
optic nerve head and no history of glaucoma or elevated IOP). Analysis with
Pearson's product-moment correlation was performed to determine the correlation
of IOP and central corneal thickness, and one-way analysis of variance was used
to compare corneal thickness between groups.
RESULTS: The central cornea was significantly thinner in the low-tension glaucoma
group (mean 513.2 mu [standard deviation (SD) 26.1 mu]) than in the COAG group
(mean 548.2 mu [SD 35.0 mu]) and the control group (mean 556.7 mu [SD 35.9 mu])
(p < 0.001). No significant difference in corneal thickness was found between the
COAG and control groups. The ocular hypertension group had significantly thicker 
corneas (mean 597.5 mu [SD 23.6 mu]) than the three other groups (p < 0.001).
INTERPRETATION: Patients with low-tension glaucoma may have thinner corneas than 
patients with COAG and healthy subjects. This results in underestimation of their
IOP. Corneal thickness should be taken into account when managing these patients 
to avoid undertreatment.


PMID: 10604052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1396. Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 Nov;128(5):606-11.

Ocular and optic nerve head ischemic disorders and hearing loss.

Hayreh SS(1), Podhajsky P, Zimmerman MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate in an exploratory study whether any evidence suggests
that ophthalmic ischemic disorders, particularly of the optic nerve head, are
associated with hearing loss.
METHODS: We investigated prospectively 583 consecutive patients in eight primary 
ocular diagnostic groups for associated hearing loss: nonarteritic anterior
ischemic optic neuropathy (n = 81), normal-tension glaucoma (n = 36), primary
open-angle glaucoma (n = 138), other types of glaucoma (n = 142), ocular arterial
occlusive disorders (n = 22), retinal vein occlusion (n = 89), ocular vasculitis 
(n = 42), and a miscellaneous group (n = 33). The patients and their relatives
were questioned in detail for any evidence of hearing loss in the patients.
RESULTS: In the logistic regression model, with presence or absence of hearing
loss as the dependent variable and gender, age, and diagnosis as independent
variables, gender (P = .003) and age (P<.0001) were found to be significantly
associated with hearing loss. No significant association was found with any of
the ophthalmic disease groups evaluated in this study. Whenever any significant
association with any ophthalmic disease group was seen, this result could be
explained by examination of the association between diagnosis and age, which
showed a significant (P<.001) association.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that there is a significant (P<.001) relationship 
between hearing loss and aging-the older the population, the higher the incidence
of hearing loss-but the study showed that there is no association between hearing
loss and ocular and optic nerve head ischemic disorders. The two represent
unrelated and independent disorders.


PMID: 10577529  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1397. Ophthalmology. 1999 Nov;106(11):2154-60.

Relationship between corneal thickness and measured intraocular pressure in a
general ophthalmology clinic.

Shah S(1), Chatterjee A, Mathai M, Kelly SP, Kwartz J, Henson D, McLeod D.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Department, Royal Bolton Hospital, England. sunilshah@doctors.org.uk

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2001 Aug;108(8):1364-6.
    Ophthalmology. 2000 Oct;107(10):1803.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether central corneal thickness (CCT) is a confounding
factor in the classification of patients attending for glaucoma assessment in a
district general hospital.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study by a single observer.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients attending a general ophthalmic clinic: 235 clinically
normal eyes, 52 eyes with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), 335 eyes with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 12 eyes with pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (PXE), 42
eyes with chronic angle closure glaucoma (CACG), and 232 glaucoma suspect (GS)
eyes.
INTERVENTION: Central corneal thickness was measured using ultrasonic pachymetry.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Correlation of CCT and diagnosis.
RESULTS: Mean CCT was 553.9 microm (95% confidence intervals [CI] for the mean,
549.0-558.8 microm) in the clinically normal eyes, 550.1 microm (95% CI,
546.6-553.7 microm) in the POAG eyes, 514.0 microm (95% CI, 504.8-523.3 microm)
in the NTG eyes, 530.7 microm (95% CI, 511.2-550.1 microm) in the PXE eyes, 559.9
microm (95% CI, 546.8-573.0 microm) in the CACG eyes, and 579.5 microm (95% CI,
574.8-584.1 microm) in the GS eyes. The differences of mean CCT between the
groups were highly significant (P< 0.001 analysis of variance). Eighty-five
percent of eyes with NTG and only 36% of eyes with POAG had a mean CCT of 540
microm or less. Thirteen percent of eyes with POAG and 42% of GS eyes had a mean 
CCT greater than 585 microm.
CONCLUSIONS: The CCT measurement is desirable in patients attending for glaucoma 
assessment in a district general hospital to avoid misclassification resulting
from the relationship between CCT and tonometric pressure. Central corneal
thickness alone is not an accurate predictor for the clinical diagnosis in this
group of eyes. However, many eyes diagnosed as having NTG have thin corneas,
which would tend to lower the tonometrically recorded intraocular pressure (IOP),
so the finding of a less-than-normal thickness cornea introduces some doubt as to
the diagnosis of NTG. For the GS eyes, most eyes had thick corneas, which would
tend to increase the tonometrically recorded IOP. Thus, GS eyes with modest
elevation of IOP and a thick cornea may be at low risk of progressing to POAG.
Thus, many patients with "high IOPs" and a thick CCT do not necessarily have high
IOPs and may not need to be followed as GS eyes.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(99)90498-0 
PMID: 10571352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1398. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Oct;44 Suppl 1:S74-84.

Experimental optic cup enlargement caused by endothelin-1-induced chronic optic
nerve head ischemia.

Oku H(1), Sugiyama T, Kojima S, Watanabe T, Azuma I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, Takatsuki, Japan.

PURPOSE: Vascular insufficiency of the optic nerve head may contribute to
glaucomatous optic neuropathy, especially in normal-tension glaucoma. We
investigated the effect of chronic optic nerve head ischemia, created by repeated
intravitreal injection of endothelin-1 (ET-1), on the morphology and function of 
the optic nerve.
METHODS: In pigmented rabbits, we injected ET-1 (10(-6) M, 10 microL) into the
posterior vitreous of one eye twice a week for 4 weeks (N = 7). The vehicle for
ET-1 was injected into the contralateral eye as a control (N = 7). The subsequent
observation period was set at 8 weeks. The microcirculation of the optic nerve
head was noninvasively monitored with a laser speckle circulation analyzer. To
evaluate the changes of visual function, visual-evoked potentials were recorded. 
Morphologic changes of the optic nerve head were analyzed with stereography, and 
the ratio of cup area (CA) to disk area (DA) was measured by calculating the
number of pixels in each area with a microcomputer.
RESULTS: Capillary blood flow in the optic nerve head was continuously below 80% 
of the baseline throughout the study. The visual-evoked potential latency was
significantly delayed in ET-1-treated eyes. The CA/DA ratio was significantly
increased relative to baseline in the ET-1 treated eyes. Histologic examination
showed axonal loss and demyelination affecting the prelaminar portion of the
optic nerve. The intraocular pressure was not significantly different from the
control value.
CONCLUSION: Optic nerve head ischemia could contribute to the enlargement and
excavation of the disk cup independent of the intraocular pressure level.


PMID: 10548119  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1399. Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 Sep;128(3):301-9.

Beta-blocker eyedrops and nocturnal arterial hypotension.

Hayreh SS(1), Podhajsky P, Zimmerman MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa
City, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2000 May;129(5):697-8.

PURPOSE: To investigate the effects of topical beta-blocker eyedrops on nocturnal
arterial hypotension and heart rate and on visual field deterioration.
METHODS: We prospectively investigated 275 white patients, 161 with glaucomatous 
optic neuropathy and 114 with nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, by
24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and diurnal curve of intraocular
pressure, in addition to detailed ophthalmic evaluation. Of the patients with
glaucomatous optic neuropathy, 131 had normal-tension glaucoma and 30 had primary
open-angle glaucoma. Of the 275 patients, 114 were using topical beta-blocker
eyedrops twice daily (76 with normal-tension glaucoma, 26 with primary open-angle
glaucoma, and 12 with anterior ischemic optic neuropathy).
RESULTS: Hourly average blood pressure data analyses showed overall a drop in
blood pressure as well as heart rate during sleep, and a significantly greater
drop in mean diastolic blood pressure (P = .009) at night in normal-tension
glaucoma than in anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. Also, patients using
beta-blocker eyedrops experienced a significantly greater percentage drop in
diastolic blood pressure at night (P = .028), lower minimum nighttime diastolic
blood pressure (P = .072), and lower minimum nighttime heart rate (P = .002) than
did those not using them. In normal-tension glaucoma, eyes receiving beta-blocker
eyedrops showed visual field progression significantly (P = .0003) more often
than those not receiving beta-blockers.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of our studies, as well as those of others, suggest
that any factor that increases nocturnal arterial hypotension is a potential risk
factor in vulnerable individuals with glaucomatous optic neuropathy or anterior
ischemic optic neuropathy. The present study suggests that the use of
beta-blocker eyedrops, by aggravating nocturnal arterial hypotension and reducing
the heart rate, may be a potential risk factor in susceptible individuals.


PMID: 10511024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1400. Cesk Slov Oftalmol. 1999 May;55(3):136-44.

[Results of 62 optic nerve sheath decompressions].

[Article in Czech]

Jirásková N(1), Rozsíval P.

Author information: 
(1)Oćní klinika Fakultní nemocnice, Hradec Králové.

The authors present results of optic nerve sheath decompression in 62 eyes. The
decompression surgery was performed for progressive form of non-arteritic
anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) in 25 eyes, optic nerve head drusen in
19 eyes, normal tension glaucoma in 7 eyes (+1 reoperation), chronic optic disc
oedema in pseudotumor cerebri in 5 patients, central vein occlusion (CRVO) in 2
patients, CRVO combined with NAION in 2 patients, amiodarone optic neuropathy in 
1 patient. Results of our long-term study enable us to suggest this method of
treatment for vision-threating optic neuropathies after thoroughly balanced
assessment of possible risks and gains.


PMID: 10493011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1401. Ophthalmology. 1999 Sep;106(9):1762-7.

Localized wedge-shaped defects of retinal nerve fiber layer and disc hemorrhage
in glaucoma.

Sugiyama K(1), Uchida H, Tomita G, Sato Y, Iwase A, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.
ksugi-gif@umin.u-tokyo.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate frequencies of localized wedge-shaped defects of the
retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) in eyes with and without disc hemorrhage in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). This study 
also aims to define a topographic correlation between disc hemorrhage and
localized RNFL defects in POAG.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS AND CONTROLS: The authors studied 83 eyes of 83 patients with NTG
(male/female = 23/60; age, 58.8+/-12.9 years) and 20 eyes of 20 patients with
POAG (male/female = 9/11; age, 61.6+/-11.4 years); subjects in both groups had
developed new disc hemorrhage at the time of enrollment. The authors randomly
selected 45 eyes of 45 patients with NTG (male/female = 20/25; age, 62.0+/-9.3
years) and 24 eyes of 24 patients with POAG (male/female = 13/11; age,
56.3+/-14.5 years) with no history of disc hemorrhage during the follow-up period
of more than 2 years.
METHODS: Visual field in the patients with POAG was matched to that of the
patients with NTG regarding global indices for both the hemorrhage and the
nonhemorrhage groups. Localized wedge-shaped defects of RNFL were identified by
scanning laser ophthalmoscopy using an argon-blue laser.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The frequency of localized RNFL defects and the
relationship between the locations of disc hemorrhages and localized RNFL defects
were determined.
RESULTS: Localized wedge-shaped defects of RNFL occurred significantly more often
in the hemorrhage group than in the nonhemorrhage group in both NTG (Fisher's
exact probability test, P < 0.0001) and POAG (P < 0.05) patients. Regardless of
the presence of disc hemorrhage, there was no significant difference in the
frequency of localized RNFL defects between patients with NTG and those with
POAG. Most disc hemorrhages were present in the vicinity of the border between
localized RNFL defects and relatively healthy-looking RNFL in both patients with 
POAG and those with NTG.
CONCLUSION: Disc hemorrhage is associated with localized damage of RNFL in both
NTG and POAG.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(99)90347-0 
PMID: 10485548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1402. Optom Vis Sci. 1999 Aug;76(8):596-8.

Normal-tension glaucoma and central corneal thickness.

Peplinski L(1), Torkelson K.

Author information: 
(1)Lspepski@aol.com

PURPOSE: To determine whether a decreased corneal thickness is a primary factor
in the lower intraocular pressure readings found in normal-tension glaucoma
patients.
METHODS: Fourteen patients with normal-tension glaucoma were compared with 14
age- and sex-matched glaucoma patients. Corneal thickness was measured by
ultrasonic pachymetry on each eye.
RESULTS: The corneal thickness (mean +/- SD) in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma was 0.536 +/- 0.035 mm. The corneal thickness in patients with glaucoma 
was 0.537 +/- 0.035 mm. The 95% confidence interval for the difference between
the two groups was -0.027 to +0.027 mm.
CONCLUSION: It has been documented that increased corneal thickness leads to high
readings of intraocular pressure. Therefore, decreased corneal thickness may lead
to a lower intraocular pressure reading. This study suggests that for most
normal-tension glaucoma patients corneal thickness is not a major factor in
accounting for the lower intraocular pressure measurements when compared with
primary open angle glaucoma patients.


PMID: 10472966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1403. Br J Ophthalmol. 1999 Sep;83(9):1002-5.

Clinical factors influencing the visual prognosis of the fellow eyes of normal
tension glaucoma patients with unilateral field loss.

Fontana L(1), Armas R, Garway-Heath DF, Bunce CV, Poinoosawmy D, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1999 Sep;83(9):999-1000.

AIM: To investigate the influence of several clinical variables on the
development of visual field loss in the "second eye" of patients with normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) presenting with unilateral field loss.
METHODS: Patients with NTG and unilateral field loss at presentation were
selected from a cohort of 403 consecutive diagnoses of NTG. The state of the
visual field "normal" or with a visual field defect was defined using the
Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS) template. Where available, optic disc
planimetry was carried out on stereo photographs taken at presentation.
Measurements of the topography of each of these optic discs were compared with
morphometric values from a group of normal subjects, allowing for differences in 
age and disc size. For each patient the percentage of the relative neuroretinal
rim (NRR) area was calculated. The time taken to develop a visual field defect
was related to clinical factors including age, sex, peak and mean diurnal
intraocular pressure (IOP), refraction, relative NRR area, and the AGIS score of 
the fellow eye at presentation
RESULTS: 54 patients were included in the study. The median (range) follow up
time was 49.2 (11.1-116.7) months. 14 (26%) patients developed field loss in the 
eyes with an initially normal field. The estimate of the median time to field
loss onset was 95.1 months. Field damage developed more rapidly in women and in
patients with greater AGIS score in the contralateral eye at the beginning of
follow up ((adjusted hazard ratio, HR (95% confidence interval, CI) 0.20 (0. 04; 
0.93); 1.19 (1.02; 1.41) respectively)). Little evidence of any association was
found between time to onset of field loss and each of age, refraction, and peak
or mean diurnal IOP. Planimetric disc analysis was carried out in 33 (61%)
patients. Of these 10 (30%) developed field loss in the eyes with initial normal 
field at a median follow up of 95.1 months. After adjustment for sex and AGIS,
relative NRR area was found to be significantly related to the time of onset of
field damage, the greater the reduction in relative NRR area, the shorter the
time to visual field loss (HR 0.93 (0.89; 0. 99)).
CONCLUSIONS: NTG patients with unilateral field loss are at high risk of
developing field damage in the eyes with an initially normal visual field. In
this study, the visual prognosis of the eye with the normal visual field at
presentation was found to be influenced by the extent of the reduction in
relative NRR area together with the severity of field damage in the contralateral
eye at presentation.


PMCID: PMC1723205
PMID: 10460764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1404. Br J Ophthalmol. 1999 Sep;83(9):999-1000.

The well tempered crystal ball in normal tension glaucoma.

Vernon SA.

Comment on
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1999 Sep;83(9):1002-5.


PMCID: PMC1723184
PMID: 10460763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1405. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1999 Aug;237(8):621-8.

The full-field flicker test in glaucomas: influence of intraocular pressure and
pattern of visual field losses.

Horn FK(1), Velten IM, Jünemann A, Korth M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and University Eye Hospital, University
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate how temporal contrast
sensitivity (TCS) determined with full-field flicker stimuli is influenced by
intraocular pressure and whether TCS is reduced in glaucoma patients with diffuse
perimetric losses as well as in patients with localized visual field deficits.
METHODS: TCS was determined with sinusoidally flickering light (37.1 Hz) in a
full-field bowl. Perimetric mean defect (MD) and cumulative defect curves
(Octopus G1) were used to distinguish between patients with localized and diffuse
field deficits. Normal subjects (296), low-tension glaucoma patients (98) and
open-angle glaucoma patients with previously elevated intraocular pressure (541) 
were classified into five subgroups taking into account the depth of their visual
field losses.
RESULTS: No significant correlation between full-field flicker sensitivity and
prevailing intraocular pressure was found in normals (Y=1.36+0.006 X) or in
patients (Y=0.95-0.0002 X). Analyses of validity at a predefined specificity of
90% reveal a reduction of TCS in patients with early (MD<5 dB) diffuse perimetric
losses (sensitivity 69%) as well as in those showing localized visual field
defects (sensitivity 65%). Sensitivity was 87% in patients with diffuse
perimetric defects (MD 5-10 dB), 93% in a group of patients with both types of
losses, and 100% in advanced glaucomas (MD>20 dB). The lack of TCS is similar in 
open-angle glaucomas and in field-loss-matched normal-tension glaucoma patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Significantly reduced TCS in patients with early diffuse perimetric 
losses as well as in those showing localized visual field defects indicates that 
localized damages can be associated with general deterioration of the ability to 
perceive flickering stimuli. Thus, this flicker test can be performed in a
full-field bowl with no need for fixation. Considering its other clinical
qualities (photopic conditions, low influence of prevailing intraocular pressure 
and media opacity) the test may be a useful, convenient supplementary procedure
in glaucoma screening.


PMID: 10459610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1406. Arch Ophthalmol. 1999 Aug;117(8):1010-3.

Optic nerve head morphologic characteristics in high-tension and normal-tension
glaucoma.

Iester M(1), Mikelberg FS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 2000 Oct;118(10):1465-6.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the morphometric parameters in high-tension glaucoma
(HTG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) with a confocal scanning laser
ophthalmoscope, and to determine the relationship to disc size.
METHODS: One hundred eighty-six patients with glaucoma were recruited for this
study. For each patient, only one eye was randomly chosen. Patients with NTG and 
HTG were classified using untreated intraocular pressure (IOP) as the variable;
the NTG group had IOP less than 22 mm Hg during a diurnal tension curve, while
patients with HTG had IOP greater than 21 mm Hg in at least 3 measurements. All
the patients were examined with Humphrey perimeter program 30-2 and a Heidelberg 
Retina Tomograph. Findings were assessed by t test. Patients were then divided by
disc area size into 3 subgroups: small discs with an area less than 2 mm2,
midsized discs with an area of 2 to 3 mm2, and large discs with an area greater
than 3 mm2.
RESULTS: One hundred thirty-two HTG eyes and 50 NTG eyes were assessed. Four eyes
were excluded because they were classified as having secondary glaucoma. No
significant differences were found between HTG and NTG eyes for any Heidelberg
Retina Tomograph morphometric parameters, even when patients were divided into
subgroups.
CONCLUSION: No differences were apparent between HTG and NTG in morphometric
parameters as measured by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy.


PMID: 10448742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1407. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1999 Sep;237(9):753-7.

Psychological characteristics of patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Erb C(1), Batra A, Lietz A, Bayer AU, Flammer J, Thiel HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eberhard-Karls University Tübingen,
Schleichstrasse 12, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany,

BACKGROUND: A study was carried out to evaluate the extent of psychosomatic
complaints in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Twenty-four patients (M:F=3:21; mean age 58+/-15.3 years) with
normal-tension glaucoma were rated according to the von Zerssen Symptom List
(psychosomatic discomfort), the Maudsley Personality Inventory (MPI-N, emotional 
status and MPI-E, extroverted-introverted), the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), 
and the Sixteen Personality Factor Questionnaire (16PF). An age- and sex-matched 
control group (n=24; M:F=3:21; mean age 56+/-13 years) without any ocular or
other general chronic disease was selected.
RESULTS: In comparison with the control group the patients with normal-tension
glaucoma showed significantly more complaints (von Zerssen Symptom List) and were
more emotionally unstable (MPI-N). No group differences were found regarding
extroversion-introversion (MPI-E) and depression (BDI). In the 16PF, patients
with normal-tension glaucoma were remarkable, only for a significant negative
correlation between the duration of illness and psychic endurance.
CONCLUSION: The results demonstrate that patients with normal-tension glaucoma
show evident psychosomatic involvement. However, the sequence of the pathogenetic
development remains unclear. Therefore, it is not known whether these
psychological disturbances are factors contributing to the development of
normal-tension glaucoma or whether they are a result of normal-tension glaucoma. 
Nevertheless, some patients with normal-tension glaucoma had these disturbances. 
Besides reduction of intraocular pressure and improvement of vascular condition, 
those who display psychological disturbances should receive psychological
support, such as autogenic training.


PMID: 10447651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1408. Prog Retin Eye Res. 1999 Sep;18(5):669-87.

Progress in measurement of ocular blood flow and relevance to our understanding
of glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration.

Harris A(1), Chung HS, Ciulla TA, Kagemann L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University, Indianapolis 46202, USA.
Alharris@indiana.edu

New technologies have facilitated the study of the ocular circulation. These
modalities and analysis techniques facilitate very precise and comprehensive
study of retinal, choroidal, and retrobulbar circulations. These techniques
include: 1. Vessel caliber assessment; 2. Scanning laser ophthalmoscopic
fluorescein angiography and indocyanine green angiography to image and evaluate
the retinal circulation and choroidal circulation respectively; 3. Laser Doppler 
flowmetry and confocal scanning laser Doppler flowmetry to measure blood flow in 
the optic nerve head and retinal capillary beds; 4. Ocular pulse measurement; and
5. color Doppler imaging to measure blood flow velocities in the central retinal 
artery, the ciliary arteries and the ophthalmic artery. These technique have
greatly enhanced the ability to quantify ocular perfusion defects in many
disorders, including glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration, two of the
most prevalent causes of blindness in the industrialized world. Recently it has
become clear, in animal models of glaucoma, that retinal ganglion cells die via
apoptosis. The factors that initiate apoptosis in these cells remain obscure, but
ischemia may play a central role. Patients with either primary open-angle
glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma experience various ocular blood flow
deficits. With regard to age-related macular degeneration, the etiology remains
unknown although some theories include primary retinal pigment epithelial
senescence, genetic defects such as those found in the ABCR gene which is also
defective in Stargardt's disease and ocular perfusion abnormalities. As the
choriocapillaris supplies the metabolic needs of the retinal pigment epithelium
and the outer retina, perfusion defect in the choriocapillaris could account for 
some of the physiologic and pathologic changes in AMD. Vascular defects have been
identified in both nonexudative and exudative AMD patients using new
technologies. This paper is a comprehensive update describing modalities
available for the measurement of all new ocular blood flow in human and the
clinical use.


PMID: 10438154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1409. Br J Ophthalmol. 1999 Apr;83(4):466-9.

Peripapillary retinal blood flow in normal tension glaucoma.

Chung HS(1), Harris A, Kagemann L, Martin B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis 4602-6195, USA.

AIMS: To determine if normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients differ from age
matched controls in blood flow to the peripapillary retina, as measured with
confocal scanning laser Doppler flowmetry (cSLDF; "Heidelberg retinal
flowmetry").
METHODS: 12 NTG patients and 12 age matched controls were compared using (a) 10 x
10 pixel boxes (the instrument default sample size), taken from the nasal and
temporal peripapillary retina, (b) the average from two of these boxes, and (c)
every qualifying pixel within the peripapillary retina.
RESULTS: Patients and controls did not differ in blood flow measured using the
default sample from a single 10 x 10 pixel box, placed in either the temporal or 
nasal peripapillary retina, or expressed as the average from these two boxes.
However, in histograms using every pixel from the peripapillary retina, NTG
patients displayed significantly higher percentages of minimal flow pixels
(defined as less than one arbitrary unit of flow: 30% v 19%, p < 0.01), and
significantly lower flow in the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile flow pixel (each 
p < 0.05) than did age matched controls.
CONCLUSION: NTG is characterised by reduced blood flow in the peripapillary
retina, a result suggesting that blood flow deficits accompany, and perhaps may
contribute to, disease development in these patients.


PMCID: PMC1722989
PMID: 10434872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1410. Ophthalmologica. 1999;213(4):219-23.

Asymmetry in intraocular pressure and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Gugleta K(1), Orgül S, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

The etiology of glaucoma is most probably multifactorial. This study intended to 
investigate the asymmetry in intraocular pressure (IOP) and that in retinal nerve
fiber layer (RNFL) thickness in normal-tension glaucoma patients. Two diurnal
tension curves, obtained within 3 months and counting at least five IOP readings 
each, including an early morning IOP measurement upon awaking, were obtained in
15 normal-tension glaucoma patients. None of the patients received IOP-lowering
therapy. IOP asymmetry was present in at least three readings and was always in
the same direction. The optic nerve was imaged in both eyes in each patient by
means of confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (Heidelberg Retina Tomograph).
The interocular difference in RNFL thickness and the RNFL cross-sectional area
were correlated with the interocular difference in IOP by means of Spearman's
rank correlation factor. Nine female and 6 male normal-tension glaucoma patients 
(mean +/- SD age was 62. 4 +/- 16.9 years) were included in this study.
Interocular IOP asymmetry varied between 0.30 and 4 mm Hg. Strong negative
correlations were found between interocular asymmetry in IOP and interocular
asymmetry in RNFL thickness asymmetry (R = -0.652, p = 0. 0083) and interocular
asymmetry in RNFL cross-sectional area (R = -0. 702, p = 0.0034). The present
results demonstrate for the first time a more marked thinning of the neuroretinal
nerve fiber layer in the eye with the higher IOP in normal-tension glaucoma
patients.

DOI: 27425 
PMID: 10420104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1411. Oftalmologia. 1998;45(4):37-44.

[Vascular risk factors in glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Stefan C, Cucea R, Popescu A, Serban MM.

The study realised in the Eye Clinic of the Central Military Hospital during
February 1995-November 1997 analyses the impact of the vascular risk factors on
the evolution of the primary glaucoma. The group consists in 533 patients which
primary open angle glaucoma, from which 90.6% patients with primary open angle
glaucoma and 9.3% with normal tension glaucoma. The assessment of the patients in
order to identify the vascular risk factors it was performed on the basis of
anamnestic questionnaire, following: degenerative vasculopathies, spastic
vasculopathies, arterial hypotension and coronary insufficiency. 70.5% of the
patients presented minimum one vascular risk factor. In the case of the patients 
with primary open angle glaucoma, we found a high frequency of the degenerative
vasculopathies. In the patients with normal tension glaucoma the most frequent
factor were: arterial hypotension and spastic vasculopathies. The coronary
insufficiency had equal distribution in the primary open angle glaucoma and
normal tension glaucoma. The parameters of the disease were affected faster in
the patients with vascular risk factors. The outcomes of the study allow to
estimate that the screening of the vascular risk factors has a distinct
importance in the evolution and accurate treatment of glaucoma.


PMID: 10418626  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1412. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;43 Suppl 1:S176-82.

Color Doppler imaging of the retrobulbar circulation in glaucoma.

Rankin SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, The Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, Northern
Ireland. simon.rankin@btinternet.com

Color Doppler imaging is a noninvasive technique for investigating the
retrobulbar circulation, showing specific retrobulbar vessels Ophthalmology
Department, The Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, Northern Ireland and measuring 
blood velocity characteristics within these vessels. Color Doppler imaging is
reproducible and has been used by many investigators to study blood velocity in
the ophthalmic artery, the central retinal artery, and the short posterior
ciliary arteries. The technique has shown statistically significant reductions in
the flow velocities and increases in the resistance indices of these vessels in
both primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma in comparison with
normal control subjects. These changes correlate with disease severity and
asymmetry and illustrate a compromised circulation in this region. Intraocular
pressure and vasospasm have been shown to affect blood flow velocities in the
same circulation. This article discusses studies that have elucidated these
changes in various subpopulations of glaucoma subjects in an attempt to determine
hemodynamic alterations between these disease types.


PMID: 10416761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1413. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;43 Suppl 1:S79-86.

Visual field responses to a hand vibration stimulus.

Chai E(1), Goldberg I, Chia A, Chen J.

Author information: 
(1)Sydney Hospital, NSW, Australia.

Two short visual field tests were performed on 106 subjects approximately 5
minutes apart with or without a hand vibration stimulus between the field tests. 
There were 31 eyes in the control group (10 without glaucoma, eight glaucoma
suspects, 10 with primary open-angle glaucoma, and three with secondary
open-angle glaucoma). There were 75 eyes in the hand vibration group (16 without 
glaucoma, 20 glaucoma suspects, 25 with primary open-angle glaucoma, eight with
secondary open-angle glaucoma, three with normal-tension glaucoma, and three with
other forms of glaucoma). Average visual field sensitivities were significantly
reduced in the arcuate zones after a hand vibration stimulus (-0.42 dB; SD, 1.26 
dB) when compared with sensitivities in the arcuate zones in subjects without the
hand vibration stimulus (+0.38 dB; SD, 1.53 dB; P = 0.01). Multivariate analysis 
demonstrated a significant reduction in this response in the arcuate zone
associated with use of betaxolol (P = 0.021) and timolol (P = 0.047). Betaxolol
was associated with significantly smaller reductions in visual field
sensitivities in the paracentral zone (P = 0.01). Reductions in visual field
sensitivities that may be related to ocular vasospasm occurred after a hand
vibration stimulus. This response may be able to be modified pharmacologically
with topical beta-blockers, particularly betaxolol.


PMID: 10416750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1414. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;43 Suppl 1:S66-78.

The Hettinger hand vibration test, vasospasm, and glaucoma.

Goldberg I(1), Chai E, Chia A, Benscher C, Bauman A, Chen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, and Sydney Eye Hospitals and Save Sight
Institute, Sydney University, NSW, Australia.

Ocular vasospasm in response to local and/or systemic stimuli may contribute to
ischemia of the optic nerve. The Hettinger hand vibration test was applied to
patients with and without glaucoma to identify subgroups with a high systemic
vasospastic tendency. A total of 580 subjects were tested (113 controls, 86
glaucoma suspects, 270 with primary open-angle glaucoma, 71 with secondary
open-angle glaucoma, 30 with normal-tension glaucoma, and 10 with angle-closure
glaucoma). The frequency distribution curve of Hettinger scores (HS) was bimodal,
suggesting two distinct groups. Within each diagnostic group, a subpopulation
with a high HS could be identified. Multivariate analysis demonstrated a
significant association between the nonselective topical beta-blocker timolol and
higher mean HS (P = 0.04) and a significantly higher proportion of subjects with 
HS of 1.5 or more (P = 0.01). Although subjects taking systemic beta1-selective
blockers had significantly lower mean HS (P = 0.04), the proportion of patients
with HS of 1.5 or more was not affected significantly by topical and systemic
beta1-selective blocker use. Whereas topical nonselective beta-blockers may have 
an adverse effect on vasospastic tendency, systemic beta1-selective blockers may 
be partially protective against this effect.


PMID: 10416749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1415. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;43 Suppl 1:S43-50.

Vascular aspects in the pathophysiology of glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

Chung HS(1), Harris A, Evans DW, Kagemann L, Garzozi HJ, Martin B.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Research and Diagnostic Center, Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana 
University, Indianapolis, USA.

Glaucoma remains a major eye illness with unknown etiology. Although elevated
intraocular pressure is clearly a major risk factor, vascular deficits may
contribute to initiation and progression of glaucoma. When intraocular pressure
is acutely elevated in healthy individuals, the resistance index (derived from
the peak systolic and end-diastolic velocities and an indirect index of vascular 
resistance distal to the site of measurement) in the central retinal and
posterior ciliary arteries increases progressively. This result implies that
mechanical and vascular factors may be coupled in such a way that perfusion of
the retina and optic nerve head may be influenced by changes in the intraocular
pressure. Further, at night, when ophthalmic artery flow velocities fall as
arterial blood pressure falls in glaucoma patients, the risk of disease
progression may be increased. The constancy of these same flow velocities in
age-matched healthy individuals points to a possible vascular autoregulatory
defect in glaucoma. In addition, in normal-tension glaucoma, vasodilation (CO2
inhalation) normalizes retrobulbar arterial flow velocities, hinting that some
vascular deficits in glaucoma may be reversible. Finally, Ca2+ channel blockade
improves contrast sensitivity in patients with normal-tension glaucoma, who also 
show increased retrobulbar vessel flow velocities, a result suggesting that
visual function loss may be linked to ocular ischemia. Emerging evidence points
to a role of ischemia in the pathogenesis of glaucoma, suggesting that treatments
designed to improve ocular blood flow may benefit glaucoma patients.


PMID: 10416746  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1416. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;43 Suppl 1:S10-6.

Nocturnal hypotension: role in glaucoma progression.

Graham SL(1), Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

The role of systemic blood pressure in glaucomatous damage remains undefined,
with systemic hypertension and hypotension being implicated in different studies.
We have previously reported that the physiologic nocturnal blood pressure "dip"
may be exaggerated in some glaucoma patients with progressive field loss. A
24-hour ambulatory blood pressure recording was originally performed on 84
patients with glaucoma. The mean result across all our glaucoma patients were
within the ranges reported in the literature for normal subjects. The
normal-tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma groups did not differ
significantly in blood pressure variables. Nocturnal blood pressure variables
were lower in the patients with progressive field defects compared to those with 
stable visual fields. To determine long-term outcomes in these patients, we
reevaluated the visual fields of the original 84 patients studied. In 70 patients
with long-term visual field data (mean, 5.1 years), those who had shown greater
nocturnal blood pressure dips were more likely to have shown field progression at
some stage, despite good intraocular pressure control. Patients who had field
progression showed significantly lower nocturnal blood pressure variables, with
the dips of the systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure significantly
larger (systolic dip, P = 0.01). They also had a greater history of disk
hemorrhages. A review of other 24-hour blood pressure studies in the literature
shows that most are in agreement with these findings. The nocturnal reduction in 
blood pressure may, therefore, be an additional risk factor in glaucoma patients.


PMID: 10416743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1417. Eye (Lond). 1999;13 ( Pt 1):31-4.

The effect of once-daily latanoprost on intraocular pressure and pulsatile ocular
blood flow in normal tension glaucoma.

McKibbin M(1), Menage MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Leeds General Infirmary, UK.

PURPOSE: To determine the effect of once-daily 0.005% latanoprost on intraocular 
pressure (IOP) and pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) in patients with normal
tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: The diurnal IOP and sitting POBF were determined for 32 eyes of 19 NTG
patients after a washout period. The subjects were treated with 0.005%
latanoprost for 3-4 weeks and the measurements repeated. Statistical analysis was
performed using the Wilcoxon signed rank test.
RESULTS: Median IOP before and after treatment were 19 and 15 mmHg respectively
(p < 0.001). The IOP reduction correlated with the initial IOP before treatment
(p < 0.01) and was accompanied by an increase in median POBF from 656 to 796
microliters/min (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Once-daily treatment with 0.005% latanoprost provides a significant 
and stable IOP reduction in the majority of NTG patients after short-term
treatment. This is accompanied by a significant increase in POBF.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1999.6 
PMID: 10396380  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1418. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 1999 Jun;15(3):189-97.

Dorzolamide, visual function and ocular hemodynamics in normal-tension glaucoma.

Harris A(1), Arend O, Kagemann L, Garrett M, Chung HS, Martin B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis 46202-5175, USA.

The purpose of this study was to determine how a topical carbonic anhydrase
inhibitor, dorzolamide, alters visual function and ocular blood flow in persons
with normal-tension glaucoma. Eighteen normal tension glaucoma patients, after
washout of other ocular medications, were treated for four weeks with 2%
dorzolamide, three times daily. A control group of eleven other normal-tension
glaucoma patients received placebo eye drops. Patients were studied before
treatment, and after two and four weeks of treatment. Each study included
assessment of central visual function (contrast sensitivity), intraocular
pressure (IOP), and several aspects of ocular hemodynamics, including measures of
retinal arteriovenous passage time, retinal arterial and venous diameters, and
flow velocities in the ophthalmic, central retinal, and posterior ciliary
arteries. Dorzolamide significantly reduced IOP at two and four weeks (each
p<0.01), and at the same time increased contrast sensitivity at both three and
six cycles per degree (each p<0.05). Neither of these variables changed
significantly in the control group. Dorzolamide also accelerated retinal
arteriovenous passage time of fluorescein dye, at constant retinal arterial and
venous diameters (p<0.05), but failed to change flow velocities in any
retrobulbar vessel. The ability of dorzolamide to improve contrast sensitivity in
persons with normal-tension glaucoma may be related to either IOP reduction or
altered ocular perfusion.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.1999.15.189 
PMID: 10385127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1419. Br J Ophthalmol. 1999 Mar;83(3):353-7.

Measurement of retinal nerve fibre layer by scanning laser polarimetry and high
pass resolution perimetry in normal tension glaucoma with relatively high or low 
intraocular pressure.

Shirakashi M(1), Funaki S, Funaki H, Yaoeda K, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

AIMS: To determine whether any differences may exist in the relation between the 
neural capacity as determined by high pass resolution perimetry and the thickness
of the retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) in patients having normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) with a relatively high intraocular pressure (IOP) between 16 and
21 mm Hg (HNTG) v those with a lower IOP below 15 mm Hg (LNTG).
METHODS: Scanning laser polarimetry and high pass resolution perimetry were
performed in 20 eyes of 20 patients with HNTG and 21 eyes of 21 patients with
LNTG. The correlation between total and regional thickness of the peripapillary
RNFL and the corresponding total and regional neural capacity with linear
regression analysis were evaluated.
RESULTS: Overall, although the total RNFL thickness was not significantly
correlated with the total neural capacity, the RNFL thickness in each of the
superior and inferior quadrants was significantly correlated with the
corresponding regional neural capacity (r = 0.44, p = 0.0045; r = 0.39, p =
0.0126 for each). The RNFL thickness in each of the superior and inferior
quadrants in the HNTG group was significantly correlated with the corresponding
regional neural capacity (r = 0.52, p = 0.0196; r = 0.49, p = 0.0286 for each).
No significant correlation between neural capacity and the RNFL thickness was
observed either globally or regionally in the LNTG group.
CONCLUSION: The degree of the correlation between neural capacity as determined
by high pass resolution perimetry and thickness of the RNFL as measured by
scanning laser polarimetry appeared to differ in NTG patients with an IOP higher 
than 15 mm Hg v those with a lower IOP.


PMCID: PMC1722974
PMID: 10365047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1420. Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 May;127(5):625-6.

Comparison of glaucomatous progression between untreated patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and patients with therapeutically reduced intraocular
pressures. The effectiveness of intraocular pressure reduction in the treatment
of normal-tension glaucoma.

Leske MC, Hyman L, Hussein M, Heijl A, Bengtsson B.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 Dec;128(6):776-7.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):487-97.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):498-505.


PMID: 10334369  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1421. Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 May;127(5):623-5.

Comparison of glaucomatous progression between untreated patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and patients with therapeutically reduced intraocular
pressures. The effectiveness of intraocular pressure reduction in the treatment
of normal-tension glaucoma.

Danias J, Podos SM.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 Dec;128(6):776-7.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):487-97.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):498-505.


PMID: 10334368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1422. Ophthalmology. 1999 May;106(5):1009-12.

High prevalence of glaucoma in patients with sleep apnea syndrome.

Mojon DS(1), Hess CW, Goldblum D, Fleischhauer J, Koerner F, Bassetti C, Mathis
J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Bern, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2000 May;107(5):816-7.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of glaucoma in sleep apnea syndrome (SAS),
an entity characterized by repetitive upper airway obstructions during sleep,
inducing hypoxia and sleep disruption with the risk of cardiovascular and
neurologic sequelae.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 114 white patients consecutively referred for
polysomnographic evaluation of suspected SAS.
INTERVENTION: Complete ophthalmologic examination, including computerized
perimetry and simultaneous stereoscopic optic disc photographs.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Spearman rank correlations between the respiratory
disturbance index during night sleep (RDI), a value used to diagnose and grade
SAS, and visual acuity, intraocular pressure (IOP), visual field indices,
presence or absence of glaucomatous optic disc changes, and diagnosis of
glaucoma. Each correlation was controlled for age and body mass index. To compare
proportions of patients harboring glaucoma, the binomial test was used.
RESULTS: Sixty-nine (60.5%) of the 114 patients had an RDI > or =10, which
indicates SAS. Three patients had primary open-angle glaucoma, and two had
normal-tension glaucoma. All patients with glaucoma had SAS. The observed
prevalence of glaucoma in patients with SAS (5 of 69, 7.2%) was significantly
higher than expected in a white population (2%) (P = 0.01). The RDI correlated
positively with IOP (P = 0.025), visual field loss variance (P = 0.03),
glaucomatous optic disc changes (P = 0.001), and diagnosis of glaucoma (P =
0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with SAS constitute a high-risk population for glaucoma and
should therefore be screened for glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(99)00525-4 
PMID: 10328405  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1423. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1999 Mar;22(2):160-8.

[Is corneal thickness measurement reliable and useful?].

[Article in French]

Bron A(1), Chapard J, Creuzot-Garcher C, Guerzider V, D'Athis P.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, CHU Dijon.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the accuracy and the reproducibility of central corneal
thickness measurements using an ultrasound pachymeter, and its usefulness in
clinical practice.
METHODS: We calculated the intra-observer, inter-observer, and inter-session
variability in control subjects (n = 38). We observed the diurnal variation (n = 
8) and the role of surgery (n = 12) on central corneal thickness. We measured and
compared central corneal thickness and intraocular pressure in 6 groups (control 
subjects n = 134, primary open-angle glaucoma n = 111, ocular hypertension n =
66, normal tension glaucoma n = 12, diabetes mellitus n = 62, corneal graft n =
27). We studied the influence of dorzolamide on central corneal thickness (n =
16).
RESULTS: The intra-observer variability was 9 +/- 4 microns, whereas the
inter-observer and inter-session variabilities were 4 microns and 5% m
respectively. The central corneal thickness in patients with ocular hypertension 
(587 +/- 41 microns) was significantly greater than control subjects (548 +/- 32 
microns) and all the other groups (p < 0.001). No influence of dorzolamide was
observed on central corneal thickness.
CONCLUSION: Central corneal thickness assessed with an ultrasound pachymeter may 
be a useful and accurate method in selected patients whose intraocular pressure
measurement does not correlate with other clinical findings.


PMID: 10327345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1424. Postgrad Med J. 1998 Dec;74(878):709-15.

Glaucoma: diagnosis and management.

Infeld DA(1), O'Shea JG.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Birmingham and Midland Eye Centre, UK.

Glaucoma is the third most prevalent cause of global blindness, accounting for
over 5 million blind. It is common in Western Countries; the estimated prevalence
of primary open angle glaucoma rises from a total prevalence of 1.1% to
approximately 3% of our population as it ages. Ethnicity affects both the risk of
developing glaucoma and the outcome. It is an expensive disease both to detect
and to treat. Recent scientific advances include elucidation of the genetic
mechanism behind the disease and the study of haemodynamic and biochemical
co-factors in the development of glaucomatous optic neuropathy, particularly in
relation to the pathogenesis of normal tension glaucoma. Several new types of
topical medication have recently been developed for use in glaucoma; both the
impact of these therapies and their cost effectiveness remain to be evaluated.
There are widely differing regimes which effectively treat glaucoma; some
ophthalmologists prefer early surgical intervention whilst others reserve surgery
for relatively advanced disease. All methods of current treatment rely on the
reduction of intra-ocular pressure; as yet there is no medication which has been 
definitively proven to be either neuroprotective or to influence favourably optic
nerve perfusion. Despite this, most sufferers of glaucoma are able to lead lives 
of quality. Increased community awareness of glaucoma, and earlier detection of
the condition, will doubtless result in decreased morbidity due to glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC2431621
PMID: 10320884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1425. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1999 May;40(6):1144-51.

Effects of nilvadipine, a calcium antagonist, on rabbit ocular circulation and
optic nerve head circulation in NTG subjects.

Tomita K(1), Araie M, Tamaki Y, Nagahara M, Sugiyama T.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, Tokyo Kosei Nenkin Hospital, Japan.

PURPOSE: To study the effects of nilvadipine, a Ca2+ antagonist, on tissue
circulation in the optic nerve head (ONH), choroid, and retina in rabbits and on 
the ONH circulation in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: Nilvadipine (3.2 microg/kg) or vehicle solution was injected
intravenously into urethane-anesthetized rabbits, and the normalized blur value
(NB), a quantitative index of in vivo tissue blood velocity, was measured in the 
choroid and in an area of the ONH and retina free of visible surface vessels
before and for 90 minutes after injection, using the laser speckle method. The
effects of nilvadipine on the ONH circulation was also studied using the H2 gas
clearance method in separate groups of rabbits. Oral nilvadipine (4 mg/d) or
placebo was administered to NTG patients in a double-masked manner, and NB in an 
area of the ONH rim free of visible surface vessels was measured by the same
method before and 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks after administration.
RESULTS: The NB obtained from the ONH, choroid, or retina during the experimental
period was increased by approximately 10% to 25% in the nilvadipine group
compared with the NB in the control group (P < 0.0001, ANOVA), although systemic 
condition parameters and intraocular pressure (IOP) showed no significant
intergroup difference except for a transient decrease in blood pressure in the
nilvadipine groups. Blood flow rate in the ONH determined by the H2 gas clearance
method also showed an approximately 25% increase in the nilvadipine group. The NB
in the ONH of the oral nilvadipine-treated patients was significantly increased, 
by approximately 20% compared with the placebo-treated patients throughout the
follow-up period. No significant intergroup difference was seen in blood
pressure, pulse rate, or IOP.
CONCLUSIONS: Nilvadipine increased blood velocity and, probably, blood flow in
the ONH, choroid, and retina of rabbits. It also increased blood velocity in the 
ONH of NTG patients.


PMID: 10235547  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1426. J Glaucoma. 1999 Apr;8(2):154-6.

A GLC1A gene Gln368Stop mutation in a patient with normal-tension open-angle
glaucoma.

Mardin CY(1), Velten I, Ozbey S, Rautenstrauss B, Michels-Rautenstrauss K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.

PURPOSE: To present a case involving a patient with normal-tension glaucoma with 
a Gln368Stop mutation of the myocilin/trabecular meshwork inducible
glucocorticoid response protein (MYOC/TIGR) gene.
METHODS: Slit-lamp biomicroscopic and gonioscopic examination, morphometry of the
optic disc, 24-hour intraocular pressure (IOP) profile, and perimetry were
performed to determine the phenotype of the patient. Neurologic examination and a
computed tomographic (CT) scan of the brain were performed to rule out a
neurologic disorder. Single-strand confirmation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and 
subsequent sequence analysis of blood was performed for genotyping of the GLC1A
gene.
RESULTS: A nonsense codon, namely a Gln368Stop mutation in the third exon of the 
GLC1A gene, was found in this patient with normal-tension glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: In contrast to previous reports, a Gln368Stop mutation of the GLC1A
gene need not be confined to patients with glaucomatous optic atrophy due to high
IOP. The pathogenesis of glaucoma associated with GLC1A gene mutations might be
more complex than expected, and (unknown) suppressor mechanisms have to be
considered.


PMID: 10209734  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1427. J Glaucoma. 1999 Apr;8(2):117-23.

Effects of oral brovincamine on visual field damage in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma with low-normal intraocular pressure.

Koseki N(1), Araie M, Yamagami J, Shirato S, Yamamoto S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To prospectively study the effect of oral brovincamine, a relatively
selective cerebral vasodilator, on further deterioration of visual field in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) with low-normal intraocular pressure 
(IOP).
METHODS: Fifty-two patients with NTG (average age 57.7 years) with an IOP that
was consistently less than 15 mmHg were randomly assigned to receive oral
brovincamine (20 mg three times daily) or to an untreated control group. The
groups were prospectively followed for 2 years with visual field examinations
every 4 months, using the 30-2 Humphrey perimeter program. Changes in mean
deviation (MD), corrected pattern standard deviation (CPSD), and total deviation 
(TD) at 74 test points were analyzed using regression analysis with linear mixed 
model. Data from one eye without media opacity of each subject were analyzed.
RESULTS: There were no differences between groups in age; sex distribution;
refraction; blood pressure; baseline IOP; MD, CPSD, or TD at each point. Changes 
in MD (standard error [SE]) during the study period were -0.778 (0.178) and
-0.071 (0.195) dB/year in the control and brovincamine groups, respectively;
change in the control group was significantly more negative than in the
brovincamine group. Change in CPSD (SE) was 0.032 (0.015) and 0.004 (0.016)
dB/year in the control and brovincamine groups, respectively. Change in the
control group was significantly positive, but the intergroup difference was not
significant. Change in TD was significantly negative at six test points in the
control group, whereas no points showed a significant trend in the brovincamine
group; the intergroup difference was significant. The average IOP was 13.2 mmHg
and 13.1 mmHg in the control and brovincamine groups, respectively, and there was
no significant intergroup difference.
CONCLUSION: Oral brovincamine may retard further visual field deterioration in
patients with NTG who have low-normal IOP.


PMID: 10209728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1428. J Ultrasound Med. 1999 Apr;18(4):295-302.

Evaluation of ocular arterial changes in glaucoma with color Doppler
ultrasonography.

Chiou HJ(1), Chou YH, Liu CJ, Hsu CC, Tiu CM, Teng MM, Chang CY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Veterans General Hospital--Taipei, National Yang-Ming
University, Taiwan.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate hemodynamic changes of the retrobulbar 
vasculature caused by different intraocular pressures with color Doppler
ultrasonography. Fifty normal eyes in 25 patients, 13 patients with normal
tension glaucoma, and 19 patients with acute glaucoma and increased intraocular
pressure (greater than 30 mm Hg) were enrolled in this study. In 15 of 19
patients with acute glaucoma patients, follow-up color Doppler ultrasonography
was also undertaken after laser peripheral iridectomy when the intraocular
pressure had returned to normal. The peak systolic velocity, end diastolic
velocity, resistive index, time average maximum velocity, and pulsatility index
were compared in different vessels, including the central retinal artery, lateral
posterior ciliary artery, medial posterior ciliary artery, and ophthalmic artery 
in each orbit. The peak systolic velocity, end diastolic velocity, and time
average maximum velocity of the central retinal artery were significantly lower
(P<0.01) in acute glaucoma patients than in the control group. The resistive
index and pulsatility index of the central retinal artery were significantly
higher (P<0.01) in acute glaucoma patients than in the control group. The end
diastolic velocity of the lateral and medial posterior ciliary arteries was
significantly lower in patients with acute glaucoma than in the control group,
and the resistive index and pulsatility index of both of these arteries were
significantly higher (P<0.001) in patients with acute glaucoma than in the
control group. However, no statistical significantly differences were found in
the peak systolic velocity or time average maximum velocity in either of the
posterior ciliary arteries; similarly, no statistically significant differences
were noted in any of the parameters in the ophthalmic artery between the control 
group and the group with acute glaucoma. The pulsatility index of the central
retinal artery and of the lateral and medial posterior ciliary arteries was
significantly lower (P<0.01) in acute glaucoma patients after laser therapy than 
in acute glaucoma patients before laser therapy. The resistive index of both
posterior ciliary arteries was also significantly lower (P<0.004) in acute
glaucoma patients after laser therapy than before laser therapy. All parameters
for all vessels examined among the normal subjects, the patients with normal
tension glaucoma, and the patients with acute glaucoma after laser therapy when
the intraocular pressure had returned to normal showed no statistically
significant differences. Color Doppler ultrasonography is a good modality for
both imaging and studying the hemodynamics of the perioptic nerve vessels.


PMID: 10206218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1429. Ophthalmologica. 1999;213(3):150-3.

Blood flow velocity in the peripheral circulation of glaucoma patients.

O'Brien C(1), Butt Z.

Author information: 
(1)Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion, Edinburgh, UK.

Using the laser Doppler technique we measured finger blood flow velocity in 25
untreated primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 22 untreated low-tension glaucoma
(LTG) and 19 age-matched normal subjects. Four blood flow measurements were
recorded: baseline flow, after immersion in warm water for 2 min (40 degrees C
maximum flow), after 10 s exposure to cold water (4 degrees C minimum flow) and
time to recover to baseline flow after cold immersion. Significant differences
between the LTG group and both the normal and POAG groups were found in a greater
maximum flow (p = 0.03 and p = 0.01, respectively), a lower minimum flow (p =
0.04 and p = 0.03, respectively) and a longer recovery time to baseline flow (p =
0. 0001 for both the normal and POAG groups). A longer recovery time to baseline 
flow (p = 0.008) in POAG was the only difference between the normal and POAG
groups. Both glaucoma groups had more systemic vascular disease than normal, and 
there were more smokers in the POAG group than normals. Subgroup assessment
performed with migraine, vascular disease and smoking subjects excluded from the 
analysis did not alter the overall results. We conclude that systemic vasospasm
is a strong feature of low-tension glaucoma.

DOI: 27410 
PMID: 10202286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1430. Ann Acad Med Singapore. 1998 Nov;27(6):819-23.

Glaucoma pattern amongst the elderly Chinese in Singapore.

Sim DH(1), Goh LG, Ho T.

Author information: 
(1)Specialist Eyecare Clinic, Singapore.

Glaucoma is a major blinding condition and is more prevalent amongst the elderly.
A population study of 479 elderly Chinese aged 60 years and older, and residing
in Singapore was carried out to determine the prevalence of glaucoma. The overall
glaucoma prevalence was 4.8% with normal tension glaucoma (61%) and primary angle
closure glaucoma (26%) being the most prevalent forms of glaucoma. All cases were
silent in presentation with 97% of cases previously undiagnosed. With the greying
population in Singapore, the issue of screening the elderly for glaucoma should
be considered.


PMID: 10101557  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1431. Int Ophthalmol. 1998;22(1):19-25.

Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in glaucoma patients. The nocturnal systolic
dip and its relationship with disease progression.

Collignon N(1), Dewe W, Guillaume S, Collignon-Brach J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Glaucoma Unit, University of Liège, CHU Sart
Tilman, Belgium.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to uncover a new sensitive and specific factor
for predicting the progression of glaucoma.
METHODS: The 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure and diurnal curve of intra-ocular 
pressure were recorded in seventy patients: 51 primary open angle glaucoma (POAG)
and 19 normal tension glaucoma (NTG). The mean systolic, diastolic and average
arterial blood pressure were calculated, along with the nocturnal dip of systolic
pressure and diastolic blood pressure. Two-year disease progression was assessed 
for all patients by means of retrospective analysis of visual fields defects on
repeated perimetries.
RESULTS: Abnormal (absence or increased) nocturnal dip of systolic blood pressure
was found to be correlated with disease progression in POAG and NTG patients with
a sensitivity of 86% and a specificity of 85%, whereas no significant correlation
was found for the other risks factors envisaged. Furthermore, a significant
relationship between stable visual field defects and the use of diuretics/laser
procedure was evidenced.
CONCLUSION: The nocturnal dip of systolic blood pressure should be considered as 
a predictive factor of disease progression in NTG and POAG. Further prospective
studies are needed to ascertain whether dip normalization could help slow down
the visual field loss in these patients.


PMID: 10090444  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1432. Int Ophthalmol. 1998;22(1):7-12.

Erythrocyte deformability in high-tension and normal tension glaucoma.

Ates H(1), Uretmen O, Temiz A, Andac K.

Author information: 
(1)Ege University School of Medicine, Ophthalmology Department, Izmir, Turkey.
atesh@med.ege.edu.tr

The exact cause of primary open angle glaucoma is still unknown. Intraocular
pressure is a major factor but it is impossible to explain the whole mechanism of
glaucomatous optic nerve damage with only increased intraocular pressure. Other
factors play important roles in the development of glaucoma. With this point of
view, vascular factors have been implicated in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. We
tried to determine the etiopathogenetic role of decreased erythrocyte
deformability in normal tension glaucoma and high-tension glaucoma. The study
group consisted of 16 patients with the diagnosis of normal tension glaucoma, 17 
patients with the diagnosis of high-tension glaucoma, and 24 patients as
controls. Independent t-tests were used to compare the three groups two by two
for age, hematocrit, mean cell volume, plasma protein level, cardiovascular risk 
factors, and erythrocyte deformability. There was no statistically significant
relationship (p>0.05) between the groups concerning the erythrocyte
deformability. When we consider all of 57 patients, we found that both increasing
age (>60 years) and greater mean cell volume (>84 fl) had a statistically
significant relationship with decreased erythrocyte deformability (p<0.05). When 
we performed Pearson correlation analysis, we found that only mean cell volume
and erythrocyte deformability had a statistically significant relationship (r =
0.31, p = 0.02). We conclude that decreased erythrocyte deformability is not a
major factor in the ethiopathogenesis of normal tension glaucoma and high-tension
glaucoma.


PMID: 10090442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1433. Can J Ophthalmol. 1999 Feb;34(1):1-6.

The Collaborative Normal-Tension Glaucoma Study and some of its lessons.

[Article in English, French]

Drance SM.


PMID: 10088056  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1434. J Glaucoma. 1999 Feb;8(1):77-80.

Neural networks for visual field analysis: how do they compare with other
algorithms?

Lietman T(1), Eng J, Katz J, Quigley HA.

Author information: 
(1)The F.I. Proctor Foundation, University of California San Francisco, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare the performance of a neural network in identifying visual
field defects with the performance of other available algorithms.
METHODS: A feed-forward neural network with a single hidden layer was trained to 
recognize visual field defects previously collected in a longitudinal follow-up
glaucoma study, and then tested on fields taken from the same study but not used 
in the training. The receiver operating characteristics of the network then were 
compared with the previously determined performance of other algorithms on the
same data set.
RESULTS: At a specificity greater than 90%, the neural network was more sensitive
than any of the available algorithms (although only the global indices were
available for comparison, as the cluster and cross-meridional algorithms did not 
achieve such high specificity at their current settings). At a lower specificity 
(80-85%), the neural network was unable to attain the high sensitivity of the
cluster or cross-meridional algorithms; in fact, the cluster algorithm from the
Low-Tension Glaucoma study was significantly more sensitive.
CONCLUSION: The receiver operating characteristics of a feed-forward neural
network designed to detect visual field defects were explored. At a very high
specificity (90-95%) a neural network performed better than the global indices.
However, at a lower specificity (78%-88%), the neural network performed worse
than cluster and cross-meridional algorithms.


PMID: 10084278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1435. J Glaucoma. 1999 Feb;8(1):51-5.

The relationship between gelatinase A activity in aqueous humor and glaucoma.

Kee C(1), Son S, Ahn BH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, College of Medicine,
Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether abnormal expression of gelatinase A in aqueous
humor may be related to the development of glaucoma, the activity of gelatinase A
in aqueous humor of patients with glaucoma and patients with cataract was
measured and compared.
METHODS: Six primary patients with open-angle glaucoma (POAG), four patients with
chronic angle closure glaucoma (CACG), four patients with normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), and 14 patients with cataract were enrolled. The aqueous humor of each
patient was collected during surgery, and total protein concentration and
gelatinase activity in the aqueous humor were measured by protein assay kit and
zymography, respectively.
RESULTS: In patients with POAG, total protein concentration doubled and
gelatinase A activity increased by 3.9 times compared with patients with
cataract. However, there were no statistically significant differences in total
protein concentration and gelatinase A activity in patients with CACG or NTG
compared with patients with cataract.
CONCLUSION: The development of POAG may be associated with the abnormal
expression of gelatinase A in aqueous humor.


PMID: 10084275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1436. J Glaucoma. 1999 Feb;8(1):8-11.

Body mass index in glaucoma.

Gasser P(1), Stümpfig D, Schötzau A, Ackermann-Liebrich U, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic Basel, Medical Outpatient Department, University Clinic,
University Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To compare body mass index (BMI) of patients with open-angle glaucoma or
normal-tension glaucoma with BMI in control subjects.
METHODS: BMI was calculated for 288 control subjects, 42 patients with open-angle
glaucoma with treated intraocular pressure (IOP) higher than 21 mmHg, 87 patients
with open-angle glaucoma with progression of glaucomatous damage despite IOP less
than 21 mmHg, and 57 patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
RESULTS: There was no statistical difference in BMI between patients with
glaucoma and control subjects. If anything, there was a tendency for patients
with glaucoma to have a lower BMI than control subjects.
CONCLUSION: These data show that obesity seems not to be a risk factor for
glaucoma.


PMID: 10084268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1437. Ophthalmologe. 1999 Jan;96(1):24-9.

[Retinal hemodynamics in patients with normal pressure glaucoma. Quantification
with digital laser scanning fluorescein angiography].

[Article in German]

Arend O(1), Remky A, Redbrake C, Arend S, Wenzel M, Harris A.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, RWTH Aachen.

Chronic ischemia of the retina and the optic nerve head seems of importance
especially in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). The purpose of this
study was to examine the retinal hemodynamics in patients with NTG.PATIENTS:
Twenty-five patients with NTG were examined (3 weeks washout period) in this
study (age 58 +/- 16 years). The arteriovenous passage (AVP) time and arterial
and venous diameters from scanning laser fluorescein angiograms were evaluated by
means of digital image analysis.
RESULTS: The AVP time in patients with NTG (2.78 +/- 1.1 s) was significantly
prolonged (P < 0.0001) compared with healthy subjects (1.58 +/- 0.4 s). No
significant correlation was found between arterial and venous diameters,
intraocular pressure, blood pressure or calculated perfusion pressure and retinal
arteriovenous passage time.
CONCLUSION: Patients with NTG showed prolonged retinal passage, which could cause
chronic hypoxia. This prolongation of circulation is not correlated with any of
the clinical parameters. Thus, a circulatory defect might be a primary factor in 
the pathogenesis of NTG.


PMID: 10067331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1438. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1999 Feb;237(2):105-8.

Risk factors for visual field damage progression in normal-tension glaucoma eyes.

Daugeliene L(1), Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu-shi,
Japan. lina-gif@umin.u-tokyo.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: This study was carried out to evaluate intraocular or systemic
factors associated with the visual field damage progression in eyes with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-seven NTG eyes with a minimum follow-up of 5 years
were enrolled into the retrospective study. A stepwise regression analysis was
performed to correlate the visual field damage progression, expressed as the mean
deviation (MD) change per year, with several independent clinical factors
including age, history of disc hemorrhage, initial MD, mean intraocular pressure 
(IOP), peak IOP, diurnal fluctuation of IOP, presence of a beta zone of
peripapillary atrophy, and use of Ca(2+)-channel blockers.
RESULTS: Statistical analysis revealed that non-use of Ca(2+)-channel blockers (P
= 0.01), peripapillary atrophy (P = 0.03) and disc hemorrhage (P = 0.04) were
associated with visual loss progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Risk factors unrelated to IOP were suggested to be associated with
progression of visual field loss. Systemic use of Ca(2+)-channel blockers has a
favorable effect on visual field prognosis in NTG eyes.


PMID: 9987625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1439. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1998;(227):45-6.

Relationship between cefalo-ophthalmic haemodynamics and visual function in
patients affected by carotid stenosis. Possible links with critical low tension
glaucoma pictures.

Vitale Brovarone F(1), Fea A, Rabbia C, Sibour G, Boles Carenini A, Gastaldi C,
Magistro G, Favero C.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic I, University of Turin.


PMID: 9972344  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1440. Prog Retin Eye Res. 1999 Mar;18(2):191-221.

Retinal and optic nerve head ischemic disorders and atherosclerosis: role of
serotonin.

Hayreh SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Iowa College of
Medicine, Iowa City 52242, USA.

Ischemic disorders of the retina and optic nerve head (OPH) constitute a common
cause of visual loss in the middle-aged and elderly population. These disorders
have a high association with atherosclerosis. This review has considered the
various aspects of atherosclerosis and its role, as well as that of serotonin, in
the development of ischemic disorders of the retina and ONH. It is known that
when platelets aggregate on an atheromatous plaque, serotonin is one of the
agents released. Studies in experimental atherosclerotic monkeys have shown that,
although serotonin has no effect on ocular vasculature in normal monkeys, in
atherosclerotic monkeys it produces vasopasm of the central retinal artery (CRA) 
and/or posterior ciliary artery (PCA) in various combinations but not vasopasm of
the arterioles in the retina; vasospasm of the CRA and/or PCA(s) can consequently
cause transient, complete occlusion or impaired blood flow in these arteries. It 
is postulated that in some atherosclerotic individuals this mechanism may play an
important role in the development of ischemic disorders of the retina and ONH,
including amaurosis fugax, (CRA) occlusion and anterior ischemic optic
neuropathy, and possibly also glaucomatous optic neuropathy, particularly in
normal tension glaucoma. Studies have also shown that dietary treatment of
atherosclerosis abolishes or markedly improves the serotonin induced
vasoconstriction within a few months. All these considerations may have important
implications for our understanding of the pathogenesis and management of these
blinding disorders.


PMID: 9932283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1441. Arch Ophthalmol. 1999 Jan;117(1):34-40.

Latanoprost accelerates disruption of the blood-aqueous barrier and the incidence
of angiographic cystoid macular edema in early postoperative pseudophakias.

Miyake K(1), Ota I, Maekubo K, Ichihashi S, Miyake S.

Author information: 
(1)Shohzankai Medical Foundation, Miyake Eye Hospital, Nagoya, Japan.
miyake@spice.or.jp

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1999 Sep;117(9):1265-6.

OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of latanoprost, a prostaglandin analog, on the
blood-aqueous barrier and angiographic cystoid macular edema (CME) formation in
early postoperative pseudophakias.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Included in the study were eyes with ocular hypertension,
normal-tension glaucoma, or primary open-angle glaucoma undergoing surgery for
cataract. The study consisted of a randomized double-masked trial for latanoprost
and an open-label controlled trial for determining the effects of diclofenac
sodium or fluorometholone eyedrop use on latanoprost or its placebo. We compared 
4 groups of eyes with concurrent application of latanoprost and diclofenac (group
A), latanoprost and fluorometholone (group B), latanoprost placebo and diclofenac
(group C), and latanoprost placebo and fluorometholone (group D). A laser flare
cell meter was used to determine the severity of blood-aqueous barrier
disruption, and fluorescein angiography was performed to determine angiographic
CME formation. Mean diurnal intraocular pressure differences were compared on the
preoperative baseline day and in the fifth postoperative week. Latanoprost
(0.005%) or its placebo was given once a day starting 2 days before surgery until
the fifth postoperative week. Diclofenac or fluorometholone eyedrops were given 4
times a day before surgery on the day of surgery and 3 times a day until the
fifth postoperative week.
RESULTS: In group B compared with group D, the amount of flare 3 days and 1 and 2
weeks after surgery and the incidence of angiographic CME in the fifth
postoperative week were significantly higher. These 2 factors were significantly 
higher in group B than in group A (P < .05) and in group D than in group C (P <
.01). There was no significant difference in these factors between groups A and
C. The intraocular pressure decline was significant in groups A and B compared
with groups C and D (P < .05), but there was no significant difference between
groups A and B and between groups C and D.
CONCLUSIONS: Latanoprost therapy enhances disruption of the blood-aqueous barrier
and increases the incidence of angiographic CME formation in early postoperative 
pseudophakias. Because administration of nonsteroidal eyedrops such as diclofenac
seems to prevent the adverse effects of latanoprost therapy while maintaining its
effect to lower intraocular pressure, we suggest their concurrent application.


PMID: 9930158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1442. Arch Ophthalmol. 1999 Jan;117(1):14-6.

Corneal thickness in ocular hypertension, primary open-angle glaucoma, and normal
tension glaucoma.

Copt RP(1), Thomas R, Mermoud A.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Ophtalmique Jules Gonin, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.
RPCOPT@HOTMAIL.com

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1999 Jan;117(1):104-5.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the effect of central corneal thickness (CCT) on the
measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) and on the resultant reclassification
of patients as having primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), or ocular hypertension (OHT).
METHODS: Intraocular pressure (Goldmann applanation tonomety) and CCT (ultrasound
pachymetry) were measured in 22 patients with NTG, 49 with POAG, 44 with OHT and 
in 18 control subjects. The CCT was used to obtain a corrected value for the IOP 
and to reclassify the type of glaucoma.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in CCT between controls (552 +/- 35 
microns) and patients with POAG (543 +/- 35 microns), but the CCT in the group
with NTG (521 +/- 31 microns) was significantly lower than that in the control
group or the group with POAG (P < .001), and the CCT in the group with OHT (583
+/- 34 microns) was significantly higher than in controls or patients with POAG
(P < .001). Correcting IOP for corneal thickness, 31% of the patients with NTG
could be reclassified as having POAG, and 56% of the patients with OHT as normal.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with NTG have a thinner CCT than do patients with POAG or
controls. Underestimation of the IOP in patients with POAG who have thin corneas 
may lead to a misdiagnosis of NTG, while overestimation of the IOP in normal
subjects who have thick corneas may lead to a misdiagnosis of OHT.


PMID: 9930155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1443. Br J Ophthalmol. 1998 Jul;82(7):835-40.

Normal tension glaucoma--a practical approach.

Kamal D(1), Hitchings R.

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.


PMCID: PMC1722650
PMID: 9924383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1444. Br J Ophthalmol. 1998 Jul;82(7):758-62.

Topical carbonic anhydrase inhibition increases ocular pulse amplitude in high
tension primary open angle glaucoma.

Schmidt KG(1), von Rückmann A, Pillunat LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Justus Liebig University, Giessen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) is reduced in normal tension primary
open angle glaucoma (NTP) patients when compared with healthy age matched
controls (CTL) while increased OPA appears to protect ocular hypertensive
patients from visual field loss. If NTP is accompanied by vasospasm, as in
roughly half of the primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) population (independent of
intraocular pressure, IOP), calcium channel blockers increase OPA and thus
stabilise visual fields in these patients. Current glaucoma drugs reduce IOP but 
do not activate (compromised) ocular perfusion.
METHODS: The influence of dorzolamide, a topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitor in 
standard dosage (three times daily, one eye) on OPA, IOP, blood pressure, and
heart rate was investigated in a randomised, prospective, masked clinical trial
assessing the acute effects of dorzolamide v placebo before and 2 days after
application in 33 cataract patients with (n = 14) and without (n = 19) high
tension POAG (HTP) who provided informed consent.
RESULTS: Following application of dorzolamide (D) IOP (mm Hg, mean (SEM)) in HTPD
(20.2 (0.5)/16.3 (0.5) and in CTLD (16.0 (0.5)/12.3 (0.5)) was highly
significantly (p < 0.001) reduced and was significantly (p < 0.03) reduced in
vehicle (V) treated eyes (HTPv: 20.3 (0.4)/19.0 (0.4)) and CTLv: 15.8 (0.4)/14.9 
(0.3)) when compared with respective baseline measurements. OPA (mm Hg) in HTPD
(2.1 (0.1)/2.5 (0.1)) and CTLD (2.2 (0.1)/2.6 (0.2)) eyes was significantly (p < 
0.05) increased and unaffected in vehicle treated eyes when compared with
respective baseline measurements. Systemic perfusion variables were also
unchanged.
CONCLUSION: Dorzolamide increased OPA in HTP and CTL. Drugs stimulating OPA may
improve prognosis of POAGs.


PMCID: PMC1722689
PMID: 9924367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1445. Br J Ophthalmol. 1998 Jul;82(7):731-6.

Pulsatile ocular blood flow investigation in asymmetric normal tension glaucoma
and normal subjects.

Fontana L(1), Poinoosawmy D, Bunce CV, O'Brien C, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1998 Jul;82(7):720-1.

AIMS: This study was designed to investigate pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF)
in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and in normal controls. NTG patients
with unilateral field loss were evaluated to compare POBF values between eyes
with and without field loss.
METHODS: POBF measurements from more than 1500 subjects were collected during a
period of 6 months from six optometric centres. Subjects with systemic vascular
diseases (such as systemic hypertension and diabetes), ophthalmic diseases, a
positive family history of glaucoma, and those individuals receiving treatment
with systemic beta blockers were excluded on the basis of a questionnaire. For
comparison, 95 NTG patients with unilateral field loss, selected from 403
consecutive patients with NTG, underwent POBF testing. For each individual age,
sex, intraocular pressure, refraction, and pulse rate were entered into a
database.
RESULTS: Data from 777 subjects were included in the analysis. POBF measurements 
of patients and subjects were compared allowing for differences in age, sex,
intraocular pressure, refraction, and pulse rate. POBF was significantly lower in
eyes of NTG patients with and without field loss (p < 0.001 and p = 0.01
respectively). Eyes of NTG patients with field loss showed significantly lower
POBF than the contralateral eyes with normal field (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: POBF was significantly lower in eyes of NTG patients with and
without field loss than in normal subjects, suggesting that differences in ocular
blood perfusion are relevant to the development of NTG and are detectable from
the early stage of the disease. Furthermore, the finding of lower POBF in NTG
eyes with field loss than in the contralateral eyes with normal field suggests
that haemodynamic differences between fellow eyes contribute to determine the
side of onset of the disease.


PMCID: PMC1722652
PMID: 9924361  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1446. Ophthalmologica. 1999;213(2):76-96.

Role of nocturnal arterial hypotension in optic nerve head ischemic disorders.

Hayreh SS(1), Podhajsky P, Zimmerman MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City 52242-1091, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of nocturnal arterial hypotension, intraocular
pressure (IOP) and heart rate in optic nerve head (ONH) ischemic disorders, and
the effects of systemic factors and topical beta-blocker eye-drops on nocturnal
arterial hypotension and heart rate.
METHODS: We investigated prospectively, by 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure (BP)
monitoring and diurnal curve of the IOP, 275 white patients with anterior
ischemic optic neuropathy (AION - 114), normal tension glaucoma (NTG - 131) and
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG - 30).
RESULTS: Hourly average BP data analyses showed a significantly greater drop in
mean diastolic BP (p < 0.009) at night in NTG than AION. Cases with visual field 
deterioration had significantly (p = 0.05) lower minimum nighttime diastolic BP. 
Arterial hypertensives on oral hypotensive therapy showed a significantly lower
mean nighttime systolic BP (p = 0.006) and larger mean percentage drop in
systolic (p < 0.0001), diastolic (p = 0.0009) and mean (p < 0.0001) BPs.
Normotensives and hypertensives without therapy had no such difference. IOP
showed no significant correlation with visual field deterioration in any of these
conditions. Patients using beta-blocker eyedrops, compared with those not using
them, had greater percentage drop in diastolic BP (p = 0.028), lower minimum
nighttime diastolic BP (p = 0.072) and lower minimum nighttime heart rate (p =
0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Findings of our study suggest that nocturnal hypotension, by
reducing the ONH blood flow below a crucial level during sleep in a vulnerable
ONH, may play a role in the pathogenesis of AION and glaucomatous optic
neuropathy (GON) and progression of visual loss in them. Thus, nocturnal
hypotension may be the final insult in a multifactorial situation.


PMID: 9885384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1447. Klin Oczna. 1998;100(5):285-8.

[Flash electroretinography and pattern-type visual evoked potentials in early
glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Turno-Krecicka A(1), Nizankowska MH, Zajac-Pytrus H, Koziorowska M, Pelczar E,
Robaczyńska M.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki AM we Wrocławiu.

PURPOSE: The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate diagnostic sensitivity
of flash-erg, oscillatory potentials (OPs), and pattern-visual evoked potentials 
(pVEP) in early glaucoma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Erg, OPs and pVEP were registered in 416 eyes primary open 
angle glaucoma (120 eyes), normal tension glaucoma (137), ocular hypertension
(74), glaucoma-like discs (86) in age-matched groups, by Tomey 400.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences between parameters
of flash-erg and pVEP of examined population and control group. Significant
reduction in OPs amplitude in NTG patients were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Flash erg and pVEP have low diagnostic value in early glaucoma. OPs 
could be useful in scientific research on pathogenesis of glaucomatous
neuropathy.


PMID: 9884524  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1448. J Glaucoma. 1998 Dec;7(6):372-7.

Clinical factors associated with progression of normal-tension glaucoma.

Ishida K(1), Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate clinical factors associated with the progression of
visual field loss in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: One hundred and ten patients with NTG whose cases were followed for more
than 2 years were retrospectively analyzed with the Kaplan-Meier life table
method and the Cox proportional hazards model. Several clinical factors were
investigated to find a possible association with progression of glaucomatous
visual field defined by two different definitions: one by mean deviation change
and the other by pointwise comparison.
RESULTS: The Cox proportional hazards model indicated that change in the visual
field was significantly associated with treatment with calcium channel blockers, 
recovery rate from a cold recovery test, systolic blood pressure, disc
hemorrhage, corrected pattern standard deviation, mean deviation, and fluctuation
of intraocular pressure (IOP) at a 24-hour phasing. The probability of
nonprogression of visual field loss was significantly higher for patients taking 
calcium channel blockers than for control subjects by either definition of visual
field progression.
CONCLUSION: Factors other than IOP, including the use of calcium channel
blockers, are associated with the outcome of visual field loss in NTG.


PMID: 9871858  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1449. J Glaucoma. 1998 Dec;7(6):366-71.

The definition of normal-tension glaucoma.

Lee BL(1), Bathija R, Weinreb RN.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Center, University of California at San Diego 92093-0946, USA.

Comment in
    J Glaucoma. 1998 Dec;7(6):363-5.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the consistency of the definition of normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG).
METHODS: All articles about NTG published between 1973 and 1997 from three
clinical journals of ophthalmology were identified by a literature search. They
were reviewed to determine criteria used to define NTG, including optic nerve
assessment and intraocular pressure (IOP) requirements.
RESULTS: There were 63 articles identified that defined the disease entity NTG,
including 30 published between 1973 and 1992 and 33 published between 1993 and
1997. Maximum IOP values acceptable for designation as NTG ranged from 17 mmHg to
26 mmHg. A significantly greater proportion of studies published during the last 
5 years required maximum IOP values < or = 21 mmHg. Inclusion criteria based on
structural characteristics of the glaucomatous optic disc or on the glaucomatous 
visual field were present in 55 (87%) and 56 (89%) articles, respectively. Of the
seven articles that listed specific features classifying a disc as glaucomatous, 
seven (100%) were published within the last 5 years. Of the 13 articles that
listed specific features classifying a field as glaucomatous, 9 (69%) were
published within the last 5 years.
CONCLUSION: The criteria used to define NTG during the last 25 years have been
highly variable. However, publications during the last 5 years have been more
likely to require a maximum IOP < or = 21 mmHg and to describe specific features 
of the glaucomatous optic disc and visual field.


PMID: 9871857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1450. J Glaucoma. 1998 Dec;7(6):363-5.

The tale of normal-tension glaucoma.

Van Buskirk EM.

Comment on
    J Glaucoma. 1998 Dec;7(6):366-71.


PMID: 9871856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1451. Br J Ophthalmol. 1998 Aug;82(8):862-70.

Glaucoma and vasospasm.

Broadway DC(1), Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1998 Aug;82(8):855-6.

AIMS/BACKGROUND: To study the vasoactivity of glaucoma patients with four
previously described and distinct disc appearances potentially representative of 
primary open angle glaucoma subgroups.
METHODS: Patients with pure examples of four glaucomatous optic disc types--focal
ischaemic, myopic glaucomatous, senile sclerotic, and those with generalised cup 
enlargement, were selected. A detailed ophthalmic, systemic, drug, and smoking
history was taken from the patients who, in addition, underwent assessment of
peripheral vasospasm with a laser Doppler flowmeter. Differences between the
groups were evaluated using an analysis of variance, Student's t test, Pearson's 
chi 2 test, Fisher's exact test together with Spearman's and Pearson's
correlation tests.
RESULTS: 38 patients with focal ischaemic, 37 with myopic glaucomatous, 24 with
senile sclerotic, and 24 with discs characterised by generalised cup enlargement 
met the selection criteria. The group of patients with focal ischaemic discs
contained more women (66% versus 32%-50% in the other three groups; p = 0.01) and
had a higher prevalence of vasospasm (63% versus 25%-49%; p = 0.01), migraine
(32% versus 8%-19%; p = 0.02), and cold extremities (66% versus 17%-30%; p =
0.00003). The group of patients with senile sclerotic discs had a higher
prevalence of systemic cardiovascular disease (58% versus 21%-30% in the other
three groups; p = 0.01) and thyroid disease (21% cf 0%-8%; p = 0.01) and although
their mean age was greater (76 years cf 55-65 years; p < 0.00001) the findings
were independent of age. Smoking was unrelated to optic disc type.
CONCLUSION: Vasospasm, previously associated with normal tension glaucoma, and
generalised cardiovascular disease both appear to be specific risk factors for
the development of particular subgroups of glaucoma and may be independent of
absolute intraocular pressure levels exerting effects in patients with both
"normal" or "raised" intraocular pressure. The simple assessment as to whether a 
glaucoma patient suffers from colder extremities than average appeared to be
better at distinguishing the focal ischaemic type of glaucoma than the more
complex determination of vasospasm using the laser Doppler flowmeter.


PMCID: PMC1722701
PMID: 9828767  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1452. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1998 Sep-Oct;42(5):389-92.

Reproducibility of color Doppler imaging for orbital arteries in Japanese
patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Niwa Y(1), Yamamoto T, Kawakami H, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

The reproducibility of measurements by color Doppler imaging (CDI) were evaluated
in Japanese patients with normal-tension glaucoma. Measurements were taken in the
central retinal artery, the ophthalmic artery, and the short posterior ciliary
arteries. Reproducibility was evaluated by calculating the coefficients of
reproducibility for the peak systolic and end diastolic velocities and for the
resistance index. The coefficient of reproducibility was calculated as magnitude 
of V1 - V2/¿(V1 + V2)/2¿ where V1 is the value of the first measurement and V2 is
the value of the measurement taken 48 hours later. In calculating the resistance 
index of the orbital arteries, the central retinal artery and the short posterior
ciliary artery temporal to the optic nerve both had coefficients of
reproducibility of 0.04 +/- 0.04 (mean +/- standard deviation); the ophthalmic
artery and the short posterior ciliary artery nasal to the optic nerve both had
coefficients of reproducibility of 0.04 +/- 0.05. The high reproducibility of the
CDI technique supports the validity of using CDI in a clinical setting to measure
the hemodynamic parameters of small retrobulbar blood vessels.


PMID: 9822969  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1453. Ophthalmology. 1998 Oct;105(10):1866-74.

The cupped disc. Who needs neuroimaging?

Greenfield DS(1), Siatkowski RM, Glaser JS, Schatz NJ, Parrish RK 2nd.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami 
School of Medicine, Florida, USA.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 1999 May;106(5):855.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of positive neuroradiologic studies in
consecutive patients with glaucoma associated with normal intraocular pressure
and to compare the psychophysical and clinical characteristics of these eyes with
eyes with disc cupping associated with intracranial masses.
DESIGN: Retrospective case-controlled study.
PARTICIPANTS: Fifty-two eyes of 29 patients with glaucoma associated with normal 
intraocular pressure and 44 eyes of 28 control patients with compressive lesions 
were reviewed.
INTERVENTION: The medical records of consecutive glaucoma patients with normal
intraocular pressure who underwent brain magnetic resonance imaging or computed
tomography scanning as part of a diagnostic evaluation between January 1, 1985,
and July 1, 1995, were reviewed. A masked reading of optic nerve photographs and 
visual fields was performed by one observer. A similar analysis was performed on 
a control group of consecutive patients with nonglaucomatous optic nerve cupping 
with known intracranial mass lesions.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The neuroradiologic findings, clinical characteristics,
optic nerve head appearance, and patterns of visual field loss were compared
between groups.
RESULTS: None of the patients diagnosed with glaucoma had neuroradiologic
evidence of a mass lesion involving the anterior visual pathway. Compared to
control subjects, patients with glaucoma were older (P = 0.0001), had better
visual acuity (P = 0.002), greater vertical loss of neuroretinal rim tissue (P = 
0.0001), more frequent optic disc hemorrhages (P = 0.01), less neuroretinal rim
pallor (P = 0.0001), and more nerve fiber bundle visual field defects aligned at 
the horizontal midline (P = 0.0001). Visual acuity less than 20/40, vertically
aligned visual field defects, optic nerve pallor in excess of cupping, and age
younger than 50 years were 77%, 81%, 90%, and 93% specific for nonglaucomatous
cupping associated with compressive lesions, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Anterior visual pathway compression is an uncommon finding in the
neuroradiologic evaluation of patients with a presumptive diagnosis of
normal-tension glaucoma. Younger age, lower levels of visual acuity, vertically
aligned visual field defects, and neuroretinal rim pallor may increase the
likelihood of identifying an intracranial mass lesion.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)91031-4 
PMID: 9787356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1454. Oftalmologia. 1998;42(1):20-4.

[An ultrasonic vascular examination using continuous Doppler emission in
normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Mocanu C.


PMID: 9786650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1455. J Glaucoma. 1998 Oct;7(5):336-42.

The effect of nimodipine, a centrally active calcium antagonist, on visual
function and mascular blood flow in patients with normal-tension glaucoma and
control subjects.

Piltz JR(1), Bose S, Lanchoney D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Scheie Eye Institute, University of Pennsylvania 
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, USA.

Comment in
    J Glaucoma. 1998 Oct;7(5):299-300.

PURPOSE: This study was performed to evaluate the effect of nimodipine, a
centrally active calcium channel antagonist on automated Humphrey visual fields, 
Farnsworth-Munsell 100 (FM-100) hue color vision testing, and macular blood flow 
(blue field entoptic simulation technique) in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) and control subjects.
METHODS: Thirteen patients with NTG and thirteen age- and sex-matched control
subjects were studied in a prospective, placebo-controlled, double-masked,
crossover protocol. On each of the two study dates, testing was performed at
baseline and 90 minutes after administration of either two 30-mg nimodipine
capsules or two identical appearing placebo capsules. Blood pressure and pulse
were monitored throughout the study.
RESULTS: Nimodipine administration resulted in a performance corrected
improvement in Humphrey visual field mean deviation (patients with NTG and
control subjects), corrected pattern standard deviation (patients with NTG), and 
macular sensitivity (the average of the foveal threshold and the four most
central points of the visual field; patients with NTG). The FM-100 hue error
scores significantly decreased after administration of nimodipine in patients
with NTG and control subjects compared with baseline. There were no significant
differences in baseline leukocyte velocity or density between patients with NTG
and control subjects; no significant changes in leukocyte velocity or density
were noted after administration of nimodipine in either group.
CONCLUSION: Nimodipine caused a significant performance corrected improvement in 
visual field testing and a significant improvement in color vision. Nimodipine
did not alter macular hemodynamics as measured using the blue field entoptic
simulation technique, although results were hampered by high variability,
particularly in the leukocyte density measurements.


PMID: 9786563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1456. J Glaucoma. 1998 Oct;7(5):329-35.

Retinal nerve fiber layer thickness within the area of apparently normal visual
field in normal-tension glaucoma with hemifield defect.

Reyes RD(1), Tomita G, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate changes in nerve fiber layer (NFL) thickness in areas with
apparently normal retinal sensitivity in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) 
with hemifield dominant visual field defects.
METHODS: The prospective clinical study consisted of 17 eyes from 17 patients
with NTG in whom superior or inferior hemifield dominant defects based on the
Humphrey visual field of central 30 degrees were present, and 10 normal eyes from
10 control subjects matched in age and refractive error. The retinal NFL
thickness was evaluated with a scanning laser polarimeter. Mean NFL thickness
measurements in the defined ring in four quadrants (superior, inferior, nasal,
and temporal) were obtained. To facilitate visual field and NFL thickness
correspondence, the total deviation (TD) plot of the visual field was divided
into four 90 degrees quadrants, using Wirtschafter's scheme to match the four
quadrants examined by laser polarimetry.
RESULTS: The mean NFL thickness in the unaffected quadrant, i.e., the quadrant
within the area corresponding to the hemifield with apparently normal visual
field in eyes with NTG, was significantly thinner than the average NFL thickness 
of the superior and inferior quadrants in the normal eyes. In eyes with NTG, the 
NFL thickness in the affected quadrant also was significantly thinner than that
in the unaffected quadrant. In the unaffected quadrant, visual field TD (the sum 
of the TD values within this quadrant) showed a significant correlation with the 
ratio of NFL thickness in the unaffected quadrant to that in the nasal quadrant.
CONCLUSION: Early changes in the retinal nerve fiber layer may already exist even
in the unaffected area of the visual field in eyes with NTG with hemifield
dominant visual field defects.


PMID: 9786562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1457. J Glaucoma. 1998 Oct;7(5):301-5.

The effect of nilvadipine, a calcium-channel blocker, on the hemodynamics of
retrobulbar vessels in normal-tension glaucoma.

Yamamoto T(1), Niwa Y, Kawakami H, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

Comment in
    J Glaucoma. 1998 Oct;7(5):299-300.

PURPOSE: To investigate the effect of nilvadipine, a calcium-channel blocker, on 
the hemodynamics of retrobulbar vessels in normal-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Twenty-five patients who prospectively met the enrollment criteria
underwent color Doppler imaging of the retrobulbar vessels before and after
receiving 4 weeks of treatment with 2 mg oral nilvadipine twice daily.
RESULTS: Nilvadipine significantly increased the end-diastolic velocity in the
central retinal artery and a short posterior ciliary artery. It significantly
reduced the resistance index in the central retinal artery and posterior ciliary 
arteries, but not in the ophthalmic artery. The calculated ocular perfusion
pressure was not affected.
CONCLUSION: Oral nilvadipine reduces vascular resistance in distal retrobulbar
arteries in normal-tension glaucoma without affecting more proximal blood
vessels. Therefore, nilvadipine may have a beneficial effect on the hemodynamics 
of retrobulbar vessels in normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 9786557  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1458. Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):578-81.

The treatment of normal-tension glaucoma.

Caprioli J.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):487-97.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):498-505.


PMID: 9780103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1459. Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):498-505.

The effectiveness of intraocular pressure reduction in the treatment of
normal-tension glaucoma. Collaborative Normal-Tension Glaucoma Study Group.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):578-81.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 May;127(5):623-5.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 May;127(5):625-6.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 Dec;128(6):776-7.

PURPOSE: In a companion paper, we determined that intraocular pressure is part of
the pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma by analyzing the effect of a 30%
intraocular pressure reduction on the subsequent course of the disease. We report
an intent-to-treat analysis of the study data to determine the effectiveness of
pressure reduction.
METHODS: One eligible eye of 145 subjects with normal-tension glaucoma was
randomized either to no treatment (control) or to a 30% intraocular pressure
reduction from baseline. To be eligible for randomization, the normal-tension
glaucoma eyes had to show documented progression of field defects or a new disk
hemorrhage or had to have field defects that threatened fixation when first
presented for the study. Survival analysis compared time to progression of all
randomly assigned patients during the course of follow-up from the initial
baseline at randomization. In a separate analysis, data of patients developing
cataracts were censored at the time that cataract produced 2 lines of Snellen
visual acuity loss.
RESULTS: Visual field progression occurred at indistinguishable rates in the
pressure-lowered (22/66) and the untreated control (31/79) arms of the study (P =
.21). In an analysis with data censored when cataract affected visual acuity,
visual field progression was significantly more common in the untreated group
(21/79) compared with the treated group (8/66). An overall survival analysis
showed a survival of 80% in the treated arm and of 60% in the control arm at 3
years, and 80% in the treated arm and 40% in the controls at 5 years. The
Kaplan-Meier curves were significantly different (P = .0018). The analyses gave
different results because of a higher incidence of cataract in the group that
underwent filtration surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: The favorable effect of intraocular pressure reduction on
progression of visual change in normal-tension glaucoma was only found when the
impact of cataracts on visual field progression, produced largely by surgery, was
removed. Lowering intraocular pressure without producing cataracts is beneficial.
Because not all untreated patients progressed, the natural history of
normal-tension glaucoma must be considered before embarking on intraocular
pressure reduction with therapy apt to exacerbate cataract formation unless
normal-tension glaucoma threatens serious visual loss.


PMID: 9780094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1460. Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):487-97.

Comparison of glaucomatous progression between untreated patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and patients with therapeutically reduced intraocular
pressures. Collaborative Normal-Tension Glaucoma Study Group.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    Am J Ophthalmol 1999 Jan;127(1):120.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Oct;126(4):578-81.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 May;127(5):623-5.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 May;127(5):625-6.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 Dec;128(6):776-7.

PURPOSE: To determine if intraocular pressure plays a part in the pathogenic
process of normal-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: One eye of each eligible subject was randomized either to be untreated
as a control or to have intraocular pressure lowered by 30% from baseline. Eyes
were randomized if they met criteria for diagnosis of normal-tension glaucoma and
showed documented progression or high-risk field defects that threatened fixation
or the appearance of a new disk hemorrhage. The clinical course (visual field and
optic disk) of the group with lowered intraocular pressure was compared with the 
clinical course when intraocular pressure remained at its spontaneous untreated
level.
RESULTS: One hundred-forty eyes of 140 patients were used in this study.
Sixty-one were in the treatment group, and 79 were untreated controls.
Twenty-eight (35%) of the control eyes and 7 (12%) of the treated eyes reached
end points (specifically defined criteria of glaucomatous optic disk progression 
or visual field loss). An overall survival analysis showed a statistically
significant difference between the two groups (P < .0001). The mean survival time
+/-SD of the treated group was 2,688 +/- 123 days and for the control group,
1,695 +/- 143 days. Of 34 cataracts developed during the study, 11 (14%) occurred
in the control group and 23 (38%) in the treated group (P = .0075), with the
highest incidence in those whose treatment included filtration surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Intraocular pressure is part of the pathogenic process in
normal-tension glaucoma. Therapy that is effective in lowering intraocular
pressure and free of adverse effects would be expected to be beneficial in
patients who are at risk of disease progression.


PMID: 9780093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1461. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1998 Aug;102(8):502-8.

[Association between watershed zone and visual field defect in normal tension
glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sato Y(1), Tomita G, Onda E, Goto Y, Oguri A, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

In order to evaluate the association between the watershed zone and glaucomatous 
optic damage, we performed indocyanine green fluorescence angiography with a
scanning laser ophthalmoscope in 54 eyes of 27 patients with normal tension
glaucoma. The visual field indices were measured with a Humphrey Field Analyzer. 
We identified 8 eyes (14.8%) of 7 patients with a watershed zone not including
the optic nerve head (type I), 32 eyes (59.3%) of 20 patients with the zone
partially including the optic nerve head (type II), and 14 eyes (26.0%) of 10
patients with the zone including the optic nerve head (type III). Of the total of
27 patients, 10 patients (37.0%) had different types in each eye. In these
patients, the mean deviation (MD) of visual field indices was worse in the eye
with the watershed zone which included a larger part of the optic disc than in
the contralateral eye (p < 0.05). Conversely, the eye with worse MD than the
contralateral eye had a watershed zone which included a larger part of the optic 
disc than the other eye (p < 0.05). The location of watershed zone appeared to
influence the progression of the visual field defect.


PMID: 9754021  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1462. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1998 Jul-Aug;42(4):286-92.

Effect of trabeculectomy on visual field in progressive normal-tension glaucoma.

Daugeliene L(1), Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of surgical
treatment on the visual field in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes, and
associated factors for visual field progression. Thirty-two patients (32 eyes)
were enrolled in this retrospective study. Stepwise regression analysis was
performed to correlate the visual field change with several clinical factors,
such as intraocular pressure (IOP), and several IOP-unrelated parameters.
Surgical reduction of IOP helps in preventing the progression of visual field
damage in NTG eyes. The stepwise analysis revealed that better visual field
prognosis was associated with higher preoperative IOP (P = 0.006) and the absence
of diabetes mellitus (P = 0.04). The functional outcome in the lower IOP group
was better when the patients were using Ca2+-channel blockers (P = 0.08); it was 
worse if disc hemorrhage appeared (P = 0.02). In conclusion, both IOP-related and
unrelated factors are associated with visual field damage progression in NTG
eyes. The functional prognosis in the eyes with low IOP depends on IOP-unrelated 
factors.


PMID: 9749869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1463. Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Aug;126(2):326-8.

Corneal thickness and curvature in normal-tension glaucoma.

Frueh BE.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Feb;125(2):164-8.


PMID: 9727538  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1464. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1998 Jun;212(6):444-8.

[Color duplex of retrobulbar arteries in normal pressure and open angle
glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Vécsei PV(1), Hommer A, Reitner A, Kircher K, Egger S, Schneider B, Bettelheim
HC.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinik für Augenheilkunde Wien.

BACKGROUND: Various authors report that the glaucomatous loss of function is due 
to a chronic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, being caused by a disturbed
relationship between intraocular pressure and perfusion pressure in the posterior
short ciliary arteries, which possibly leads to increased resistance in the
ciliary vascular system. The authors attempt to test this hypothesis by measuring
the vascular resistance (Resistance Index) in the ciliary vessel system by means 
of color Doppler sonography.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 35 eyes of 35 patients, suffering from open angle glaucoma 
(OAG), with a mean age of 65.3 years, were examined as well as 35 eyes of 35
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), whose mean age was 65.8 years. Both 
glaucoma groups were compared to an age- and sex-matched control group of healthy
volunteers. The color-Doppler measurements were performed with an Acuson 128
XP/10, which allows imaging of all retrobulbar arteries, the ophthalmic artery,
the central retinal artery and the short posterior ciliary arteries, and also
guarantees the precise calculation of blood flow velocity and resistive index
(RI). The RI was statistically evaluated.
RESULTS: The resistance index of all retrobulbar arteries showed a statistically 
significant increase (p < 0.05) according to Wilcoxon's test in the OAG group as 
well as the NTG group.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased vascular resistance was found in all retrobulbar arteries 
in OAG and in NTG. These findings point out the pathognomonic importance of
perfusion disturbance in glaucoma.


PMID: 9715464  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1465. J Glaucoma. 1998 Aug;7(4):261-5.

A frequency-doubling perimetric study in normal-tension glaucoma with hemifield
defect.

Kondo Y(1), Yamamoto T, Sato Y, Matsubara M, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: The authors prospectively compare perimetric results obtained by
conventional differential light sensitivity (DLS) perimetry and
frequency-doubling perimetry (FDP) in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) with a
hemifield visual field defect, assuming that some of these eyes already have
early glaucomatous changes in the "intact" hemifield.
METHODS: Eleven eyes of 11 patients with NTG who met the enrollment criteria were
studied. Seven eyes had an upper hemifield defect and four had a lower defect,
determined by DLS with a Humphrey Field Analyzer (Zeiss-Humphrey, Inc., San
Leandro, CA, U.S.A.). Frequency-doubling perimetry and DLS perimetry were
conducted less than 7 days apart. To quantitatively detect nerve fiber layer
defect (NFLD), scanning laser ophthalmoscopy was also performed.
RESULTS: Of the 11 intact hemifields, seven showed NFLD. Of the seven, six also
showed visual field defects by FDP. Of the four eyes without NFLD, two showed no 
defects in the intact hemifield by FDP. The threshold values of FDP and DLS
perimetry did not significantly correlate in either the intact or the defective
hemifields, or in the total field. The average test time of FDP was approximately
6 minutes.
CONCLUSIONS: Frequency-doubling perimetry may detect early glaucomatous visual
field defects.


PMID: 9713784  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1466. Klin Oczna. 1998;100(2):107-10.

[Primary open angle glaucoma,age and age-related cardiovascular disease risk
factors].

[Article in Polish]

Nizankowska MH(1), Turno-Krecicka A.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki AM we Wrocławiu.

The authors present current opinions about influence of age and different
cardiovascular and rheological risk factors on POAG and normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), especially in age-related diseases: systemic hypertension and hypotension,
nocturnal systemic hypotension, diabetes, obesity and high blood viscosity. The
work points out the importance of cooperation between ophthalmologist and
specialist of internal medicine in treating patients with POAG and NTG.


PMID: 9695546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1467. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1998 Jun;76(3):273-7.

Acquired pits of the optic nerve in glaucoma: prevalence and associated visual
field loss.

Nduaguba C(1), Ugurlu S, Caprioli J.

Author information: 
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Science, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.

PURPOSE: This study was performed to determine the prevalence of acquired pits of
the optic nerve (APON) in glaucoma and the characteristics of associated visual
field loss.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Stereoscopic optic disc photos from 235 patients with a
low-tension variety of primary open-angle glaucoma (LTG) and 251 primary
open-angle glaucoma patients with intraocular pressures higher than 21 mmHg (HTG)
were examined for the presence of typical APON as defined by a standard
photograph (Fig 1). Associated visual field loss was evaluated with automated
perimetry and patterns of field loss were identified.
RESULTS: Out of a total of 486 patients, 63 APON were found in 51 eyes of 44
glaucoma patients. APONs were more prevalent in women. Acquired pits were more
frequently (p<0.001) located inferiorly (70%) than superiorly (30%). There was a 
significantly higher prevalence (p<0.001) of APON in LTG patients (12.7%) than in
HTG patients (5.6%). Dense visual field defects within five degrees of fixation
occurred in 96% of patients with APON.
CONCLUSION: Acquired pits of the optic nerve are more often located at the
inferior optic disc than at the superior disc and are nearly always associated
with visual field loss close to fixation. In a glaucoma referral center setting, 
APON are more prevalent in lower pressure glaucoma than in higher pressure
glaucoma.


PMID: 9686836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1468. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1998 May;212(5):301-4.

[Clinical study and genetic 3q28 locus linkage in 2 Swiss families with Kjer
dominant optic atrophy (OPA1)].

[Article in French]

Lefèvre A(1), Hiroz C, Zografos L, Schorderet DF, Munier FL.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Ophtalmique Jules Gonin, Lausanne.

METHODS: We examined 20 patients from 2 unrelated Swiss families to describe
their clinical phenotype. In addition, a linkage analysis was performed in an
attempt to confirm the reported genetic homogeneity of this condition as well as 
to refine its genomic localization.
RESULTS: Two point analysis provided a cumulative LOD-score of 3.03 with marker
D3S 2305. The absence of recombination precluded further refinement of the
disease interval.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data confirm the genetic homogeneity and the extreme variability
of expression, occasionally mimicking low tension glaucoma.


PMID: 9677562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1469. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 1998 Jun;14(3):191-201.

Effect of betaxolol on primary open-angle glaucoma and normal-tension glaucoma
patients.

Saccà SC(1), Macrì A, Rolando M, Ciurlo G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Genoa, Italy.

This study is aimed at establishing the efficacy of the therapeutic agent,
betaxolol, in diurnal control of IOP (intraocular pressure). Therapy was
performed on 32 eyes affected by POAG (primary open-angle glaucoma) and 16 eyes
affected by NTG (normal-tension glaucoma). Two preparations of betaxolol were
utilized: betaxolol hydrochloride 0.50% (Betoptic) was administered to 15 POAG
and 7 NTG eyes; betaxolol hydrochloride 0.25% ophthalmic suspension (Betoptic S) 
was administered to 17 POAG and 9 NTG eyes. IOP measurements were taken every two
hours from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. IOP was measured before therapy and at 12 hours, 30
days, and 3 months of therapy. Betaxolol hydrochloride 0.50% was more effective
at lowering IOP during the day. Diurnal pressure peaks, which are a risk factor
concerning the maintenance of visual field in glaucoma patients, were also
reduced using 0.50% betaxolol hydrochloride.


PMID: 9671427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1470. Ophthalmology. 1998 Jun;105(6):988-91.

Frequency of asymmetric visual field defects in normal-tension and high-tension
glaucoma.

Poinoosawmy D(1), Fontana L, Wu JX, Bunce CV, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, England.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to evaluate the frequency of asymmetric
visual field loss at presentation in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) 
and high-tension glaucoma (HTG).
DESIGN: A retrospective cross-sectional study design was used.
PARTICIPANTS: Four hundred and three NTG patients and 337 consecutive HTG
patients (consecutive diagnoses between 1986 and 1996).
INTERVENTION: Analysis of the frequency of unilateral field loss presentations in
NTG and HTG. The visual fields of fellow eyes were compared to determine the side
of more severe field loss. For the NTG patients, the relationship between the
side with greater field loss and corresponding intraocular pressure (IOP) was
investigated.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Humphrey field analyzer mean defect (MD) and mean diurnal 
IOP.
RESULTS: In the NTG group, 101 (25%) patients presented with unilateral field
loss. The proportion of cases with unilateral field loss decreased with
increasing age of presentation (chi-square test for trend = 26.9; P < 0.0001).
Sixty-four percent of the patients had unilateral field loss in the left eye.
Sixty-eight percent of the cases with bilateral field loss had a higher MD in the
left eye. The diurnal IOP was estimated as 0.23 +/- 0.068 mmHg (mean +/- SE)
higher in the left eye (P = 0.001). In the HTG group, 104 (31%) patients
presented with unilateral field loss. The proportion of cases with unilateral
field loss decreased with increasing age of presentation (chi-square test for
trend = 4.6; P = 0.03). Right and left eyes had an equal chance of having field
loss in unilateral cases and of being the side of more advanced field damage in
bilateral cases.
CONCLUSIONS: The frequency of cases with unilateral field loss was similar in HTG
and NTG patients. Patients with unilateral field loss at presentation were more
likely to be at the younger end of the age range. In the NTG population we
studied, the left eye was more frequently the side of onset of field loss and 2.1
times more likely to present with a greater field defect than the right eye. In
HTG patients, right and left eyes showed an equal chance of being the side of
onset of field damage and the more affected side.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)96049-3 
PMID: 9627646  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1471. Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 May;125(5):585-92.

Comparison of the effect of latanoprost 0.005% and timolol 0.5% on the calculated
ocular perfusion pressure in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.

Drance SM(1), Crichton A, Mills RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

PURPOSE: To compare the calculated mean ocular perfusion pressure at the end of 3
weeks' treatment with latanoprost 0.005% once daily or timolol 0.5% twice daily
in normal-tension glaucoma patients.
METHODS: In a three-center, double-masked, randomized, crossover study, 36
patients were allocated to two treatment groups; one received 3 weeks each of
placebo, latanoprost, placebo, and timolol, whereas the other group had placebo, 
timolol, placebo, and latanoprost. Intraocular pressure and resting systemic
blood pressure were measured at 9 AM, 12 noon, and 4 PM. Ocular perfusion
pressure was calculated for each time period as well as the mean of three values 
(daytime average). Systemic blood pressure and heart rate were also recorded at
30-minute intervals during the last 24 hours of each treatment period.
RESULTS: The average daytime mean ocular perfusion pressure (mean +/- SEM)
following latanoprost treatment was 53.2 +/- 1.4 mm Hg, an increase of 8% from
the latanoprost run-in period, compared with 50.9 +/- 1.1 mm Hg following timolol
treatment, an increase of 2% from the timolol run-in period (P < .05, ANOVA).
Timolol reduced the blood pressure. The difference in mean daytime and nighttime 
systolic blood pressure measurements as well as nighttime diastolic blood
pressure was about 5 mm Hg between the latanoprost and timolol treatments. The
daytime and nighttime heart rates were also slower during the timolol treatment.
CONCLUSION: Because ocular perfusion pressure may be important in some
glaucomatous patients, latanoprost appears to affect ocular perfusion pressure
more favorably than timolol does in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 9625541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1472. Surv Ophthalmol. 1997 Nov;42 Suppl 1:S118-26.

The influence of intraocular pressure and systemic oxygen tension on the
intravascular pO2 of the pig retina as measured with phosphorescence imaging.

Blumenröder S(1), Augustin AJ, Koch FH.

Author information: 
(1)University of Cape Town, Department of Ophthalmology, Observatory, Republic of
South Africa.

The intravascular oxygen tension (pO2) of the pig retina was determined by
measuring the phosphorescence lifetime of an intravenously injected dye.
Pseudocolor images of the intravascular retinal pO2 were obtained. The method is 
noninvasive except for the application of the dye. The measurement system was
adapted to a fundus camera. The systemic arterial oxygen pressure (PaO2) as well 
as the intraocular pressure (IOP) were altered. In the measurements the pO2 of
the choriocapillaris was close to the systemic PaO2. Under normoxia, the retinal 
veins showed a lower pO2 of about 40 mm Hg. We found evidence of an
autoregulation of the retinochoroidal pO2. The retina and the optic nerve head
showed an autoregulation of the intravascular pO2 at low IOP, but were more
sensitive to a moderate elevation of the IOP of about 40 mm Hg, as compared to
the choroidal pO2. The pO2 of the choriocapillaris seemed to change little until 
the considerably high IOP value of about 50 mm Hg was attained. This behavior is 
due to either the high perfusion reserve capacity of the choroid or to
autoregulation. Although our experiments refer to the perfusion of the pig eye,
the results provide indirect evidence that even during a glaucoma attack the
human choroid might be able to maintain a reasonable oxygen supply to the retina,
whereas the intravascular pO2 of the retinal vessels and of the optic nerve head 
decrease strongly. The adaptation to a fundus camera facilitates a future
clinical application if a nontoxic dye can be developed.


PMID: 9603297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1473. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1998 Mar-Apr;42(2):146-51.

Temporal modulation transfer function in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Nishimura K(1), Iwase A, Tomita G, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

A new screening test involving the Flicker System was used to measure temporal
modulation transfer function in an effort to detect early-stage glaucoma. The
study involved 64 normal-tension glaucomatous eyes and 65 normal control eyes.
Patients with early-stage glaucoma (stage 0-1 of the Aulhorn-Greve
classification) showed a significant modulation decrease in the 20-45 Hz range,
compared to the modulation in normal eyes (P < 0.05). Patients with moderate
stage glaucoma (stage 2-3) also exhibited significantly decreased modulation
values in the 14-55 Hz range. In the 25-45 Hz range, the reduction of modulation 
in patients with diffuse visual defect was more profound than in those with
localized or mixed defects. The results of the present study suggest the presence
of diffuse visual function deficit in glaucoma.


PMID: 9587849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1474. Am J Hum Genet. 1998 Mar;62(3):641-52.

Localization of the fourth locus (GLC1E) for adult-onset primary open-angle
glaucoma to the 10p15-p14 region.

Sarfarazi M(1), Child A, Stoilova D, Brice G, Desai T, Trifan OC, Poinoosawmy D, 
Crick RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, CT
06030-1110, USA. msarfara@cortex.uchc.edu

One of the major causes of blindness is primary open-angle glaucoma, which
affects millions of elderly people worldwide. Genetic studies have so far mapped 
three loci for the adult-onset form of this condition to the 2cen-q13, 3q21-q24, 
and 8q23 regions. Herein, we report the localization of a fourth locus, to the
10p15-p14 region, in one large British family with a classical form of
normal-tension open-angle glaucoma. Of the 42 meioses genotyped in this pedigree,
39 subjects (16 affected) inherited a haplotype compatible with their prior
clinical designation, whereas the remaining 3 were classified as unknown.
Although a maximum LOD score of 10.00 at a recombination fraction of straight
theta=.00 was obtained with D10S1216, 21 other markers provided significant
values, varying between 3.77 and 9.70. When only the affected meioses of this
kindred were analyzed, LOD scores remained statistically significant, ranging
from 3.16 (D10S527) to 3.57 (D10S506). Two critical recombinational events in the
affected subjects positioned this new locus to a region of approximately 21 cM,
flanked by D10S1729 and D10S1664. However, an additional recombination in a
59-year-old unaffected female suggests that this locus resides between D10S585
(or D10S1172) and D10S1664, within a genetic distance of 5-11 cM. However, the
latter minimum region must be taken cautiously, because the incomplete penetrance
has previously been documented for this group of eye conditions. A partial list
of genes that positionally are considered as candidates includes NET1, PRKCT,
ITIH2, IL2RA, IL15RA, IT1H2, hGATA3, the mRNA for open reading frame KIAA0019,
and the gene for D123 protein.

DOI: 10.1086/301767 
PMCID: PMC1376961
PMID: 9497264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1475. J Glaucoma. 1998 Apr;7(2):117-20.

Incidence of elevation of intraocular pressure over time and associated factors
in normal-tension glaucoma.

Oguri A(1), Sogano S, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: The authors determine whether intraocular pressure (IOP) increases to
levels that challenge the diagnosis of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and
determine clinical factors associated with the IOP elevation.
METHODS: Forty patients with NTG who met the following enrollment criteria were
selected: IOPs less than 21 mm Hg during initial 24-hour pressure curve and
throughout the subsequent 12 months; examined every 1 to 4 months for at least 4 
years; and no ocular hypotensive treatment. The eye with the higher mean IOP
during the initial 24-hour pressure curve was selected from each patient. The
observation period ranged from 4.0 years to 7.8 years (mean, 5.2 years).
Significant IOP elevation was defined as a significant increase (p < 0.05) of IOP
over time, determined by Spearman rank correlation coefficient method. The IOP
elevation was correlated to clinical factors by means of a logistic multiple
regression analysis (LOGIST procedure using PC-SAS, SAS Institute, Inc. Cary, NC,
U.S.A.).
RESULTS: Eleven eyes were rated positive for IOP elevation. The regression model 
demonstrated that maximum IOP during the initial 24-hour pressure curve and the
development of disc hemorrhage (DH) were significantly correlated with IOP
elevation (p = 0.006 and p = 0.049, respectively). The odds ratios calculated
were 1.98 per 1 mm Hg rise of maximum IOP during the initial 24-hour pressure
curve and 6.54 for positive DH.
CONCLUSIONS: Intraocular pressure might increase in NTG eyes following the
initial diagnosis. A higher maximum IOP during initial 24-hour pressure curve and
the development of DH during follow-up was significantly associated with
subsequent IOP elevation in NTG patients.


PMID: 9559498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1476. Prog Retin Eye Res. 1998 Jan;17(1):127-43.

Vascular pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma: a possible pathogenetic factor,
other than intraocular pressure, of glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

Yamamoto T(1), Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

Elevated intraocular pressure is significant in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous 
optic neuropathy in glaucoma, however a number of studies suggest that
pressure-independent factor(s) are also associated with the pathogenesis. In this
article, the significance of vascular pathogenesis in glaucoma is discussed. A
brief overview of substances used to treat glaucoma, independent of an effect on 
intraocular pressure, such as calcium channel blockers, is also discussed.


PMID: 9537793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1477. Cephalalgia. 1998 Mar;18(2):74-6.

Migraine and glaucoma: an epidemiologic survey of French ophthalmologists.

Pradalier A(1), Hamard P, Sellem E, Bringer L.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Médecine Interne IV, Centre Migraine et Céphalées, Hôpital Louis
Mourier, Colombes, France.

Comment in
    Cephalalgia. 1998 Mar;18(2):71.

Glaucoma is a common ocular disorder; a high intraocular pressure is observed in 
the majority of glaucoma (HIOPG) cases, but some patients have low-tension
glaucoma (LTG). In the literature, some works link LTG and migraine, which is
speculative of a potential role of a vasospastic factor or diathesis common to
migraine and LTG. Using a standardized questionnaire based on International
Headache Society (IHS) criteria, we investigated 954 glaucoma patients; 320
(33.5%) described a headache (migraine or tension-type headache) and 240 (25.1%) 
presented the IHS criteria for migraine. Migraine prevalence was not
significantly different between HIOPG and LTG patients (22.8% and 32%,
respectively) in this study.


PMID: 9533601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1478. Cephalalgia. 1998 Mar;18(2):71.

Low-tension glaucoma disorders.

Fanciullacci M.

Comment on
    Cephalalgia. 1998 Mar;18(2):74-6.


PMID: 9533598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1479. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1997 Dec;75(6):641-4.

Measurement of thickness of retinal nerve fiber layer by scanning laser
polarimetry and high-pass resolution perimetry in patients with primary
open-angle or normal-tension glaucoma.

Shirakashi M(1), Abe H, Sawaguchi S, Funaki S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the correlation between neural capacity, determined by
high-pass resolution perimetry, and thickness of the retinal nerve fiber layer,
evaluated by scanning laser polarimetry, in patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Thickness of the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer was measured by
scanning laser polarimetry in 19 eyes of 19 patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma and in 23 eyes of 23 patients with normal-tension glaucoma. There were
no significant differences between the two groups in mean age, sex ratio, or mean
neural capacity.
RESULTS: Neural capacity was significantly correlated with thickness of the
retinal nerve fiber layer in all 42 eyes (r = 0.31, P = 0.0429). Neural capacity 
was significantly correlated with thickness of the retinal nerve fiber layer in
the eyes of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (r = 0.60, P = 0.0061), but
not in the eyes of patients with normal-tension glaucoma (r = 0.04; P = 0.8522).
CONCLUSION: The degree of correlation between neural capacity determined by
high-pass resolution perimetry and thickness of the retinal nerve fiber layer
measured by scanning laser polarimetry appeared to differ in patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma vs those with normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 9527322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1480. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1998 Feb;102(2):130-4.

[The effect of carbon dioxide on intraorbital hemodynamics in glaucoma determined
by color Doppler imaging].

[Article in Japanese]

Niwa Y(1), Yamamoto T, Matsubara M, Takahashi D, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

We developed a new system to safely supply carbon dioxide (CO2) to man to
investigate the effect of the gas vasodilator on orbital blood flow in open angle
glaucoma (OAG) patients. Using the system, we determined orbital hemodynamics in 
OAG by color Doppler imaging (CDI) at baseline conditions and during CO2
supplementation sufficient to increase end-tidal CO2% by 10%. Seven OAG patients 
(mean age, 60.9 +/- 16.4 years; normal-tension glaucoma/primary open-angle
glaucoma = 5/2) were included in the study. CDI was performed to measure
resistance index (RI), and peak-systolic and end-diastolic blood flow velocities 
(PSV & EDV) of the ophthalmic artery (OA) and the central retinal artery (CRA).
Systemic conditions including oxygen saturation and blood pressure were monitored
throughout the period of the CO2 inhalation. CO2 significantly increased PSV and 
EDV in the CRA (p = 0.0273, p = 0.0094, respectively; Wilcoxon signed-rank test),
but not in the OA. Other parameters were not altered. The results suggest that
CO2 inhalation increases blood flow velocities in distal arteries in OAG patients
without affecting proximal vessels. The new system enables us to supply CO2 in a 
safe and controlled manner in glaucoma patients and to modify orbital
hemodynamics.


PMID: 9513360  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1481. Korean J Ophthalmol. 1997 Dec;11(2):79-83.

A comparison of optic nerve head topography in primary open-angle glaucoma and
normal-tension glaucoma in Korean.

Yang JG(1), Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Korea.

We investigated whether there is any difference in optic nerve head topography
between primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) in
Koreans. Twenty-three eyes of 23 POAG and 20 eyes of 20 NTG Korean patients
closely matched for mean deviation of automated static threshold perimetry
(Humphrey Field Analyzer, program C30-2) were enrolled. The patients' mean age
was 51.5 +/- 11.7 years in POAG and 55.1 +/- 10.6 years in NTG; the average mean 
deviation was -5.47 +/- 1.84 dB in POAG and -6.45 +/- 3.69 dB in NTG. Mean age
and mean deviation were not statistically different between the two groups.
Heidelberg Retina Tomograph was used to obtain topographic measurements of disc
area, rim area, cup volume, cup-to-disc area ratio, mean cup depth, maximum cup
depth, and cup shape measure. Disc area and cup volume were significantly larger 
in NTG than in POAG (p < 0.01, p = 0.03, respectively, Wilcoxon rank sum test).
Other variables were not significantly different between the two groups. There
was significant negative correlation between cup volume and rim area only in POAG
(r = -0.725, p < 0.01, Spearman correlation analysis). These results suggest that
the larger cup volume in NTG than in POAG may be influenced rather by larger
optic disc in NTG not by smaller neuroretinal rim.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.1997.11.2.79 
PMID: 9510648  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1482. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1998 Mar;39(3):517-25.

Localization of the stress proteins alpha B-crystallin and trabecular meshwork
inducible glucocorticoid response protein in normal and glaucomatous trabecular
meshwork.

Lütjen-Drecoll E(1), May CA, Polansky JR, Johnson DH, Bloemendal H, Nguyen TD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Erlangen-Nuernberg, Germany.

PURPOSE: To examine the differential staining of two potential stress-response
markers, alpha B-crystallin and the trabecular meshwork inducible glucocorticoid 
response protein (TIGR), in meshwork from normal and glaucomatous human eyes.
METHODS: Trabecular meshwork from 35 eyes from 23 donors with either primary
open-angle glaucoma, pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, or low-tension glaucoma, and
from age-matched normal eyes, was examined. Sagittal and tangential frozen
sections were stained with polyclonal antibodies to alpha B-crystallin or TIGR
and then by a fluorescent secondary antibody.
RESULTS: In normal eyes, labeling for alpha B-crystallin occurred in the
subendothelial region of Schlemm's canal and outer corneoscleral regions, whereas
TIGR labeling was found in the inner uveal meshwork region and the anterior
portion of the meshwork. In contrast, in many glaucomatous eyes, labeling for
alpha B-crystallin and TIGR occurred in more regions of the meshwork and appeared
more intense than in normal eyes, regardless of the type or clinical severity of 
glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: The differences in localization of alpha B-crystallin and TIGR may
relate to functional specialization within meshwork tissues. The increase in the 
staining for these proteins in glaucomatous eyes could involve environmental and 
genetic factors in the disease processes.


PMID: 9501861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1483. Br J Ophthalmol. 1997 Dec;81(12):1037-42.

Early detection of visual field progression in glaucoma: a comparison of
PROGRESSOR and STATPAC 2.

Viswanathan AC(1), Fitzke FW, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, London.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1998 Sep;82(9):1097-8.
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1997 Dec;81(12):1026.

AIM: To compare the performance of PROGRESSOR (pointwise linear regression) and
STATPAC 2 (comparison with baseline values) in detecting early deterioration in
the visual fields of glaucoma patients.
METHODS: Visual field series from 19 untreated normal tension glaucoma eyes which
were deteriorating on clinical grounds were analysed by PROGRESSOR and STATPAC 2.
Progression criteria for PROGRESSOR were (1) inner points: slope < -1 dB/year, p 
< 0.05 and (2) edge points: slope < -2 dB/year, p < 0.05. Criteria for STATPAC 2 
were p < 0.05 change probability for any point on three consecutive fields.
Detection time was defined as the time interval between the initial field and the
first field in which at least one progressing point was identified. Detection
times produced by the two techniques were compared.
RESULTS: PROGRESSOR and STATPAC 2 agreed on progression in all 19 eyes. Mean
detection time for PROGRESSOR was 1.077 (SD 0.985) years and for STATPAC 2 was
2.161 (1.357) years. PROGRESSOR detected progression sooner than STATPAC 2 in 18 
eyes (p < 0.01), Wilcoxon matched pairs signed rank test). PROGRESSOR detected
progression earlier by a mean of 1.085 (0.936) years.
CONCLUSIONS: PROGRESSOR consistently detected progression earlier than STATPAC 2.
The PROGRESSOR software is a useful tool for the early detection of visual field 
deterioration in glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC1722087
PMID: 9497460  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1484. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1998 Apr;9(2):88-94.

Endothelium-derived vasoactive substances relevant to normal-tension glaucoma.

Orgül S(1), Prünte C, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy that has a multi-factorial etiology.
The most important risk factor is certainly an increased intraocular pressure.
However, clinical observations have indicated that factors other than increased
intraocular pressure also damage the neural tissue in glaucomatous optic
neuropathy. The most prominent of these to be vascular dysregulation. Vascular
tone is permanently regulated by a number of regulatory systems and factors, and 
the endothelial cell layer acts as an important mediator for the response to
these factors. According to recent evidence, glaucomatous optic neuropathy may be
associated with changes in endothelium-dependent vascular regulation.
Consequently, therapeutic approaches based on vasodilator drugs acting via
endothelium-derived substances are being developed. Although promising
preliminary studies have been performed, the clinical relevance of such treatment
remains to be clarified.


PMID: 10180520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1485. Ophthalmologica. 1998;212(2):115-9.

Fluctuations of intraocular pressure during the day in open-angle glaucoma,
normal-tension glaucoma and normal subjects.

Saccà SC(1), Rolando M, Marletta A, Macrí A, Cerqueti P, Ciurlo G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Genoa, Italy.

PURPOSE: The aim of the present paper is to describe the variations in
intraocular pressure (IOP) during the day in normals, in patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and in patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
IOP represents one of the most important risk factors for glaucoma. However the
IOP value is not constant during the day and IOP fluctuation could influence the 
diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of the glaucomatous disease.
METHODS: For this purpose IOP was evaluated every 2 h from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. in
one randomized eye of 33 normal subjects, 95 POAG and 50 NTG patients.
RESULTS: The results show that the highest IOP values were detectable in the
morning in all three groups. The lowest values were found in the early afternoon 
hours. These variations were most evident in POAG patients. The daily IOP
fluctuations were directly proportional to IOP level.
CONCLUSION: The study evidents that a single tonometric evaluation, especially if
done in the first hours of the afternoon, is not sufficient to correctly evaluate
the IOP-related risk in glaucoma patients. If the pressure peaks are important in
determining the extent of glaucomatous damage in NTG patients IOP should not have
an important role in optic nerve head damage. The use of diurnal curves seems to 
be mandatory for the assessment of IOP-related risk and of efficiency of the
therapeutic approach.


PMID: 9486551  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1486. Br J Ophthalmol. 1997 Oct;81(10):852-6.

Intraocular pressure and central visual field of normal tension glaucoma.

Araie M(1), Kitazawa M, Koseki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

AIM: To study whether damage in the central 30 degrees field of normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) is relatively heterogeneous or homogeneous with respect to
intraocular pressure (IOP) related damage.
METHODS: Using the results of Humphrey perimeter examinations, the central 30
degrees field was divided into four subfields; superior and inferior hemifields
excluding the caecocentral field (30-2 program) and superior and inferior 10
degrees hemifields (10-2 program). In 103 NTG cases, the intraindividual
bilateral difference in the mean of total deviations (mean TD) in the four
subfields was analysed by multiple linear regression to correct the effects of
factors other than IOP. Explanatory variables were the intraindividual bilateral 
difference in the mean of clinic IOP (IOPmean), that in the ratio of area of
peripapillary atrophy corresponding to each subfield to disc area, and that in
myopic refraction.
RESULTS: The intraindividual bilateral difference in the mean TD was
significantly and negatively correlated with that in IOPmean in three of the
above four subfields (p < 0.005) and correlation tended to be negative (p = 0.07)
in the superior 10 degrees hemifield.
CONCLUSIONS: Diffuse IOP related damage was suggested in the central 30 degrees
field of NTG; greater extent of the damage in the above four subfields was
correlated with higher mean IOP. The present findings may have clinical
implications.


PMCID: PMC1722024
PMID: 9486025  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1487. Br J Ophthalmol. 1997 Oct;81(10):846-51.

Sensitivity and specificity of optic disc variables and analysis of a new
variable (MP/D) for glaucoma diagnosis with the Glaucoma-Scope.

Lachkar Y(1), Cohn H.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Institute, Saint Joseph Hospital Foundation, Paris, France.

AIM: In an attempt to use the quantitative optic disc measurements of the
Glaucoma-Scope (OIS Sacramento, CA, USA) to distinguish glaucomatous from normal 
optic discs, a new variable was investigated, the mean disc corrected for the
disc size by dividing by the disc area: MP/D.
METHODS: Glaucoma-Scope disc evaluation was performed on 81 eyes of 51 patients
split into the following groups based on Humphrey 24-2 visual field and clinical 
criteria of glaucoma: chronic glaucoma n = 27 (including only early, n = 17, and 
low tension glaucoma, n = 10), ocular hypertension n = 24, pseudoglaucomatous
large discs, n = 12, and normal eyes, n = 18. Classic optic disc variables (the
vertical and horizontal c/d ratios, and the c/d area) were compared with the new 
MP/D index calculating receiver operating characteristic curves.
RESULTS: The MP/D ratio was able to identify the glaucomatous eyes more easily
than other ratios. Areas under the curves were: 0.91 (MP/D); 0.87 (c/d area);
0.85 (c/d vertical); and 0.80 (c/d horizontal). The MP/D index was also
correlated with the mean deviation (r = 0.466; p = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: MP/D may prove useful in detecting glaucomatous optic nerve damage
and could be an interesting screening tool for primary open angle glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC1722013
PMID: 9486024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1488. Ophthalmology. 1998 Feb;105(2):209-15.

Prevalence of glaucoma and intraocular pressure distribution in a defined
population. The Egna-Neumarkt Study.

Bonomi L(1), Marchini G, Marraffa M, Bernardi P, De Franco I, Perfetti S, Varotto
A, Tenna V.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Oculistica, Università degli Studi di Verona, Italy.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2001 Sep;108(9):1514.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study is to assess the prevalence of various types 
of glaucoma and to determine the intraocular pressure (IOP) distribution in a
defined population in an Italian rural community.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional epidemiologic study in a defined population was
planned. After the screening examination, the subjects with suspected glaucoma
were re-examined at the screening center in order to confirm the diagnosis. All
cases that still proved suspect after the second examination underwent a third
phase of investigations at the Ophthalmologic Division of Bolzano Hospital, and
were classified as healthy or definitely glaucomatous.
PARTICIPANTS: All subjects residing in the Egna-Neumarkt area of Alto Adige
region (Northern Italy) and over 40 years of age were invited to undergo an
ophthalmologic examination.
INTERVENTION: Each subject was examined according to a standard protocol,
including computerized perimetry, applanation tonometry, evaluation of anterior
chamber depth and optic disc, and a medical history interview. The diagnosis of
glaucoma was based on the presence of at least two of the following criteria: IOP
> or = 22 mmHg, glaucomatous optic disc abnormalities, and glaucomatous visual
field defects. Ocular hypertension was defined as IOP > or = 22 mmHg without
visual field or glaucomatous optic disc abnormalities.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Participation rate, mean IOP, prevalence of glaucoma
(primary open-angle glaucoma, primary angle-closure glaucoma, normal-tension
glaucoma, secondary glaucoma), and ocular hypertension were determined.
RESULTS: Of a total of 5816, 4297 subjects were examined (73.9% overall
participation rate). Intraocular pressure showed a Gaussian-like distribution
curve skewed to the right. Mean IOP increased with age, and was slightly higher
in men (15.14 mmHg) than in women (14.94 mmHg). The overall prevalences of ocular
hypertension, primary open-angle glaucoma, primary angle-closure glaucoma, and
normal-tension glaucoma were 2.1%, 1.4%, 0.6%, and 0.6%, respectively. Only 28 of
210 patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension had been diagnosed prior to the
screening.
CONCLUSIONS: The distribution of IOP and the prevalence of the different types of
glaucoma were similar to those found in other white populations.


PMID: 9479277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1489. Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Feb;125(2):164-8.

Corneal thickness and curvature in normal-tension glaucoma.

Morad Y(1), Sharon E, Hefetz L, Nemet P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Assaf-Harofe Medical Center, Zerifin, Israel.
yairvmo@green.co.il

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Aug;126(2):326-8.

PURPOSE: To determine whether normal-tension glaucoma, defined as a condition in 
which glaucomatous optic nerve and visual field changes exist without
documentation of intraocular pressure greater than 21 mm Hg or other apparent
cause for these changes, is overdiagnosed in patients with decreased central
corneal thickness and curvature.
METHODS: Twenty-one patients with normal-tension glaucoma were compared with 25
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and 27 age-matched healthy subjects.
Corneal thickness was determined by ultrasonic pachymetry. Corneal curvature was 
determined using a keratometer. Eyes with corneal pathology or previous
intraocular surgery were excluded.
RESULTS: Mean corneal thickness +/- SD in 21 eyes of 21 patients with
normal-tension glaucoma was 0.521 +/- 0.037 mm, significantly (P = .0028) lower
than in 25 eyes of 25 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (0.556 +/- 0.035 
mm) and 27 eyes of 27 healthy subjects (0.555 +/- 0.034). Mean corneal curvature 
in the three groups was not appreciably different: 43.90 +/- 1.81 diopters, 43.66
+/- 1.68 diopters, and 44.36 +/- 1.13 diopters in the patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma and the healthy subjects,
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Corneal thickness is significantly reduced in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma compared with patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
(P = .0028) and normal subjects (P = .0037). This may lead to underestimation of 
intraocular pressure and misdiagnosis in some of these patients. Corneal
curvature was similar in patients with normal-tension glaucoma and primary
open-angle glaucoma and in healthy subjects.


PMID: 9467441  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1490. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 1998 Jan;63(1):54-63.

Reversal of endothelin-1-induced ocular hemodynamic effects by low-dose
nifedipine in humans.

Strenn K(1), Matulla B, Wolzt M, Findl O, Bekes MC, Lamsfuss U, Graselli U,
Rainer G, Menapace R, Eichler HG, Schmetterer L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: There is evidence that calcium channel blockers may be
useful in patients with normal tension glaucoma and vasospastic reactions. We
therefore hypothesized that calcium channel blockers may increase ocular blood
flow and that there may be a functional antagonism between endothelin-1 (ET-1)
and calcium channel blockers in the ocular vasculature.
METHODS: This was a randomized, double-blind, three-way crossover study with
respect to ET-1 infusions (placebo, 2 ng/kg/min ET-1, and 4 ng/kg/min ET-1) and a
randomized double-blind study in two parallel groups with respect to nifedipine
(placebo or 5 mg nifedipine). Ocular hemodynamics in the 12 healthy subjects
participating in the study was assessed by laser interferometric measurement of
fundus pulsation amplitude (FPA) in the optic disc and two-dimensional scanning
laser Doppler flowmetry in the optic disc.
RESULTS: ET-1 caused a dose-dependent decrease in FPA and flow. With a dose of 4 
ng/kg/min a decrease of -18% +/- 5% (p < 0.001) and -17% +/- 5% (p = 0.023) on
FPA and flow, respectively, were observed. This effect was completely reversed by
nifedipine compared with placebo (FPA, p < 0.001; flow, p = 0.011). However,
nifedipine did not affect ocular hemodynamics after placebo infusion.
CONCLUSIONS: These results show that nifedipine does not increase optic nerve
head blood flow during baseline conditions but reverses ET-1-induced constriction
in ocular vasculature at doses that do not affect systemic hemodynamics. This
supports the close relation of the therapeutic effect of calcium channel blockers
in patients with normal tension glaucoma to the endothelin system. Moreover, the 
present study provides a strong rationale for a study of low dose nifedipine as a
supplementary medication in glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.1016/S0009-9236(98)90121-7 
PMID: 9465842  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1491. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1997 Oct;211(4):235-40.

[Are there genuine and pseudo-normal pressure glaucomas? Body position-dependent 
intraocular pressure values in normal pressure glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Mardin CY(1), Jonas J, Michelson G, Jünemann A.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik mit Poliklinik Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen.

BACKGROUND: Elevation of intraocular pressure in the supine position has been
previously described in literature. Aim of this study is to investigate the
elevation of intraocular pressure in normal tension glaucoma and its effect on
the morphology of the optic disc, visual field function and capillary blood flow 
of the retina and optic disc.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 56 eyes of 28 preperimetric and advanced normal tension
glaucoma patients were prospectively evaluated. Ten eyes of ten normal patients
served as a control group for the measurements of the intraocular pressure. In
the course of a 24-h pressure profile applanation tonometry was performed in the 
morning in a supine and three and ten minutes later in a sitting position with
Draeger's and Goldmann's tonometers. Arterial blood pressure was measured at the 
same time. The optic disc's morphology was evaluated by stereo photographs and
Laser Scanning Tomography. As a sensory test computer perimetry was used.
Capillary blood flow was measured at defined areas of the retina and optic disc. 
An intraocular pressure above 21 mm Hg in the supine position was used as a
criterium to define two groups of normal tension glaucoma patients.
RESULTS: In the supine position a statistically significant elevation of
intraocular pressure was observed in 24 normal tension glaucoma patients by 6.2
+/- 2.8 mm Hg up to 21.8 +/- 3 mm Hg. Diastolic blood pressure in the supine
position (80 +/- 10.5 mm Hg) was significantly lower than in the sitting position
(94 +/- 11 mm Hg, p = 0.021). 12 of 28 normal tension glaucoma patients showed an
intraocular pressure lower than 22 mm Hg in the supine position. In these
patients a tendency towards a higher incidence for the occurrence of optic disc
haemorrhages and significantly higher values for blood flow (p < 0.0005) and
volume (p < 0.005) in the retina and optic nerve head could be shown. In this
group of normal pressure glaucoma patients a higher incidence of migraine and
vasospastic complaints was reported in the patients' history.
CONCLUSION: In this study some normal tension glaucoma patients showed
intraocular pressures in the supine position higher than 21 mm Hg and a lower
diastolic arterial pressure. The higher incidence of haemorrhages and higher
values for flow and volume parameters of the optic disc in normal tension
glaucoma patients with an intraocular pressure lower than 22 mm Hg implicate the 
existence of two entities: real and pseudo normal tension glaucomas.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1035128 
PMID: 9445910  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1492. Am J Ophthalmol. 1997 Sep;124(3):296-302.

Hemodynamic and visual function effects of oral nifedipine in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Harris A(1), Evans DW, Cantor LB, Martin B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis 46202, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate ocular hemodynamic and visual function changes in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma after treatment with a calcium channel
blocker (nifedipine).
METHODS: In 21 patients with normal-tension glaucoma, color Doppler imaging of
the ophthalmic, central retinal, and short posterior ciliary arteries was carried
out after a 4-week washout of prior drug treatment and again after 6 months of
treatment with nifedipine (30 mg per day). Visual field sensitivity, spatial
contrast sensitivity, and intraocular pressure were also recorded.
RESULTS: Three subjects experienced intolerable side effects from the drug and
were removed from the study. In two other patients, visual function was
substantially reduced after 4 months of treatment; nifedipine was discontinued.
In the remaining 16 subjects, mean intraocular pressure, retrobulbar
hemodynamics, visual field mean sensitivity, and contrast sensitivity at 3, 12,
and 18 cycles per degree (cpd), respectively, were unchanged after nifedipine
treatment. Contrast sensitivity at 6 cpd, however, improved after drug treatment 
(P = .004). Individuals with the greatest improvements in contrast sensitivity at
6 cpd showed the largest increases in ophthalmic arterial peak systolic velocity 
(r = .57; P = .02) and end-diastolic velocity (r = .65; P = .001).
CONCLUSION: Nifedipine fails to provide uniform visual function or retrobulbar
hemodynamic responses in patients with normal-tension glaucoma. Those patients
who do show improved visual function also show improved indices of retrobulbar
perfusion.


PMID: 9439355  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1493. Am J Ophthalmol. 1997 Sep;124(3):287-95.

The relationship between progression of visual field defects and retrobulbar
circulation in patients with glaucoma.

Yamazaki Y(1), Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1998 Apr;125(4):566-7.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether lower blood flow velocities and higher resistive 
indices in the retrobulbar arteries are associated with progression of visual
field defects in eyes with open-angle glaucoma with or without increased
intraocular pressure.
METHODS: Color Doppler imaging was performed in 16 eyes with progressive visual
field defects in patients with normal-tension glaucoma, 15 eyes with practically 
stable visual field defects in patients with normal-tension glaucoma, 14 eyes
with progressive visual field defects in glaucomatous patients with increased
intraocular pressure, and 14 eyes with practically stable visual field defects in
glaucomatous patients with increased intraocular pressure. Peak systolic velocity
and end-diastolic velocity were measured, and resistive index was calculated in
the central retinal artery, short posterior ciliary arteries, and the ophthalmic 
artery.
RESULTS: Eyes with progressive visual field defects in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma had statistically significantly lower blood flow
velocities and higher resistive index in the central retinal artery and the short
posterior ciliary arteries than did those with practically stable visual field
defects, whereas, in the glaucomatous patients with increased intraocular
pressure, such differences were not found.
CONCLUSIONS: Eyes of patients with normal-tension glaucoma and progressive visual
field defects have decreased blood flow velocities and increased resistive
indices in their retrobulbar arteries, suggesting that these circulatory factors 
may be associated with the deterioration of visual field defects in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma but may be less involved in the deterioration in
glaucomatous patients with increased intraocular pressure.


PMID: 9439354  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1494. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1998 Jan;284(1):278-82.

The effect of topical diltiazem on the intraocular pressure in
betamethasone-induced ocular hypertensive rabbits.

Melena J(1), Santafé J, Segarra J.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacología, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad del País
Vasco, Vitoria, Spain.

The effect of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) on intraocular pressure (IOP)
remains still controversial, although some preliminary reports suggest that these
drugs may be effective in the management of ocular hypertension and low-tension
glaucoma. The aim of the present work was to assess the effect of topical
diltiazem on IOP in an animal model for glaucoma, the betamethasone-induced
ocular hypertension in rabbits. IOP was measured with a manometrically calibrated
applanation pneumatonograph. Ocular hypertension was produced in 120 rabbits by
weekly subconjunctival injection of a betamethasone suspension into the left eye.
The experiments examining the ocular actions of diltiazem were carried out in two
stages. In the first one, the ability of topical diltiazem to prevent the rise in
IOP induced by betamethasone was studied. In a second phase, the effect of
topical diltiazem on IOP in betamethasone-induced ocular hypertensive rabbits was
assessed. Diltiazem was topically applied once daily for 5 days a week into the
left eye. The effect of five different concentrations of diltiazem was evaluated 
to obtain dose-response curves. Topical diltiazem was found to prevent in a
dose-related fashion the betamethasone-induced IOP rise as well as to reduce IOP 
in rabbits made ocular hypertensive by weekly subconjunctival injection of
betamethasone. Unilateral topical administration did not produce a clear effect
on IOP in the untreated eye. This is the first report describing the ocular
hypotensive action CCBs in animal model for glaucoma. These findings are in
agreement with preliminary evidence suggesting that CCBs may have a beneficial
effect in human ocular hypertension.


PMID: 9435188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1495. J Glaucoma. 1997 Dec;6(6):408-11.

Treatment of progressive normal-tension glaucoma.

Werner EB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Allegheny University of the Health Sciences,
Philadelphia, PA 19102, USA.


PMID: 9407370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1496. J Glaucoma. 1997 Dec;6(6):363-70.

A comparison of healthy, ocular hypertensive, and glaucomatous optic disc
topographic parameters.

Iester M(1), Broadway DC, Mikelberg FS, Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

PURPOSE: To compare the optic discs of 62 healthy individuals 68 patients who
have ocular hypertension (OH), and 182 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma 
(132 high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and 50 normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)), and
determine whether disc size exerted an influence on the group differentiation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Standard criteria were used to define glaucoma and
normality. Ocular hypertension was defined as having raised intraocular pressure,
a normal visual field, and a healthy optic disc/retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL).
The optic disc of one eye from each individual was analyzed using a confocal
scanning laser ophthalmoscope (Heidelberg Retina Tomograph software version 1.11,
Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany). Thirteen topographical, volumetric,
and shape parameters were compared between the three diagnostic groups. In
addition, the individuals were divided into subgroups on the basis of disc size
to determine any effect of disc size on the differentiating ability of the
confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope. Differences between the groups were
evaluated using an analysis of variance.
RESULTS: Glaucomatous optic discs were found to differ from both healthy and OH
discs, although no differences in disc area between the groups were identified.
On the basis of disc size, differentiating the glaucomatous discs was best for
midsized discs of 2 mm2 to 3 mm2. However, no difference was found between
healthy and OH discs, even when allowing for disc size.
CONCLUSIONS: Ocular hypertensive optic discs (with a clinically normal
appearance) could not be distinguished from healthy discs using a confocal
scanning laser ophthalmoscopic technique. Glaucomatous optic discs were found to 
differ from both healthy and OH discs, with a limited effect of disc size.


PMID: 9407364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1497. Ophthalmologe. 1997 Sep;94(9):665-7.

[Selective excimer laser ablation of the trabecular meshwork. Clinical results].

[Article in German]

Vogel M(1), Lauritzen K.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Göttingen.

PURPOSE: Examination of the efficacy of pore formation in the trabecular meshwork
by excimer laser to reduce intraocular pressure in glaucoma eyes.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In 27 consecutive eyes with chronic simple glaucoma and 8
eyes with low-tension glaucoma, 3 to 5 pores were ablated into the trabecular
meshwork with an excimer laser (308 nm, 35-55 mJ/mm2), creating an open
communication between the anterior chamber and Schlemm's canal. This was
accomplished by the use of a 400-micron quartz fiber and a modified Trokel
goniolens. All patients were candidates for trabeculectomy because visual fields 
continued to deteriorate in spite of maximum medication.
RESULTS: Intraocular pressure was median reduced by 7 mmHg (range 10.5 to 1.5
mmHg) in 22 of 27 eyes with chronic simple glaucoma over a median follow-up of 7 
months. In 12 eyes, further medication has to be continued, yet at a lower dose
and lower level of intraocular pressure. In five eyes therapy failed. In three of
these eyes, a trabeculectomy had to be performed. In eight eyes with low-tension 
glaucoma, a median reduction of intraocular pressure of 5 mmHg (range 10 to 0.5
mmHg) was accomplished over a median follow-up of 7 months. In five of these
eyes, further medication on a lower level was continued. No further surgery was
necessary.
CONCLUSIONS: With the microsurgical method of pinpoint ablation of the trabecular
meshwork by excimer laser, intraocular pressure was reduced in 30 of 35 eyes over
a median follow-up period of 7 months. These results encourage us to continue the
development of this procedure, perhaps with a microendoscope. The minimal trauma 
to the eye of this procedure leaves all other options of surgery open.


PMID: 9410236  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1498. Ophthalmology. 1997 Nov;104(11):1926-33.

The associations of optic disc hemorrhage with retinal nerve fiber layer defect
and peripapillary atrophy in normal-tension glaucoma.

Sugiyama K(1), Tomita G, Kitazawa Y, Onda E, Shinohara H, Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study is to elucidate a topographic correlation
between optic disc hemorrhages and retinal nerve fiber layer defects as well as
peripapillary atrophy in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: The authors prospectively studied the relation between the precise
locations of disc hemorrhages and retinal nerve fiber layer defects in the first 
part of the study. The authors also compared morphometrically the peripapillary
atrophy and the optic disc in eyes with disc hemorrhage with eyes without a
history of disc hemorrhage in age-matched patients in the second part of the
study.
PARTICIPANTS: In part 1, 42 patients with NTG (male/female = 11/31; age, 56.8 +/-
14.2 years) in whom new disc hemorrhages developed were enrolled. In part 2, 51
randomly selected age-matched patients with NTG without a history of disc
hemorrhage (male/female = 16/35; age, 55.7 +/- 12.5) were examined.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: In part 1, retinal nerve fiber layer defects were observed 
by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy using an argon-blue laser. In part 2, the area, 
angular extent, and radial extent of zone beta of peripapillary atrophy and the
structural parameters of optic disc were measured by scanning laser tomography
using a diode laser.
RESULTS: In part 1, the authors detected 64 disc hemorrhages in 48 eyes of 42
patients; retinal nerve fiber layer defects were shown in 47 (97.9%) of 48 eyes
by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy. Of 64 disc hemorrhages, 51 (79.7%) coincided
with retinal nerve fiber layer defects in location. These 51 hemorrhages were
present on the border (41.2%) or adjacent to the border (58.8%) between the
retinal nerve fiber layer defect and the apparently healthy-looking retinal nerve
fiber layer. In part 2, the prevalence, area, angular extent of zone beta, and
ratio of zone beta area to disc area were significantly greater in the disc
hemorrhage group than in the nonhemorrhage group, even though there were no
significant differences in disc parameters between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Disc hemorrhage is associated closely with retinal nerve fiber layer
defect in location and the size of peripapillary atrophy in NTG.


PMID: 9373128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1499. Am J Ophthalmol. 1997 Dec;124(6):805-13.

Quantitative differences between the optic nerve head and peripapillary retina in
low-tension and high-tension primary open-angle glaucoma.

Eid TE(1), Spaeth GL, Moster MR, Augsburger JJ.

Author information: 
(1)William and Anna Goldberg Glaucoma Service, Wills Eye Hospital/Thomas
Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107-5599, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine whether quantitative differences in optic nerve topography 
could be identified between patients having primary open-angle glaucoma with
normal intraocular pressure (low-tension primary open-angle glaucoma [LT-POAG])
vs those with elevated intraocular pressure (high-tension primary open-angle
glaucoma [HT-POAG]).
METHODS: We attempted to match 31 eyes of 31 patients in the LT-POAG group on a
case-by-case basis with comparable eyes of 31 patients with HT-POAG. We used the 
Heidelberg Retina Tomograph to evaluate the optic nerve head and retinal nerve
fiber layer.
RESULTS: Cup areas and cup:disk area ratios were significantly larger (P < .05), 
whereas rim areas, rim volumes, retinal nerve fiber layer heights, and retinal
nerve fiber layer cross-sectional areas were consistently smaller, but not
significantly so (P > .05), in the LT-POAG group. The inferior neuroretinal rim
area was significantly smaller (P < .05) and the mean deviation of superior
arcuate area was significantly greater than the opposite sector in patients with 
LT-POAG but not in those with HT-POAG. A relationship between localized
measurements of the optic nerve head and mean deviation was more apparent in the 
LT-POAG group than in the HT-POAG group.
CONCLUSIONS: The optic cups were larger in patients with LT-POAG than in those
with HT-POAG. Measurements of sectors of the optic disk correlated better with
visual field changes in LT-POAG than did global measurements of the whole nerve
head, indicating more vulnerability of the optic nerve to focal damage with low
intraocular pressure.


PMID: 9402827  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1500. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1997 Oct;235(10):634-8.

Inverse correlation between endothelin-1-induced peripheral microvascular
vasoconstriction and blood pressure in glaucoma patients.

Gass A(1), Flammer J, Linder L, Romerio SC, Gasser P, Haefeli WE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The potent vasoconstrictor peptide endothelin-1 has been shown to
participate in the control of peripheral vascular tone and in the regulation of
ocular perfusion. In glaucoma patients vasospasms and arterial hypotension have
been identified as risk factors for the progression of glaucomatous damage, and
the regulation of endothelin-1 release is disturbed in some of these patients.
The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between resting blood
pressure and cutaneous vascular responsiveness to endothelin-1 and phenylephrine 
in patients with glaucoma and in matched controls.
METHODS: In 9 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 7 patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and 16 age- and sex-matched controls, endothelin-1
and phenylephrine responses were assessed in the human forearm microcirculation
using laser Doppler flowmetry during intra-arterial drug administration. Blood
pressure was measured intra-arterially.
RESULTS: In contrast to alpha 1-adrenergic effects, endothelin-1 responses were
inversely correlated to both systolic (r2 = 0.27, P = 0.05) and diastolic (r2 =
0.54, P = 0.001) blood pressure in glaucoma patients, whereas there was no such
correlation in controls. Patients with lower blood pressure values were more
sensitive to the vasoconstrictor effects of endothelin-1. Cutaneous
responsiveness to endothelin-1 and phenylephrine was similar in glaucoma patients
and in controls.
CONCLUSION: These results reveal that glaucoma patients appear to have peripheral
microvascular abnormalities which are exhibited as altered responsiveness to
endothelin-1. Thus, this study supports the hypothesis that endothelin-1-related 
microvascular dysfunction may be involved in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous
damage.


PMID: 9349947  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1501. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1997 Sep;235(9):563-8.

How often do patients need visual field tests?

Viswanathan AC(1), Hitchings RA, Fitzke FW.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: This study was undertaken to determine whether the interval between
visual field tests affects the ability to detect progressive glaucomatous field
loss.
METHODS: One hundred and nineteen retinal locations which were deteriorating
significantly by > or = 1 dB/ year (untreated normal tension glaucoma patients: 6
eyes) were studied. Analysis was repeated using 'thinned' visual field tests: one
test per year instead of the complete three per year over a period of 4 years.
RESULTS: The 'thinned' tests identified only 45.4% of the deteriorating points
over the 4-year period. Furthermore, there was a mean delay of 1.10 years in
detection (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Less frequent visual field testing detects fewer progressing
locations and detects them later.


PMID: 9342606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1502. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1997 Sep;101(9):723-9.

[Plateau iris configuration as a risk factor for malignant glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Ueda J(1), Sawaguchi S, Kanazawa S, Hara H, Fukuchi T, Watanabe J, Shirakashi M, 
Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

To provide evidence for diagnosing malignant glaucoma, as well as to elucidate
the pathogenetic mechanism of the disease, ultrasound biomicroscopy (UBM) is a
useful tool. We examined the anterior segments of three patients with
post-operative malignant glaucoma with UBM regarding the state before operation, 
the state of the opposite eye, and the state after the release of the
cilio-lenticular block. Case 1 was a 76-year-old female who was diagnosed as
having chronic angle-closure glaucoma (CACG) and was treated by trabeculectomy,
phacoemulsification, aspiration (PEA), and simultaneous intraocular lens (IOL)
implantation. Case 2 was a 22-year-old male diagnosed as having CACG secondary to
plateau iris syndrome and was treated by trabeculectomy. Case 3 was a 73-year-old
female diagnosed as having normal-tension glaucoma with narrow angle and was
treated by PEA and IOL implantation. Slit-like anterior chamber angle and
anteriorly positioned ciliary body were observed in all 3 cases, which were
identical to those Pavlin reported in 8 cases with plateau iris syndrome. UBM
seems to be an important pre-operative examination to evaluate the risk of
malignant glaucoma and to consider which surgical procedure and post-operative
management is proper. The pre-operative configuration of the ciliary body may be 
associated with the onset of malignant glaucoma in some patients with CACG or
narrow angle.


PMID: 9311232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1503. Ophthalmology. 1997 Sep;104(9):1496-502.

High-pass resolution perimetry and a Humphrey Field Analyzer as indicators of
glaucomatous optic disc abnormalities. A comparative study.

Kono Y(1), Chi QM, Tomita G, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The "neural capacity (NC)" of high-pass resolution perimetry (HRP)
may be correlated to the neuroretinal rim area of the optic disc. The authors
compared HRP with conventional differential light sensitivity (DLS) perimetry in 
terms of correlation with glaucomatous optic disc changes.
METHODS: Thirty-seven eyes of 37 normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients were
examined. The authors used an Ophthimus system for HRP and a Humphrey Field
Analyzer (HFA) for DLS perimetry. The total rim area and the area of temporal,
superior, nasal, and inferior quadrants were determined using a confocal laser
tomographic scanner. Quadrant NC (QNC) was calculated using the resolution
thresholds corresponding to a given quadrant. Quadrant mean deviation (QMD) was
calculated from the total deviations of HFA.
RESULTS: In all eyes, NC and MD showed significant correlations with total rim
area (Spearman rank correlation coefficient [rs] = 0.375, P < 0.05 for NC; rs =
0.336, P < 0.05 for MD). A significant correlation was observed in 21 eyes with
early visual field changes (rs = 0.469, P < 0.05), but not in 16 eyes with
advanced visual field changes. Both QNC and QMD showed significant correlations
with inferior rim area (rs = 0.575, P < 0.01 for QNC; rs = 0.431, P < 0.01 for
QMD). However, no significant correlations were found between QNC or QMD and
superior rim area.
CONCLUSIONS: The NC may relate to glaucomatous optic disc changes better than
does MD in NTG, especially in eyes with early-stage visual field changes.


PMID: 9307647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1504. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers. 1997 Sep;28(9):739-44.

Combined phacoemulsification and trabeculectomy with mitomycin-C.

Zacharia PT(1), Schuman JS.

Author information: 
(1)Wheeling Eye Institute, WV 26003, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of combined
phacoemulsification and trabeculectomy with mitomycin-C with respect to visual
rehabilitation and control of intraocular pressure in patients with coexisting
cataract and glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The authors retrospectively studied 20 consecutive cases of
phacoemulsification with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation combined
with trabeculectomy using mitomycin-C. They included in their study 20 eyes of 19
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma,
inflammatory glaucoma, chronic angle-closure glaucoma, and normal tension
glaucoma.
RESULTS: After a mean postoperative follow-up time of 14.4 +/- 3.1 months,
intraocular pressure was reduced from a preoperative mean of 19.2 +/- 6.1 mm Hg
to a postoperative mean of 13.4 +/- 3.9 mm Hg (P = .0004). The number of required
intraocular pressure-lowering medications dropped from a preoperative mean of 2.3
+/- 0.7 medications to 0.2 +/- 0.4 medications postoperatively (P < .0001), with 
only 4 eyes requiring the restarting of a single medication each. Mean log10
(minimum angle of resolution) visual acuity improved from a preoperative 0.66 +/-
0.53 (Snellen 20/91) to a postoperative 0.30 +/- 0.40 (Snellen 20/40) (P <
.0005). The most frequent complication was a bleb leak (8 of 20 eyes [40%]),
usually occurring early and responding to conservative management. One eye with
later-onset bleb leak incurred endophthalmitis. In another eye, hypotony with
maculopathy developed.
CONCLUSIONS: Phacoemulsification combined with trabeculectomy using mitomycin-C
appears to be an effective approach to the management of cataract in patients
with glaucoma. It offers potential for good improvement in visual acuity as well 
as long-term control of intraocular pressure with reduced or no dependence on
medications. Potential vision-threatening complications of this procedure,
specifically hypotony maculopathy and late-onset bleb leaks, should be considered
in the decision to use mitomycin-C.


PMID: 9304636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1505. J Glaucoma. 1997 Aug;6(4):231-6.

A color Doppler analysis of nifedipine-induced posterior ocular blood flow
changes in open-angle glaucoma.

Wilson RP(1), Chang WJ, Sergott RC, Moster MR, Schmidt CM, Bond JB, Harris A.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107, U.S.A.

PURPOSE: This pilot study used color Doppler imaging to investigate the effects
of nifedipine on the posterior ocular blood flow of patients with glaucoma
progression at normal intraocular pressures.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighteen patients, 11 men and seven women with a median age
of 61.7 years, were imaged before and 6 weeks after the initiation of 30 mg of
sustained-release nifedipine (Procardia XL; produced by either Pfizer or Pratt)
daily.
RESULTS: There was no statistically significant change in the blood velocity of
the ophthalmic artery, central retinal artery, and main nasal and temporal short 
posterior ciliary arteries after treatment with nifedipine.
CONCLUSION: The routine use of nifedipine in patients with normal tension
glaucoma progression is not supported by this study.


PMID: 9264302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1506. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1997 Jul-Aug;41(4):260-7.

Optic disc findings in normal tension glaucoma.

Yamazaki Y(1), Hayamizu F, Miyamoto S, Nakagami T, Tanaka C, Inui S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

One hundred thirty stereo photographs of optic discs in patients with normal
tension glaucoma (NTG) were reviewed in order to identify characteristics of the 
three following types of NTG: focal ischemic, senile sclerotic, and generalized
cup enlargement. Twenty patients in each group were selected. Focal ischemic
patients were more frequently women, had a higher incidence of migraine, a
relatively smaller disc size, and localized superior scotoma that often
threatened fixation. Senile sclerotic patients were generally elderly, had a
higher incidence of surgery under general anesthesia, had more ischemic heart
disease or systemic hypertension, had a small rim area, and also had extensive
peripapillary atrophy as well as combined diffuse and localized visual field
defects. Generalized cup enlargement patients were younger, had a relatively
larger disc size and a greater incidence of purely diffuse visual field loss.
Results of our study suggest that the different characteristics of the groups are
related to pathogenic mechanisms specific to each group.


PMID: 9304442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1507. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1997 Jul;101(7):598-604.

[Parapapillary chorioretinal atrophy and parapapillary avascular area in
glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Funaki S(1), Shirakashi M, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

We measured the area of parapapillary chorioretinal atrophy (PPA), i.e. zone
alpha and zone beta in fluorescein angiography, and parapapillary avascular area 
(PPAVA) in indocyanine green angiography, using scanning laser ophthalmoscope in 
a total of 66 eyes of 39 patients. There were 26 eyes of 16 patients with normal 
tension glaucoma (NTG) and 40 eyes of 23 patients with primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG). Although there was no significant correlation between the areas 
of PPAVA, PPA, zone alpha or zone beta, and mean deviation of Humphrey field
analysis, there was significant correlation between all areas except for zone
alpha and the spherical equivalent. The areas of PPAVA and zone beta in the NTG
group were significantly larger than those in the POAG group (p = 0.04434,
0.02750, respectively). These results suggest that the pathogenesis of disease
may be different in NTG and POAG.


PMID: 9256622  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1508. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1997 Jul;101(7):593-7.

[Mode of progression of visual field defects and risk factors in glaucoma
patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Hosoda M(1), Hirano T, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yamanashi Medical University, Japan.

A study of glaucoma was conducted at 17 institutions to clarify the mode of
progression of visual field defects in specific types of glaucoma, including
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG), and
normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Staging of glaucoma was done by the Kosaki
Classification or the Aulhorn Classification and the mode of progression was
assessed by life-stable method. The progressive and non-progressive groups of
patients in each glaucoma stage were compared with respect to age, intraocular
pressure, refraction, and optic disc cupping. A total of 656 eyes were
investigated in 656 patients (301 men and 355 women) with a mean age of 58.0
years. The average follow-up period was 5.8 years for the study using the Kosaki 
Classification and 4.0 years for that done with the Aulhorn Classification. The
progression of visual field defects was rapid in the early stage but slow in the 
middle and late stages in the study by the Kosaki Classification, and it was slow
in the late stages in the study by the Aulhorn Classification. The time for
progression from stage Ia to stage VI was 43.3 years in the study by the Kosaki
Classification and the time for progression from stage 0 to stage 6 was 47.2
years in the study by the Aulhorn Classification. The progressive and
non-progressive groups differed significantly with respect to intraocular
pressure at various stages.


PMID: 9256621  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1509. Ophthalmology. 1997 Jul;104(7):1131-7.

Effect of surgery on visual field progression in normal-tension glaucoma.

Bhandari A(1), Crabb DP, Poinoosawmy D, Fitzke FW, Hitchings RA, Noureddin BN.

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, England.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2001 Feb;108(2):245-6.

PURPOSE: The effect of intraocular pressure-lowering surgery on the rate of
visual field progression in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) was studied.
METHODS: Seventeen patients with NTG who underwent trabeculectomy in one eye for 
worsening visual field loss were included in the first part of the study. All
patients had Humphrey 24-2 visual fields at the rate of 2-3 fields per year.
Pointwise linear regression analysis of the visual field data was done separately
for the preoperative and postoperative periods. This was performed for both
operated and fellow eyes. The mean slope (MS), which indicates rate of visual
field progression, was calculated. Change in MS was correlated with change in
intraocular pressure (IOP). For the second part of the study, 11 patients who had
a minimum of 4 visual fields and 18 months of follow-up before surgery were
identified. Using the preoperative fields, the rate of sensitivity loss for each 
visual field location in the operated eye was ascertained for every patient. This
rate of loss was extrapolated to generate the expected visual fields, assuming an
unchanged rate of progression. The mean sensitivity of the expected visual field 
was compared with that of the actual field at the last follow-up.
RESULTS: The MS in the operated eyes improved from -2.97 +/- 3.21 (mean +/- SD)
in the preoperative period to 0.53 +/- 3.83 (P < 0.005; Student's t test)
postoperatively. In the fellow eyes the MS changed from -1.78 +/- 2.55 to -1.43
+/- 3.01 (P = 0.754). There was a weak correlation between change in MS and
percentage IOP decrease (correlation coefficient 0.39). The difference in mean
sensitivity between the expected and actual visual fields was -3.72 dB (P =
0.002), and was better in the actual field.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, surgical lowering of IOP resulted in a slower rate of
visual field loss in the operated eye.


PMID: 9224466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1510. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1997 Jun;210(6):355-9.

[Effect of nifedipine on ocular pulse amplitude in normal pressure glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Schmidt KG(1), von Rückmann A, Geyer O, Mittag TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, New York, USA.

BACKGROUND: Ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) is reduced in normal tension glaucoma
(NTG) patients when compared to non-glaucomatous, healthy control subjects. This 
might be related to a vasospastic reaction. The objective of this study was to
determine if low OPA in NTG is associated with a vasospastic reaction and its
response to vasodilation.
METHODS: Nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker, vasodilator and systemic
antihypertensive agent improves visual fields in NTG patients following acute and
chronic dosing. The effect of 60 mg of daily orally administered nifedipine on
OPA, intraocular pressure (IOP, German abbreviation: IOD), blood pressure (BP,
German abbreviation: RR) and pulse rate (PR, German abbreviation: HF) were
measured prior to and for 3 months after initiating nifedipine therapy in 32 NTG 
patients with and without a vasospastic reaction as manifested by a local cold
exposure test. Before treatment, all patients had reduced OPA evaluated with the 
Langham Ocular Blood Flow System.
RESULTS: During nifedipine treatment NTG patients with a vasospastic reaction
showed a significant (p < 0.001) increase in OPA, whereas NTG patients without a 
vasospastic reaction showed no sig. (p > 0.05) change in OPA.
CONCLUSION: There may be two different subgroups of NTG patients, those who have 
a vasospastic reaction and react to nifedipine, while others lack the ability to 
react to nifedipine or might have a different, non-vasospastic pathology. Calcium
channel blockers and other vasodilators may be useful in the treatment of
vasospastic NTG patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1035074 
PMID: 9333660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1511. J Glaucoma. 1997 Jun;6(3):198.

Low tension glaucoma.

Levene RZ.

Comment on
    J Glaucoma. 1997 Apr;6(2):75-7.


PMID: 9211146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1512. Ophthal Plast Reconstr Surg. 1997 Jun;13(2):98-114.

Floppy eyelid syndrome and obstructive sleep apnea.

McNab AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Australia.

Floppy eyelid syndrome (FES) usually affects middle-aged obese men, presenting as
a unilateral or bilateral chronic papillary conjunctivitis. The upper eyelid is
lax, floppy, and easily everted. The laterality corresponds to the side the
patient sleeps on. An association with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) has been
suggested. A personal series of 17 new cases is presented, and 79 previously
reported cases are reviewed to give a detailed description of the syndrome. In
addition to the classical presentation, patients may present with upper lid
ptosis, lash ptosis or trichiasis, lower lid ectropion or rarely entropion, or
corneal complications. Eight patients with FES were investigated for OSA. Twenty 
other patients with known OSA were examined for FES and other possibly associated
ocular features. All eight patients referred for sleep studies were found to have
OSA. One of the 20 patients with known OSA was found to have FES, and two had
features of early asymptomatic FES. One patient with FES and OSA had normal
tension glaucoma. Patients with FES should be considered for sleep studies
because of the known morbidity of OSA. Simple screening of patients with OSA may 
detect FES and avoid late corneal complications that can compromise vision.


PMID: 9185193  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1513. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1997 May;33(3):173-7.

[A comparative study of visual field defects between primary open-angle and low
tension glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu M(1), Zhou W, Ye T.

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Sciences,
Guangzhou.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the characteristics of early visual field defects in
primary opene-angle glaucoma (POAG) and low tension glaucoma (LTG).
METHOD: The visual fields of 41 eyes with early POAG and 15 eyes with LTG were
quantitatively measured with QZS-2 automated perimetry (full threshold program).
RESULTS: Most of the early glaucomatous visual field defects in POAG and LTG
presented the decrease of localized light sensitivity, and a few indicated the
decrease of diffuse type. The defect occurred entirely in the central field and
in a small number of eyes it was complicated by the peripheral field defect,
especially in the nasal field. The differences of the mean light sensitivity and 
short-term fluctuation in the central field were statistically significant
between the early POAG or LTG and the normal control group (all P < 0.05). In the
comparisons of the visual field defect and retinal nerve fiber layer defect
between early POAG and LTG groups, the results indicated that the types of damage
and distribution of the areas involved were not different.
CONCLUSION: The characteristics of early visual field defects in POAG and LTG are
the same.


PMID: 10437028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1514. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1997 May;25(2):137-44.

Optic disc haemorrhages and vascular abnormalities in a glaucoma population.

Barry CJ(1), Cooper RL, Eikelboom RH.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Lions Eye Institute, Perth,
Australia.

PURPOSE: To retrospectively examine the optic disc photographs of a glaucoma
population for optic disc haemorrhages, vascular occlusions and vascular
abnormalities.
METHODS: The optic disc photographs of 906 eyes of glaucoma and suspect glaucoma 
patients were examined. Optic disc photographs were taken annually, where
possible, with the follow-up period varying between 1 and 14 years duration
(mean, 2.89). Glaucoma patients are regularly reviewed every 4-6 months and
glaucoma suspects every 1-2 years, depending on the ophthalmologist. Low-tension 
glaucoma patients were reviewed more frequently (mean, every 2.6 months). The
results of the findings were compared to a control group of 39 subjects with a
mean follow-up period of 7 years, using Fisher's exact test.
RESULTS: It was found that during the period under review, 7.4% (n = 67) of eyes 
had optic disc haemorrhages. The highest frequency of optic disc haemorrhages
(37.5%) was found in the low tension glaucoma group (P = 0.0001) followed by 11% 
of primary open-angle glaucoma eyes (P = 0.03). In the normal group there were
three eyes with optic disc haemorrhages and one with a disc collateral, which
constitutes 5.1% vascular changes in this sub-group. Of the study eyes 2.8% had
central retinal vein occlusions, 1.3% branch vein occlusion, 1.2% disc vessel
abnormalities (loops) and 1.1% disc collaterals. Discrete nerve fibre layer
haemorrhages and microaneurysms were found in 0.8% and 1.8% of eyes,
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A total of 16.8% of the eyes observed in this study had either disc 
haemorrhages or vascular changes. The underlying trend of vascular and
haemorrhagic changes in glaucoma are demonstrated in this sample, which is in
general agreement with previous studies. The high percentage of optic disc
haemorrhages in low tension glaucoma is highlighted. The presence of
microaneurysms and nerve fibre layer haemorrhages is interesting but of unknown
significance.


PMID: 9267600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1515. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1997 May;355(5):645-50.

A long-lasting hypotensive effect of topical diltiazem on the intraocular
pressure in conscious rabbits.

Santafé J(1), Martínez de Ibarreta MJ, Segarra J, Melena J.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacología, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad del País
Vasco, Paseo de la Universidad no 7, Vitoria, Spain.

The effect of calcium channel blockers on intraocular pressure and aqueous humor 
dynamics remains still controversial, although preliminary evidence suggests that
these drugs may be beneficial in the management of ocular hypertension and
low-tension glaucoma. Having previously reported the ocular hypotensive effect of
topical nifedipine and verapamil in albino rabbits, the original aim of the
present work was to evaluate the effect of topical diltiazem on aqueous humor
dynamics in this species. Intraocular pressure was measured with a manual
applanation tonometer. The experiments examining the ocular actions of diltiazem 
were carried out in two stages. In the first one, short term effects of topical
diltiazem on intraocular pressure were studied in groups of 13 albino rabbits
receiving 8 different doses of the drug in order to obtain a dose-response curve.
Tonographies were performed in 13 anaesthetized animals before and 90 min after
drug instillation. In a second phase, the persistence of the effect of diltiazem 
on intraocular pressure was examined in 6 groups of 10 rabbits each receiving
three different doses of the drug. Topical diltiazem was found to lower
intraocular pressure in a dose-related fashion. The maximum response to diltiazem
was greater and the ED50 lower than those previously reported for nifedipine and 
verapamil. In the tonographic study, diltiazem was shown to reduce the facility
of aqueous humor outflow and inflow. Diltiazem exhibited a long lasting effect on
intraocular pressure that was again dose-related. Depending on the dose
administered, the calculated time necessary for the peak effect to be halved
ranged from 0.6 to 7.0 days. Due to the intensity and the persistence of its
intraocular pressure-lowering effect, diltiazem shows great potential for the
treatment of glaucoma, since a daily or less frequent administration may be
enough to control ocular hypertension.


PMID: 9151305  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1516. J Glaucoma. 1997 Apr;6(2):78-82.

Correlation between the visual field indices and Heidelberg retina tomograph
parameters.

Iester M(1), Mikelberg FS, Courtright P, Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Opthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

PURPOSE: We wished to determine whether a relationship exists between Heidelberg 
retina tomograph (HRT) parameters and the visual field indices.
METHODS: One eye was randomly chosen from 59 normal patients [normal visual field
and normal optic nerve head (ONH) and intraocular pressure (IOP) < 21 mm Hg], 64 
ocular hypertensive patients (normal visual field and normal OHN and IOP > 22 mm 
Hg), 124 high-tension glaucoma patients (abnormal visual field and/or abnormal
optic nerve and IOP > 22 mm Hg) and 47 low-tension glaucoma patients (abnormal
visual field and or optic disc and IOP < 21 mm Hg). All the patients were
examined with Humphrey Perimeter, program 30-2, and HRT. Findings were assessed
by analysis of variance, Pearson's correlation coefficient, and multiple linear
regression.
RESULTS: Among all subjects, we noted a statistically significant correlation
(Pearson's r, p < 0.001) between cup area, cup/disc area ratio, rim area, rim
volume, cup shape measure, and retinal nerve fiber layer cross-section area with 
mean deviation and corrected pattern SD. Multiple linear regression analysis
demonstrated that rim area was the most important predictor of mean deviation and
corrected pattern SD.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of significant correlations between some HRT
parameters, such as rim area and cup shape measure and visual field indices,
suggests that these HRT parameters could be good indicators of the degree of
glaucomatous ONH damage.


PMID: 9098814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1517. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1997 Mar;33(2):96-9.

[Color Doppler imaging analysis of ocular hemodynamics in low-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Fu J(1), Liang Y, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrasound, People's Hospital, Beijing Medical University.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate ocular hemodynamics with color Doppler imaging, in
low-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Nineteen patients with low-tension glaucoma (LTG) and 15 normal subjects
were studied. The peak systolic velocity (Vmax), the end diastolic velocity
(Vmin), the mean-enveloped velocity (Vmean), the pulse index (PI), the resistance
index (RI) and S/D (Vmax/Vmin) of the ophthalmic artery (OA), the short posterior
ciliary arteries (SPCA) and the central retinal artery (CRA) were compared in the
two groups.
RESULTS: (1) Compared with the normal subjects, the patients with LTG showed a
decreased Vmax and Vmin in SPCA in bilateral eyes and Vmean in the right eye (P <
0.05), and a decreased RI and S/D in the left eye (P < 0.05). (2) Vmax and Vmean 
of CRA in LTG were lower than that in normal subjects (P < 0.01). (3) All six
blood flow parameters of OA in the two groups were not significantly different
from each other.
CONCLUSIONS: Blood flow velocity of SPCA in LTG was lower than that in the normal
subjects. The results support the theory that LTG is induced by the perfusion
impairment of optic nerve head.


PMID: 10437009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1518. Curr Eye Res. 1997 Mar;16(3):208-13.

Amlodipine and benazeprilat differently affect the responses to endothelin-1 and 
bradykinin in porcine ciliary arteries: effects of a low and high dose
combination.

Lang MG(1), Zhu P, Meyer P, Noll G, Haefliger IO, Flammer J, Lüscher TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Research, University Hospital Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: Visual field defects caused by vasospasm are often encountered in
ophthalmology as a feature of glaucoma with poor response to conventional
treatment. Combination therapy with drugs acting via different mechanisms might
be more effective. Therefore, the effects of the calcium antagonist amlodipine
and the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor benazeprilat at low and
high dose combination on contractions to endothelin-1 and endothelium-dependent
relaxations to bradykinin were examined in porcine ciliary arteries.
METHODS: Segments of the arteries were suspended in myographs for isometric
tension recording.
RESULTS: Pretreatment of the vessels with either amlodipine, the low or high dose
combination significantly reduced the sensitivity to endothelin-1 as compared to 
control (concentration shift 18.3-fold, 14.2-fold, 23.3-fold respectively; p <
0.05), while benazeprilat was ineffective. The maximal response to endothelin-1
(10(-7) M) was most inhibited by the high dose combination which reduced the
contractions by 49% as compared to control (p < 0.05). The low dose combination
and amlodipine alone were less effective (reduction: 25%; p < 0.05 and 20%; n.s.,
respectively). On the other hand, benazeprilat enhanced the sensitivity
(concentration shift 73-fold; p < 0.05) and maximal relaxation to bradykinin (by 
27%; p < 0.01), whereas amlodipine or the low or high dose combination were
ineffective.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that amlodipine and benazeprilat differently
affect vascular function of ciliary arteries. A high dose combination of both
substances was most effective in inhibiting contractions to endothelin-1,
suggesting a potentiating effect of the two compounds. In contrast,
endothelium-dependent relaxations to bradykinin were enhanced by benazeprilat
alone, but not when combined with amlodipine.


PMID: 9088736  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1519. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1997 Mar;101(3):227-31.

[Effect of topical carteolol on visual function in normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Maeda H(1), Tanaka Y, Yamamoto M, Mizokami K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kobe University School of Medicine, Hyougo-ken,
Japan.

The effects of carteolol hydrochloride on visual function in normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) were investigated. 22eyes of NTG patients were divided into two
groups, i.e., (1) a group receiving topical application of 2% carteolol
hydrochloride b.i.d. and 2 an unmedicated group. During a 18 month period,
intraocular pressure and visual field (measured by Humphrey automated perimetry) 
were measured every 3 months, and the measurements obtained in the two groups
were compared. Analysis of the results revealed a considerable reduction in
intraocular pressure in the carteolol group as compared with the control group.
The progression of mean deviation tended to be less in the carteolol group, but
the intergroup difference in this respect was not statistically significant.
However, increase in corrected pattern standard deviation was clearly less
pronounced in the carteolol group than in the control group. These results
supported the conclusion that carteolol is effective in inhibiting deterioration 
of the local visual field. This is attributed to increased ocular perfusion due
to diminished intraocular pressure, as well as an inhibitory effect upon
vasoconstriction in the optic nerve head due to intrinsic sympathomimetic
activity, preventing decrease in papillary blood flow and adverse effects upon
ocular circulation.


PMID: 9086741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1520. Ophthalmology. 1997 Mar;104(3):517-24.

Improving the prediction of visual field progression in glaucoma using spatial
processing.

Crabb DP(1), Fitzke FW, McNaught AI, Edgar DF, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Visual Science, Institute of Ophthalmology, UCL, London, United 
Kingdom.

PURPOSE: The authors show how the predictive performance of a method for
determining glaucomatous progression in a series of visual fields can be improved
by first subjecting the data to a spatial processing technique.
METHOD: Thirty patients with normal-tension glaucoma, each with at least ten
Humphrey fields and 3.5 years of follow-up, were included. A linear regression
model of sensitivity against time of follow-up determined rates of change at
individual test locations over the first five fields (mean follow-up 1.46 years; 
standard deviation = 0.08) in each field series. Predictions of sensitivity at
each location of the field nearest to 1 and 2 years after the fifth field were
generated using these rates of change. Predictive performance was evaluated by
the difference between the predicted and measured sensitivity values. The
analysis was repeated using the same field data subjected to a spatial filtering 
technique used in image processing.
RESULTS: Using linear modeling of the unprocessed field series, at 1 year after
the fifth field, 72% of all predicted values were within +/- 5 dB of the
corresponding measured threshold. This prediction precision improved to 83% using
the processed data. At the 2-year follow-up field, the predictive performance
improved from 56% to 73% with respect to the +/- 5 dB criterion.
CONCLUSIONS: Predictions of visual field progression using a pointwise linear
model can be improved by spatial processing without increased cost or patient
time. These methods have clinical potential for accurately detecting and
forecasting visual field deterioration in the follow-up of glaucoma.


PMID: 9082283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1521. Am J Ophthalmol. 1997 Mar;123(3):320-7.

Blood-flow velocities of the extraocular vessels in patients with high-tension
and normal-tension primary open-angle glaucoma.

Kaiser HJ(1), Schoetzau A, Stümpfig D, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic-Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To evaluate blood-flow parameters in three different groups of patients 
with primary open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: Hemodynamic parameters in the ophthalmic artery, central retinal artery,
central retinal vein, and lateral and medial short posterior ciliary arteries
were evaluated by color Doppler imaging in 237 patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma and 124 age-matched normal control subjects. Group A consisted of 56
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma with treated intraocular pressure
higher than 20 mm Hg; group B, of 103 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
with progression of glaucomatous damage despite intraocular pressure of 21 mm Hg 
or less; and group C, of 78 patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
RESULTS: All patients showed a significant decrease in end-diastolic velocities
(P < .01) and a significant increase in resistivity index (P < .05) in all
arteries measured. Peak-systolic velocities were normal in the ophthalmic artery 
in all three groups. In the central retinal artery and the short posterior
ciliary arteries, however, patients in groups B and C had significantly reduced
peak-systolic velocity (P < .05) compared with normal control subjects.
Peak-systolic velocity in group A did not differ significantly from that of
normal control subjects. Maximal and minimal blood-flow velocities in the central
retinal vein were significantly lower in groups B and C (P < .001) compared with 
normal control subjects. In group A, only minimal blood-flow velocity was
significantly reduced (P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Hemodynamic parameters in the extraocular vessels are altered in
patients with glaucoma. Reduced blood-flow velocities may be secondary as well as
contributory to glaucomatous damage.


PMID: 9063241  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1522. Surv Ophthalmol. 1997 Feb;41 Suppl 2:S139-44.

Circadian intraocular pressure management with latanoprost: diurnal and nocturnal
intraocular pressure reduction and increased uveoscleral outflow.

Mishima HK(1), Kiuchi Y, Takamatsu M, Rácz P, Bito LZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hiroshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

Based on their mechanism of action, the most frequently used ocular hypertensive 
agents, the beta-blockers, cannot be assumed to reduce IOP during sleep. The need
for drugs that reduce IOP around-the-clock is underscored, however, by the fact
that inadequate nocturnal ocular perfusion pressure is considered to be one of
the likely causes of glaucomatous optic neuropathy especially in some cases of
normal tension glaucoma. The studies reviewed here demonstrate that latanoprost, 
a new ocular hypotensive prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue, applied once a day at a
concentration of 0.005%, maintains a statistically highly significant IOP
reduction around-the-clock. The magnitude of this IOP reduction was found to be
essentially identical during the day and at night, both in patients maintained on
timolol and in those not receiving other glaucoma medication. Latanoprost-induced
IOP reduction was also found to be associated with increased uveoscleral outflow 
in normotensive volunteers, both during the day and at night. These circadian
studies suggest that this new ocular hypotensive agent can be expected to be
particularly useful for the medical management of some forms of glaucoma, such as
normal tension glaucoma, when the cause of the glaucomatous damage cannot be
linked specifically to diurnal IOP abnormalities.


PMID: 9154290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1523. Surv Ophthalmol. 1997 Feb;41 Suppl 2:S89-92.

Reduced intraocular pressure and increased ocular perfusion pressure in normal
tension glaucoma: a review of short-term studies with three dose regimens of
latanoprost treatment.

Greve EL(1), Rulo AH, Drance SM, Crichton AC, Mills RP, Hoyng PF.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Center, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Currently used ocular hypotensive agents do not effectively lower intraocular
pressure (IOP) in some normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients. The prostaglandin 
F2 alpha analogue, latanoprost, has been shown to reduce IOP in normal subjects
and ocular hypertensive glaucoma patients by increasing uveoscleral outflow. This
mechanism is expected to be particularly effective in the lower IOP range that is
typical of NTG. To date, three dose regimens of latanoprost have been shown to
reduce IOP significantly in NTG. The IOP reductions of 14.2% and 15% obtained
with twice-daily application of 0.0015% and 0.006% latanoprost, respectively,
were comparable to the modest IOP reduction that has been reported for other
glaucoma drugs in NTG. In contrast, once-daily application of 0.005% latanoprost 
resulted in a 21.4% IOP reduction. In another study that included 24-hour
monitoring of systemic blood pressure and heart rate in NTG patients, the ocular 
perfusion pressure was found to improve more on once-daily 0.005% latanoprost
than on twice-daily treatment with 0.5% timolol. Thus, once-daily 0.005%
latanoprost appears to be a more effective and more convenient ocular hypotensive
agent for treating NTG than currently used glaucoma drugs. However, long-term
studies will ultimately be needed to establish the efficacy of this new drug to
delay or prevent the progression of visual field loss in normal tension glaucoma.


PMID: 9154282  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1524. Surv Ophthalmol. 1997 Feb;41 Suppl 2:S77-81.

Clinical dose-regimen studies with latanoprost, a new ocular hypotensive PGF2
alpha analogue.

Diestelhorst M(1), Krieglstein GK, Lusky M, Nagasubramanian S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Köln, Germany.

This review summarizes recent short-term clinical studies evaluating the ocular
hypotensive efficacy of different dose-regimens of latanoprost. When tested in
ocular hypertensive and glaucoma patients concomitantly treated with timolol,
0.006% latanoprost given only in the evening, was found to be more effective than
the same concentration given in the morning and evening. In patients with open
angle, pseudoexfoliation and normal tension glaucoma not receiving other
treatment, once-daily 0.005% latanoprost monotherapy was more effective than
twice-daily 0.0015% latanoprost treatment. No significant differences were found 
in conjunctival hyperemia, sensory irritation or blood-aqueous barrier
permeability between these two treatment regimens. Although the ocular
hypotensive efficacy of once-daily application of the lower concentration
(0.0015%) latanoprost was not investigated, we would conclude, based on the
studies reviewed here, that at a concentration of 0.005%, once-a-day dosing of
latanoprost is highly effective in significantly reducing intraocular pressure,
causing only minimal, clinically acceptable short-term ocular side effects.


PMID: 9154280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1525. Surv Ophthalmol. 1997 Feb;41 Suppl 2:S1-14.

Prostaglandins: a new approach to glaucoma management with a new, intriguing side
effect.

Bito LZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032,
USA.

This introductory overview considers the advantages of a class of local
hormones-the prostaglandins (PGs)-for the management of intraocular pressure
(IOP) in glaucoma, over agonists and antagonists of neurotransmitters that
dominated this field in the 20th century. PGs and PG analogues, in particular
esterified prodrug forms of PGF2 alpha, are effective ocular hypotensive agents, 
but cause some conjunctival hyperemia and corneal sensory irritation at higher
concentrations. Based on structure-activity studies, a 17-phenyl PGF2 alpha
prodrug, latanoprost (PhXA41), was found to have a greatly improved therapeutic
index, without compromising the ocular hypotensive potency of PGF2 alpha
prodrugs. The IOP lowering mechanism of such PGF2 alpha s, increased uveoscleral 
outflow, can be expected to have great physiologic advantages, especially with
respect to normal tension glaucoma, over most currently used ocular hypotensive
drugs. The introduction of this new approach has already led to a new insight
into the control and clinical significance of this outflow route. Similarly, the 
newly discovered ocular side effect, PG-induced increase in iridial pigmentation,
can be expected to provide insight into the oculo-protective role of iridial
melanocytes and into the punative association between a decline in the ocular
melanin system and the vulnerability of the eye to some age-related diseases.


PMID: 9154271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1526. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1997 Feb;101(2):158-62.

[Effect of non-surgical ocular hypotensive therapy in normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Koseki N(1), Araie M, Shirato S, Yamagami J.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, Tokyo Metropolital Geriatric Hospital, Japan.

We investigated the effects of the topical ocular hypotensives with or without
half circumference argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) on intraocular pressure
(IOP) of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes. Seventy-two NTG patients whose
pretreatment mean IOP was > or = 15 mmHg at least in one eye were included and
one randomly chosen eye from one patient were used for analysis. They were
followed for at least 15 months after commencement of the therapy. The mean
pretreatment IOP averaged 17.2 +/- 1.6 mmHg (mean +/- standard deviation, n =
72). All eyes were first treated with topical 2% carteolol. In eyes where IOP
reduction was considered unsatisfactory, topical 1% pilocarpine or 0.04%
dipivefrine was added. In eyes where IOP reduction was still unsatisfactory even 
with the two medications, half circumference ALT was performed. Mean IOP
reduction was 1.5 mmHg in the eyes treated with topical medications alone and 2.5
mmHg in those treated by topical medications plus ALT. The mean outflow pressure 
reduction was 16 and 26%, respectively. In 40% of the all eyes, satisfactory IOP 
reduction was obtained by topical medications with or without additional ALT.


PMID: 9124097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1527. J Glaucoma. 1997 Feb;6(1):50-5.

Unilateral normal-tension glaucoma.

Kitizawa Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.


PMID: 9075082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1528. Ophthalmology. 1997 Feb;104(2):197-201.

Effect of trabeculectomy on visual field performance in central 30 degrees field 
in progressive normal-tension glaucoma.

Koseki N(1), Araie M, Shirato S, Yamamoto S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: The authors studied the effects of trabeculectomy on the time course of 
central 30 degrees visual field performances in progressive normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Patients with NTG who had clear ocular media and were adequate
performers on the 30-2 program of Humphrey Perimeter were prospectively followed 
with periodic field testing. Trabeculectomy using an antimetabolite was indicated
when the slope of a line fitted to the time course of the mean deviation (MD), MD
slope, was significantly negative. The time courses of MD and mean of total
deviations (mean TD) in four subfields, superior and inferior arcuate and
superior and inferior cecocentral fields, were analyzed using the mixed linear
model.
RESULTS: In progressive NTG, 21 eyes of 21 cases with postoperative follow-up of 
2 years or more, intraocular pressure averaged 16 mmHg, MD averaged -13.5 dB, and
MD slope averaged -1.48 dB/year preoperatively; 2 years after surgery, they
averaged 9.2 mmHg, -13.6 dB, and +0.13 dB/year, respectively. Trabeculectomy had 
a significant beneficial effect on the time course of MD and mean TD in the
superior and inferior arcuate and superior cecocentral fields, which showed
significant preoperative deterioration. The mean TD in the inferior cecocentral
field showed no significant time change during the period studied.
CONCLUSION: For patients with NTG in whom the MD slope is significantly negative,
trabeculectomy may have beneficial and diffuse effects on further deterioration
of the visual field.


PMID: 9052622  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1529. Duodecim. 1997;113(15):1425-6.

[Low-tension glaucoma--a disease for ophthalmology or internal medicine?].

[Article in Finnish]

Klemetti A.


PMID: 10643115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1530. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 1997;267:21-6.

Glaucoma in Congo.

Kaimbo Wa Kaimbo D(1), Missotten L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Kinshasa, Congo.

OBJECTIVE: To determine frequencies of various types of glaucoma in an urban
community of Congo.
METHODS: The records of 176 patients with the diagnosis of glaucoma examined
between 1991 and 1995 at a non-university center were reviewed. A complete
ophthalmological examination was performed in each patient including best visual 
acuity, refraction, slit-lamp examination, ophthalmology and intraocular pressure
measurements. Gonioscopy and visual field examination were performed when needed.
RESULTS: The frequency distribution of the various subtypes of glaucoma was:
open-angle glaucoma (72.2%), aphakic glaucoma (9%), uveitis glaucoma (6%),
exfoliative glaucoma (3%), glaucoma secondary to ocular trauma (2.2%), cataract
glaucoma (1.7%), normal tension glaucoma (1.7%), congenital glaucoma (1.7%),
neovascular glaucoma (1.3%), pigmentary glaucoma (0.6%), corticosteroid-induced
glaucoma (0.6%), and glaucoma associated with retinoblastoma (0.6%);
CONCLUSION: Despite the limitations inherent of a retrospective review of
records, our study provides an indication of the prevalence of various types of
glaucoma in a urban community of Congo. This study confirmed also the rarity of
primary angle-closure glaucoma in the black.


PMID: 9745810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1531. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1997;(224):57-8.

The use of flunarizine in the management of low-tension glaucoma: a color Doppler
study.

Cellini M(1), Possati GL, Caramazza N, Profazio V, Caramazza R.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, University of Bologna.

The authors assess the efficacy of flunarizine in improving blood flow and
perimetric indices in low-tension glaucoma (LTG). A group of 20 patients with LTG
well-compensated by medical treatment underwent Color Doppler Imaging (CDI) of
the ophthalmic artery and posterior ciliary arteries with peak systolic velocity 
(PSV) and Purcelot's index (PI) evaluation. Computerized perimetry was also
performed to assess MD, SF and CPSD. The parameters were measured before and
after three months' therapy with flunarizine. Data before and after flunarizine
treatment were: Ophthalmic artery- PSV 33.261 +/- 1.628 cm/sec vs 35.746 +/-
0.800 cm/sec (p < 0.001); PI 0.697 +/- 0.017 vs 0.627 +/- 0.031 (p < 0.001);
Posterior ciliary arteries- PSV 9.385 +/- 0.751 cm/sec vs 10.738 +/- 1.566 cm/sec
(p < 0.005); PI 0.673 +/- 0.056 vs 0.589 +/- 0.023 (p < 0.001). The perimetric
indices were modified as follows: MD -11.002 +/- 6.574 vs -6.604 +/- 6.426 (p <
0.006); SF 5.05 +/- 5.717 vs 2.937 +/- 1.780 (p < 0.193); CPSD 10.198 +/- 13.392 
vs 3.445 +/- 2.709 (p < 0.093). Oral administration of flunarizine, a calcium
channel-blocker which acts at a vascular and neuronal level, improves the blood
flow indices for the optic nerve, improving thereby the perimetric indices in
LTG.


PMID: 9589742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1532. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1997;(224):43-4.

Surgery for normal tension glaucoma. Target intraocular pressure and visual field
progression.

Fontana L(1), Viswanathan AC, Poinooswamy D, Hitchings RA, Scullica L.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.


PMID: 9589731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1533. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1997;(224):34-5.

Diagnostic and prognostic indices in primary open angle glaucoma: a color Doppler
study.

Cristini G(1), Cellini M.

Author information: 
(1)Oculistic Clinic Institute, University of Bologna.

The authors compute a diagnostic (Di) and a prognostic (Pi) index in primary open
angle glaucoma. Four groups of patients were studied. Group A consisted of
subjects under 50 years of age, group B of subjects over 50 years of age, group C
of patients with normal tension glaucoma and group D with high tension glaucoma. 
All patients underwent color doppler imaging of the ophthalmic, posterior ciliary
and choroid arteries. The Di of the choroid vessels were 0.967 +/- 0.011 (gp. A),
1.112 +/- 0.010 (gp. B), 1.506 +/- 0.008 (gp. C) and 2.891 +/- 0.083 (gp. D). The
Pi of the posterior ciliary arteries were 22.700 +/- 1.160 (gp. A), 20.000 +/-
0.943 (gp. B), 15.100 +/- 0.568 (gp. C) and 12.100 +/- 0.083 (gp. D).
Confirmation of these data might validate them as a tool for preventing the
evolution of glaucomatous optic neuropathy.


PMID: 9589724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1534. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1997;(224):17-8.

Normal tension glaucoma: a ten-year follow-up.

Pecori Giraldi J(1), De Benedetti G, Santarelli S, Liguori A, Mollicone A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, University La Sapienza of Rome.

The authors describe the results obtained in 10 years of observation of a group
of 41 eyes affected by normal tension glaucoma. An evolution of perimetric
defects was found in 29.26% of the eyes examined.


PMID: 9589711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1535. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1997;(224):11-3.

Color Doppler imaging and plasma levels of endothelin-1 in low-tension glaucoma.

Cellini M(1), Possati GL, Profazio V, Sbrocca M, Caramazza N, Caramazza R.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, University of Bologna.

Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent vasoconstrictor peptide produced by vascular
endothelin cells There are reports in the literature that ET-1 plasma levels are 
raised in low tension glaucoma (LTG). ET-1 plasma concentration and Color Doppler
Imaging (CDI) evaluation in ophthalmic and posterior ciliary arteries were
measured in 15 LTG patients and in 15 healthy subjects. The blood flow index
recorded for the ophthalmic artery in normal subjects was a PSV of 36.646 +/-
6.611 cm/sec with RI of 0.717 +/- 0.019 while in the LTG patients it was 32.961
+/- 3.045 cm/sec (p < 0.003) with RI of 0.789 +/- 0.018 (p < 0.001). For the
posterior ciliary arteries in the same two groups, we obtained a PSV of 13.878
+/- 4.149 cm/sec vs 8.720 +/- 1.645 cm/sec (p < 0.001) and an RI of 0.679 +/-
0.039 vs 0.722 +/- 0.024 (p < 0.001). The plasma ET-1 level in normal subjects
was 1.720 +/- 0.174 pg while in LTG patients it was 2.947 +/- 0.217 pg (p <
0.001). On the basis of our experience, we think that GON and the visual field
damage found in LTG can be attributed to an alteration in the endothelial
self-regulating sections and consequent vascular insufficiency, particularly
pronounced in the posterior ciliary arteries which, since it is these that
provide the blood supply to the optic nerve head, leads to irreversible
functional damage.


PMID: 9589707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1536. Klin Oczna. 1997;99(4):245-8.

[Evaluation of acquired color vision defects by means of the two equation method 
in primary open-angle glaucoma with normal pressure and in patients from the risk
group].

[Article in Polish]

Regiec P(1), Nizankowska MH.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki AM we Wrocławiu.

PURPOSE: To evaluate acquired color vision defects in glaucoma patients and
glaucoma suspects.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 52 subjects (102 eyes) divided into four groups (with
primary open angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma, ocular hypertension and
with glaucoma-like optic disc) were examined with the IF-2 All-Color
Anomaloscope. In all cases both the red-green equation of Rayleigh and the
blue-green equation of Moreland were tested and three variables were determined: 
setting (matching) range (SR), calculated mid point (matching mid point) (CMP)
and anomalous quotient (AQ) as compared to control group.
RESULTS: No significant changes were found in the variables of the Rayleigh
equation. However, in the blue-green equation SR was significantly enlarged in
all tested groups and CMP was significantly shifted towards the short wavelength 
end of the match in first three groups. These results indicate a diminution of
the color discriminating sensitivity in the short wavelength half of the visible 
spectrum and diminution of the blue cone sensitivity in glaucoma patients as well
as in ocular hypertension (p < 0.001). In patients with glaucoma-like optic disc 
the setting range was enlarged in less degree (p < 0.01) without changes in the
remaining variables (p > 0.05) what may be indicative of early stage of disease
before the perimetric changes.
CONCLUSION: Blue-green colour vision testing with the anomaloscope may serve as
an additional test in the diagnostics of glaucoma. Glaucoma suspects with blue
colour vision disturbances require the most careful investigation and if need be 
the recommendation of early treatment.


PMID: 9577115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1537. Klin Oczna. 1997;99(4):239-43.

[Comparative analysis of changes in the visual field in primary open-angle
glaucoma and glaucoma with normal tension].

[Article in Polish]

Cwirko M(1), Szelepin L, Nizankowska MH, Koziorowska M.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki AM we Wrocławiu.

PURPOSE: To compare the pattern and the depth of visual field defects of POAG and
NTG patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The visual fields in two groups of POAG and NTG patients, 
each counting 25 eyes, were analysed statistically. All eyes were tested at least
twice, employing full threshold G2 test of Octopus 101 (Interzeag) automatic
perimeter. The tests with the highest reliability level were included. The
analysis was performed using Peridata (Interzeag) statistical package. Mean
values of mean defect (MD), corrected loss variance (CLV) and compound index (CI)
for each group were acquired. Furthermore, main values of MD for upper and lower 
hemifield, quadrants and 10 degrees concentric rings, were obtained. The
differences between the two groups were tested for the statistical significance.
RESULTS: Values of all three above parameters (MD, CLV i CI) were significantly
lower in the group of eyes with POAG as compared with those with NTG. In both
groups mean MD was higher in the upper hemifield, but the upper/lower hemifield
ratio was significantly higher in the POAG group (1.50) as compared with NTG
group (1.05). In POAG group the highest mean MD was found in the upper-temporal
quadrant whereas in NTG group the lower-nasal quadrant was the most affected. In 
both groups the highest values of mean MD were found in the outer ring between 20
degrees and 30 degrees of visual field but the difference between the centre and 
periphery was considerably lower in NTG group.
CONCLUSIONS: The results support the opinion that there exist differences between
the patterns of visual field changes in POAG and NTG. The loss tends to be more
diffuse in POAG, showing deeper defects in the periphery and stronger tendency to
affect the upper hemifield.


PMID: 9577114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1538. Eye (Lond). 1997;11 ( Pt 4):485-8.

Reduced ocular pulse amplitude in low tension glaucoma is independent of
vasospasm.

Schmidt KG(1), Rückmann AV, Mittag TW, Hessemer V, Pillunat LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Giessen, Germany.

PURPOSE: A vascular basis for the pathogenesis of primary open angle glaucoma has
been postulated for many years. Defects in the regulation of ocular blood flow
may be the initiating factor in this group of multifactorial diseases. This study
was designed to evaluate the effect of vasospasm on ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) 
in low tension glaucoma (LTG) patients.
METHODS: OPA, using the Langham Ocular Blood Flow (OBF) System, applanation
intraocular pressure (IOP), systemic blood pressure and heart rate were measured 
and vasospasm was determined by a fingernail capillary blood flow test.
RESULTS: OPA (mmHg) in the LTG patients with a vasospastic reaction (LTG-V, 1.4
+/- 0.1, n = 17) was not significantly (p > 0.09) different when compared with
non-vasospastic LTG patients (LTG-NV, 1.5 +/- 0.2, n = 15) but was significantly 
(p < 0.001) reduced in LTG-V and LTG-NV patients when compared with matched
healthy control subgroups (2.3 +/- 0.2 and 2.4 +/- 0.3, respectively). IOP (mmHg)
in LTG-V (13.3 +/- 0.4) and LTG-NV (13.2 +/- 0.5) patient groups was not
significantly (p > 0.05) different when compared with each other, but was
significantly (p < 0.05) lower when compared with matched control subgroups (15.0
+/- 0.3 and 15.2 +/- 0.4, respectively). Haemodynamic parameters were not
significantly different from controls.
CONCLUSION: The abnormality in choroidal perfusion indicated by a reduction in
OPA in all LTG patients is unrelated to the presence or absence of vasospasm.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1997.131 
PMID: 9425412  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1539. Oftalmologia. 1997;41(3):217-20.

[Genetic predisposition in glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Mocanu C(1), Militaru C.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica oftalmologică Craiova.

The comparative study of the genetic factors implication in low-tension and
high-tension glaucoma showed the presence of glaucoma familial cases in both
form. In 3 cases of low-tension glaucoma the presence of other familial cases of 
high-tension glaucoma was revealed. The existence of hereditary cases of
high-tension glaucoma in families with low-tension glaucoma suggests the
existence of some common factors, responsible for producing both affections. On
the other hand, the systematic research of the existent glaucomatous deficits at 
the patients with glaucoma familial cases deserves greater attention.


PMID: 9409965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1540. Oftalmologia. 1997;41(3):197-9.

[Normal-tension glaucoma. Its diagnosis and treatment].

[Article in Romanian]

Selaru D(1), Mitulescu D.

Author information: 
(1)Spitalul Militar Central Bucureşti.

The paper attempt a NPG definition in the light of the most recently data from
literature. Modern investigation techniques (CDI, LDF, laser scan angiography)
are summarized to support the presently most accepted pathogenic theory--the
vascular theory. There are also reviewed the main clinical conditions to do
differential diagnosis and main methods of its treatment.


PMID: 9409960  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1541. Klin Oczna. 1997;99(2):121-6.

[Coexistence of migraine and glaucoma-like visual field defects].

[Article in Polish]

Nizankowska MH(1), Turno-Krecicka A, Misiuk-Hojło M, Ejma M, Chełstowska J,
Szczesna-Borzemska D, Sasiadek M.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki AM we Wrocławiu.

PURPOSE: Functional and morphological evaluation of the optic nerve heads in
patients suffering from migraine.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 21 patients--13 women and 8 men (mean age 40 +/- 10) with
neurologically confirmed diagnosis of common and classic migraine were examined. 
The headache history was obtained by standard questions. The patients suffered
from migraine from 2 to 30 years and the frequency of attacks was from < 10 to > 
100/year. Ophthalmologic examination involved evaluation of visual acuity,
anterior segment, irido-corneal angle, retina and optic disc. In all cases optic 
disc photography, diurnal tension curve and two central visual field examinations
with Octopus 101 programm G2 were performed.
RESULTS: In all cases IOP was normal (< 21 mm Hg). In 4 eyes (2 patients) there
was early glaucomatous-like damage of the optic disc, without visual field
defect. In most of these patients the optic nerve head looked normal, in part of 
them slightly pale. In 28% patients glaucomatous-like visual field defects were
found (MD-3.9 dB to 6.6 dB). There was statistically significant relationship
between increase of MD and frequency of migraine attacks (Mann-Withney U test, a 
= 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Static perimetry of the central visual field has high diagnostic
value in ocular vasospastic syndrome. Functional dysregulation of the optic nerve
head circulation in patients with migraine might be involved in the pathogenesis 
of normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 9379663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1542. Klin Oczna. 1997;99(2):109-13.

[Occurrence of nocturnal arterial hypotension in patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Muzyka M(1), Nizankowska MH, Koziorowska M, Zajac-Pytrus H.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki AM we Wrocławiu.

PURPOSE: To investigate the nocturnal blood pressure "dip" in patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 46 patients (36 women and 10 men), including 15 patients
with POAG (mean age 49.6 +/- 6.8), 20 patients with NTG (mean age 54.5 +/- 14.1) 
and 11 control subjects (mean age 43.4 +/- 16.3), were studied. Arterial systolic
and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate were measured with automated blood
pressure monitor MEDILOG DX in 15 minutes intervals during the day and 30 minutes
intervals at night.
RESULTS: 30.4% of all examined patients showed the nocturnal "dip" of less than
10% (non-dippers). In 41.4% of patients the blood pressure fell at night by
10-20% (dippers) and in 28.2% of patients by more than 20% (big dippers). The
percentage distribution of patients with POAG, NTG and control subjects in
non-dippers group was 35%, 36% and 29%; in dippers group: 21%, 53% and 26%; in
big dippers group: 46%, 46% and 8% respectively. The nocturnal "dip" was
significantly larger in NTG group (max. systolic dip 28% +/- 2.9%, mean systolic 
dip 17% +/- 4.3%, alpha = 0.05) in comparison with POAG and control group.
CONCLUSIONS: Large blood pressure "dips" are observed more frequently in patients
with glaucoma than in healthy control subjects. The degree of reduction in blood 
pressure is significantly larger in NTG patients in comparison with POAG patients
and control group.


PMID: 9379661  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1543. Clin Neurosci. 1997;4(5):292-4.

Decreased contrast sensitivity in normal tension glaucoma determined by pattern
visually evoked cortical potentials.

Sano N(1), Adachi-Usami E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chiba University School of Medicine, Japan.

Little is known about the central visual function of patients with normal tension
glaucoma (NTG). We estimated the contrast sensitivity of patients with NTG and
normal subjects with the use of pattern visually evoked cortical potentials
(PVECPs). PVECPs were recorded using checkerboard pattern reversal system display
on television monitor of check size 15', 60' and frequency 3 reversals per second
and contrast varied in 7 steps. Our results show that a significant delay of the 
P100 component for 60' check size in the NTG group was found at every contrast
level (P < 0.05). Contrast threshold was determined as the value to obtain a
criterion peak latency from a regression line calculated within a contrast range 
from 10% to 56%. The contrast threshold for both check sizes of the NTG group
showed an increased threshold (P < 0.05). We conclude that contrast sensitivity
decreased in NTG as determined by PVECP. The PVECP was a sensitive test for
detecting the functional abnormalities of NTG.


PMID: 9292258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1544. Ophthalmologica. 1997;211(1):25-31.

Glaucoma, lighting and color vision. An investigation into their
interrelationship.

Nuzzi R(1), Bellan A, Boles-Carenini B.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Department, University of Turin, Italy.

The results of a study on color vision capacity performed with a view to further 
analyzing glaucomatous dyschromatopsia are reported. The Farnsworth-Munsell
100-hue test was used in a population of 52 subjects (104 eyes) with daylight
fluorescent lighting and low-tension halogen lighting. Photocolorimetric
observations with each type of lighting were made. It was found that halogen
lighting increased the glaucomatous subjects' mean score, the number of
dyschromatopsia and the number of blue-yellow dyschromatopsia axes. The authors
conclude that halogen lighting is preferable for the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-hue
test in glaucoma and confirm the predominance of blue-yellow dyschromatopsia axes
in glaucoma.


PMID: 8958528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1545. Br J Ophthalmol. 1996 Dec;80(12):1060-2.

Effect of oral nifedipine on ocular blood flow in patients with low tension
glaucoma.

Geyer O(1), Neudorfer M, Kessler A, Firsteter E, Lazar M, Almog Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Israel.

AIM: To investigate the effect of oral nifedipine on ocular blood flow in
patients with low tension glaucoma (LTG).
METHODS: In this prospective study we examined the effects of 3 weeks of
treatment with oral nifedipine 30 mg/day in 11 patients with LTG, by using colour
Doppler ultrasound imaging to measure haemodynamic variables in the central
retinal (CRA), short posterior ciliary (SPCA), and ophthalmic (OA) arteries.
Intraocular pressure (IOP) and blood pressures were also evaluated.
RESULTS: Nifedipine failed to alter IOP nor did it change peak systolic velocity,
end diastolic velocity,or the resistance index in any of the three ocular vessels
studied (p > 0.05). However systolic and diastolic systemic arterial blood
pressure measurements varied significantly after nifedipine treatment compared
with baseline (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Our study failed to demonstrate a significant effect of nifedipine on
retrobulbar circulation of patients with LTG.


PMCID: PMC505703
PMID: 9059270  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1546. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1996 Dec;100(12):923-36.

[Current topics in glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Masuda K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Tokyo School of Medicine,
Japan.

Among the many factors involved in the development of glaucoma, the elevation of 
intraocular pressure (IOP) is the most important. The treatment of glaucoma aims 
to lower IOP in order to maintain visual function. New anti-glaucoma drugs,
latanoprost and nipradilol, have been shown to effect a reduction in IOP equal to
that achieved with the equivalent dosage of timolol, with no adverse systemic
side effects. The mechanism of the reduction of IOP by these drugs mainly
involves the increase of uveoscleral outflow. The success rate of filtering
surgery for glaucoma has been increased by using antimetabolites such as
mitomycin C (MMC) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The use of MMC during surgery has
resulted in a better outcome than with 5-FU. Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) cases 
are reported to constitute more than 60% of total glaucoma cases in Japan. NTG is
different from primary open-angle glaucoma not only in IOP but also in the
pattern of the visual field defect, cupping and peripapillary atrophy of the
optic nerve head (ONH). The first choice of treatment for NTG is using drugs for 
reducing IOP and, if necessary, argon laser trabeculoplasty. In addition to these
treatments a drug for increasing the blood circulation in the brain,
brovinecamine fumarate, has shown beneficial effects in the treatment of NTG. NTG
patients whose visual field can be shown by static perimetry to be deteriorating 
are indicated for filtering surgery. The results of filtering surgery for NTG
have been confirmed that it is more effective than drugs for maintaining the
visual field. We have developed an instrument using the laser speckle phenomenon 
for determining the microcirculation in the eye, as well as in the ONH,
noninvasively, quantitatively, and repetitively. With the same instrument, the
effects of anti-glaucomadrugs on ocular circulation, especially in the ONH, can
also be determined. Timolol has no effect on the circulation in the ONH, but
carteolol and betaxlol increase the circulation significantly. The
Ca(+2)-blocker, nilvadipine, increases the circulation in the ONH. These findings
indicate that the drugs increasing the ONH circulation many be beneficial for the
control of glaucoma.


PMID: 9022306  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1547. J Glaucoma. 1996 Dec;5(6):422-6.

Progressive normal-tension glaucoma. I. Analysis.

Werner E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Allegheny University of the Health Sciences,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.


PMID: 8946300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1548. Ophthalmology. 1996 Nov;103(11):1899-906.

Correlation between peripapillary atrophy and optic nerve damage in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Park KH(1), Tomita G, Liou SY, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, Seoul National University
Hospital, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the correlation between peripapillary atrophy and visual 
field defects as well as optic nerve head configurations in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: Topographic measurements for peripapillary atrophy and optic nerve head 
using confocal scanning laser tomography and automated static threshold perimetry
were performed on 102 eyes of 51 patients with NTG. Peripapillary atrophy was
divided into (1) a central zone (zone Beta) with visible, large choroidal vessels
and sclera, and (2) a peripheral zone (zone Alpha) with irregular hyper- and
hypopigmentation. The area, angular extent around the disc, and radial extent of 
each zone were measured.
RESULTS: The area and extent of zone Beta increased significantly with increasing
visual field defects expressed in terms of mean deviation, corrected pattern
standard deviation, central visual field defects within 5 degrees of fixation,
and superior hemifield defects (r = 0.3770-0.5291, P < 0.01). The angular extent 
of zone Beta represented localized field defects better (r = 0.5217, P < 0.001)
than diffuse field defects (r = -0.3770, P < 0.01). Zone Beta significantly
correlated with optic nerve head topography. Intraindividual right-left-side
differences of corrected pattern standard deviation showed the highest
correlation with the side differences of zone Beta area (r = 0.6305, P < 0.001). 
The location of visual field defects correlated significantly with the location
of peripapillary atrophy (chi-square = 9.0484, P = 0.011). Zone Alpha was not
significantly correlated with visual field defects or optic nerve head
configurations (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Peripapillary atrophy is significantly associated with functional and
structural optic nerve damage in NTG.


PMID: 8942888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1549. Cesk Slov Oftalmol. 1996 Oct;52(5):297-307.

[Decompression of the optic nerve sheath--results in the first 37 operated eyes].

[Article in Czech]

Jirásková N(1), Rozsíval P.

Author information: 
(1)Ocní klinika Fakultní nemocnice, Hradec Králové.

The authors present results of optic nerve sheath decompression in 37 eyes. The
decompression surgery was performed for progressive form of anterior ischemic
optic neuropathy (AION) in 11 eyes, AION combined with central retinal vein
occlusion in 2 eyes, low tension glaucoma in 7 eyes (+1 reoperation), central.
retinal vein occlusion in 1 eye, optic nerve head drusen in 11 eyes, chronic
optic disc edema in pseudotumor cerebri in 3 eyes, amiodarone optic neuropathy in
1 eye. Postoperative findings (visual acuity and visual field) are presented for 
each diagnosis. After surgery a transient double vision developed in 5 patients. 
We have not seen any other complications. Optic nerve sheath decompression is a
controversial method of treatment for optic neuropathies. We advocate this method
of treatment for vision-threatening optic neuropathies after thoroughly balanced 
assessment of possible risks and gains.


PMID: 9005049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1550. Br J Ophthalmol. 1996 Oct;80(10):864-7.

Twenty four hour blood pressure monitoring in normal tension glaucoma.

Meyer JH(1), Brandi-Dohrn J, Funk J.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Freiburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1996 Oct;80(10):858-9.

BACKGROUND: The few investigations that used continuous 24 hour blood pressure
monitoring to investigate whether blood pressure in patients with normal tension 
glaucoma is lower than in normal subjects yielded conflicting results. Therefore,
a prospective controlled trial was carried out.
METHODS: Systemic blood pressure was recorded continuously over a 24 hour period 
in 20 patients with normal tension glaucoma (IOP < or = 21 mm Hg). Eight of them 
showed a localised loss of the neuroretinal rim area and, in addition, optic disc
haemorrhages-that is, focal ischaemic signs. Twenty healthy patients without
glaucoma, who were hospitalised for cataract or retinal surgery, served as
controls. Blood pressure was automatically measured every 20 minutes during the
day and every 40 minutes at night.
RESULTS: Both groups showed a significant (physiological) blood pressure drop at 
night, which was significantly (p < 0.001, ANOVA) more pronounced in the group
with normal tension glaucoma than in the control group. There was a weak trend
towards lower blood pressure values in the normal tension glaucoma group. Minima,
maxima, and mean values of the systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressures
did not differ significantly between the group with normal tension glaucoma and
the control group. The greatest differences occurred with nocturnal systolic and 
diurnal diastolic values. There were no significant differences between the
subgroup with focal lesions and the other patients with normal tension glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with normal tension glaucoma tend to have lower blood
pressure values (p > 0.05, ANOVA) than normals; this difference is probably much 
smaller than formerly assumed. Patients with normal tension glaucoma, however,
have significantly greater nocturnal blood pressure drops (p < 0.001, ANOVA) than
normal controls. Nocturnal blood pressure drops (relative day-night differences) 
may play a more important role in the pathogenesis of normal tension glaucoma
than the absolute height of the blood pressure.


PMCID: PMC505639
PMID: 8976695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1551. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1996 Oct;74(5):456-60.

Thyroid disease, a risk factor for optic neuropathy mimicking normal-tension
glaucoma.

Jämsén K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

The aethiology and pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is unknown but
increasing evidence suggests multiple mechanisms of damage. Six out of 25 NTG
patients (24%) had thyroid disease. The mean age of these patients was 66.5 +/- 9
years and of those without thyroid disease 60.7 +/- 9.6 years. The thyroid group 
was more hyperopic. The difference in mean intraocular pressure was not
significant, but in the thyroid group the mean diurnal IOP variations were
significantly smaller. The pattern VEP results indicated a correlation between
optic neuropathy and prolonged latency of the P100 component in the group with
thyroid disease and a correlation between optic neuropathy and lowered N80-P100
amplitudes in the group without. For one patient with hypothyroidism the delayed 
latency in the worse eye was normalized after thyroxine substitution. Due to
overlapping the absolute values of P100 and the N80-P100 peak-peak amplitudes in 
pattern VEP cannot be used for differential diagnosis. These findings indicate
that thyroid disease either causes optic neuropathy mimicking glaucomatous damage
or is a risk factor for glaucoma.


PMID: 8950393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1552. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1996 Oct;234(10):595-8.

Silent myocardial ischemia in glaucoma and cataract patients.

Waldmann E(1), Gasser P, Dubler B, Huber C, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma and cataract are multifactorial diseases. They have been
described to be associated with cardiovascular risk factors.
METHODS: Twenty-four-hour ECG monitoring was done in 22 normal-tension glaucoma
patients, 27 open-angle glaucoma patients, 25 cataract patients, and 20 normal
controls. The frequency of silent myocardial ischemia (SMI) as well as that of
ventricular extrasystoles (VES) was evaluated.
RESULTS: At least one episode of significant asymptomatic ST-T segment depression
occurred in 45% of the normal-tension glaucomas, in 25.9% of open-angle
glaucomas, in 12% of cataract patients, and in 5% of normal controls. The
frequency of VES was not significantly different among the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma, especially normal-tension glaucoma, is significantly
associated with the occurrence of episodic asymptomatic myocardial ischemias.
Cataract patients, however, had only a slightly, statistically not significantly 
increased frequency of both SMI and VES compared with normals.


PMID: 8897049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1553. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1996 Aug;74(4):364-7.

Differences in optic discs in low-tension glaucoma patients with relatively low
or high pressures.

Wang XH(1), Stewart WC, Jackson GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston,
USA.

We evaluated the differences in the optic nerve head in patients with chronic
open-angle glaucoma (HTG) and those with low-tension glaucoma with either
relatively high (between 16 and 21 mmHg [LTGH]) or low (< or = 15 mmHg [LTGL])
intraocular pressures. We included 36 patients in this study. We found that LTGL 
patients had a significantly greater mean area of peripapillary atrophy inferior 
to the optic disc (0.65 +/- 0.38 mm2) than LTGH (0.40 +/- 0.38 mm2) or HTG (0.34 
+/- 0.25 mm2) patients (p < 0.005). No significant difference was found between
groups for the area of the neural rim, optic disc, cup/pallor discrepancy, or
peripapillary halo, or in the diameter of the largest artery or vein in the
inferior and superior peripapillary area. This study raises the question of
whether a separate mechanism of damage could exist at the optic disc in patients 
whose intraocular pressure is < or = 15 mmHg because of a greater extent of
peripapillary atrophy than in patients with higher intraocular pressures.


PMID: 8883552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1554. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1996 Aug;234(8):527-32.

Influence of physical exercise and nifedipine on ocular pulse amplitude.

Schmidt KG(1), Mittag TW, Pavlovic S, Hessemer V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY
10029-6574, USA.

BACKGROUND: Ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) was measured to investigate the
influence of peripheral vasoconstriction and vasodilation on choroidal perfusion 
in healthy volunteers and to determine whether low OPA in low-tension glaucoma
(LTG) patients is associated with a vasospastic reaction and its response to the 
calcium channel blocker nifedipine.
METHODS: OPA was determined using the Langham ocular blood flow (OBF) system,
applanation intraocular pressure (IOP), systemic blood pressure, and heart rate
were measured, and ocular perfusion pressure was calculated before and after
exercise and smoking in 12 otherwise nonsmoking, healthy volunteers and prior to 
and for 3 months after initiation of nifedipine therapy in 32 LTG patients with
and without a vasospastic reaction as manifested by a nailfold capillary blood
flow test.
RESULTS: Exercise significantly (P < 0.05) increased heart rate, systolic blood
pressure and ocular perfusion pressure, while it significantly (P < 0.05) reduced
IOP and diastolic blood pressure. However, OPA was not significantly (P > 0.1)
affected by changes in these parameters. Smoking significantly (P < 0.05)
increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and ocular perfusion
pressure but did not significantly (P > 0.09) alter OPA. There were two distinct 
LTG subtypes, with and without a vasospastic reaction. Only those with a
vasospastic reaction showed a significant (P < 0.001) increase in OPA after 3
months of nifedipine treatment, while all other parameters tested were not
significantly altered.
CONCLUSION: Despite affecting ocular and systemic perfusion parameters, exercise 
and smoking did not alter OPA, suggesting functional isolation, i.e.
autoregulation of the choroidal and/or ophthalmic artery circulation in healthy
volunteers. Low OPA in LTG was increased by nifedipine only in vasospastic LTG
patients, suggesting different, vasotonus-related pathologies. Calcium channel
blockers and other vasodilators may be useful in vasoreactive LTG patients with
reduced OPA.


PMID: 8858360  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1555. J Glaucoma. 1996 Aug;5(4):233-6.

Epithelial barrier function of the filtering bleb conjunctiva and the cornea
after trabeculectomy with mitomycin C.

Taniguchi T(1), Yamamoto T, Mochizuki K, Haque MS, Kitazawa Y, Yokoi N, Komuro A,
Kinoshita S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate epithelial barrier function of the filtering bleb
conjunctiva and the cornea after trabeculectomy with adjunct, intraoperative
mitomycin C, by using a newly developed slit-lamp fluorophotometer.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Thirteen patients with normal-tension glaucoma with a
cystic filtering bleb who had undergone unilateral trabeculectomy with mitomycin 
C only once at least 1 year previously were subjected to the study. Epithelial
barrier function of the bleb conjunctiva and the cornea in the operated eye was
evaluated using an Anterior Fluorometer FL-500 to measure the uptake of topically
applied fluorescein.
RESULTS: Fluorescein uptake (nanograms per milliliter, mean +/- standard error)
by the bleb conjunctiva (1,857 +/- 380) was not significantly different from
either the uptake by the superior bulbar conjunctiva in the operated eyes,
located approximately 90 degrees C away from the filtering bleb (1,974 +/- 258), 
or the uptake by the conjunctiva in the intact eyes, located symmetrically
against the bleb (1,913 +/- 248). The corneal uptake in the operated eye (56.1
+/- 10.2) was not significantly different from that in the intact eye (53.5 +/-
8.3).
CONCLUSIONS: Epithelial barrier function of the cystic filtering bleb conjunctiva
and the cornea long after trabeculectomy with mitomycin C was demonstrated to be 
almost identical to that of the control.


PMID: 8795766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1556. Ophthalmology. 1996 Aug;103(8):1271-5.

Primary open-angle glaucoma, intraocular pressure, and diabetes mellitus in the
general elderly population. The Rotterdam Study.

Dielemans I(1), de Jong PT, Stolk R, Vingerling JR, Grobbee DE, Hofman A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, Erasmus University Medical School, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To investigate the association of primary open-angle glaucoma and
intraocular pressure (IOP) with newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus.
METHODS: Subjects participating in the Rotterdam Study (n = 4178; ages, 55 years 
and older) were examined according to standard protocols, including a medical
history interview, perimetry, applanation tonometry, funduscopy, and a nonfasting
glucose tolerance test. Glaucoma was defined by the presence of a glaucomatous
visual field defect. A distinction was made between high-tension glaucoma and
normal-tension glaucoma. The relation of glaucoma and IOP with newly diagnosed
diabetes mellitus and blood glucose was analyzed using regression analysis.
RESULTS: The presence of diabetes mellitus was associated with an overall rise in
mean IOP of both eyes of 0.31 mmHg (95% confidence interval, 0.12-0.50), and with
a threefold increased presence of high-tension glaucoma (odds ratio, 3.11; 95%
confidence interval, 1.12-8.66). A 10-mmol/l higher random serum glucose level
was borderline significantly associated with a mean IOP that was, on average,
0.41 mmHg (95% confidence interval, -0.02-0.84) higher and with an odds ratio of 
2.82 (95% confidence interval, 0.92-8.58) for high-tension glaucoma. A 10-mmol/l 
rise in serum glucose on a glucose tolerance test was associated with an overall 
rise of mean IOP of 0.59 mmHg (95% confidence interval, 0.26-0.92) and with an
odds ratio of 1.88 (95% confidence interval, 0.81-4.32) for high-tension
glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: Newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus and high levels of blood glucose
are associated with elevated IOP and high-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 8764798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1557. Oftalmologia. 1996 Jul-Sep;40(3):229-36.

[Variations in intraocular pressure in normal-pressure glaucoma and in
hypertensive open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Mocanu C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Oftalmologică, Craiova.

The comparative study of the intraocular pressure variations at patients with
low-tension glaucoma and hypertensive open-angle glaucoma reveals some common
modifications regarding the aspect of the nictemeral levels of intraocular
tension (the maximal variation of the nictemeral curve, the time of maximal
intraocular pressure, variability) and the aspect of the provocative testes. The 
nictemeral curves and the provocative testes are used at the patients suspects of
low-tension glaucoma both for diagnose and to eliminate the incipient open-angle 
glaucoma with one tensional pick.


PMID: 8962848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1558. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1996 Jul;354(2):198-204.

A complex interaction between topical verapamil and timolol on intraocular
pressure in conscious rabbits.

Santafé J(1), Martínez de Ibarreta MJ, Segarra J, Melena J, Garrido M.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacología, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad del País
Vasco, Vitoria, Spain.

Calcium channel blockers have complex actions on aqueous humour dynamics that
seem to depend on the route of drug administration. When applied topically,
verapamil and nifedipine effectively lower intraocular pressure. However, these
drugs also produce a slight reduction in aqueous humor outflow through the
trabecular meshwork whereby they could modify the effect of other drugs on
intraocular pressure. As calcium channel blockers could be effective in the
management of ocular hypertension and low-tension glaucoma, the aim of the
present work was to assess the interaction between verapamil and timolol when
both drugs are topically applied to the eye of albino rabbits. Intraocular
pressure was measured with a manual applanation tonometer. The effects of 5-6
different doses of each drug alone and the effects of five mixtures of both drugs
at fixed concentration ratios (timolol: verapamil 4:1, 2:1, 1:1, 1:2 and 1:4)
were evaluated. After measuring baseline intraocular pressure, one 50 microliters
drop of the different solutions was instilled in the left eye. Measures of the
intraocular pressure were repeated at intervals of 30 min until the maximal
effect was reached. Each set of experiments was carried out in a group of 9-11
rabbits. Dose-response curves were fitted with a nonlinear regression
microcomputer programme. The median effect plot was constructed as proposed by
Chou and Talalay (1981, 1983, 1984). In order to analyse the nature of the
interaction between both drugs, the observed effect was compared with the
theoretically expected one and the combination indices, that relate the doses of 
verapamil and timolol present in the mixtures with the doses of both drugs
separately which are equieffective with the combination, were calculated. The
effects of verapamil and timolol followed the principle of the mass action law
when administered alone. Nevertheless, no adequate dose-response relationship was
obtained when the mixtures of both drugs were applied. In general, the observed
effects were lower than the expected ones. Combination indices also indicate the 
presence of antagonism, except for the lowest concentrations of mixtures where
verapamil predominates. In this case, combination indices suggest summation of
effects or synergy. Both drugs seem to decrease intraocular pressure by reducing 
aqueous humor secretion through different mechanisms. However, due to the
reduction of aqueous humor outflow caused by verapamil, the ocular hypotensive
effect of timolol may be antagonized when high doses of verapamil are
administered.


PMID: 8857598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1559. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1996 Jul;234(7):411-8.

Visual field progression: comparison of Humphrey Statpac2 and pointwise linear
regression analysis.

McNaught AI(1), Crabb DP, Fitzke FW, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Humphrey Statpac2 "glaucoma change probability analysis' is a widely 
available analysis technique to aid the clinician in the diagnosis of
glaucomatous visual field deterioration. A comparison of this technique with the 
more recently described pointwise linear regression analysis (PROGRESSOR) is
given.
METHODS: Series of visual field data from a group of nine eyes of nine patients
with normal-tension glaucoma were selected. Each series had 16 fields with mean
follow-up of 5.7 years (SD 0.6 years). Statpac2 "glaucoma change probability
analysis' was used to define test locations that had unequivocally deteriorated
in the last three fields of each series. The accuracy of both Statpac2 and
PROGRESSOR in providing early detection of these deteriorated locations was
assessed.
RESULTS: The sensitivity and specificity of the two techniques in predicting
deteriorated locations were similar when a rate of luminance sensitivity loss of 
faster than 1 dB/year (2 dB/year for outer locations beyond 15 deg of
eccentricity) with a slope significance of P < 0.10 was used as the regression
definition of deterioration. The difficulties of comparing two techniques in the 
early diagnosis of field progression without a true external standard for field
loss are illustrated.
CONCLUSIONS: PROGRESSOR closely emulates the performance of Statpac2 in detecting
sensitivity deterioration at individual test locations. This new technique, which
uses all available data in a field series and gives the rate of sensitivity loss 
at each location, may provide a clinically useful method for detecting field
progression in glaucoma.


PMID: 8817283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1560. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1996 Jul;100(7):551-7.

[Application of oculokinetic perimetry in examination of the eye].

[Article in Japanese]

Wakakura M(1), Kageyama M, Hamanaka T, Shimizu K, Joshita H, Shimizu T, Baba H,
Kisara M, Miyata M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Kitasato University,
Kanagawa, Japan.

Oculokinetic perimetry was performed using the same protocol at four health
screening facilities to determine its usefulness for identifying visual field
abnormalities including glaucoma during complete physical screenings in Japan.
Ophthalmoscopy of the optic disc, 26-point oculokinetic perimetry (OKP), and
applanation tonometry were performed in 2,768 eyes. If any one of the tests
yielded an abnormal result, the eye was then examined with a Humphrey visual
field analyzer (HVFA, program 30-2). After the tests were completed, the results 
were evaluated by ophthalmologists for evidence of primary open-angle glaucoma
and normal tension glaucoma and were classified into one of 3 groups: confirmed
glaucoma, suspected glaucoma, and no glaucoma. OKP detected abnormalities in the 
visual field in 96 eyes (3.5%). Of these 96 eyes, 29 eyes had confirmed glaucoma,
52 eyes were suspected of having glaucoma and 15 eyes had no glaucoma. The
remaining 15 eyes had no glaucoma, but in 7 of them other ophthalmological
disease was diagnosed. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value,
and negative predictive value of OKP for detecting glaucomatous visual field
defect were 0.46, 0.99, 0.84 and 0.96, respectively. The high specificity and
negative predictive value show that OKP is unlikely to produce false positive
results, but its low sensitivity suggests that it is not suitable for the early
detection of glaucoma. However, OKP identified advanced glaucoma and other
ophthalmological diseases associated with visual field abnormalities, suggesting 
that it is a useful screening test.


PMID: 8741340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1561. Ophthalmology. 1996 Jul;103(7):1014-24.

Optic disc hemorrhages and progression of glaucoma.

Siegner SW(1), Netland PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, USA.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 1997 Feb;104(2):169.
    Ophthalmology. 1997 Apr;104(4):566-7.

PURPOSE: To assess progressive changes of the optic nerve head and visual fields 
in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension after optic disc hemorrhage.
METHODS: The authors reviewed the charts of 91 patients with 121 disc hemorrhages
who had a mean follow-up of 41.9 +/- 3.6 months. The frequency of visual field
and optic nerve head changes in these patients was studied.
RESULTS: The mean intraocular pressure at the examination when the disc
hemorrhage was noted was 18.9 +/- 0.5 mmHg. Overall, 64 (63%) of 101 eyes showed 
progressive changes of visual fields after disc hemorrhage, compared with 24
(24%) of 101 control eyes (P < 0.0005). Similarly, 56 (79%) of 71 eyes showed
progressive changes of optic nerve head contour by masked evaluation of
stereophotographs, compared with 16 (22%) of 71 control eyes (P < 0.0005). Eyes
with disc hemorrhage showed significantly greater progression of visual field
defects in patients with open-angle glaucoma (P < 0.001), low-tension glaucoma (P
< 0.05), and ocular hypertension (P = 0.0067) compared with control eyes matched 
by age, follow-up time, and diagnosis. Similarly, progressive changes of optic
nerve head contour were observed more often in eyes after disc hemorrhage in
patients with open-angle glaucoma (P < 0.0005), low-tension glaucoma (P < 0.025),
and ocular hypertension (P < 0.005), compared with controls. The mean time
interval to progression after disc hemorrhage was observed was 16.8 +/- 2.0
months for visual field changes and 23.8 +/- 2.9 months for optic nerve head
changes. In eyes with disc hemorrhage, 27 (22%) of 121 had recurrent hemorrhages 
at a mean interval of 21.5 +/- 2.9 months after previous hemorrhage. The most
common site of disc hemorrhage was the inferotemporal quadrant. Eyes with disc
hemorrhage that occurred on the temporal side of the optic nerve head had a
significantly lower intraocular pressure (P < 0.02) and greater progressive
changes of the optic discs (P < 0.001) compared with eyes with hemorrhage on the 
nasal side.
CONCLUSION: The authors' results indicate that disc hemorrhages in eyes with
glaucoma or ocular hypertension often are associated with progressive changes of 
the optic nerve head and visual fields.


PMID: 8684789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1562. J Glaucoma. 1996 Jun;5(3):187-90.

Lack of effect of calcium channel blockers on open-angle glaucoma.

Liu S(1), Araujo SV, Spaeth GL, Katz LJ, Smith M.

Author information: 
(1)William and Anna Goldberg Glaucoma Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Jefferson
Medical College, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107-5599, USA.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of calcium channel
blockers (CCB) on the clinical course of glaucoma.
METHODS: Open-angle glaucoma patients receiving oral CCB for nonophthalmic
diseases were sequentially selected from the private practice of the Glaucoma
Service of Wills Eye Hospital. The course of visual fields and optic discs and
serial intraocular pressures were analyzed in subsequent follow-ups. The findings
in these 83 cases were compared with a control group of patients with the same
ocular diagnosis, but who were not on CCB. A subset of 43 cases of the study
group was compared with an age-matched subset of the control group.
RESULTS: There was no apparent difference in the absolute intraocular pressure,
stability/change of visual fields or optic discs when we compared patients using 
CCB with the control group. Among patients with the diagnosis of "low-tension
glaucoma," we also could not demonstrate any statistically significant difference
between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, neither a beneficial nor a detrimental effect of CCB 
on the course of the patients glaucomatous disease was apparent.


PMID: 8795757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1563. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers. 1996 May;27(5):349-54.

Optic disc topography before and after trabeculectomy in advanced glaucoma.

Raitta C(1), Tomita G, Vesti E, Harju M, Nakao H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To analyze changes in the optic disc topography after
filtration surgery.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Laser scanning tomography was performed in 10 eyes of 9
patients (mean age 65.6 +/- 8.1 years; age range 55 to 75 years) after a mean
follow-up of 3.7 months, and in 8 eyes of 7 patients (mean age 63.1 +/- 7.6
years; age range 55 to 75 years) after a mean follow-up of 13.1 months.
RESULTS: Preoperatively, the mean intraocular pressure (IOP) was 24.4 +/- 6.9 mm 
Hg with maximal medication. Postoperatively at 3.7 months it was 11.0 +/- 2.2 mm 
Hg, and at l2.1 months it was l3.6 +/- 2.8 mm Hg. An initial reduction in IOP of 
more than 30 percent at 3.7 months was achieved without medication in all but 1
eye. After 12.1 months, an IOP reduction of more than 30 percent was achieved in 
6 of 8 eyes (1 with medication), while 2 eyes had IOP reductions of less than 15 
percent (< or = 3 mm Hg) despite medication. In the 6 eyes, the optic disc cup
volume showed a decrease of more than 30 percent, while the 2 eyes without marked
IOP reductions had slight increases in cup volume. Of the 2 eyes without marked
decreases in cup size, 1 had normal-tension glaucoma and 1 experienced an
increase in IOP of more than 25 mm Hg during the first postoperative week.
CONCLUSION: The postoperative IOP should be kept low enough to permit reversal of
optic disc changes.


PMID: 8860600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1564. Br J Radiol. 1996 May;69(821):394-401.

Intracranial arterial calcification and ectasia in visual failure.

Savy LE(1), Moseley IF.

Author information: 
(1)Lysholm Department of Radiology, National Hospital for Neurology and
Neurosurgery, London, UK.

Calcification of the major intracranial arteries is frequently observed on
computed tomography (CT), particularly in the carotid siphon, and has been
implicated as a causative factor in low tension glaucoma. Ectasia of the carotid 
siphon has also been postulated as a possible cause of compressive optic
neuropathy. 153 patients, in whom high resolution CT of the orbits and parasellar
region had been performed for suspected anterior visual pathway pathology, were
retrospectively reviewed. The presence and severity of calcification and ectasia 
of the major intracranial arteries was recorded. There was a high occurrence of
carotid siphon calcification, increasing with age, and independent of sex or
race. Calcification was very rare in anterior cerebral, middle cerebral and
basilar arteries in all age groups. The amount and degree of ectasia also
increased with advancing age, and was more frequently observed in carotid and
basilar than anterior and middle cerebral arteries. There was no correlation
between the degree of calcification or ectasia and ophthalmological or
neurological deficit.

DOI: 10.1259/0007-1285-69-821-394 
PMID: 8705175  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1565. J Glaucoma. 1996 Apr;5(2):127-34.

Impact of intraocular pressure on venous outflow from the globe: a hypothesis
regarding IOP-dependent vascular damage in normal-tension and hypertensive
glaucoma.

Bito LZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032,
USA.

Increasing focus on so-called normal-tension glaucoma has raised questions
concerning the mechanism by which intraocular pressure (IOP) may play a role in
the pathophysiology of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. However, examination of
pressure-relationships suggests that an increase of a few mm Hg in IOP within the
normal-tension range may double the magnitude of one important physiologic
parameter, the magnitude of the intravascular waterfall effect at the exit of the
central retinal vein (CRV) from the globe. This, in turn, increases the
pulsatility or the velocity and turbulence of blood flow, depending on the extent
of the restriction to venous outflow at the passage of the CRV through the lamina
cribrosa. In the absence of such restriction, increased CRV pulsatility,
especially in combination with brief IOP spikes, can be expected to cause foci of
microvascular collapse in the optic nerve head. These foci can be converted to
permanent vascular defects depending on additional risk factors, such as abnormal
blood rheology ro platelet aggregation. Greater than normal laminal restrictions 
can, on the other hand, reduce perfusion pressure and can cause
turbulence-induced endothelial damage and thickening of the CRV wall, ultimately 
further reducing perfusion pressure. These considerations suggest the hypothesis 
that the size and configuration of the venous outflow channel through the lamina 
cribrosa is a primary determinant of the extent of vascular and ultimately
neuronal damage that occurs at a given IOP level in normal-tension and
hypertensive primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 8795745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1566. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1996 Apr;74(2):107-12.

Prevalence of open-angle glaucoma in central Sweden. The Tierp Glaucoma Survey.

Ekström C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Uppsala, Sweden.

A population-based survey of 760 people 65-74 years of age was conducted in the
municipality of Tierp, central Sweden. The methods used to identify glaucoma
suspects were applanation tonometry, automatic perimetry (Competer 350), and
binocular assessment of the optic disc. For a diagnosis of definite open-angle
glaucoma, a visual field defect was required. Open-angle glaucoma was found at a 
prevalence of 5.70% (95% confidence interval: 4.12-7.27), which is higher than
those figures reported for comparable surveys carried out on white populations.
The occurrence of capsular glaucoma may in part explain this finding. Twenty of
the 45 open-angle glaucomas were diagnosed before the survey. In this category,
capsular glaucoma accounted for 60%, whereas 84% of cases detected during the
survey were chronic simple glaucomas. Eight cases (18%) were classified as normal
tension glaucoma, all of whom were diagnosed during the survey. Chronic simple
glaucoma was significantly more prevalent in males than in females.


PMID: 8739672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1567. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1996 Apr;100(4):307-12.

[Temporal modulation transfer function in normal-tension glaucoma patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Nishimura K(1), Iwase A, Tomita G, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

In an attempt to detect patients in an early stage of glaucoma, a new screening
test, the Flicker System, by which temporal modulation transfer function is
evaluated, was performed in 64 normal-tension glaucoma patients and 65 normal
eyes. The early stage of glaucoma, i.e., stage 0-1 of Aulhorn-Greve's
classification, showed a significant decrease of the modulation in the range from
20 to 45 Hz in comparison with normal eyes (p value < 0.05). The moderate stage
of glaucoma of stages 2-3 also revealed significantly decreased values of the
modulation in the range from 14 to 55 Hz. In the range from 25 to 45 Hz, the
reduction of modulation in the glaucoma with diffuse visual defect was more
profound than in glaucoma with localized or mixed defects. The results seem to be
compatible with the presence of diffuse visual function deficit in glaucoma.


PMID: 8644544  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1568. Yan Ke Xue Bao. 1996 Mar;12(1):46-50.

A study of motion perception in primary open angle glaucoma.

Wang J(1), Wu DZ, Fitake FW.

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Sciences,
Guangzhou, China.

PURPOSE: To study the features of the motion perception (MP) and explore the
worth of the clinical application of MP test in primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG).
METHODS: MPs were recorded from 41 patients (67 eyes) with POAG ang 56 normal
subjects (112 eyes) by the MP software in PC compatible computer. Meanwhile, the 
MP ways and MP sites were analyzed and MP abnormal rate was compared to the
clinical parameters and the visual function indices related to glaucoma.
RESULTS: The results showed that the total abnormal rate of MP was 89.5% in POAG,
and the abnormal rate was 81.6% in early stage of POAG, and MP abnormal degree
had positive correlation with C/D, ocular tension and corrected loss variance
(CLV), and negative correlation with visual acuity and mean sensitivity (MS), and
no correlation with age and short-term fluctuation (SF) in the patients with
POAG.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the MP test provides a newly effective
examination method in diagnosing the early POAG.


PMID: 9275737  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1569. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1996 Mar;100(3):223-9.

["Neural capacity" index correlates with neuroretinal rim area of glaucomatous
eyes better than light sensitivity].

[Article in Japanese]

Kono Y(1), Chi Q, Tomita G, Yamamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

We compared the relationship between the neuroretinal rim area and the neural
capacity (NC) index of high-pass resolution perimetry (HRP) and the differential 
light sensitivity (DLS) of a Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA). Subjects were 40 eyes
of 27 normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients. The total rim area and the area of 
its temporal, superior, nasal, and inferior quadrants were determined with a
confocal laser tomographic scanner. Mean local NC (MLNC) was calculated using the
resolution thresholds corresponding to the quadrant. Mean local DLS (MLDLS) was
calculated using the data of program 30-2 of HFA. In a total of 40 eyes, NC and
mean deviation were significantly correlated with the total rim area (rs = 0.422,
p < 0.01: rs = 0.360, p < 0.05, respectively). NC was also significantly
correlated with the total rim area in 19 eyes with early visual field changes,
but not in 21 eyes with advanced changes. MLNC was significantly correlated with 
the superior and inferior rim areas, and MLDLS was significantly correlated with 
the inferior rim area. These results indicate that indices of HRP may relate to
glaucomatous optic disc changes better than those of HFA in NTG, especially in
patients with early visual field defects.


PMID: 8900588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1570. J Am Optom Assoc. 1996 Feb;67(2):109-14.

Hypothyroidism--a possible etiology of open-angle glaucoma.

McDaniel D, Besada E.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have shown an association between hypothyroidism and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). When hypothyroidism occurs, accumulation of
hyaluronic acid within the trabecular meshwork may cause an increase in outflow
resistance and intraocular pressure (IOP). This increase may be reversible with
use of systemic treatment.
METHODS: A hypothyroid patient is described whose IOP inversely varied with the
use or the discontinuation of systemic hypothyroid medications.
RESULTS: The patient's IOP was controlled when she complied with systemic
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: In some cases, hypothyroidism may contribute to the genesis of
open-angle glaucoma. Systemic treatment alone may be adequate to prevent
progression of a glaucomatous diseased state. It may be prudent to investigate
the presence of undiagnosed hypothyroidism in individuals with poorly controlled 
POAG, in individuals with normal-tension glaucoma, and in newly diagnosed cases.


PMID: 9120201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1571. Ophthalmology. 1996 Feb;103(2):283-8.

Prevention of visual field defect progression with brovincamine in eyes with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Sawada A(1), Kitazawa Y, Yamamoto T, Okabe I, Ichien K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: A prospective investigation of the effect of brovincamine fumarate, a
Ca2+-channel blocker, on visual field changes in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: A total of 28, age- and field-matched, patients with NTG were allocated 
randomly to either brovincamine fumarate (20 mg 3 times daily) or placebo (3
times daily). The patients were followed at least every 4 months for a minimum of
2.5 years, and visual field examinations were carried out at least every 6
months. The mean follow-up periods (+/-standard deviation) were 39.1 +/- 8.7
months in the brovincamine-treated group and 37.9 +/- 10.1 months in the placebo 
group. Stepwise discriminant analyses were performed to separate the patients who
showed improvement of their visual fields from those who failed to improve in the
brovincamine-treated group, and to identify factors that may determine the visual
field prognosis of all patients with NTG enrolled in the study.
RESULTS: In the brovincamine-treated group, six patients showed visual field
improvement, whereas none showed improvement in the placebo group using the
Statpac 2 linear regression analysis. Discriminant analyses identified better
cold recovery rate and higher initial systolic blood pressure to be significantly
contributory to a favorable outcome in the brovincamine-treated group, and the
use of brovincamine, better cold recovery rate, and higher initial systolic blood
pressure were identified to be significantly contributory to a favorable
prognosis in all subjects.
CONCLUSION: Brovincamine seems to have a favorable effect on visual field in at
least some patients with NTG.


PMID: 8594515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1572. Arch Ophthalmol. 1996 Feb;114(2):142-6.

Normal respiratory chain function in patients with low-tension glaucoma.

Brierley EJ(1), Griffiths PG, Weber K, Johnson MA, Turnbull DM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Neuroscience, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, England.

OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that low-tension glaucoma has a pathogenesis
similar to Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy and results from a defect in the
mitochondrial respiratory chain.
METHODS: Mitochondrial fractions were prepared from skeletal muscle samples
collected from eight subjects with low-tension glaucoma. Their oxidative
metabolism was compared with that of age- and sex-matched controls. Skeletal
muscle DNA prepared from the subjects with glaucoma was also screened for the
3,460, 11,778, and 14,484 mitochondrial DNA mutations that are associated with
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.
RESULTS: No subject with low-tension glaucoma had a defect in respiratory chain
activity or one of three mitochondrial DNA mutations that are commonly associated
with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.
CONCLUSION: Although these results do not exclude the possibility that
low-tension glaucoma is caused by an organ-specific defect of mitochondrial
function, we have excluded a systemic defect of the mitochondrial respiratory
chain.


PMID: 8573015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1573. Int Ophthalmol. 1996-1997;20(1-3):141-6.

Increase in aqueous humor production following D1 receptors activation by means
of ibopamine.

Virno M(1), Taverniti L, De Gregorio F, Sedran L, Longo F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ocular Physio-Pharmacology, Eye Clinic, University La Sapienza, 
Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Topically administered 2% ibopamine (a dopaminergic agonist) induces 
a transitory ocular hypertension in 92% of patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma and in 52% of patients with normal tension glaucoma. In normal eyes,
ibopamine has no effect on IOP.
PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to verify, by means of
fluorophotometric techniques, which hydrodynamic changes could be induced in
normal and glaucomatous eyes, stimulating the D1 receptor with 2% ibopamine
administered topically. In addiction, we wanted to evaluate if ibopamine could
modify IOP before and after an experimentally induced outflow system impairment
in rabbits.
METHODS: In study 1 we performed a measurement of aqueous humor flow in 6 healthy
volunteers and in 6 glaucomatous patients, before and after 2% ibopamine
administration. In study 2 the alteration of outflow pathways was induced by
means of Laminaria Digitata in 10 rabbits.
RESULTS: After 2% ibopamine administration we found a significant increase in
aqueous humor production, both in glaucomatous (P = 0.035) and normal eyes (P =
0.004). In rabbits, we found no significant change in IOP at basal conditions.
After experimentally induced outflow system impairment by laminaria, we observed 
a marked increase in IOP (+ 13.5 mmHg SD 7.2; P < = 0.001) following ibopamine
administration.
CONCLUSIONS: These experimental data have a diagnostic value in glaucoma, since
they show how an intraocular hypertensive response due to ibopamine in
normotensive eyes is a sign of initial outflow impairment. Moreover, the
possibility to increase the aqueous humor production sets new trends in the
treatment of post surgical ocular hypotony.


PMID: 9112178  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1574. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 1996 Jan;116(1):51-8.

[Glaucoma and risk factors. Comparative study of cardiovascular risk factors in
primary open-angle glaucoma, normal-pressure glaucoma and simple ocular
hypertension].

[Article in French]

Mermoud A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hopital ophtalmique Jules Gonin, Lausanne.

This study compares the cardiovascular disease and risks factors, as well as
ophthalmic findings of 20 primary open angle glaucoma, 23 low tension glaucoma
and 11 ocular hypertensive patients. The low tension glaucoma group presents a
high incidence of cardiovascular disease and risk factors, while the primary open
angle glaucoma and the ocular hypertensive patients, present respectively, an
average and low incidence of cardiovascular disease and risk factors.


PMID: 8871275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1575. Clin Ther. 1996 Jan-Feb;18(1):106-13.

Use of bifemelane hydrochloride in improving and maintaining the visual field of 
patients with glaucoma.

Shigemitsu T(1), Majima Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Fujita Health University School of Medicine,
Toyoake, Japan.

We investigated the change of visual fields in 40 patients with primary or
secondary glaucoma. No limitations were placed on the type of angular glaucoma
(ie, open or closed). The intraocular pressure of the patients had been
controlled at < 20 mm Hg for 2 years before the study, and patients with
normal-tension glaucoma also were included. We evaluated the effect of 48 months 
of treatment with bifemelane hydrochloride, 150 mg/d in three divided doses, on
20 patients with glaucoma. The control group included 20 glaucoma patients whose 
intraocular pressure had been controlled at < 20 mm Hg for 2 years before the
study by the instillation or oral administration of an intraocular hypotensive
agent. They had not received any oral agent, such as a cerebral circulation
metabolism activator. Results showed that the visual field was improved in 14
(70%) of 20 patients who received bifemelane hydrochloride, whereas the visual
field was improved in 4 (20%) of 20 patients in the control group. More patients 
in the bifemelane hydrochloride group had improved visual fields than in the
control group; differences between groups were significant. In addition, an
evaluation of the visual field with the use of the Kosaki and Inoue
classification showed improvement in all patients in stages IIa to V. We conclude
that this drug is useful for maintaining and improving the disturbed visual field
of patients in whom the intraocular pressure can be maintained at < 20 mm Hg and 
in patients who can tolerate 150 mg/d in three separate doses.


PMID: 8851457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1576. Br J Ophthalmol. 1996 Jan;80(1):40-8.

Analysis of visual field progression in glaucoma.

Fitzke FW(1), Hitchings RA, Poinoosawmy D, McNaught AI, Crabb DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Visual Science, Institute of Ophthalmology, London.

BACKGROUND: Despite the widespread use of computerised perimetry the diagnosis of
visual field deterioration in following glaucoma patients over time remains
particularly difficult. A new method of analysis using a novel graphical display 
of longitudinal field data is presented.
METHODS: A linear regression model of the luminance sensitivity at each stimulus 
location against time of follow up transforms the quantitative data from a series
of fields into a colour coded form which illustrates the spatial configuration of
change to aid the interpretation of field loss. The method of analysis and the
developed computer software (PROGRESSOR) is described. Comparison with STATPAC-2 
glaucoma change probability analysis is given including levels of agreement
between the techniques using series of fields of 10 eyes from patients with
normal tension glaucoma.
RESULTS: Examples of this new method compare well with STATPAC-2 analysis. The
level of agreement between the techniques to separate progressing from stable
retinal locations is good (kappa = 0.62; SE = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: This new technique, which combines the change in perimetric
sensitivity over time with colour coding of significant change into one image may
provide an efficient method to detect true progression in glaucomatous field
loss.


PMCID: PMC505382
PMID: 8664231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1577. Arch Ophthalmol. 1996 Jan;114(1):105.

Magnetic resonance imaging in patients with low-tension glaucoma.

Wilson WB.

Comment on
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1995 Feb;113(2):168-72.


PMID: 8540840  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1578. Korean J Ophthalmol. 1995 Dec;9(2):96-100.

Probability of global indices in low tension glaucoma.

Hong C(1), Lee JH, Song KY.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Dr. Hong's Eye Clinic, Seoul, Korea.

To know the pattern of visual field (VF) defect of low tension glaucoma (LTG),
its diffuse and localized VF defects were compared using the significance values 
(p-value) of mean deviation (MD) and corrected pattern standard deviation (CPSD),
which are calculated with STATPAC in Humphrey Visual Field Analyser. Sixteen eyes
of LTG were enrolled and 34 eyes of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) were used 
as controls. The degree of VF defects in LTG and POAG was relatively mild with
the p-value of MD equal to or greater than 1%. Neither mean MD nor mean CPSD of
LTG was significantly different from each of POAG (p > 0.8 and p > 0.2,
respectively). Comparing the p-values of MD and CPSD, many patients showed more
significant p-value of MD in LTG and POAG (62.5% and 61.8%, respectively).
However, relatively more severe defect of CPSD tended to occur more frequently in
LTG than in POAG (25% and 5.9%, respectively, chi 2 = 4.964, p < 0.09). The
relation between p-values of MD and CPSD was not significantly influenced by the 
intraocular pressure, MD or vertical cup to disc ratio in either LTG or POAG.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.1995.9.2.96 
PMID: 8818324  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1579. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1995 Dec;233(12):750-5.

Modelling series of visual fields to detect progression in normal-tension
glaucoma.

McNaught AI(1), Crabb DP, Fitzke FW, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Use of statistical modelling techniques to identify models that both 
describe glaucomatous sensitivity decay and allow predictions of future field
status.
METHOD: Twelve initially normal fellow eyes of untreated patients with confirmed 
normal tension glaucoma were studied. All had in excess of 15 Humphrey fields
(mean follow-up 5.7 years). From this cohort individual field locations were
selected for analysis if they demonstrated unequivocal deterioration at the final
two fields. Forty-seven locations from five eyes satisfied this criterion and
were analysed using curve-fitting software which automatically applies 221
different models to sensitivity (y) against time of follow up (x). Curve-fitting 
was then repeated on the first five fields, followed by projection to the date of
the final field to generate a predicted threshold which was compared to the
actual threshold. Competing models were therefore assessed on their performance
at adequately fitting the data (R2) and their potential to predict future field
status.
RESULTS: Models that provide the best fit to the data were all complex polynomial
expressions (median R2 0.93). Other simple expressions fitted fewer locations and
exhibited lower R2 values. However, accuracy in predicting future deterioration
was superior with these less complex models. In this group a linear expression
demonstrated an adequate fit to the majority of the data and generated the most
accurate predictions of future field status.
CONCLUSIONS: A linear model of the pointwise sensitivity values against time of
follow-up can provide a framework for detecting and forecasting glaucomatous
field progression. Linear modelling allows the clinically important rate of
sensitivity loss to be estimated.


PMID: 8626082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1580. Ophthalmology. 1995 Nov;102(11):1632-8.

Comparative study of brain magnetic resonance imaging findings in patients with
low-tension glaucoma and control subjects.

Ong K(1), Farinelli A, Billson F, Houang M, Stern M.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Sydney Eye Hospital, Australia.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the presence of central nervous system degeneration in
patients with low-tension glaucoma using magnetic resonance imaging.
METHOD: Ten patients with low-tension glaucoma and ten age-matched control
subjects underwent magnetic resonance imaging. Cortical atrophy and cerebral
infarcts were graded from "0" (normal) to "3," which was done subjectively by two
neuroradiologists independently in a masked fashion. Midsagittal corpus callosum 
section was evaluated by measuring the thickness and cross-sectional area.
RESULTS: There was a significantly greater extent of cerebral infarcts in the
patients with low-tension glaucoma (P = 0.02). The thickness of the body (P =
0.03) and genu (P = 0.04) of the corpus callosum were thinner in the patients
with low-tension glaucoma. The corpus callosum cross-sectional area was smaller
in the low-tension glaucoma group (P = 0.04). There were no significant
differences in the other parameters in this study.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests a greater extent of cerebral infarcts and corpus 
callosum atrophy in patients with low-tension glaucoma. This may imply a greater 
degree of neuronal degeneration, possibly on an ischemic basis in low-tension
glaucoma.


PMID: 9098255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1581. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1995 Oct;233(10):610-6.

Comparison of visual field defects between normal-tension and primary open-angle 
glaucoma in the late stage of the disease.

Araie M(1), Hori J, Koseki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.


PMID: 8529903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1582. Arch Ophthalmol. 1995 Oct;113(10):1229.

Magnetic resonance imaging in patients with low-tension glaucoma.

Lee A.

Comment on
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1995 Feb;113(2):168-72.


PMID: 7575246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1583. J Opt Soc Am A Opt Image Sci Vis. 1995 Oct;12(10):2318-28.

Foveal adaptation abnormalities in early glaucoma.

Eisner A(1), Samples JR, Campbell HM, Cioffi GA.

Author information: 
(1)R. S. Dow Neurological Sciences Institute, Good Samaritan Hospital and Medical
Center, Portland, Oregon 97209, USA.

Foveal sensitivities were measured after onset of adapting background fields for 
each of the following four groups of subjects aged 40-70 years: (1) low-tension
glaucoma subjects with minimal field loss in the test eye, (2) primary open-angle
glaucoma subjects with minimal field loss in the test eye, (3) normal control
subjects, and (4) subjects originally enrolled as control subjects but
subsequently found, on the basis of masked clinical evaluation, to be suspect for
glaucoma despite ostensibly normal intraocular pressures. We found that the
desensitization of a short-wavelength-sensitive-cone-mediated response after
onset of a 580-nm background field was diminished from that of normal observers
for low-tension glaucoma subjects but not for primary open-angle glaucoma
subjects. The desensitization was also diminished for a glaucoma-suspect subjects
aged 60-70 years. In contrast, the flicker sensitivity instabilities that
persisted after onset of a long-wavelength background field for the majority of
subjects with primary open-angle glaucoma [J. Glaucoma Suppl. 3, S19 (1994)]
occurred only infrequently among the other subject groups. These results imply
that glaucoma often involves the fovea, probably by affecting retinal subtractive
adaptation processes, although with different consequences for different types of
glaucoma. The results also suggest that undiagnosed low-tension glaucoma may not 
be rare in the general aging population.


PMID: 7500213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1584. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1995 Sep;99(9):987-9.

[Normal-tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma. Are they different
entities?].

[Article in Japanese]

Kitazawa Y.


PMID: 7484508  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1585. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1995 Sep;99(9):1017-21.

[The relationship between visual field defects and clinical factors in
normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamazaki Y(1), Miyamoto S, Hayamizu F, Nakagami T, Koide C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

We investigated the relationship between visual field defects and some clinical
factors in 30 eyes of 30 normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients. The static
central visual field by the Humphrey field analyzer, diurnal variation of
intraocular pressure (diurnal IOP), blood flow velocity of the ophthalmic artery 
by color Doppler imaging, blood flow volume of digital tissue by laser flowmetry,
and systemic blood pressure (BP) were measured after rinsing out the
anti-glaucoma drug for one month. Mean deviation (MD) calculated by the Humphrey 
STATPAC program as an index of visual field defect, was correlated to the
Pourcelot index (RI) of ophthalmic arterial blood flow and magnitude of diurnal
IOP. In multiple regression analysis, the multiple correlation coefficient was
0.79 and the coefficient of determination was 0.62. RI, systolic BP, magnitude of
diurnal IOP, and the refraction and mean of diurnal IOP were used in the multiple
correlation model as factors significantly related to MD. These results suggest
that both IOP and some clinical factors may contribute to the visual field
defects of NTG.


PMID: 7484501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1586. J Glaucoma. 1995 Aug;4(4):281-6.

Test/Retest reproducibility of color Doppler imaging assessment of blood flow
velocity in orbital vessels.

Harris A(1), Williamson TH, Martin B, Shoemaker JA, Sergott RC, Spaeth GL, Katz
JL.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology, and Physiology and Biophysics, Indiana
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, U.S.A., *Tennet Institute
of Ophthalmology, Glasgow, Scotland, daggerWills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, U.S.A., and double dagger;Medical Sciences Program, Indiana
University, Bloomington, Indiana, U.S.A.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the test-retest
reproducibility of measures of blood flow velocities using color Doppler imaging 
(CDI) in orbital arteries.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Measures of peak systolic velocity, end-diastolic velocity,
and resistive index were performed in a group of 15 normal tension glaucoma
patients and in 15 healthy subjects using the Siemens Quantum 2000 CDI system
with a 7.5 MHz linear probe. After each velocity measure in each vessel, the
probe was removed and then replaced to repeat the measurement -2 min later.
RESULTS: For all subjects, the coefficients of reliability for measures of peak
systolic velocity were 12% in the ophthalmic artery, 25% in the central retinal
artery, and 19% in a short posterior ciliary artery. For end diastolic velocity, 
the coefficients were 6%, 11%, and 25%, respectively. The coefficients for
resistive index were 4%, 11%, and 38%.
CONCLUSION: CDI produces highly reproducible measures in the ophthalmic artery.
Measures in the central retinal artery are somewhat more variable but seem
reasonably reproducible. Short posterior ciliary measurements were the most
variable, suggesting that current methods for assessing these vessels may not be 
sufficiently reliable.


PMID: 19920687  [PubMed]


1587. Ophthalmology. 1995 Aug;102(8):1236-41.

Nimodipine, a centrally active calcium antagonist, exerts a beneficial effect on 
contrast sensitivity in patients with normal-tension glaucoma and in control
subjects.

Bose S(1), Piltz JR, Breton ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Scheie Eye Institute, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia 19104, USA.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: The use of calcium antagonists in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) currently is under investigation. The aim of this
study is to evaluate the effect of an acute dose of oral nimodipine, a centrally 
active calcium antagonist, on spatial contrast sensitivity in patients with NTG
and in age-matched control subjects.
METHODS: Spatial contrast sensitivity was measured using the Pelli-Robson and the
Vistech 6000 charts in 14 patients with NTG and in 17 control subjects. Testing
was performed at baseline and at two subsequent sessions. Measurements were
recorded 2 hours after oral administration of either nimodipine or placebo in a
randomized, double-masked manner. Data were analyzed using unpaired, two-tailed
Student's t test for between-group comparisons and repeated measures analysis of 
variance for within-group comparisons.
RESULTS: Using the Pelli-Robson charts, baseline contrast sensitivity was
significantly lower in patients with NTG compared with control subjects (P <
0.05, unpaired Student's t test). There was a significant increase in log
contrast sensitivity after administration of nimodipine compared with baseline
and placebo in patients with NTG (baseline, 1.39 +/- 0.38; placebo, 1.41 +/-
0.40; nimodipine, 1.51 +/- 0.39) and in control subjects (baseline, 1.62 +/-
0.11; placebo, 1.64 +/- 0.10; nimodipine, 1.81 +/- 0.14) (P < 0.05, repeated
measures analysis of variance). A similar trend was observed using the Vistech
charts.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that central visual function as measured by
Pelli-Robson and Vistech contrast sensitivity is impaired in eyes with NTG. An
acute, oral administration of nimodipine, a calcium antagonist, improved contrast
sensitivity in patients with NTG and in control subjects. The mechanism of this
improvement is not fully understood. Further studies are needed to evaluate the
effect of long-term administration in glaucoma.


PMID: 9097753  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1588. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1995 Aug;233(8):484-8.

Endothelin-1 plasma levels in normal-tension glaucoma: abnormal response to
postural changes.

Kaiser HJ(1), Flammer J, Wenk M, Lüscher T.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent vasoconstrictor peptide produced by
vascular endothelial cells. ET-1 may have a role in the pathogenesis of various
vascular diseases. There are reports in the literature that ET-1 plasma levels
are raised in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients.
METHODS: ET-1 concentration, plasma renin activity, and 24-h blood pressure were 
measured in 21 high-tension glaucoma (HTG) patients, 19 NTG patients, and 20
non-glaucomatous controls in supine and upright positions.
RESULTS: ET-1 plasma levels tended to be higher in NTG patients (3.2 +/- 2.2
pg/ml) than in HTG patients (2.2 +/- 0.6 pg/ml) and controls (2.6 +/- 0.7 pg/ml).
The differences, however, were not statistically significant. The individual
scatter was significantly greater in the NTG group, indicating that our NTG
patients are a heterogeneous population. The physiological increase in ET-1
plasma level after changing from the supine to the upright position was absent in
NTG patients. Plasma renin activities tended to be lower in NTG patients (1.2 +/-
1.2 ng/ml/h) than in HTG patients (1.3 +/- 0.8 ng/ml/h) and controls (2.0 +/- 1.7
ng/ml/h). This may explain why NTG patients had relatively low blood pressure
despite high ET-1 levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data support the hypothesis that vascular dysfunction may be
involved in the pathogenesis of optic nerve damage in normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 8537023  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1589. Am J Ophthalmol. 1995 Aug;120(2):168-75.

Retrobulbar arterial hemodynamic effects of betaxolol and timolol in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Harris A(1), Spaeth GL, Sergott RC, Katz LJ, Cantor LB, Martin BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis 46202-5175, USA.

PURPOSE: beta-Adrenergic blocking drugs lower intraocular pressure. The question 
of whether these drugs also alter, either directly or indirectly, orbital
hemodynamics is potentially of great importance for patients with normal-tension 
glaucoma who may have some degree of reversible vasospasm.
METHODS: We compared the effect of selective (betaxolol) and nonselective
(timolol) beta-adrenergic blocking drugs on flow velocities (as determined by
color Doppler imaging) in orbital vessels in 13 patients with normal-tension
glaucoma (mean age, 62 +/- 3 years; mean intraocular pressure, 15 +/- 2 mm Hg). A
one-month drug treatment double-masked crossover design, with a three-week
washout before each drug, was used.
RESULTS: Neither drug changed peak systolic velocity in any of the four vessels
studied (ophthalmic, nasal and temporal posterior ciliary, and central retinal
arteries). Additionally, timolol did not alter end-diastolic velocity or
resistance index (defined as [peak systolic velocity minus end-diastolic
velocity] divided by peak systolic velocity) in any of the vessels measured. In
contrast, betaxolol tended to increase end-diastolic velocity and to decrease
resistance index: the four-vessel average end-diastolic velocity increased 30% (P
= .08), and the four-vessel average resistance index decreased significantly (P =
.04). These reductions in resistance index occurred despite that betaxolol, in
contrast to timolol, did not significantly decrease intraocular pressure.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that, in patients with normal-tension
glaucoma, selective beta-adrenergic blockade (betaxolol) may have ocular
vasorelaxant effects independent of any influence on intraocular pressure,
whereas nonselective blockade (timolol) lowers intraocular pressure without
apparently altering orbital hemodynamics.


PMID: 7639300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1590. Ophthalmologe. 1995 Aug;92(4):521-5.

[Sensitivity and specificity of the Heidelberg retinal tomograph for imaging
nerve fiber bundle defects in glaucoma patients with localized visual field
defects. Clinical study].

[Article in German]

Maier H(1), Serguhn S, Gramer E.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Würzburg.

In order to verify whether nerve fiber bundle defects can be detected by the
confocal technique of the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT), we compared the
localization of localized visual field defects with the localization of the
expected corresponding nerve fiber bundle defect. We examined 105 patients: 49
with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 26 with low-tension glaucoma (LTG) and
10 with ocular hypertension (OH), and as a control-group 20 healthy eyes. The
glaucoma stage had been defined by examination of the central visual field with
the Octopus Perimeter 201 program 31 or 32 and/or the Humphrey Perimeter GG
program. In healthy eyes, eyes with OH and POAG stage I (n = 19), no nerve fiber 
bundle defect could be found. In stage II (n = 15) and stage III (n = 14) we
found nerve fiber bundle defects in all patients with POAG and LTG (except for
one patient with POAG stage III). In stage IV (n = 27) no localized nerve fiber
bundle defects were detected in eyes with POAG, but in 4 of 7 patients with LTG, 
defects could be seen. In glaucoma stages II and III, nerve fiber bundle defects 
can be detected with the HRT. The control group shows, that the appearance of a
nerve fiber bundle defect is no artifact caused by the HRT. However, examination 
of eyes with OH and POAG stage I also shows that this method is not sensitive
enough to be useful for early diagnosis of glaucoma. Nevertheless, it may be
possible to develop the confocal HRT method further as a nerve-fiber diagnostic
method for glaucoma.


PMID: 7549340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1591. Br J Ophthalmol. 1995 Aug;79(8):732-4.

Comparison of flow velocity of ophthalmic artery between primary open angle
glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma.

Yamazaki Y(1), Hayamizu F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

AIMS: This study describes an investigation of the relation between the change of
intraocular circulatory dynamics and visual field defect between primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: The method was to determine the blood flow velocity of the ophthalmic
artery using colour Doppler imaging and quantitative peak systolic flow velocity,
mean envelope velocity, end diastolic velocity, and Pourcelot resistivity index
(RI) were determined. The visual field was examined using program 30-2 of the
Humphrey field analyser: the mean deviation (MD) and corrected pattern standard
deviation (CPSD) were calculated as indices for visual field defects. There were 
25 patients with POAG and 25 patients with NTG.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in all the four indices of the
ophthalmic arterial flow and in both of visual field indices between patients
with POAG and those with NTG. However, NTG patients alone showed a statistically 
significant correlation between RI and MD.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest the vascular resistance of the ophthalmic artery 
may be associated with the development of visual field defect in NTG patients.


PMCID: PMC505234
PMID: 7547783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1592. Ophthalmic Surg. 1995 Jul-Aug;26(4):316-24.

Long-term surgical results of combined trabeculotomy ab externo and cataract
extraction.

Tanihara H(1), Negi A, Akimoto M, Nagata M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Ophthalmology, Tenri Hospital, Japan.

Trabeculotomy ab externo has been demonstrated to be effective in controlling
intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with either primary open-angle
glaucoma or pseudoexfoliation syndrome. We evaluated the surgical outcome of 60
eyes with either primary open-angle glaucoma or pseudoexfoliation syndrome that
underwent combined trabeculotomy ab externo and cataract extraction. All patients
were at least 40 years old, and were followed for at least 1 year. At the final
examination, IOP was well controlled (21 mm Hg or less) in 54 (90%) of the 60
eyes, with or without medication. Also, "overall success" (ie, stabilization of
IOP, visual field, and optic nerve status) was achieved in 49 (81.7%).
Complications included fibrin exudation (22%), transient IOP elevation (17%),
early perforation of the probe into the anterior chamber (10%), and detachment of
Descemet's membrane (5%). We recommend combined trabeculotomy ab externo and
cataract extraction in selected cases of glaucoma with coexisting cataract. For
cases in which the target IOP level is in the low teens, or for patients who may 
not tolerate postoperative fluctuations in IOP, we do not recommend trabeculotomy
ab externo. Also, in eyes that have normal-tension glaucoma, or that have already
sustained severe damage to the optic nerve, visual dysfunction caused by
glaucomatous changes may progress even after successful combined trabeculotomy ab
externo and cataract extraction.


PMID: 8532283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1593. J Glaucoma. 1995 Jun;4(3):158-63.

Trabeculectomy with mitomycin C for normal-tension glaucoma.

Yamamoto T(1), Ichien M, Suemori-Matsushita H, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Gifu, Japan.

PURPOSE: A prospective investigation of the postoperative intraocular pressure
level, visual function changes, and postoperative complications of trabeculectomy
with adjunctive mitomycin C in normal-tension glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-one patients (31 eyes) who underwent trabeculectomy 
with 0.4 mg/ml mitomycin C were studied. The preoperative intraocular pressure of
the eyes ranged from 11 to 18 mm Hg with a mean (+/- SD) of 14.1 +/- 1.9 mm Hg.
Follow-up examinations were performed at least once a month for 14-35 months
(mean: 24.4 months).
RESULTS: Intraocular pressures decreased to between 4 and 14 mm Hg with a mean
(+/- SD) of 8.4 +/- 2.4 mm Hg at the last three follow-up visits. The magnitude
of the intraocular pressure reduction ranged from 1 to 10 mm Hg, with a mean of
5.8 mm Hg. Final measurements of postoperative intraocular pressure ranged
between 5 and 12 mm Hg in 27 eyes (87%). Visual acuity deteriorated two lines or 
more in seven eyes, which was caused by cataract. The visual field deteriorated
postoperatively in two eyes (6%): their respective postoperative intraocular
pressures averaged 9.4 and 7.5 mm Hg. Hypotonous maculopathy developed in three
eyes (10%).
CONCLUSIONS: Trabeculectomy with mitomycin C appears to have potential as a
treatment modality of choice for normal-tension glaucoma, because a large
majority of the patients in the present study achieved an intraocular pressure
allegedly beneficial in managing normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 19920662  [PubMed]


1594. Am J Ophthalmol. 1995 Jun;119(6):685-93.

Color Doppler imaging and spectral analysis of the optic nerve vasculature in
glaucoma.

Rankin SJ(1), Walman BE, Buckley AR, Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1995 Dec;120(6):806.

PURPOSE: We used color Doppler imaging to study blood flow velocity in the
central retinal artery and the short posterior ciliary arteries in patients with 
glaucoma.
METHOD: Fifty-two patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma, 24 patients with
normal-tension glaucoma, and 28 normal subjects were studied. The mean of the
peak systolic velocity, the end diastolic velocity, and the resistive index were 
compared in the three groups.
RESULTS: Compared with the normal subjects, the patients with chronic open-angle 
glaucoma showed a statistically significant (P < .05) decrease in the mean end
diastolic velocity and an increase in the mean resistive index in all vessels
studied. The patients with normal-tension glaucoma showed similar changes,
achieving significance most prominently in the central retinal arteries, compared
with normal subjects (P < .05). There were no statistically significant
differences between the patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma and those with 
normal-tension glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Open-angle glaucoma appears to be associated with a decreased mean
flow velocity and an increased mean resistive index in the ocular vasculature.
These changes are in keeping with possibly compromised circulation in this
region.


PMID: 7785681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1595. Surv Ophthalmol. 1995 May;39 Suppl 1:S49-56.

Association of endothelin-1 with normal tension glaucoma: clinical and
fundamental studies.

Sugiyama T(1), Moriya S, Oku H, Azuma I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, Japan.

Impaired ocular blood flow is suspected to be one of the causes of normal tension
glaucoma (NTG). We investigated whether endothelin (ET), a potent and continuous 
vasoacting peptide which was discovered recently, is associated with NTG. Plasma 
ET-1 levels of 52 patients with NTG but without systemic vascular or circulatory 
disorders were measured by radioimmunoassay, and were found to be significantly
higher than those of 10 normal controls. The patients with NTG in the initial
stage of visual field loss (Kosaki's classification) showed higher plasma ET-1
levels than those in the middle stage. These facts suggest that elevated plasma
levels of ET-1 are correlated with NTG and its stages. We then studied the
effects of ET-1 on rabbit eyes. Intravenous administration of ET-1 (10(-10)
mol/kg) induced reductions in both intraocular pressure (IOP) and blood flow in
the optic nerve head during three hours' observation, although it affected
systemic blood pressure slightly and transiently. Blood flow in the choroid also 
decreased, but recovered at 90 minutes. Intravitreal injection of ET-1 (10(-5) M,
0.1 ml) also caused reductions in IOP (for 14 days) and in blood flow in the
optic nerve head (during three hours' observation). Prolongation of VEP-N1
latency was observed for 14 days. These results indicate that ET-1 may be
associated with NTG, especially with blood flow in the optic nerve head.


PMID: 7660312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1596. Br J Ophthalmol. 1995 May;79(5):402-6.

Surgery for normal tension glaucoma.

Hitchings RA(1), Wu J, Poinoosawmy D, McNaught A.

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1995 May;79(5):399-400.

The long term follow up of surgery in normal tension glaucoma is presented. One
eye of 18 patients with bilateral progressive disease underwent fistulising
surgery. Over follow up periods ranging from 2 to 7 years (50% > or = 5 years)
the operated eye showed on average a 30% reduction in intraocular pressure (IOP).
This was associated with a marked difference in the rate and number of retinal
locations showing a progressive decline in retinal function, suggesting some
protective function for lowering IOP in patients with normal tension glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC505124
PMID: 7612548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1597. Br J Ophthalmol. 1995 May;79(5):399-400.

What would Socrates have made of normal tension glaucoma?

Jay JL.

Comment on
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1995 May;79(5):402-6.


PMCID: PMC505122
PMID: 7612546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1598. Ophthalmologe. 1995 Apr;92(2):206-11.

[Changes in orbital hemodynamics caused by nitroglycerin and nifedipine. A study 
using color duplex ultrasound].

[Article in German]

Göbel W(1), Lieb WE.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Mainz.

Color Doppler imaging has demonstrated orbital hemodynamic changes in diseases
such as central vein occlusion, the ocular ischemic syndrome and diabetic
retinopathy. Reports of pharmacologically induced changes are, however, rare and 
inconsistent. In order to verify the sensitivity of color Doppler imaging to
demonstrate pharmacologically induced changes in orbital hemodynamics,
nitroglycerin and nifedipine served as vasoactive agents with a clear
pharmacological spectrum. Twelve healthy volunteers were examined before and
after drug application. After the administration of 0.8 mg nitroglycerin, the end
diastolic bloodflow velocity was increased in the central retinal artery (before:
Vdiastolic 2.2 +/- 1.0 cm/s, after: Vdiastolic 3.1 +/- 1.1 cm/s) as well as the
ophthalmic artery (before: Vdiastolic 5.8 +/- 1.7 cm/s, after: Vdiastolic 7.4 +/-
1.8 cm/s). The resistance index of orbital blood flow decreased in all three
vessels. After sublingual administration of 10 mg nifedipine, peak systolic blood
flow velocity was slightly higher in the ciliary arteries and in the ophthalmic
artery (before: Vsystolic 34.7 +/- 4.6 cm/s, after: Vsystolic 37.8 +/- 3.6 cm/s).
Blood-flow velocity in the central retinal vein was elevated as well (before:
Vmax 3.81 +/- 0.66 cm/s, after: Vmax 4.66 +/- 0.83 cm/s). Those slightly
divergent results may be due to the different pharmacological spectrum of the two
drugs investigated While nitroglycerin leads to dilatation of venous vessels,
nifedipine acts primarily on small arteries. As nifedipine and other calcium
channel blockers have been tested in patients with low-tension glaucoma, future
color Doppler studies of such a population seem to be promising.


PMID: 7780282  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1599. Eur J Ophthalmol. 1995 Apr-Jun;5(2):88-91.

Systemic blood pressure and capillary blood-cell velocity in glaucoma patients: a
preliminary study.

Orgül S(1), Kaiser HJ, Flammer J, Gasser P.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

Systemic hypotension and vasospasm have both been suggested as risk factors for
glaucomatous damage. Furthermore, a relationship between the incidence of
vasospastic disorders and systemic hypotension has been reported. This
preliminary study investigated the relationship between these two risk factors.
In 20 glaucoma patients suspected to have vascular risk factors, time of
blood-flow standstill was measured under cold provocation in nailfold capillaries
and 24-hour blood pressure was monitored. Nine were high-tension glaucoma
patients but progressing despite medically well-controlled intraocular pressure, 
and 11 had normal-tension glaucoma. Thirteen patients were vasospastic, and seven
were not. Patients without vasospasm had a significantly lower mean systolic
blood pressure during the daytime (113.4 +/- 7.1 mmHg) than vasospastic patients 
(122.6 +/- 12.8 mmHg), p = 0.026. The time of blood-flow standstill in
vasospastic patients, however, correlated with the lowest individual systolic
blood pressure reading (r = -0.56; p = 0.049). These low readings occurred mostly
during the night ("deepers").


PMID: 7549448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1600. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1995 Apr;6(2):71-7.

Vascular concepts in glaucoma.

Geijssen HC(1), Greve EL.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Glaucoma Center, The
Netherlands.

A relationship has been found among vascular risk factors, normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG), and visual field progression. All these factors have been
measured qualitatively. These factors are disc hemorrhages, peripapillary
atrophy, myopic disc, choroidal sclerosis, slow filling of the choroid and veins,
and vasospasms. Now we are in a transition period where more and more
quantitative methods are becoming available: pulsatile ocular blood flow
measurement (POBF), scanning laser angiography of the peripapillary choroid
(SLAPPC), scanning laser angiography of the retinal circulation (SLARC), scanning
laser Doppler flowmetry (SLDF), and color Doppler imaging. With POBF, SLAPPC,
SLARC, and SLDF a deficient blood flow was found in at least 50% of patients with
NTG. With these results a vascular pathogenesis of NTG becomes more and more
evident.


PMID: 10150861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1601. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1995 Apr;6(2):67-70.

Therapeutic rationale for normal-tension glaucoma.

Hitchings RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK.

Three problems exist when assessing the effectiveness of treatment for
normal-tension glaucoma. Firstly, it is a common type of primary open-angle
glaucoma. Secondly, the extent to which it is a pressure-sensitive disease
remains to be seen. Thirdly, it is possible that normal-tension glaucoma is a
collection of different disease entities. This review will look at the
therapeutic options available for treatment and divide them into these which
attempt to moderate IOP, and those which attempt to alter blood flow.


PMID: 10150860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1602. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1995 Apr;6(2):36-45.

Pattern of visual field defects in normal-tension and high-tension glaucoma.

Araie M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

There are probably two major types of causative factors in open-angle glaucoma:
pressure-dependent and pressure-independent. If clinical features such as the
pattern of visual field defects differ between normal-tension and high-tension
glaucoma, the differences may provide an insight for discriminating between the
pressure-dependent and the pressure-independent damage in open-angle glaucoma.
This article gives a brief review of the most recent studies including reports
wherein progression or pattern of visual field defects in normal-tension and
high-tension glaucoma or primary open-angle glaucoma are addressed. Further
deterioration of the visual field in 5 years is expected in about 50% of eyes
with normal-tension glaucoma in which intraocular pressure is one of the
contributing factors. This figure may be greater than that seen in eyes with
primary open-angle glaucoma where intraocular pressure is controlled with surgery
in the middle teens. When eyes with normal-tension glaucoma and high-tension
glaucoma or primary open-angle glaucoma were matched for extent of overall visual
field loss, many studies noted a difference in the pattern of visual field
defects between the two groups. Visual field defects in normal-tension glaucoma
are relatively more localized and closer to fixation, especially in the nasal
superior quadrant and may be more predominant in the lower hemifield. Results of 
other psychophysical tests also appear to support the above findings.


PMID: 10150856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1603. Ger J Ophthalmol. 1995 Mar;4(2):94-6.

Perilimbal aneurysms of conjunctival vessels in glaucoma patients.

Orgül S(1), Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

Aneurysms of the conjunctival vessels occur frequently. Such aneurysms have even 
been described in glaucomatous patients but their significance in this condition 
is not clear. Because they may be of clinical value in some conditions, the
extent of perilimbal aneurysms of the conjunctiva was evaluated in 20
normal-tension-glaucoma patients, 20 primary open-angle-glaucoma patients, and 60
controls. The extent of these aneurysms was graded as follows: none (0), faint
(1-2), moderate (3-5), and copious (> or = 6). The group frequencies of these
categories were 5%, 25%, 10%, and 60% in normal-tension-glaucoma patients; 40%,
40%, 20%, and in primary open-angle-glaucoma patients; and 43%, 32%, 12%, and 13%
in control patients, respectively. The incidence of copious perilimbal aneurysms 
of the conjunctiva was significantly higher in normal-tension-glaucoma patients
than in primary open-angle-glaucoma patients and controls (P < 0.0001). Because
local medication cannot account for the differences in relation to the control
group and because glaucoma patients differed mainly in that
normal-tension-glaucoma patients had vascular risk factors, the reason for our
finding might be related to circulation problems.


PMID: 7795516  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1604. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1995 Mar;206(3):157-60.

[Normal pressure glaucoma: a diagnostic challenge].

[Article in German]

Meier-Gibbons F(1), Stürmer J, Gloor B.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universitätsspital, Zürich, Schweiz.

PURPOSE: Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a frequently discussed optic
neuropathy. The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the final
diagnosis of patients with presumed NTG and to select the best distinguishing
examination methods.
PATIENTS: All patients with presumed NTG hospitalized for diurnal IOP curves from
1987-1992 were studied. We evaluated retrospectively which diagnostic tests
contributed most to the final diagnosis.
RESULTS: In 26 out of 50 patients with presumed NTG the final diagnosis had to be
changed, mainly because the diurnal IOP curve showed a dysregulation; often only 
the early-morning IOP in supine position was elevated.
CONCLUSIONS: We suggest that early-morning IOP spikes are one of the important
pathogenetic factors in patients with glaucomatous changes without other
pathology. Early morning IOP measurement in supine position before rising should 
therefore be a mandatory part of diurnal IOP curves in patients with presumed
NTG.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1035421 
PMID: 7616723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1605. Arch Ophthalmol. 1995 Feb;113(2):168-72.

Magnetic resonance imaging in patients with low-tension glaucoma.

Stroman GA(1), Stewart WC, Golnik KC, Curé JK, Olinger RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston.

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1995 Oct;113(10):1229.
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1996 Jan;114(1):105.

OBJECTIVE: To study diagnoses and anatomic findings found on magnetic resonance
imaging in patients with low-tension glaucoma.
PATIENTS: We included in this study magnetic resonance images of 20 consecutive
patients with low-tension glaucoma. We individually matched each patient with
low-tension glaucoma to a control with normal ocular findings who had magnetic
resonance imaging for reasons unrelated to the visual pathway.
DESIGN: We studied axial and coronal images of the orbit and optic nerve with
digitizing software (Image-Pro Plus, Media Cybernetics, Silver Spring, Md).
Statistical evaluation was with a Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test for anatomic findings
and a McNemar Test for diagnosis.
RESULTS: We found no difference between groups in the optic nerve diameter or
length, the carotid artery area, or the distance from the optic nerve to the
carotid artery (P > .05). Left optic nerve area was greater in the control
patients than patients with low-tension glaucoma (P = .026). The prevalence of
intracranial abnormalities, including meningioma, aneurysm, and arteriovenous
abnormality, was similar between groups (P > .05). However, diffuse cerebral
small-vessel ischemic changes were found more in patients with low-tension
glaucoma (n = 8) than control patients (n = 1) (P = .0196).
CONCLUSIONS: This study proposes a hypothesis that cerebral small-vessel ischemia
is more common in patients with low-tension glaucoma and potentially reflects
indirectly a vascular cause of the optic nerve head damage at least in a subgroup
of patients. Importantly, further research still is required to provide direct
evidence for a vascular cause involved in low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 7864748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1606. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1995 Feb;99(2):195-9.

[Intra-ocular pressure dynamics and visual field index in normal tension
glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshikawa K(1), Inoue T, Inoue Y.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Division of Olympia Medical Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.

A variety of visual field indices were studied with Octopus peridata with the use
of Octopus 201 and its examination program No. 31 in 31 eyes of 31 normal tension
glaucoma (NTG) cases that showed mild to moderate degree of glaucomatous visual
field defects. Twelve eyes of 12 normal volunteers served as the controls. On the
basis of the results of clinical tests for intra-ocular pressure (IOP) dynamics
including C-value, diurnal variation of IOP and IOP rise after the water drinking
test, 31 NTG eyes were divided into 17 positive response eyes and 14 negative
response eyes by the clinical tests. Though significant difference (p < .0001) of
the value in visual field indices was found between NTG eyes and control eyes, no
significant difference was observed between positive and negative response eyes
of NTG. The value of global short-term fluctuation in positive response eyes (2.1
+/- 0.9 dB), however, appeared to be significantly (p < .004) greater than that
in negative response eyes (1.3 +/- 0.4 dB) and control eyes (1.3 +/- 0.4 dB).


PMID: 7701991  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1607. Br J Ophthalmol. 1995 Feb;79(2):125-8.

Motion detection threshold and field progression in normal tension glaucoma.

Baez KA(1), McNaught AI, Dowler JG, Poinoosawmy D, Fitzke FW, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.

Psychophysical tests may demonstrate abnormalities of visual function before the 
appearance of conventional visual field loss in glaucoma. Motion detection
thresholds (MDT) were measured in the normal fellow eye of 51 patients with
confirmed normal tension glaucoma and initially unilateral field loss. Humphrey
visual fields from the initially normal eye covering a mean follow up of 3.4
years were assessed using pointwise linear regression analysis. In 22 of the 51
eyes with normal visual fields at presentation, field deterioration occurred at
one or more Humphrey locations within a mean of 1.7 (SD 1.6) years. An initially 
abnormal MDT test showed a sensitivity of 73% and a specificity of 90% in
predicting field deterioration within the cluster of four Humphrey locations
closest to the original MDT test site. Sensitivity was lower (40%) in predicting 
progression at retinal locations distant from the MDT test site, though
specificity remained high (90%).


PMCID: PMC505041
PMID: 7696230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1608. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1995;39(4):384-9.

Color vision deficit in normal-tension glaucoma eyes.

Yamagami J(1), Koseki N, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Ophthalmology, JR Tokyo General Hospital, Japan.

Color vision deficit in 26 eyes with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is compared
with that in 21 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) using the color
perimetry method developed by Iijima et al. Subjects had visual field defects
confined to either the upper or the lower hemifield as determined by conventional
white-on-white perimetry, and the stage of disease was relatively early with an
average mean deviation (MD) of -7 dB. Except for intraocular pressure, there were
no significant differences between NTG and POAG subjects in age, refraction, MD, 
and mean total deviation for spared and damaged hemifield. In the spared
hemifield, the incidence of blue-yellow abnormality was significantly different
between the two diseases (P = 0.01); in only 11% of the present NTG eyes versus
52% of the POAG eyes in the present study. In the damaged hemifield, however, the
blue-yellow abnormality was found in about 75% of the eyes, whether NTG or POAG. 
This finding may further shed light on the pathogenesis of open angle glaucoma.


PMID: 8926646  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1609. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1995;39(3):274-83.

Visual field damage proximal to fixation in normal- and high-tension glaucoma
eyes.

Koseki N(1), Araie M, Suzuki Y, Yamagami J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

To compare in more detail the central visual field damage in normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG) eyes, a pointwise inner-group
comparison of the data obtained with the Humphrey 10-2 was carried out in 68 NTG 
cases with maximum intraocular pressure (IOP) of < or = 21 mmHg and 62 HTG cases 
with maximum IOP of > or = 25 mmHg. All eyes had the usual field defects, with a 
mean deviation of > or = -15 dB (MD, STATPAC). Age, refraction and MD were
matched between the two groups. Total deviation (TD, STATPAC), the difference
between the measured threshold and the age-corrected normal reference at each
test point of the 10-2 program, was used for pointwise inter-group comparisons.
The data were analyzed with Wilcoxon rank-sum test and logistic discriminant
analysis. The latter method was also applied to the data of the 30-2 program to
confirm the results obtained with the 10-2 program. The comparisons using the
different methods and programs gave consistent results. For a given amount of
overall visual field damage in the two types of glaucoma, a superior arcuate area
extending down to the horizontal meridian just nasal to the fixation point was
significantly more depressed and an area inferior to the horizontal meridian and 
inferior temporal to the fixation point significantly less depressed in NTG eyes.
HTG eyes were significantly more diffusely damaged in the central 10-degree
visual field. NTG and HTG may have unique patterns of central visual field
damage. These differences may implications in following NTG patients and studying
the pathogenesis of this glaucoma.


PMID: 8577079  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1610. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1995;39(2):180-6.

Color-fluorescein relationship in glaucomatous optic nerve damage.

Tanaka Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kobe University School of Medicine, Japan.

With the assistance of a computerized image analysis system, the author obtained 
a quantitative evaluation of the color of the optic disc (%R) and the fluorescein
intensity (%F) in glaucomatous eyes. Patients in various stages of glaucoma were 
studied, including 23 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) (23 eyes),
22 patients with normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) (22 eyes), along with 11 normal
controls (11 eyes). In both the POAG and NTG groups, %R was lower in eyes with
more marked visual field defects. The correlation coefficient between %R and the 
stage of visual field defect was 0.794 (P < 0.001) in the POAG group and 0.652 (P
< 0.001) in the NTG group. Fluorescein intensity also was lower in eyes with more
marked visual field defects in both groups. The correlation coefficient between
%F and the stage of visual field defect was 0.897 (P < 0.001) in the POAG group
and 0.681 (P < 0.001) in the NTG group. In early-stage patients in both glaucoma 
groups, %R was significantly lower than that in the control group (P < 0.05).
However, there was no significant difference in %R between the NTG and POAG
groups. In these patients, %F was also lower than that in the control group (P = 
0.001), and was significantly lower in the NTG group than in the POAG group (P = 
0.01). In addition, the pattern of correlation differed between the two groups.
This difference in the pattern of the optic disk color-fluorescein correlation
suggests that pathological backgrounds in the development of glaucomatous optic
disc damage are also different between POAG and NTG.


PMID: 8538076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1611. Ophthalmology. 1995 Jan;102(1):61-9.

Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in glaucoma. The nocturnal dip.

Graham SL(1), Drance SM, Wijsman K, Douglas GR, Mikelberg FS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

PURPOSE: Hypoperfusion of the optic nerve head may be among the significant
factors relating to glaucoma damage. The physiologic nocturnal blood pressure
"dip" may be exaggerated in some patients and may compromise local vascular
supply.
METHODS: Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure recording was performed on 38
patients with normal-tension glaucoma and on 46 with primary open-angle glaucoma.
Eleven control subjects of similar age also were tested. The means of the
systolic and diastolic blood pressures, mean arterial pressure, and pulse
pressure for 24 hours, taken during the daytime (6 AM-10 PM) and night (10 PM-6
AM) periods were determined. The percentage nocturnal dip for each patient was
calculated. A masked assessment of Humphrey visual fields for progression or
stability was done on those 52 patients who had numerous fields plotted for more 
than 2 years.
RESULTS: The results of the control subjects confirmed that the authors'
technique produces values similar to cardiologic studies from large healthy
populations. The mean results from all the authors' patients with glaucoma were
within the ranges reported for control subjects in the literature. The blood
pressure parameters of the normal-tension glaucoma and primary open-angle
glaucoma groups did not differ significantly. All nocturnal pressure parameters
(except pulse pressure) were lower in the 37 patients with progressive field
defects compared with the 15 patients whose pressure parameters were stable,
whereas the systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure dips were
significantly larger (systolic dip, P = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The nocturnal reduction in blood pressure may be an additional risk
factor in patients with glaucoma.


PMID: 7831043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1612. Ophthalmology. 1995 Jan;102(1):54-60.

Primary open-angle glaucoma, intraocular pressure, and systemic blood pressure in
the general elderly population. The Rotterdam Study.

Dielemans I(1), Vingerling JR, Algra D, Hofman A, Grobbee DE, de Jong PT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Erasmus University Medical School, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 1995 Aug;102(8):1126.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to investigate the association of primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), intraocular pressure (IOP), and systemic blood
pressure.
METHODS: Subjects participating in the Rotterdam Study (n = 4187, 55 years of age
and older) were examined according to standard protocols, including a medical
history interview, IOP measurement, perimetry, funduscopy, and blood pressure
measurement. Primary open-angle glaucoma was defined by the presence of a
glaucomatous visual field defect. Additionally, the distinction was made between 
high-tension glaucoma, defined as POAG with an IOP of more than 21 mmHg, and
normal-tension glaucoma, defined as POAG with an IOP of 21 mmHg or less. The
relation between blood pressure and hypertension with IOP, POAG, high-tension
glaucoma, and normal-tension glaucoma was studied by means of regression
analysis.
RESULTS: A systolic blood pressure or diastolic blood pressure that was 10 mmHg
higher was associated with an IOP that was, on average, 0.23 mmHg (95% confidence
interval [CI], 0.19-0.27) or 0.24 mmHg (95% CI, 0.16-0.32) higher, respectively. 
The presence of hypertension was associated with a higher mean IOP of 0.66 mmHg
(95% CI, 0.39-0.93). A higher systolic blood pressure of 10 mmHg was associated
with an odds ratio of 1.22 (95% CI, 1.03-1.46) for high-tension glaucoma and 0.90
(95% CI, 0.72-1.12) for normal-tension glaucoma. Hypertension was associated with
an odds ratio of 2.33 (95% CI, 0.99-5.47) for high-tension glaucoma and 0.77 (95%
CI, 0.22-2.72) for normal-tension glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: Systemic blood pressure and hypertension are associated with IOP and 
high-tension glaucoma. No association was found between blood pressure or
hypertension and normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 7831042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1613. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1995;18(2):151-3.

[Ocular vasospasm in cold provocation test and primary vascular acrosyndrome].

[Article in French]

Bouvier P(1), Berrod JP, Garniche J, Schmidt C, Raspiller A.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, Hôpital Central, Nancy.

An ocular vasospasm induced by cold has been searched among 8 patients carrying
primary vasospastic disease without any ocular pathology. Ocular vasospasm which 
is characterized by visual field defect was searched with Statpac 24-2 test using
HUMPHREY autoperimeter. A baseline visual field was performed first, then a
second after provocation by dipping the hand in cold water (13 degrees) and a
third after oral administration of 10 mg of Nifedipine. Two patients had ocular
vasospasm that regressed after Nifedipine administration. These two patients
might have a higher risk to develop normal tension glaucoma.


PMID: 7738308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1614. Ger J Ophthalmol. 1995 Jan;4(1):21-4.

Advanced primary open-angle glaucoma is associated with decreased ophthalmic
artery blood-flow velocity.

Michelson G(1), Groh MJ, Groh ME, Gründler A.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.

Recent findings indicate that low-tension glaucoma is associated with impaired
ocular blood flow. In the present study we evaluated the blood-flow in the
ophthalmic artery in regulated open-angle glaucoma. Using pulsed Doppler
sonography (4 MHz), the blood-flow velocity in the ophthalmic artery of 183 eyes 
of 95 persons with open-angle glaucoma was examined (mean age, 66.6 +/- 14.5
years). The patients showed advanced glaucomatous optic-nerve atrophy
(cup-to-disk ratio, 0.74 +/- 0.27) and regulated intraocular pressure (IOP:
range, 8-25 mm Hg; mean, 16.4 +/- 3.9 mm Hg). The blood pressure (BP) was 140 +/-
22 (systolic) and 79 +/- 14 mm Hg (diastolic). The control group (84 eyes of 44
persons: mean age, 69.7 +/- 7.7 years; IOP range, 10-22 mm Hg; mean IOP, 15.2-2.6
mm Hg; BP, 143 +/- 20/81 +/- 9 mmHg was matched for age and circulatory risk
factors. The vascular resistance index (RIO) was calculated by the equation RIO =
(systolic blood velocity-diastolic blood velocity)/systolic blood velocity. We
found that the blood velocity in the ophthalmic artery was significantly
decreased in glaucomatous eyes in contrast to normal eyes: systolic peak
velocity, 36.9 +/- 16.2 cm/s (normal, 40.2 +/- 10.9 cm/s; P < 0.001); diastolic
peak velocity 9.9 +/- 4.4 cm/s (normal, 11.7 +/- 4.0 cm/s, P < 0.0001).(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 7728106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1615. Ophthalmologica. 1995;209(1):11-3.

The influence of magnesium on visual field and peripheral vasospasm in glaucoma.

Gaspar AZ(1), Gasser P, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

Previous studies indicated calcium channel blockers to be of some help for
normal-tension glaucoma patients. The present study evaluates the effect of
magnesium, a 'physiological calcium blocker', in 10 glaucoma patients (6 with
primary open-angle glaucoma, 4 with normal-tension glaucoma). All patients had a 
digital cold-induced vasospasm. Magnesium (121.5 mg) was administered twice a day
for a month. After 4 weeks of treatment, the visual fields tended to improve. All
three video-nailfold-capillaroscopic parameters [blood cell velocity (in mm/s)
before and after cooling, cold-induced blood flow cessation (in seconds) as well 
as the number of capillaries per microscopic field which showed such a blood flow
cessation] as well as digital temperature improved significantly. Systemic blood 
pressure and pulse rate remained stable. In conclusion, magnesium improves the
peripheral circulation and seems to have a beneficial effect on the visual field 
in glaucoma patients with vasospasm.


PMID: 7715920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1616. Eye (Lond). 1995;9 ( Pt 1):29-33.

Measurement of ocular blood flow velocity using colour Doppler imaging in low
tension glaucoma.

Butt Z(1), McKillop G, O'Brien C, Allan P, Aspinall P.

Author information: 
(1)Radiology Department, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, UK.

The purpose of this study was to compare the velocity of blood flow and vascular 
resistance measured by colour Doppler imaging in the ophthalmic and central
retinal arteries in 34 eyes of 34 patients (mean age 68.1 years) with low tension
glaucoma (LTG) and 17 eyes of 17 age-matched normal controls (mean age 65.2
years). The Acuson 128 machine (using a 7.5 MHz probe) was used to measure peak
systolic velocity (PSV), end-diastolic velocity (EDV) and resistive index (RI).
The EDV of the ophthalmic artery (OA) in the LTG was significantly (p = 0.04)
less than in the normal control group. There was a significant (p = 0.02)
increase in the vascular RI of both the OA and central retinal artery in the LTG 
group compared with the normal controls. The OA RI increased with age (r = 0.61, 
p = 0.0001), and the OA EDV decreased with age (r = -0.50, p = 0.003), in the LTG
group but not in the normal control group. The results suggest an increased
resistance to blood flow in the ophthalmic and central retinal arteries of LTG
patients.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1995.4 
PMID: 7713247  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1617. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1995;39(1):60-4.

Influence of myopic refraction on visual field defects in normal tension and
primary open angle glaucoma.

Araie M(1), Arai M, Koseki N, Suzuki Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

It is known that the prevalence of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) or primary open 
angle glaucoma (POAG) is higher in the myopic population and that the prevalence 
of myopia and NTG is higher in Japan than in western countries. To evaluate the
influence of myopic refractive error in the central 10 degrees of the visual
field in NTG eyes, the data obtained from NTG eyes with the Humphrey Visual Field
Analyzer were analyzed in comparison with data from POAG eyes. One hundred and
twenty eyes of 86 NTG patients and 197 eyes of 138 POAG patients whose ages were 
65 years or younger were included in this study. All of them had clear ocular
media, refractive power less than +1.0 diopter and no myopic degeneration in the 
fundus. Multiple linear regression analysis was performed with the dependent
variable of the deviation of the measured threshold value from the normal
reference value (TD; STATPAC 2), and independent variables of myopic refractive
power and the mean deviation (MD; STATPAC 2) as an index of the disease stage at 
each test point of the Humphrey 10-2 program and at the most central 12 test
points of the 30-2 program. Myopic power was found to have a significant positive
correlation with the depression in the lower cecocentral area in both NTG and
POAG eyes, while only in NTG eyes it had a significant negative correlation with 
the depression in the upper arcuate area extending just nasal to the fixation
point.


PMID: 7643485  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1618. Ophthalmologica. 1995;209(3):129-31.

Influence of posture on the visual field in glaucoma patients and controls.

Lietz A(1), Kaiser HJ, Stümpfig D, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic Basel, Switzerland.

The intra-ocular pressure rises when body position is changed from sitting to
supine. This phenomenon occurs to the same extent in healthy people and glaucoma 
patients. The purpose of this preliminary study was to determine the effect of
posture on the visual field. Visual fields of 15 eyes of 12 normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) patients, 16 eyes of 11 high-tension glaucoma (HTG) patients and
30 eyes of 26 healthy controls were measured in the upright and supine positions 
with program G1X on an Octopus swivel-arm perimeter. The delta mean defect (delta
MD), that is MDupright-MDsupine, was calculated for each patient and compared
among study groups. Whereas visual fields improved in healthy controls (delta MD 
= +0.45 dB), glaucoma patients showed a slight deterioration of the visual field 
after changing position from supine to upright (HTG: delta MD = -0.25 dB, NTG:
delta MD = -0.24 dB). The difference between HTG and controls, as well as between
NTG and controls, was statistically significant (p < 0.002, Student's t test).
These findings indicate that in some glaucoma patients the regulatory mechanisms 
for blood supply in the optic nerve head are insufficient.


PMID: 7630618  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1619. Eye (Lond). 1995;9 ( Pt 4):460-6.

Success rate and complications of intraoperative 0.2 mg/ml mitomycin C in
trabeculectomy surgery.

Singh J(1), O'Brien C, Chawla HB.

Author information: 
(1)Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion, Edinburg, UK.

Adjunctive chemotherapy with Mitomycin C (MMC) has been used in an attempt to
modulate the wound healing response in glaucoma filtration surgery. A consecutive
series of 20 eyes from 18 patients undergoing trabeculectomy with MMC
intraoperatively was studied. Sixteen cases were considered high risk regarding
surgical success and 4 patients with low tension glaucoma (LTG) required lower
intraocular pressure (IOP) to prevent further visual field loss. Surgical
technique involved the use of a limbal-based conjunctival flap and MMC 0.2 mg/ml 
applied via a sponge (under the scleral flap) to both scleral and conjunctival
surfaces for 5 minutes. The mean follow-up period was 12.7 months (range 3-24).
There were 17 successful eyes. Of these, 14 are high pressure glaucoma eyes with 
a mean pre-operative IOP of 30.9 +/- 10.9 mmHg and a mean postoperative IOP of
15.3 +/- 5.2 mmHg (p = 0.001). The remainder of the successful cases include 4
patients with LTG with a mean preoperative IOP of 17.8 +/- 0.5 mmHg and a mean
postoperative IOP of 6.8 +/- 0.7 mmHg (p = 0.001). Serious complications included
chronic repeated bleb leaks (n = 2) and scleral necrosis (n = 2). There was one
case of hypotonous maculopathy. These results are comparable with those of other 
studies. Despite a relatively low dose of MMC serious side-effects were
encountered. Management of these complications is described, and how these
effects may be prevented by altering scleral exposure to MMC. In addition a
possible explanation for the serious side-effects of MMC-treated trabeculectomies
is presented.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1995.107 
PMID: 7498567  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1620. Am J Ophthalmol. 1994 Nov 15;118(5):642-9.

Color Doppler analysis of ocular vessel blood velocity in normal-tension
glaucoma.

Harris A(1), Sergott RC, Spaeth GL, Katz JL, Shoemaker JA, Martin BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis 46202.

The pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma remains unknown. Because ocular
vasospasm has been proposed as a possible mechanism, we investigated ocular
vessel flow velocity in normal-tension glaucoma patients at rest and under
treatment with a cerebral vasodilator. Ten normal-tension glaucoma patients and
nine age- and gender-matched controls had flow velocity measured in three vessels
(ophthalmic artery, central retinal artery, and temporal short posterior ciliary 
artery) by using color Doppler imaging, under baseline conditions and during
carbon dioxide supplementation sufficient to increase end-tidal PCO2 by 15%. Peak
systolic and end-diastolic velocities were measured, and the resistance index
(peak systolic velocity minus end-diastolic velocity, divided by peak systolic
velocity) was calculated. Compared with controls, these normal-tension glaucoma
patients had significantly lower end-diastolic velocities (P = .002) and higher
resistance indices (P = .007) in the ophthalmic artery at baseline. When PCO2 was
increased, control subjects remained unchanged, whereas it increased
end-diastolic velocity in patients (P = .003) and abolished the difference in
resistance index between the two groups. Patients and control subjects differed
little in their baseline or carbon dioxide response velocities or in resistance
in the other two vessels. These results indicate that at baseline these
normal-tension glaucoma patients may have increased vascular resistance distal to
the ophthalmic artery, although this increased resistance cannot be specifically 
ascribed to the central retinal arterial or to temporal short posterior ciliary
arterial vascular beds. The responsiveness of these patients to a cerebral
vasodilator (increased PCO2) indicates further that the increased resistance
distal to the ophthalmic artery may be the reversible result of vasospasm.


PMID: 7977577  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1621. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Nov;98(11):1121-5.

[Influence of refraction on the visual field defects in normal tension glaucoma
and primary open angle glaucoma eyes].

[Article in Japanese]

Arai M(1), Araie M, Suzuki Y, Koseki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

The prevalence of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) or primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) is higher in myopic populations and the prevalence of myopia and NTG is
relatively high in the Japanese. To evaluate the influence of myopic refractive
error on the central visual field defect in NTG eyes, the data obtained from NTG 
eyes with the Humphrey Visual Field Analyser were analysed in comparison with
those from POAG eyes. One hundred and twenty NTG eyes and one hundred and
ninety-seven POAG eyes were included. All of them had clear ocular media, but no 
myopic degeneration in the fundus. Multiple linear regression analysis was
performed with a dependent variable of the deviation of the measured threshold
value from normal reference value (total deviation, STATPAC) and independent
variables of refractive error and mean deviation (STATPAC). Myopic power was
found to be positively correlated with the depression in the lower
papillo-macular area in both NTG and POAG eyes, and it was negatively correlated 
with the depression in an upper arcuate area extending just nasal to the fixation
only in NTG eyes.


PMID: 7825507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1622. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Nov;98(11):1115-20.

[Analysis of ophthalmic arterial flow by color Doppler imaging in glaucomatous
eyes].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamazaki Y(1), Hayamizu F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

The blood flow velocity of the ophthalmic artery was analyzed by color Doppler
imaging in normal subjects and patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)
or normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), to investigate the changes in intraocular
circulatory dynamics. Maximum systolic flow velocity (Vmax), minimum diastolic
flow velocity (Vmin), time-averaged flow velocity (Vmean), and resistivity index 
(RI) were determined. The coefficients of variation as indices for the
reproducibility of the measurements in five normal volunteers were 5.0 +/- 4.0%, 
8.8 +/- 5.7%, 7.9 +/- 7.5%, and 2.3 +/- 1.9% (mean +/- SD) for Vmax, Vmin, Vmean 
and RI. Measurements of ophthalmic arterial flow velocity were made in 20
patients with POAG, 20 patients with NTG, and 30 normal subjects matched for mean
age. The POAG patients and NTG patients showed a significant reduction in the
three indices for velocities (p < 0.01) and a significant increase in RI (p <
0.05) compared with normal subjects. There were no significant differences in all
the four indices between POAG and NTG in patients matched for similar visual
field defects and mean age. Our results indicate that the circulatory dynamics of
the ophthalmic artery were different in glaucoma patients than in normal
subjects.


PMID: 7825506  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1623. Radiol Med. 1994 Nov;88(5):588-93.

[Color Doppler echography of the orbit. Its normal aspects and pathological
conditions with vascular involvement].

[Article in Italian]

Giovagnorio F(1), Quaranta L, Fazio V, Galluzzo M, Bozzao B.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale, Università degli Studi di Roma La
Sapienza.

This study was aimed at investigating the role of color-Doppler US in the
assessment of orbital vasculature under normal conditions; the results were then 
applied to the flowmetric analysis of some vascular diseases of the orbit, i.e., 
retinitis pigmentosa, simple chronic glaucoma, low-tension glaucoma and
carotid-cavernous fistulas. The study consisted of two phases: first, a group of 
20 healthy volunteers was examined and then 39 patients were divided into 4
subgroups. The patients (18 men and 21 women, age range: 52-68 years) were
further divided into 4 subgroups: 12 of them had retinitis pigmentosa, 15 simple 
chronic glaucoma, 8 low-tension glaucoma and 4 carotid-cavernous fistulas.
Color-Doppler yielded useful pieces of information on the position of orbital
vessels and flow direction, while pulsed Doppler allowed the measurement of
several variables, i.e., time average velocity, protosystolic velocity, peak
systolic velocity, mesodiastolic velocity, end diastolic velocity, resistive
index and pulsatility index. The study of the 20 healthy volunteers yielded
valuable information on the anatomy and flow patterns of some vessels, such as
the ophthalmic artery, the central retinal artery, the lacrimal artery and the
posterior ciliary arteries, all of them visible in 90-100% of patients; the
central retinal vein, the superior ophthalmic vein and venae varicosae were
demonstrated in about 10-30% of them. In the group of patients, the mean flow
velocities of the examined arteries were significantly lower than those in the
normal volunteers; in the patients with carotid-cavernous fistulas an ectasic
superior ophthalmic vein was demonstrated, with its typical flow
"arterialization" pattern. The results suggest that color-Doppler could play a
mayor role in the study of ocular hemodynamics.


PMID: 7824773  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1624. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Oct;98(10):968-73.

[Visual field defects in normal tension glaucoma and primary open angle glaucoma.
Comparison in the late stage of disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Hori J(1), Aihara M, Suzuki Y, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo, Japan.

To compare the visual field defects in the late stage of disease between
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG),
measurements taken with the 30-2 and 10-2 threshold program of the Humphrey
Visual Field Analyzer were analysed by statistical methods including logistic
discriminant analysis. Thirty-four eyes of 34 NTG cases and 63 eyes of 63 POAG
cases whose mean deviation (MD) given by STATPAC was equal to or less than -15 dB
were included and there was no significant difference in MD, refraction, or age
between the two groups. The analyses demonstrated that the upper arcuate area was
significantly more depressed in POAG and the inferior Bjerrum area was
significantly more depressed in NTG eyes. It was also shown that the lower
papillo-macular area was less affected in NTG than in POAG eyes.


PMID: 7976833  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1625. Ophthalmologe. 1994 Oct;91(5):595-601.

[Perfusion time of the central retinal artery in normal pressure glaucoma.
Initial results].

[Article in German]

Nasemann JE(1), Carl T, Pamer S, Scheider A.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universität München.

A possible explanation for the progressive visual field defects in normal tension
glaucoma is reduced ocular blood flow. We have tried to answer this question
using fluorescence perfusion scintigraphy that measures the circulation times
between the subclavian vein, carotid artery, central retinal artery and central
retinal vein.PATIENTS: Eight normal subjects and eight age- and sex-matched
normal tension glaucoma patients were compared. Inclusion criteria for NTG
patients were an IOP below 23 mmHg, glaucomatous visual field defects,
glaucomatous disk cupping, normal chamber angle and no neurologic deficits. The
subclavian carotid time, the carotid retina time and the mean retinal perfusion
time of the intravenously injected radioactive fluorescein bolus were measured
using digitized scanning laser angiography and technetium scintigraphy.
RESULTS: Subclavian carotid time and mean retinal perfusion time were not
significantly different between groups, whereas the carotid retina time was 1.6 s
(min = 0.8, max = 2.6) in normals and 3.3 (min = 2.6, max = 4.2) in normal
tension glaucoma. This difference was highly significant (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The delay of the carotid retina circulation time in normal tension
glaucoma patients may reflect a reduced blood flow velocity in the internal
carotid artery, the ophthalmic artery and the central retinal artery. The
subclavia carotid time and ultrasound investigation of the carotid artery were
normal. This suggests that the delayed carotid retina time is an indicator of
reduced blood flow velocity in ophthalmic and mainly central retinal artery. The 
good discrimination between normal subjects and NTG patients must be confirmed in
a larger group of patients.


PMID: 7812090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1626. Eur J Ophthalmol. 1994 Oct-Dec;4(4):199-201.

Interocular visual-field and intraocular-pressure asymmetries in
normal-tension-glaucoma.

Orgül S(1), Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

To evaluate the role of intraocular-pressure (IOP) in the pathogenesis of
glaucomatous damage in normal-tension-glaucoma, we investigated whether the eye
with the higher IOP had more severe visual-field damage in 23
normal-tension-glaucoma patients. Twelve patients did have more severe
visual-field defects in the eye with the higher IOP, but 11 had more severe
defects in the eye with the lower IOP. There was no correlation either between
IOP and visual-field damage (r = 0.16; p = NS) or between the interocular
differences in IOP and in visual-field damage (r = 0.21; p = NS). Thus, although 
intraocular pressure may contribute to glaucomatous damage even in
normal-tension-glaucoma patients, other factors must be involved as well.


PMID: 7711471  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1627. Ophthalmology. 1994 Sep;101(9):1589-94; discussion 1595.

Errors in the diagnosis of visual field progression in normal-tension glaucoma.

Schulzer M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 1994 Sep;101(9):1479-80.

BACKGROUND: Despite strictly defined criteria for visual field progression in the
ongoing Normal-tension Glaucoma Study, the authors noted a surprisingly large
number of patients reaching the endpoint. Traditional methods could not be used
to check the diagnostic accuracy of their criteria, because no "gold standard"
was established for distinguishing true change from physiologic long-term
fluctuation.
METHODS: The authors developed a statistical method based on the results of
duplicate tests for progression in their subjects. This method allowed the
authors to assess the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values of their
diagnostic criterion. It also estimated the true incidence of progression and
provided standard errors for the estimates.
RESULTS: The authors found that their original strict criteria for progression,
based on duplicate testing, produced false calls of progression 57% of the time. 
By raising the requirement for deterioration and by repeating the entire sequence
of duplicate testing once more, the authors have successfully reduced the rate of
false calls to 2%.
CONCLUSION: Accuracy in recognizing progression is improved by not accepting
small changes as evidence of progression and by confirming the findings on repeat
testing.


PMID: 8090461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1628. Surv Ophthalmol. 1994 Sep-Oct;39(2):123-32.

The vascular endothelium as a regulator of the ocular circulation: a new concept 
in ophthalmology?

Haefliger IO(1), Meyer P, Flammer J, Lüscher TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Research, University Hospitals, Basel, Switzerland.

The endothelium influences local vascular tone by releasing endothelium-derived
relaxing factors such as nitric oxide, prostacyclin and a putative
hyperpolarizing factor. In isolated ophthalmic arteries and the perfused eye, all
endothelial factors importantly contribute to vascular regulation. In larger
ophthalmic vessels, this is due to their effects on vascular smooth muscle cells;
in smaller vessels, pericytes can be influenced as well. Contracting factors
formed include peptide endothelin-1 and cyclooxygenase products, such as
thromboxane A2 and prostaglandin H2. In the peripheral circulation endothelial
dysfunction occurs under pathological conditions, both in conduit arteries and
the microcirculation. An imbalance of endothelium-derived relaxing and
contracting factors could be important for the development of vascular ophthalmic
complications like hypertension, diabetes, arteriolosclerosis and retinal
ischemia. Endothelial dysfunction may also contribute to vasospastic events in
retinal migraine and some forms of low tension glaucoma associated with Raynaud
phenomenon and migraine.


PMID: 7801220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1629. Ophthalmology. 1994 Aug;101(8):1440-4.

Factors contributing to the progression of visual field damage in eyes with
normal-tension glaucoma.

Araie M(1), Sekine M, Suzuki Y, Koseki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the contribution of various factors on the progression of
visual field damage in normal-tension glaucoma.
METHODS: Follow-up data of 56 eyes of 56 patients with normal-tension glaucoma,
all of whom had an early stage of the disease with a mean deviation of -5
decibels or greater and were followed without therapy, were analyzed using
regression analysis of survival data based on the Cox proportional hazards model.
Factors studied were age, sex, presence or absence of diabetes or family history 
of glaucoma, refraction, systolic and diastolic pressures, cup:disc ratio, ratio 
of area of parapapillary atrophy to disc area, the mean deviations of the studied
and contralateral eyes, and intraocular pressure and occurrence of disc bleeding 
during follow-up, both of which were treated as time-dependent variables. The
progression of visual field damage was based on the glaucoma change probability
analysis.
RESULTS: Cup:disc ratio, ratio of area of parapapillary atrophy to disc area, and
intraocular pressure were found to have significant influence on the progression 
of visual field damage in normal-tension glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: Intraocular pressure may be involved in the development of
normal-tension glaucoma. However, further prospective studies are needed to
determine the validity of such a conclusion.


PMID: 8058289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1630. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Aug;98(8):782-6.

[Seasonal variation in intraocular pressure].

[Article in Japanese]

Henmi T(1), Yamabayashi S, Furuta M, Hosoda M, Fujimori C, Tamura M, Kashiwagi F,
Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yamanashi Medical College, Japan.

Generally speaking, physicians have the impression that intraocular pressure
(IOP) in winter is higher than in summer, but it is very difficult to evaluate
the difference between summer and winter IOP statistically, because the
treatments of glaucoma patients are changed according to their conditions. We
compared the winter and summer IOP of normal subjects and of several glaucoma
patients who had no therapy or no change in therapy. The subjects were divided
into four groups, i.e., 20 eyes of the normal group, 17 eyes of the ocular
hypertensive group, 24 eyes of the primary open angle glaucoma group, and 52 eyes
of the low tension glaucoma group. The difference in mean IOP between summer and 
winter were evaluated for each subject. In all groups, the mean difference in
mean winter IOP was significantly higher. The ups and downs of IOP were greater
in the ocular hypertensive group and the primary open angle glaucoma group than
in the normal group and the low tension glaucoma group. These results suggest
that the seasonal variation of IOP should be taken in consideration when treating
glaucoma patients.


PMID: 7942341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1631. J Glaucoma. 1994 Summer;3 Suppl 1:S91.

Color Doppler imaging in glaucoma patients with asymmetric optic cups.

Costa VP(1), Sergott RC, Smith M, Spaeth GL, Wilson RP, Moster MR, Katz LJ,
Schmidt CM.

Author information: 
(1)Wills Eye Hospital, Glaucoma and Neuro-Ophthalmology Services, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

To evaluate the color Doppler imaging (CDI) parameters of the retrobulbar
circulation, we performed color Doppler imaging in both eyes of 29 glaucomatous
patients with asymmetric cups [asymmetry >0.3 cup/disc ratio (C/D)] and
asymmetric visual field loss. We used the QAD-1 Color Doppler unit (Quantum
Medical Systems Inc.) with a 7.5-MHz linear-phased transducer to calculate the
pulsatility index, and the peak systolic, end diastolic, and average blood-flow
velocities in the ophthalmic, central retinal, nasal, and temporal short
posterior ciliary arteries of each eye. In a second analysis, we compared the
results of a randomly selected eye of age- and sex-matched controls. Paired t
tests did not show any significant difference between the blood-flow velocities
of the more damaged and less damaged eyes when the entire 29-patient group was
considered together. The power was adequate to detect a 1.0 cm/s difference in
most of the analyzed vessels. Thirteen of the 29 patients had primary open-angle 
glaucoma (POAG), and the remaining eyes had pseudoexfoliation and low tension,
pigmentary, and chronic angle-closure glaucoma. When compared to age- and
sex-matched controls, the less damaged eyes of patients with POAG displayed
reduced systolic, diastolic, and mean velocities (p < 0.05) in the ophthalmic
artery. In comparison, the more damaged eyes revealed statistically reduced
velocities in the ophthalmic artery, temporal short posterior ciliary artery, and
in all the parameters for the mean values of the short posterior ciliary arteries
(p < 0.05). More advanced optic nerve damage in patients with POAG correlated
with more severe reductions of CDI parameters of the retrobulbar circulation of
patients with asymmetric disease. Further clinical color Doppler correlations are
now mandatory to determine whether these vascular changes are pathogenetically
important or epiphenomena.


PMID: 19920594  [PubMed]


1632. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Jul;98(7):658-63.

[Sectorization of the central 10 degrees visual field in open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Koseki N(1), Araie M, Suzuki Y.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital, Japan.

In an attempt to determine an optimal sector pattern of the central 10 degrees
visual field in glaucoma, we applied the VARCLUS procedure, a new clustering
algorithm provided by SAS Institute, to 379 glaucoma visual fields of the central
10-2 program of the Humphrey visual field analyzer. The subjects were 211
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and 168 primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) eyes
with early to moderately advanced stages of visual field defects. The 68 2-degree
grid test points in the central 10 degrees visual field were divided into 10
sectors. The sector pattern was compatible with the projection of nerve fiber
layers and no sectors extended over the horizontal meridian. Comparison of the
mean of total deviation in the sector of 76 eyes of 76 POAG patients with the
maximum intraocular pressure: (IOP) > or = 25 mmHg (high-tension group) and 85
eyes of 85 NTG patients with the maximum IOP < or = 18 mmHg (low-tension group)
revealed that four sectors nasal superior to the fixation were significantly more
damaged in the low-tension group. We suggest that the sector pattern obtained
here is useful in studying the visual field of glaucoma and that the damaging
processes in the optic nervehead are not the same in the high-tension and
low-tension groups.


PMID: 8067299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1633. Ophthalmology. 1994 Jul;101(7):1160-1.

Visual fields in normal- and high-tension glaucoma.

Rockwood EJ.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 1993 Dec;100(12):1808-14.


PMID: 8035975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1634. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Jun;98(6):579-83.

[Trabeculectomy for normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto T(1), Ichien M, Suemori-Matsushita H, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

We prospectively investigated the postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) level,
visual prognosis, and complications of trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C
in normal-tension glaucoma. The subjects were 42 eyes of 29 patients who
underwent surgery with 0.2 mg mitomycin C as an adjunct and were followed for
12-30 months (mean: 20.6 months). The preoperative IOP was 11-18 mmHg with a mean
(+/- standard deviation) of 13.9 +/- 1.5 mmHg. The IOP decreased to 4-16 mmHg
with a mean (+/- standard deviation) of 7.9 +/- 2.6 mmHg. The magnitude of the
IOP reduction ranged from -1 to 10 mmHg with a mean of 6.0 mmHg. The number of
eyes receiving ocular hypotensive medication decreased remarkably from 32 eyes
preoperatively to 2 eyes postoperatively. The visual field deteriorated
postoperatively in 2 eyes (4.8%) whose IOP was around 8 and 9 mmHg, respectively.
Cataract progressed in 8 eyes (19.0%) and hypotonous maculopathy developed in 5
eyes (11.9%). Because the postoperative IOP level is close to the IOP value that 
is allegedly beneficial in preserving visual function in normal-tension glaucoma,
the surgery is worth further consideration as a potent treatment for the disease.


PMID: 8030573  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1635. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1994 Jun;72(3):398.

Evaluation of non-invasive carotid studies in patients with low-tension glaucoma.

Stewart WC, Sorrow NA.


PMID: 7976279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1636. Am J Ophthalmol. 1994 May 15;117(5):603-24.

Nocturnal arterial hypotension and its role in optic nerve head and ocular
ischemic disorders.

Hayreh SS(1), Zimmerman MB, Podhajsky P, Alward WL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Division of Biostatistics, College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City.

We measured 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and diurnal curve of the
intraocular pressure in 166 white patients with anterior ischemic optic
neuropathy, normal-tension glaucoma, primary open-angle glaucoma, and other optic
nerve head disorders. Hourly average blood pressure data analyses showed a
significant (P < .0001) decrease in mean systolic (26%) and diastolic (33%) blood
pressure measurements at night. A significantly (P = .0028) lower nighttime mean 
diastolic blood pressure and a significantly (P = .0044) greater mean percentage 
decrease in diastolic blood pressure were noted in normal-tension glaucoma than
in anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. Patients with arterial hypertension taking
oral hypotensive therapy showed a significant association between progressive
visual field deterioration and nocturnal hypotension, particularly in anterior
ischemic optic neuropathy. Intraocular pressure showed no significant correlation
with visual field deterioration in any of these conditions. Our findings suggest 
that nocturnal hypotension, in the presence of other vascular risk factors, may
reduce the optic nerve head blood flow below a critical level, and thereby may
play a role in the pathogenesis of anterior ischemic optic neuropathy and
glaucomatous optic neuropathy; that is, nocturnal hypotension may be the final
insult in a multifactorial situation. The same mechanisms may be true of a number
of other ocular ischemic disorders. This finding opens a new dimension in the
understanding and management of these visually disabling diseases.


PMID: 8172267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1637. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1994 May;232(5):290-6.

Interocular asymmetry of optic disc size and its relevance to visual field loss
in normal-tension glaucoma.

Tomita G(1), Nyman K, Raitta C, Kawamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Helsinki, Central Hospital,
Finland.

We evaluated the relevance of interocular asymmetry of optic disc size to the
level of intraocular pressure and the extent of optic disc and visual field
changes in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Fifty-two eyes of 26 patients with NTG 
were measured for optic disc topography using a computerized image analysis
system (IMAGEnet, Topcon), diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP), and Octopus
automated visual field. Of the 26 patients, 22 had interocular asymmetry of the
optic disc area of at least 0.01 mm2 and of mean IOP of at least 0.3 mmHg. Of
these 22 patients, 8 had the higher mean IOP in the eye with the larger optic
disc. In these 8 patients, the visual field defect was significantly more
advanced in the eye with the larger optic disc (Wilcoxon signed ranks test, P <
0.05). These findings appear to support the hypothesis that an eye with a large
optic disc may be more vulnerable to a rise in IOP.


PMID: 8045438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1638. Surv Ophthalmol. 1994 May;38 Suppl:S183-90.

Studies of the ocular pulse in primates.

Mittag TW(1), Serle J, Schumer R, Brodie S, Stegman D, Schmidt KG, Taniguchi T,
Rho SH, Podos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New
York.

Ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) and intraocular pressure (IOP) were measured in
groups of human subjects with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), ocular
hypertension (OHT), low-tension glaucoma (LTG), retinal degenerations (RD), in
OHT volunteers treated with single doses of 2% epinephrine, 4% pilocarpine, 0.5% 
timolol or 1% p-amino-clonidine, and in normal subjects before and after
exercise. Compared to normal controls, OHT subjects showed significantly higher
IOP and OPA, while OPA was significantly lower in ocular normotensive LTG and RD 
subjects groups. All drug treatments lowered IOP in OHT subjects, but did not
change OPA significantly. Exercise in normal volunteers increased calculated
ocular perfusion pressure by 22.5%, lowered IOP by 32%, but showed no significant
change in OPA. When IOP was elevated > or = 5 mmHg in lasered monkey eyes peak
pulse volume (PPV) was increased significantly in the unlasered eyes. Epinephrine
2% or 1% p-aminoclonidine lowered IOP moderately with no change in PPV, while
treatment with 4% pilocarpine or 0.5% timolol reduced IOP and increased PPV
significantly. The findings suggest that LTG may be associated with an ocular
vascular abnormality. OPA in OHT or normal human subjects did not change when IOP
was decreased by antiglaucoma drug treatments or exercise, respectively. These
results indicate that OPA may be physiologically autoregulated in human subjects 
with IOPs in the 11-21 mmHg range. However, laser-induced glaucomatous monkey
eyes with higher IOP (30-35 mmHg) did not autoregulate, but showed a low peak
pulse volume, which increased when IOP was reduced 5 mmHg or more by means of
antiglaucoma drug treatment.


PMID: 7940142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1639. Surv Ophthalmol. 1994 May;38 Suppl:S177-81; discussion S182.

The effect of increased intraocular pressure on pulsatile ocular blood flow in
low tension glaucoma.

Quaranta L(1), Manni G, Donato F, Bucci MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Brescia, Italy.

In the present study the relationship between intraocular pressure (IOP) and
pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) in low tension glaucoma (LTG) has been
investigated. The POBF was measured using the Ocular Blood Flow system of Langham
in undisturbed eyes and repeated at IOP increments of about 5 and 10 mmHg in 20
patients affected with bilateral LTG and in 25 healthy subjects matched for age, 
IOP, refractive error, arterial blood pressure and heart rate. The POBFs were
740.1 (SD 58.83) and 667 (SD 108) microliters/minute (microliter/min) in the
control and LTG groups, respectively and statistically significantly different.
The POBFs at an IOP increased by 5 mmHg were 658.1 (SD 60.2) and 457.3 (SD 74.8) 
microliter/min in the control and LTG groups, respectively; in the control group 
the mean POBF at an IOP increment of 10 mmHg was 552.1 microliters/min (SD 66.9),
and in the LTG group was 317.7 microliters/min (SD 85.2). Statistical analysis of
the data showed a significant difference of POBFs in the two groups either at an 
IOP increment of 5 or 10 mmHg (p < 0.0001). The substantial decrease of POBF with
increased IOP in LTG eyes compared with normals shows an altered response of the 
vascular system in LTG. These findings are probably consistent with a lack of the
myogenic autoregulation in reply to IOP-induced modifications of the perfusion
pressure.


PMID: 7940140  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1640. Surv Ophthalmol. 1994 May;38 Suppl:S173-6.

Visual and blood flow responses in low-tension glaucoma.

Ravalico G(1), Pastori G, Toffoli G, Crocé M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Trieste, Italy.

Low or normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a rare clinical condition characterized
by a glaucomatous cupping of the optic disk associated with the appearance of
typical visual field defects, without ocular hypertension. According to several
authors, NTG accounts for 5-15% of primary open angle glaucomas (POAG). In our
open study we obtained a complete documentation of clinical and instrumental
data-tonometric curve, computerized perimetry, pattern electroretinogram,
pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) and retinography--on 10 consecutive patients
(18 eyes) affected by NTG. We found that the NTG patients were similar to the
controls as regards arterial systemic pressure and heart rate, but that POBF
values were lower in the NTG patients.


PMID: 7940139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1641. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Apr;98(4):369-73.

[Study on risk factors for progression of visual field damage in normal-tension
glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sekine M(1), Araie M, Suzuki Y, Koseki N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo school of Medicine, Japan.

We investigated the risk factors for progression of visual field damage in
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), using multiple regression analysis with the
proportional hazard model and the life-table method. Seventy-six eyes of 56
patients with untreated NTG showing minor visual-field defects, with a mean
deviation (MD) of > - 5 dB by the Humphrey (30-2) STATPAC program at entry, were 
included in the study. Endpoints of study follow-up were defined as follows: in
HFA STATPAC 2 Glaucoma Change Probability Analysis, more than 5 points which
significantly deteriorated at p < 0.05 were found at 2 consequent examinations
(Criterion 1) or a significant decrease in the MD value at p < 0.025 was
encountered at one examination or that at p < 0.05 at 2 consecutive examinations 
(Criterion 2). During the follow-up period (37 months, mean), 33 eyes (42%)
satisfied Criterion 1 and 23 eyes (29%) Criterion 2. When Criterion 1 was
employed, peripapillary chorio-retinal atrophy/disc ratio (p = 0.023),
intraocular pressure (IOP) (p = 0.03) and cup/disc ratio (p = 0.035) were
identified as significant risk factors for progression of visual-field damage.
When Criterion 2 was employed, Contribution of cup/disc ratio (p = 0.065) and IOP
(p = 0.145) was relatively high, but not significant. These results suggested an 
association of IOP and local vascular risk factors with progression of
visual-field damage in NTG.


PMID: 8165969  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1642. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1994 Apr;232(4):199-204.

Fluorescein gonioangiography in diabetic neovascularisation.

Ohnishi Y(1), Ishibashi T, Sagawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, 
Japan.

Fluorescein angiography of the angle with the Goldmann gonioscopy lens was used
to examine eyes of 100 Japanese patients with diabetes mellitus. Ocular tension
was 21 mmHg or over in 31 of these 100 patients. Gonioscopy revealed angle
neovascularisation in the eyes of 30 patients; however, fluorescein
gonioangiography showed evidence of angle neovascularisation in 56 of the 100
patients. Angle neovascularsation was first seen 20.3 +/- 4.1 s after injection
of fluorescein dye. Of the newly formed vessels, the branching small vessels
showed more prominent leakage than the larger vessels at the root. With
progression of the retinopathy, angle neovascularisation became more severe.
Following panretinal photocoagulation in 26 of the patients with neovascular
glaucoma, angle neovascularisation remarkably regressed in 12 and moderately
regressed in 7 patients. Ocular tension became normal in 13 patients. Two of 31
patients with ocular hypertension were considered as cases of primary open-angle 
glaucoma as there was glaucomatous cupping, visual field defects and no evidence 
of newly formed vessels in the angle, as observed using fluorescein
gonioangiography. Thus, fluorescein gonioangiography may be helpful in the
diagnosis and clinical management of neovascular glaucoma.


PMID: 7518405  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1643. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1994 Apr;5(2):64-8.

The diagnosis of normal-tension glaucoma.

Stürmer J(1), Meier-Gibbons F.

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital, Zurich, Switzerland.

The diagnosis of normal-tension glaucoma includes optic nerve head and retinal
nerve-fiber layer assessment, standard static computerized visual field testing, 
gonioscopy, and a diurnal (24-hour) intraocular pressure curve. In addition to a 
careful history to exclude previous phases of increased intraocular pressure, an 
internal medicine checkup including 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure
measurements and neurological assessment are required. Additionally, carotid
artery Doppler sonography, nailfold capillary microscopy, and a computed
tomography scan of the brain may be performed.


PMID: 10146738  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1644. Arch Ophthalmol. 1994 Mar;112(3):349-53.

Correlation of asymmetry of visual field loss with optic disc topography in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Nyman K(1), Tomita G, Raitta C, Kawamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the differences in optic disc configuration with different 
stages of visual field loss in normal-tension glaucoma.
DESIGN: Interocular pairwise comparisons.
SETTING: Glaucoma clinic of a teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: Thirteen patients with normal-tension glaucoma and asymmetric visual
field loss of at least 2.5 dB in the mean defect of the visual field indexes.
INTERVENTIONS: Areas under the optic disc profiles mapped from values for radial 
sections of the optic disc measured at intervals of 30 degrees and expressed as
percentages of the area of a rectangle were obtained from stereophotographs with 
a computerized image analysis system. Visual fields were tested with automated
perimetry (OCTOPUS), using program G1.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Correlation analyses between the interocular differences in
the areas under the optic disc profile and the interocular differences in the
visual field indexes.
RESULTS: The correlation coefficients between the interocular differences in mean
defect and those of the area under the optic disc profile in the superior to
temporal sections ranged from -.71 to -.61 (.007 < P < .028). The interocular
differences in loss variance correlated with the differences in the area under
the optic disc profile in the superior section (r = -.61, P = .0252).
CONCLUSION: The differences in visual field loss between the two eyes in
normal-tension glaucoma appear mainly to reflect morphometric changes in the
superior half of the optic disc.


PMID: 8129660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1645. R I Med. 1994 Feb;77(2):45-6.

Minor blood loss as a cause for normal tension "glaucomatous" optic neuropathy.

DeBlasio PF Jr(1), Brasch PC.

Author information: 
(1)Brown University School of Medicine, Providence, RI.


PMID: 8161859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1646. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1994 Feb;72(1):98-102.

Goniodysgenesis in familial primary open-angle glaucoma.

Verbraak FD(1), vd Berg W, Delleman JW, Greve EL.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmogenetic Department, The Netherlands Ophthalmic Research Institute,
Amsterdam.

Results of a pilot study to evaluate goniodysgenesis as a cause of familial
open-angle glaucoma are reported. Patients with a familial high tension
open-angle glaucoma and a goniodysgenetic chamber angle (n = 11), a number of
their relatives with glaucoma (n = 12), and their relatives without glaucoma (n =
26) were compared to a group of normals (n = 120). Eight characteristics of
goniodysgenesis were scored and summed into a total goniodysgenesis-score for
each chamber angle examined, a higher score corresponding to a more dysgenetic
chamber angle. The distribution of the goniodysgenesis-score was compared between
the four groups studied. A highly significant difference (p < 0.001) was found
between the probands and the normal population, but there was no difference in
distribution between the relatives with glaucoma and the relatives without
glaucoma. It is concluded that goniodysgenesis cannot explain the occurrence of
glaucoma in the families investigated in this study. A significant difference was
also found between the normal population and all the relatives combined, with
higher scores in the group of relatives. An explanation could be that
goniodysgenesis is inherited within the families studied, possibly in an
autosomal dominant way, but independent of the occurrence of glaucoma.


PMID: 8017205  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1647. Am J Ophthalmol. 1994 Jan 15;117(1):72-80.

Peripapillary vasoconstriction in the glaucomas and the anterior ischemic optic
neuropathies.

Rader J(1), Feuer WJ, Anderson DR.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami School of Medicine, Florida.

Proximal constriction (retinal arteries narrower near the disk than further down 
the stream in the retina) was present in 96 of 226 eyes (42%) with classic
glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma, but it was present in only 11 of 206 eyes
(5%) that were normal, had ocular hypertension, or had retinal disease not
affecting the optic nerve. In cases of glaucoma with proximal constriction over
only part of the disk circumference, its location corresponded to the sector with
the greatest cupping in 60 of 66 cases (91%) and likewise corresponded to the
sector in which the peripapillary zone of absent retinal pigment epithelium was
widest in 48 of 55 cases (87%). Proximal constriction was also present in 16 of
45 eyes (36%) with nonischemic types of non-glaucomatous optic atrophy. The
nonarteritic form of anterior ischemic optic neuropathy had proximal constriction
in 19 of 28 eyes (68%), which was more frequent than in those with glaucoma (P = 
.017). Only one of nine eyes with the arteritic form of anterior ischemic optic
neuropathy had proximal constriction, which was lower prevalence than in those
with glaucoma (P = .066). General arterial narrowing (throughout the retinal
course) was present in 111 of 204 (54%) of those with moderate optic nerve damage
and 100 of 128 (78%) of those with severe optic nerve damage in all categories,
compared with 29 of 208 (14%) of the controls with no optic nerve damage. Unlike 
proximal constriction, the generalized narrowing was related to severity of optic
nerve damage and not to the disease category.


PMID: 8291596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1648. J Glaucoma. 1994 Winter;3(4):292-5.

Headache in normal-tension glaucoma patients.

Orgül S(1), Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

Headache with or without features of migraine has been reported to be a risk
factor for normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). However, it is not known whether the
linkage between headache and the glaucomatous disease is independent of
intraocular pressure (IOP). The purpose of this study was to compare the IOP of a
group of NTG patients with headache and the IOP of a group of NTG patients
without headache. The mean IOP was compared for 14 persons with and nine persons 
without headache in a group of 23 NTG patients. An analogous comparison was done 
between 13 persons with and 10 persons without headache in a group of 23
nonglaucomatous controls. Glaucoma patients and nonglaucomatous controls were
uniform with regard to sex, age, and mean IOP. In NTG patients, however, those
with headache had a significantly lower mean IOP than did those without headache 
(p = 0.0004) despite a comparable glaucomatous visual-field damage. Such a
difference did not occur in nonglaucomatous patients. Headache seems to define a 
particular population among NTG patients.


PMID: 19920612  [PubMed]


1649. Ophthalmologica. 1994;208(3):142-4.

Comparison of the severity of normal-tension glaucoma in men and women.

Orgül S(1), Gaspar AZ, Hendrickson P, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

To determine whether damage in normal-tension glaucoma is more pronounced in men 
or in women, we analyzed visual-field damage, intraocular pressure, age,
frequency of acral vasospastic reaction on local cooling, and frequency of
headache in 28 consecutive patients with newly diagnosed normal-tension glaucoma.
The difference between genders with regard to mean visual-field defect was
significant (9.4 +/- 1.3 dB in men and 6.7 +/- 1.0 dB in women; p = 0.034). This 
difference could not be explained by other variables. Because the population
tested was relatively young, this study suggests normal-tension glaucoma to be
more severe in men, in an earlier stage of the condition.


PMID: 8065698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1650. Eur J Ophthalmol. 1994 Jan-Mar;4(1):24-8.

Influence of nifedipine on the visual fields of patients with optic-nerve-head
diseases.

Gaspar AZ(1), Flammer J, Hendrickson P.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

Calcium-channel blockers have long been employed in coronary disease, and recent 
investigations have indicated their efficacy in improving the visual field in
low-tension glaucoma or presumed vasospasm, possibly by enhancing ocular
circulation. We evaluated the short-term influence of a typical calcium-channel
blocker, nifedipine, on 59 patients with visual-field defects, some with
optic-nerve-head pathology (n = 38) and some with normal-appearing optic nerve
heads (n = 21). On the average, a statistically significant improvement of 1.2 dB
was observed. Different types of patients, however, behaved quite differently.
The younger the patient, the greater the improvement. Patients with normal optic 
nerve heads improved by 1.54 dB, whereas patients with optic-nerve-head
excavation improved by only 0.66 dB. No response was observed in patients with
anterior ischemic neuropathy. Marked deterioration was noted in one glaucoma
patient with low systemic blood pressure. The visual-field changes were observed 
in the scotomatous and non-scotomatous areas. Thus, the calcium-channel blocker
nifedipine can be effective in some selected diseases whose pathogenesis probably
involves vascular dysregulation though it may even be contraindicated in others.


PMID: 8019119  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1651. Int Ophthalmol Clin. 1994 Summer;34(3):173-85.

Low-tension glaucoma.

Grosskreutz C(1), Netland PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston
02114.


PMID: 7960512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1652. Eye (Lond). 1994;8 ( Pt 5):521-3.

Diurnal intraocular pressure variation in low-tension glaucoma.

De Vivero C(1), O'Brien C, Lanigan L, Hitchings R.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK.

A retrospective analysis of diurnal variation in intraocular pressure (IOP) in
101 untreated low-tension glaucoma (LTG) patients was carried out to ascertain
the role of IOP as a causative factor in the aetiology of optic nerve damage in
LTG. The diagnosis of LTG was made only after IOP monitoring as an inpatient,
which involved 2 hourly consecutive measurements by Goldmann applanation
tonometry from 08:00 to 22:00 hours inclusive. The highest IOP during the diurnal
curve was 17.4 mmHg (SD 3.00) at 10:00 and the lowest value was 15.0 mmHg (SD
2.7) at 22:00. Seventy-seven per cent of patients had a peak IOP value recorded
between 08:00 and 12:00 hours inclusive. The mean peak IOP was 18.3 mmHg (SD 2.6)
and the mean trough was 13.1 mmHg (SD 2.2). Thus the mean diurnal range in IOP of
5.2 mmHg (SD 2.2) was similar to that reported by other workers in normals.
Neither the diurnal pattern nor the range of IOP values seen in this study
supports the view that abnormal IOP levels are a significant risk factor in the
pathogenesis of optic nerve damage in all patients with LTG.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1994.129 
PMID: 7835445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1653. Am J Ophthalmol. 1993 Dec 15;116(6):778-80.

Calcium channel blockers in the management of low-tension and open-angle
glaucoma.

Ettl A, Daxer A, Hofmann U.

Comment on
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1993 May 15;115(5):608-13.


PMID: 8250092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1654. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1993 Dec;231(12):711-7.

Optic nerve compression by carotid arteries in low-tension glaucoma.

Gutman I(1), Melamed S, Ashkenazi I, Blumenthal M.

Author information: 
(1)Goldschleger Eye Institute, Neuro-Ophthalmology Unit, Tel-Hashomer, Israel.

Low-tension glaucoma (LTG) is manifested by glaucomatous optic nerve damage and
visual field loss despite normal intraocular pressure (IOP). We describe 62
patients with classical signs of LTG. Computed tomography (CT) was performed in
all patients. In 56 of the patients (90.3%), pathology of the intracavernous
carotid arteries adjacent to the intracranial opening of the optic canal could be
demonstrated. In 28 patients (45.2%) a clear asymmetry of the optic nerve cupping
was found and could be correlated with the severity of the carotid artery
pathology. A control group of 24 age-matched patients included five (20.8%) with 
intracavernous carotid artery calcification and only one (4.2%) with
intracavernous ectasia. We suggest that calcification, dilatation and ectasia of 
the carotid artery into the optic canal may play an important role in the
pathogenesis of many cases of LTG. The close proximity of the carotid artery to
the optic nerve at this location may result in compressive neuropathy with
subsequent glaucomatous damage of the optic nerve head.


PMID: 8299979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1655. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1993 Dec;231(12):677-80.

Systemic blood pressure in glaucoma patients.

Kaiser HJ(1), Flammer J, Graf T, Stümpfig D.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Basel, Switzerland.

Blood pressure was monitored for 24 h in 32 control patients, 38 open-angle
glaucoma patients referred because of decompensated IOP despite maximum
treatment, 40 patients with open-angle glaucoma referred because of progressive
damage despite controlled IOP, and 39 normal-tension glaucoma patients. In the
control group a physiological drop in blood pressure during the night was
observed. The patients referred with uncontrolled IOP had blood pressure very
similar to that of the control group during both day and night. However, the
open-angle glaucoma patients with progression despite well-controlled IOP and
also the patients with normal-tension glaucoma had markedly, and statistically
significantly, lower systolic blood pressure during both day and night. The
difference in diastolic blood pressure was smaller. Thus, blood pressure should
be considered in diagnosis.


PMID: 8299973  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1656. Ophthalmology. 1993 Dec;100(12):1808-14.

Visual field defects in normal-tension and high-tension glaucoma.

Araie M(1), Yamagami J, Suziki Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 1994 Jul;101(7):1160-1.

BACKGROUND: Differences in visual field characteristics between normal-tension
glaucoma (NTG) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG) have not been established. This
study re-examined the problem by pointwise between-group comparison of data
obtained with the Humphrey 30-2 program.
METHODS: Sixty-eight NTG cases with maximum intraocular pressure (IOP) of 21 mmHg
or lower and 62 HTG cases with maximum IOP of 25 mmHg or greater with a mean
deviation (STATPAC) greater than -10 decibels (dB) were included. Age,
refraction, mean deviation, or sex ratio were matched between the two groups.
Total deviation (STATPAC), the difference between the measured threshold and the 
age-corrected normal reference at each test point of the 30-2 program, was used
for pointwise between-group comparisons. Another parameter, total deviation -
mean total deviation, was introduced to normalize the total deviation by the
overall visual field damage as an index of disease stage. Mean total deviation is
the average of total deviations across the test field. Further, logistic
discriminant analysis was applied to confirm that the difference at a questioned 
test point was due to the difference of disease type, but not disease stage,
between the two groups.
RESULTS: Comparison using total deviation and total deviation - mean total
deviation gave similar results, which were collaborated by logistic discriminant 
analysis. For a given amount of visual field damage, an area just above the
horizontal meridian was significantly more depressed in NTG, while HTG had
significantly more diffuse visual field damage.
CONCLUSION: Visual field defect of NTG differs from that of HTG, which may
suggest that different regions of the optic disc are more susceptible to damage
in NTG.


PMID: 8259278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1657. Ophthalmologe. 1993 Dec;90(6):620-5.

[Effect of systolic blood pressure on the location of visual field defects in
upper and lower visual half-fields in patients with chronic simple glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Gramer E(1), Althaus G.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Würzburg.

In earlier studies we found that visual field defects occur more frequently in
the lower half of the visual field and that low systolic blood pressure occurs
more frequently in low-tension glaucoma (stage II) compared to primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) (stage II). We wanted to find out whether visual field defects in
the lower half of the visual field point to insufficient perfusion of the optic
nerve head due to low blood pressure. We therefore examined the visual fields of 
153 eyes of 153 patients with POAG and regulated IOP with program 31 or 33 of the
Octopus perimeter 201. With program Delta the loss per test point in the upper
and lower hemifield was calculated. The mean systolic blood pressure was
calculated for each patient from the blood pressure recordings during the
observation time and over a long-term follow-up period (3-19 visual field
examinations during a period of 1-8 years). With the Delta program we decided
case by case whether the visual field showed a tendency to deteriorate or not. An
asymmetry in the mean loss per test point between the two visual hemifields in a 
relation of 2:1 or more was found in 71 eyes out of 153. In the upper hemifield
50 out of 71 patients had two times greater loss per test point than in the lower
hemifield. These patients showed a mean systolic blood pressure of 158 +/- 37
mmHg.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 8124024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1658. Ophthalmic Surg. 1993 Dec;24(12):835-8.

Low-tension glaucoma: a comparative study with retinal ischemic syndromes and
anterior ischemic optic neuropathy.

Müller M(1), Kessler C, Wessel K, Mehdorn E, Kömpf D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Lübeck, Germany.

In low-tension glaucoma (LTG), nerve-fiber-bundle defects are assumed to result
from ischemia of the choroidal branches of the posterior ciliary arteries, due
either to local vascular changes or, presumably, hemodynamically occlusive
carotid artery disease. To study the possible hemodynamical origin of LTG, we
examined and compared, clinically and by ultrasound (continuous-wave Doppler and 
duplex-scanning), the extracranial carotid arteries of (1) 21 patients (34 eyes) 
with LTG, (2) 48 patients (49 eyes) with retinal ischemic syndromes (RIS), and
(3) 15 patients (17 eyes) with anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION).
High-grade stenoses and occlusions of the internal carotid arteries ipsilateral
to the affected eyes were significantly more frequent in the RIS patients (17 of 
49) than in the LTG patients (2 of 34; P < .01) and the AION patients (0 of 17; P
< .01). Among our relatively small group of LTG patients, we found no striking
evidence supporting a hemodynamic origin of LTG.


PMID: 8115099  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1659. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Dec;97(12):1353-69.

[Progress in medical treatment for glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Azuma I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College.

Recently, an epidemiological study was conducted in Japan by Shiose, et al, and
the prevalence of open-angle glaucoma in Japanese aged 40 years or older was
found to be 2.62% [primary open-angle glaucoma 0.58%, low-tension glaucoma (LTG) 
2.04%]. Historically, treatment for glaucoma has been based on lowering
intraocular pressure. It is also necessary to improve intraocular blood flow. In 
the beginning of the study, the effect of anti-glaucoma agents on choroidal blood
flow was examined in rabbit eyes. An increase of choroidal blood flow was found
following topical application of the prostaglandin-related compound isopropyl
unoprostone (UF-021) and the adrenergic alpha-1 antagonist bunazosin
hydrochloride (DE-070). Then, a new vasoconstrictor, endothelin, showed strong
effects on intraocular pressure, intraocular circulation, and visual function in 
rabbit eyes. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) was found to be a marked vasoconstrictor with
prolonged reduction of intraocular pressure and the blood flow in the choroid and
optic nerve head. The effects were suppressed by Ca2+ channel blocker and
adrenergic alpha-1 blocker. Plasma concentration of ET-1 was determined by
radioimmunoassay in patients with glaucoma. A significantly high level of ET-1
concentration was seen in patients with LTG. Endothelin appears to be an
important tool for studying the pathogenesis of LTG. Finally, a prospective
clinical trial of the therapeutic effects of bunazosin hydrochloride was
performed in patients with LTG for one year. Clinical usefulness was evaluated by
changes in the mean deviation value of Humphrey perimetry. Satisfactory results
were obtained in maintaining the visual field and in reducing intraocular
pressure. In the light of our investigations, it is advisable to introduce an
adrenergic alpha-1 blocker or prostaglandin-related compound for reduction of
glaucomatous damages. We look forward to the development of the neuro-protective 
future glaucoma therapy.


PMID: 7904790  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1660. Am J Ophthalmol. 1993 Nov 15;116(5):590-3.

Aqueous humor dynamics in low-tension glaucoma.

Larsson LI(1), Rettig ES, Sheridan PT, Brubaker RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905.

We measured the diurnal aqueous humor flow in patients with low-tension glaucoma 
by clearance of topically applied fluorescein. Ten patients with low-tension
glaucoma participated in the study, and ten age-matched healthy volunteers served
as control subjects. The diurnal aqueous humor flow was 2.58 +/- 0.78
microliters/min (mean +/- standard deviation) in the control group and 2.48 +/-
0.61 microliters/min in the low-tension glaucoma group. The corresponding
nocturnal data were 0.98 +/- 0.22 microliters/min and 1.24 +/- 0.45
microliters/min. The differences were not statistically significant. Tonographic 
facility of outflow and intraocular pressure were also measured. There were no
statistically significant differences between the two groups in either facility
or pressure. No evidence was found in this small group of patients to support the
hypothesis that the normal tension in this disease results from a combination of 
low facility and low flow.


PMID: 8238219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1661. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Nov;97(11):1320-4.

[The central visual field defects in low-tension glaucoma. A comparison of the
central visual field defects in low-tension glaucoma with those in primary open
angle glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Takada M(1), Araie M, Suzuki Y, Koseki N, Yamagami J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Branch Hospital, Bunkyo-ku,
Japan.

To discover if there is difference in central visual field damage between
low-tension glaucoma (LTG) and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) eyes, the data 
obtained with the 10-2 threshold program of the Humphrey visual field analyzer
were analysed using logistic discriminant analysis. One hundred and four LTG eyes
from 65 case (maximum IOP < or = 21 mmHg) and 48 POAG eyes from 34 cases (maximum
IOP > or = 25 mmHg) with early to moderately advanced visual field damage were
included. There was no significant difference in mean deviation (MD, STATPAC),
refraction, or age between the 2 groups. The analysis demonstrated that an
arcuate area in the upper central 5-10 degrees of the visual field was
significantly more depressed in LTG than in POAG eyes.


PMID: 8285154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1662. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Oct;97(10):1231-5.

[The clinical evaluation of UF-021, a new prostaglandin related compound, in low 
tension glaucoma patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujimori C(1), Yamabayashi S, Hosoda M, Hosaka O, Makino F, Henmi T, Tsukahara S,
Ueno R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yamanashi Medical College, Japan.

We administered UF-021 isopropyl unoprostone (Rescula) ophthalmic solution, a new
prostaglandin-related compound developed as an anti-glaucoma agent, to 13 low
tension glaucoma patients for 24 weeks, and clinically evaluated the effect of
the intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction, visual field change, and side effects
of the agent. Intraocular pressure was reduced in 11 out of 12 patients who were 
studied for statistical analysis. In these 12 patients, significant IOP reduction
was recognized in the mean IOP for 24 weeks after the administration of UF-021.
No side effects were detected in any of the 13 patients. From these results,
UF-021 could be used as a new anti-glaucoma agent for low tension glaucoma, and
also safer than many other anti-glaucoma agents.


PMID: 8256677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1663. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Oct;97(10):1225-30.

[Fluorescein angiographic findings regarding the optic disc in cases of
low-tension glaucoma and the chronic stage of anterior ischemic optic
neuropathy].

[Article in Japanese]

Abe H(1), Hasegawa S, Takagi M, Usui T, Shirakashi M, Iwata K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

The optic disc was studied by stereofluorescein angiography in 7 cases of the
chronic stage of anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) and 20 cases of
low-tension glaucoma (LTG), to clarify the difference in vasculature. In the LTG 
patients, a selective and well-defined decrease of laminar and prelaminar
capillaries in the upper and (or) lower temporal area of the optic disc was found
in 38 (95%) of 40 eyes in the 20 cases. In the AION patients, a decrease of
laminar and prelaminar capillaries was also found in 3 (43%) of 7 eyes in the 7
unilateral cases, but the specific area and form of vascular reduction were not
found. These results show that the angiographic picture of the optic disc in LTG 
is clearly different from that in AION.


PMID: 8256676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1664. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1993 Oct;71(5):686-90.

Intraocular pressure reduction with topically administered pilocarpine, timolol
and betaxolol in normal tension glaucoma.

Nyman K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Hospital, Finland.

The IOP-lowering effect of topical glaucoma medication has been studied mainly in
eyes with ocular hypertension or high tension glaucoma. We tested the
IOP-lowering effect of the commonly used topical medications (pilocarpine,
timolol and betaxolol) in eyes with normal tension glaucoma. Instillation of 2%
pilocarpine hydrochloride three times a day had no statistically significant
lowering effect on the IOP level (F test, P = 0.0596, n = 18). 0.5% timolol
maleate administered twice a day (n = 16) and 0.5% betaxolol hydrochloride
administered twice a day (n = 17) led to statistically significant lowering of
the IOP level (F test, P < 0.0001 for timolol and P = 0.0001 for betaxolol).
There was no statistically significant difference in IOP-reducing effect whether 
topical IOP-lowering medication had been used previously or not. The results for 
11 eyes participating in all three tests were similar to the results for the
other eyes in the three test groups.


PMID: 8109215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1665. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1993 Aug;71(4):463-70.

Normal tension glaucoma: the value of predictive tests.

Yoshikawa K(1), Inoue T, Inoue Y.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Division of Olympia Medical Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.

Fifty-four normal tension glaucoma cases were studied to determine the value of
several clinical tests for predicting the progression of the disease. Outflow
facility, intraocular pressure (IOP) increase after water drinking, and diurnal
changes in IOP were studied. Progression was determined on the basis of changes
in visual sensitivity as measured on the Octopus 201. A minimum of four
examinations of the central 30 degrees were conducted over a 3- to 7-year period.
Progression of visual field defects was seen in 38.5% of eyes that had
demonstrated some degree of abnormality in at least one of three clinical tests, 
while only 10.7% of those eyes that appeared normal on the basis of these tests
showed such progression. The difference was significant (p < 0.04). These results
suggest that the three clinical tests may be of value in detecting normal tension
glaucoma eyes at risk for progression of visual field defects.


PMID: 8249575  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1666. Ophthalmic Surg. 1993 Aug;24(8):519-25.

Focal and diffuse visual field defects: their relationship to intraocular
pressure.

Samuelson TW(1), Spaeth GL.

Author information: 
(1)William and Anna Goldberg Research and Clinical Laboratories, Philadelphia,
PA.

Comment in
    Ophthalmic Surg. 1994 Jan;25(1):60.

The view that visual field loss in "low-tension" glaucoma (LTG) is more focal
than in ordinary or "high-tension" glaucoma (HTG) is controversial. The basis of 
the controversy may be the inappropriate presupposition that an arbitrary
intraocular pressure (IOP) level effectively differentiates these entities. We
attempted to determine whether meaningful differences exist between glaucoma
patients classified on the basis of pattern of visual field loss rather than IOP.
One hundred consecutive glaucomatous visual fields were classified as focal or
diffuse by two independent observers masked to all other clinical information.
Several clinical parameters were then evaluated, comparing patients with focal
visual field loss, with those with diffuse loss. Maximal pretreatment IOP was
significantly lower among the patients with focal visual field loss than it was
among those with diffuse loss (21.5 mm Hg +/- 5.7 vs 25.9 mm Hg +/- 4.7; P <
.01). There was no difference between the two groups in terms of age, blood
pressure, visual acuity, or color vision. We conclude that focal glaucomatous
visual field loss occurs at a lower IOP than diffuse loss and, as such, may be a 
marker by which to identify patients whose optic nerves are abnormally
susceptible to glaucomatous injury.


PMID: 8233314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1667. Klin Oczna. 1993 Aug;95(8):312-5.

[Glaucoma with low intraocular pressure--diagnosis and treatment].

[Article in Polish]

Przerwa DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)I Kliniki Okulistycznej PAM, Szczecinie.

The author examined 23 patients (46 eyes) with peripheral blood vessels diseases 
and non-characteristic ocular complaints, which has been lasted for 3-7 years
(mean 4.3) and were treated as conjunctivitis. Diagnosis of low-tension glaucoma 
was made basing on the following signs: normal intraocular pressure, open angle, 
distinctly abnormal outflow facility coefficient, typical for glaucoma changes in
visual field and glaucomatous excavation of the optic disc. The typical treatment
with timolol and pilocarpine was applied and additionally resistant cases calcium
channel blockers. The control examination after mean follow-up of 22 months
revealed that in all patients, subjective symptoms subsided and a statistically
significant lowering of the intraocular pressure, as well as an improvement of
the outflow facility coefficient and visual field were observed. In no patient
the state of the fundus was deteriorated. These results are comparable with the
data from literature.


PMID: 8189694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1668. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1993 Jul;231(7):375-7.

The response of blood flow velocity in the ophthalmic artery and blood flow of
the finger to warm and cold stimuli in glaucomatous patients.

Rojanapongpun P(1), Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of British
Columbia, University Hospital, Vancouver, Canada.

Vasospasm appears to be a probable risk factor in the development of glaucoma.
Transcranial Doppler (TCD) can detect vasospasm in cerebral vessels. It gives
reproducible readings for ophthalmic artery blood velocity measurements. We used 
the TCD to measure peak flow velocity, mean flow velocity, and end-diastolic flow
velocity in the ophthalmic artery and a laser Doppler flow meter to measure blood
flow in the fingers of 17 patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma (COAG), 13
patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and 8 nonglaucomatous subjects with 
normal eyes (normals). The opposite hand to that in which the measurements were
made was challenged with warm (40 degrees) and cold (4 degrees) water. Five
measurements of the ophthalmic artery velocity and finger flow were recorded: the
first at baseline, the second during warming of the hand, the third after warming
of the hand, the fourth when the hand was immersed in iced water, and the fifth
after the hand was removed from the cold water. There was no detectable change in
the ophthalmic artery blood velocities but significant decreases in the finger
flow measurements when the opposite hand was immersed in cold water. These
changes were present in all three diagnostic groups (P < 0.001 for COAG; P <
0.005 for NTG; P < 0.05 for normals). The findings suggest a reflex vasospasm to 
cold in the finger circulation of most persons but no measurable changes in the
ophthalmic artery.


PMID: 8406061  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1669. Ophthalmology. 1993 Jul;100(7):1071-6.

Primary trabeculectomy in young adults.

Costa VP(1), Katz LJ, Spaeth GL, Smith M, Gandham S.

Author information: 
(1)Wills Eye Hospital/Jefferson Medical College, William and Anna Goldberg
Glaucoma Service, Philadelphia, PA 19107.

BACKGROUND: Younger patients are thought to have a poor surgical prognosis after 
trabeculectomy. The authors investigate the surgical outcome of young adult
patients after primary trabeculectomy.
METHODS: The authors reviewed the charts of all patients 15 to 40 years of age
who had undergone primary trabeculectomy without the use of antimetabolites
between January 1985 and January 1992 at Wills Eye Hospital. Failure was defined 
before the data collection as intraocular pressure (IOP) more than 25 mmHg
without medication, IOP more than 21 mmHg with medication, or when further
glaucoma surgery was indicated. Patients in whom preoperative IOPs were 21 mmHg
or lower were classified as successes when the IOP was reduced by at least 33% of
the preoperative measurement.
RESULTS: After a mean follow-up of 36.8 +/- 21.8 months, among the 31 patients
with uncomplicated glaucomas (juvenile, pigmentary, low tension, chronic angle
closure), 26 (83.9%) were considered successes. After a mean follow-up of 42.3
+/- 26.5 months, among the 11 patients with other types of glaucoma
(inflammatory, traumatic, associated with irido-corneal endothelial syndrome or
mesodermal dysgenesis), 7 (63.6%) were considered successes.
CONCLUSIONS: The success rate of the uncomplicated group compares favorably with 
the 75% to 90% success rates of trabeculectomy commonly cited for primary
glaucomas in older patients. Primary trabeculectomy in young adults may have a
favorable outcome despite no antimetabolite therapy.


PMID: 8321531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1670. Am J Ophthalmol. 1993 May 15;115(5):608-13.

Calcium channel blockers in the management of low-tension and open-angle
glaucoma.

Netland PA(1), Chaturvedi N, Dreyer EB.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston 02114.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1993 Dec 15;116(6):778-80.

Fifty-six patients with either open-angle or low-tension glaucoma who were
concurrently taking calcium channel blockers were compared to similar groups not 
taking such medications for a mean follow-up period of 3.4 years. Serial
stereoscopic optic nerve photographs and visual fields of all patients were
evaluated for evidence of glaucomatous progression. In patients with low-tension 
glaucoma, there was a significant difference in the progression of visual field
defects, with only two of 18 eyes (11%) of patients taking calcium channel
blockers, compared to ten of 18 eyes (56%) of controls showing new visual field
defects. Similarly, low-tension glaucoma patients taking calcium channel blocker 
therapy demonstrated no evidence of progressive optic nerve damage, compared to
eight of 18 control eyes (44%). In contrast, patients with open-angle glaucoma
taking calcium channel blockers showed no marked difference in the progression of
glaucoma, compared to controls. These findings suggest that calcium channel
blockers may be useful in the management of low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 8488913  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1671. Ophthalmology. 1993 May;100(5):643-50.

Diurnal variation in intraocular pressure of normal-tension glaucoma eyes.

Yamagami J(1), Araie M, Aihara M, Yamamoto S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The nature of intraocular pressure (IOP) in normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) has not been studied in detail, although the information on the IOP is
indispensable for diagnosis and treatment of NTG.
METHODS: After at least six IOP measurements at daytime clinic, diurnal IOP was
measured at 10:00 AM, 12:00 noon, 2:00, 4:00, 6:00, 8:00, 10:00 PM, 12:00
midnight, and at 3:00, 6:00, 8:00, and 10:00 AM by 1-day hospitalization in 118
NTG suspects. Four subjects with peak IOPs exceeding 21 mmHg were diagnosed as
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) whose eyes all had mean clinic IOPs above 16
mmHg. The remaining 114 patients were diagnosed as having NTG, and their right
eye data were used for analysis.
RESULTS: The rhythmic nature of the diurnal IOP of NTG was analyzed by fitting
the data to a cosine curve. In 54.4% of the eyes, the correlation between the
measured IOP and the values predicted from the cosine curve was significant (r > 
0.60, P < 0.05), and the equation, diurnal IOP = 13.9 + 1.7 cos 2 pi (t/24-0.40) 
mmHg, which was similar to that reported in normals, was obtained. Multiple
regression analysis showed that the mean diurnal IOP was best predicted with the 
mean of the six clinic IOPs and systolic blood pressure (R2 = 0.67), and the peak
diurnal IOP with the mean of six clinic IOPs (R2 = 0.50). The estimate fell
within +/- 1 and +/- 2 mmHg of the actual value in 83% and 96% of the left eyes
for the former and in 69% and 93% for the latter, respectively. No eyes with peak
diurnal IOP exceeding 21 mmHg were overlooked with the cutoff IOP of 16 mmHg.
CONCLUSION: The mean and peak diurnal IOP could be predicted with the mean of
clinic IOPs.


PMID: 8493005  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1672. Ophthalmology. 1993 May;100(5):587-97; discussion 597-8.

Nerve fiber layer defects with normal visual fields. Do normal optic disc and
normal visual field indicate absence of glaucomatous abnormality?

Tuulonen A(1), Lehtola J, Airaksinen PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Oulu, Finland.

PURPOSE: When the optic disc has normal appearance with no abnormalities in
routine automated perimetry, the subject is not considered to have glaucoma. The 
purpose of this study is to show how such patients may have localized retinal
nerve fiber layer defects with corresponding functional abnormality.
METHODS: The authors selected eight eyes of eight patients who had a localized
retinal nerve fiber layer defect extending within a few degrees from fovea but in
whom the optic disc appearance and Humphrey 30-2 visual fields were normal. Of
the eight patients, three had positive family history of glaucoma, two had
suspected retinal nerve fiber layer abnormality in routine eye examination, two
had increased intraocular pressure (IOP), and one had advanced low-tension
glaucoma in one eye with a normal fellow eye. The authors examined the central 10
degrees visual field with 1 degree resolution using Humphrey perimeter and the
Ring and Centring programs of the high-pass resolution perimeter.
RESULTS: A central field defect corresponding to retinal nerve fiber layer defect
was found in six of eight patients: in both 10 degrees Humphrey field and
Centring programs (2 eyes), in Humphrey only (2 eyes), and in Centring only (2
eyes).
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that retinal nerve fiber layer photographs are
helpful in diagnosing glaucoma because early glaucomatous abnormalities cannot be
excluded without nerve fiber layer photography. Currently available routine
perimetric examination programs do not always detect very early functional
damage.


PMID: 8493001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1673. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 May;97(5):644-8.

[Comparison of high-pass resolution perimetry and differential light sensitivity 
perimetry in glaucoma patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Kono Y(1), Maeda M, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

High-pass resolution perimetry (HRP) enables one to estimate the number of
functioning retinal ganglion-cells. We investigated the correlation between HRP
and Humphrey Field Analyzer 630 in 35 eyes of 23 primary open-angle glaucoma and 
75 eyes of 46 normal-tension glaucoma patients. In a total of 110 eyes, both
functional channels and global deviation of HRP were significantly correlated
with MD (r = 0.74, p < 0.01: r = -0.71, p < 0.01, respectively). Local deviation 
of HRP was also significantly correlated with corrected pattern standard
deviation (r = 0.77, p < 0.01). These correlations tended to be higher in eyes
with more advanced field changes than in those with fewer changes. These results 
indicate that HRP may be useful for evaluation of glaucomatous visual field
abnormalities. The observed discrepancies between the two different methods in
early stage glaucoma may be attributable to differences in physiological factors 
tested in these methods.


PMID: 8337971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1674. Ger J Ophthalmol. 1993 May;2(3):165-9.

Intraocular pressure and visual field decay in chronic glaucoma.

Weber J(1), Koll W, Krieglstein GK.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Köln, Germany.

A total of 41 eyes of 28 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and
low-tension glaucoma (group 1) were followed for 12-72 months with tonometry and 
automated perimetry. A second group consisting of 13 eyes (9 patients) with
secondary glaucoma (pigment dispersion, goniodysgenesis, ciliolenticular block
and chronic angle closure) was followed for 13-60 months. None of the eyes had
undergone filtering surgery during the follow-up period. The visual field decay
was calculated by means of regression analysis of the mean defect. There was a
significant correlation between visual field decay and both mean intraocular
pressure (IOP, P > 95%) and maximal IOP (P > 98%) in the secondary glaucomas,
which was not found in group 1. IOP oscillation expressed by the standard
deviation of IOP was significantly correlated with progressive visual field loss 
in both groups. The slope of visual field decay was independent of the functional
damage at the initial examination. Even if the influence of IOP level on the
course of primary chronic glaucoma may have been masked by other factors that
have a great interindividual variation, the oscillation of IOP seems to be at
least as important as the level of IOP.


PMID: 8334392  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1675. Br J Ophthalmol. 1993 May;77(5):302-10.

Primary open angle glaucomas in the rhesus monkey.

Dawson WW(1), Brooks DE, Hope GM, Samuelson DA, Sherwood MB, Engel HM, Kessler
MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, University of Florida,
Gainesville, FL 32610.

Rhesus monkeys from the closed Cayo Santiago colony of the University of Puerto
Rico demonstrate elevated (> or = 22 mm Hg) intraocular pressure in a pattern
which significantly favours certain maternal lineage groupings. The colony had
remained genetically pure since 1938. Of nine matriarchal lineages (matrilines)
examined, two had an incidence of ocular hypertension of more than 40% and six of
more than 10%. Information on 18 matrilines is currently located in the colony
data base which identifies each individual and its vital statistics. In 1990, six
animals were moved to the laboratory in Florida. Among those from a low incidence
matriline, we found abnormal optic nerve cups, pallor, reduced function of
(mainly peripheral) fields, progression and loss of optic nerve axons in the
presence of ocular hypertension. In another individual where the cup/disc ratio
for the right eye was 0.7 and left eye 0.4 and outflow facility was normal, we
excluded all other causes of optic nerve atrophy, and low tension glaucoma was
diagnosed. This female was from a matriline with a low incidence of ocular
hypertension. Relatively rapid aging (3-4 years/human year) monkeys with ocular
hypertension and familial clustering produce a near ideal glaucoma research
model.


PMCID: PMC504510
PMID: 8318468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1676. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1993 Apr;71(2):196-200.

An analysis of the relationship between high-pass resolution perimetry and
neuroretinal rim area in normal-tension glaucoma.

Tomita G(1), Maeda M, Sogano S, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

We evaluated the reproducibility of measurements of the visual function index,
'functional channels', of high-pass resolution perimetry and the correlation
between functional channels and topographic changes of the optic nerve head,
particularly on the neuroretinal rim area. The median coefficient of variation
for the six intra-individual measurements of functional channels with high-pass
resolution perimetry was 9.5%. In 26 eyes of 18 normal-tension glaucoma patients,
functional channels showed statistically significant correlation with the
neuroretinal rim area (rim area) of the optic disc measured by a Rodenstock Optic
Nerve Head Analyzer. These results suggested that functional channels of
high-pass resolution perimetry may be a useful new parameter for evaluating
visual function of glaucoma patients.


PMID: 8333265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1677. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Apr;97(4):526-31.

[A study of para-foveal color vision in normal-tension and primary open angle
glaucoma eyes].

[Article in Japanese]

Koseki N(1), Yamagami J, Araie M, Shirato S, Okajima O.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital, Itabashi-ku, Japan.

A perimetric color vision test developed by Iijima et al. for evaluating
parafoveal color vision provides information regarding local retinal function
which can not be evaluated by other color vision tests. Using this method, we
investigated para-foveal color sensitivity in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) and
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) eyes whose glaucomatous visual field change
determined with the central 30-2 program of the Humphrey visual field analyzer
was confined to either the upper or the lower hemifield. The examined eyes had no
abnormalities in ocular media with best corrected visual acuity of 1.0 or higher,
and age, refraction, mean deviation, and extent of visual field loss were matched
between NTG and POAG eyes. In the para-foveal area of the spared hemifield,
acquired blue-yellow dyschromatopsia was detected in 52.3% of the POAG eyes and
in 11.3% of the NTG eyes (p < 0.02, chi 2-test), and in damaged hemifield, it was
found in 76.1% of the POAG eyes and 80.7% of the NTG eyes. We suggest that visual
function is more diffusely damaged in POAG than in NTG and that the perimetric
color vision test is useful for detecting glaucomatous damage which cannot be
detected with conventional light threshold measurements.


PMID: 8317374  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1678. Br J Ophthalmol. 1993 Mar;77(3):194.

Regression analysis of visual field progression in low tension glaucoma.

Oden N.

Comment on
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1991 Aug;75(8):493-5.


PMCID: PMC504476
PMID: 8457519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1679. Chin Med J (Engl). 1993 Mar;106(3):191-5.

Neuroretinal rim area in early glaucoma.

Li JB(1), Li MY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, First Teaching Hospital, Beijing Medical
University.

Neuroretinal rim area (NRA) is the only clinical measurement that reflects the
real amount of nerve fibers in optic disc. We measured the photographs of the
optic disc in 132 eyes of 132 subjects in 6 groups: normal subjects with small
cups, normal subjects with large cups, suspected glaucoma with small cups and
those with large cups, primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), low tension glaucoma
(LTG). The mean NRAs of POAG, LTG and suspected glaucoma with large cups were
less than those of normal subjects with large cups. In normal subjects, a high
correlation between cup area and disc area was found, while NRA correlated weakly
with disc area. Both semiquantitative scores of diffuse and localized retinal
nerve fiber layer defects were correlated significantly with NRA. We suggest that
measurement of NRA and examination of retinal nerve fiber layer defect could
improve the detection of acquired changes of optic disc in early glaucoma.


PMID: 8325143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1680. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Mar;97(3):383-9.

[A comparative study of visual field damage in low-tension and primary open-angle
glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamagami J(1), Araie M, Suzuki Y, Shirato S, Koseki N.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, JR Tokyo General Hospital, Shibuya-ku, Japan.

We compared the results of visual field examination obtained with a Humphrey 30-2
program between 57 eyes of 57 low-tension glaucoma (LTG) and 57 eyes of 57
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG; max IOP > or = 25 mmHg) cases, whose mean
deviation (MD) given by STATPAC was > -10 dB. MD, age, and refraction showed no
differences between the two groups. Corrected pattern standard deviation (CPSD)
was significantly higher in the LTG group (p < 0.01). The total deviation (TD),
deviation from the age-corrected normal reference, was found to be significantly 
lower by about 5 dB in the LTG group at two test points nasal-superior to the
fixation point (Wilcoxon rank sum test, p < 0.01). Logistic discriminant analysis
carried out to exclude a subtle difference in the distribution of the stage of
disease between the two groups confirmed a significant between-group difference
at the above-mentioned points. Furthermore, to compare the unevenness of visual
field in the two groups, [TD-mean TD] was calculated, where mean TD was the
average of 70 points of TD excluding the uppermost four points, and the same two 
points obtained above were found to decrease significantly in LTG, while all
points were diffusely damaged in POAG. These results may imply a difference in
the mechanism of visual field damage between LTG and POAG.


PMID: 8317357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1681. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Feb;97(2):225-31.

[Glaucoma-like disc without increased intraocular pressure or visual field loss
and early stage normal-tension glaucoma disc].

[Article in Japanese]

Tomita G(1), Yamada T, Matsubara K, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

The optic disc topography of 11 eyes of 11 glaucoma-like discs without increased 
intraocular pressure or visual field loss was compared with that of 11 eyes of 11
relative early stage normal-tension glaucomas. There were no statistically
significant differences between the two groups in terms of optic disc parameters 
measured with a Rodenstock Optic Nerve Head Analyzer Plus, except that the
inferior quadrant of the neuroretinal rim area of the normal-tension glaucoma
discs was significantly smaller than that of the glaucoma-like discs. Also, in
the Humphrey automated visual field, only the superior part of the Total
Deviation score of normal-tension glaucoma eyes corresponding to the inferior
disc changes was significantly lower than that of glaucoma-like discs. When the
data of the two groups were pooled, the inferior quadrant of the neuroretinal rim
area significantly correlated with the visual field loss in the group of eyes
with a rim area smaller than 0.198 mm2. These results seem to suggest that some
of the glaucoma-like discs might be early normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 8475835  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1682. J Glaucoma. 1993 Winter;2(4):257-9.

Gliosis-like retinal alterations in glaucoma patients.

Graf T(1), Flammer J, Prünte C, Hendrickson P.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switzerland.

SUMMARY: Morphological alterations resembling fine epiretinal gliosis in the
midperiphery of the retina of glaucoma patients were examined biomicroscopically.
Examination with a laser-scanning ophthalmoscope (Zeiss CLSO) incorporating an
argon laser confirmed sharply bordered, patchy retinal alterations in the
superficial layers. These alterations were predominantly in the Bjerrum area but 
did not conform to the shape of the nerve fiber bundles. Patchy retinal
alterations were found to be absent or rare in nonglaucomatous controls (0 of 15 
controls) but to occur quite often in people with glaucoma. Although all glaucoma
patients examined had typical optic nerve heads and visual field damage, the
prevalence of patchy retinal alterations was especially high in the group with
progressive damage despite successfully reduced intraocular pressure (13 of 15;
86.7%); the alterations were only slightly less prevalent in the
normal-tension-glaucoma group (11 of 16; 68.8%).


PMID: 19920529  [PubMed]


1683. Cesk Oftalmol. 1993 Jan;49(1):35-43.

[Correlation between various methods of examination in glaucoma].

[Article in Czech]

Výborný P(1), Bartos D, Friedová E, Labohá T.

Author information: 
(1)Ocní odd. Mĕstské nemocnice, Tábor.

The authors investigated a group of 42 patients (84 eyes) with primary glaucoma
of the open angle and with glaucoma of a low tension. In addition to the basic
examination they applied in all patients fluorescent angiography focused on the
papilla of the optic nerve, static computer threshold perimetry using a Humphrey 
Field Analyzer, strategy 30-2, examination of the colour sense
(Farnsworth-Munsell 100 HUE test and the desaturated HUE test with computer
analysis) and examination of contrast sensitivity by means of the Cambridge low
contrast test. They describe the results in the initial stage of an at least
5-year study. In patients aged 41-50 years (n = 10) they found small paracentral 
scotomas in the visual field in 90% and arcuate scotomas in 10%, minor absolute
defects of filling of the papilla in 85%, in 15% only relative defects. In
patients aged 51-60 years (n = 15) they revealed acute scotomas in 73% and marked
quadrant losses in 27%. Changes in the fluoroangiogram were more marked than in
the former groups. In patients aged 61-71 years (n = 15) the changes were
analogous. Defects of colour sense of the blue-yellow area were recorded in 63
eyes. Changes of the colour sense and absolute defects of filling in fluorescent 
angiography correlated with the degree and site of affection of the visual field 
and the patient's age in primary open angle glaucoma. Conversely, in glaucoma
with normal tension the values of colour sense remained normal even when the
visual field was affected.


PMID: 8458090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1684. Br J Ophthalmol. 1993 Jan;77(1):25-9.

Ophthalmic artery flow velocity in glaucomatous and normal subjects.

Rojanapongpun P(1), Drance SM, Morrison BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital, University of British
Columbia, Canada.

The velocity of blood flow in the ophthalmic artery was measured with a
transcranial Doppler ultrasound (2 MHz). Sixty patients with chronic open angle
glaucoma (COAG), 42 patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), and 35 normals
were studied. Peak flow velocity (peak), mean-enveloped velocity (mean) and
diastolic velocity were compared in the three groups. The COAG patients and the
NTG patients showed a significant reduction of all three Doppler flow velocities 
compared with the normals (COAG vs normal, p = 0.013, 0.019, and 0.009; NTG vs
normal, p = < 0.001, < 0.001, and < 0.001 for peak, mean and diastolic flow
velocity respectively). The NTG patients also had a significant slower mean flow 
velocity than the COAG patients (p = 0.016), but not for peak and diastolic flow 
velocities (p = 0.060 and 0.052 respectively). Based on ophthalmic flow velocity 
values, many NTG patients and a few COAG patients had slower flow velocities than
the normals. The significance of these haemodynamic differences is not yet known.


PMCID: PMC504417
PMID: 8435394  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1685. Br J Ophthalmol. 1993 Jan;77(1):17-21.

Prevalence of glaucoma in the west of Ireland.

Coffey M(1), Reidy A, Wormald R, Xian WX, Wright L, Courtney P.

Author information: 
(1)Western Health Board, Ireland.

County Roscommon in the west of Ireland is a relatively remote rural area whose
population of 55,000 is served by two community medical ophthalmologists and
three optometrists. Eye surgical services are not available within the county. In
order to assess the needs of the community for prevention of blindness from
glaucoma, a simple random sample of the population of County Roscommon was taken 
for a community based glaucoma survey. A total of 2186 people over the age of 50 
were examined which represented a 99.5% response rate. The high response rate was
achieved by the community basis of the study and vigorous follow up of
non-attenders. Intraocular pressure was measured using applanation tonometry,
disc evaluation by both direct ophthalmoscopy and stereoscopic biomicroscopy, and
visual field analysis using the Henson CFS 2000 and experimental computer
controlled video perimetry. Diagnostic criteria were consistent with the
preferred practice pattern of the American Academy of Ophthalmology. A crude
prevalence of approximately 2% for primary open angle and normal tension glaucoma
was found. The population profile of intraocular pressure showed a pattern which 
decreased with increasing age unlike the Framingham and Ferndale studies but
similar to Japanese data.


PMCID: PMC504415
PMID: 8435391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1686. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Jan;97(1):65-70.

[IOP change over time in normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sogano S(1), Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

The authors retrospectively studied intraocular pressure (IOP) changes over time 
in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). The materials consisted of 160 eyes of 80
patients who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for NTG including a continuous
daily IOP profile of less than 21 mmHg. They were followed for 12 to 64 months
(mean: 31 months) at 1 to 3 month intervals. Eleven eyes (6.9%) in 9 patients
(11.3%) showed IOP equal to or greater than 21 mmHg at least once during the
follow-up period. The probability of IOP remaining below 21 mmHg for 5 years was 
89.1% for each eye and 80.6% for each case according to the Kaplan-Meier
life-table method. A discriminant analysis with stepwise variable selection
revealed that higher maximum IOP in daily profile, positive history of diabetes
mellitus, a family history of glaucoma, male sex, positive history of disc
hemorrhage, low diastolic blood pressure, earlier visual field change and
concordance in IOP and visual field were significant prognostic factors for
subsequent IOP increase.


PMID: 8434541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1687. Arch Ophthalmol. 1993 Jan;111(1):23; author reply 23-4.

Immune-related disease and normal-tension glaucoma.

Hejkal TW, Yablonski ME.

Comment on
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1992 Apr;110(4):500-2.


PMID: 8424718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1688. Arch Ophthalmol. 1993 Jan;111(1):22-3; author reply 23-4.

Immune-related disease and normal-tension glaucoma.

Dana MR, Wilensky JT.

Comment on
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1992 Apr;110(4):500-2.


PMID: 8424717  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1689. Ophthalmologica. 1993;207(1):6-7.

Silent myocardial ischemia in glaucoma patients.

Kaiser HJ(1), Flammer J, Burckhardt D.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland.

The pathophysiological mechanism involved in normal-tension glaucoma is still not
fully understood. Besides intraocular pressure, vascular and rheological factors 
have been described. In the present study, the prevalence of silent myocardial
ischemia in patients of the same age with normal-tension glaucoma, primary
open-angle glaucoma and cataract was compared. Our findings indicate that in all 
three groups ischemic episodes occurred more frequently than described in normal 
people. The most striking observation, however, was the fact that in
normal-tension glaucoma the frequency was twice that of the other two groups.


PMID: 8278174  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1690. Am J Ophthalmol. 1992 Dec 15;114(6):764-5.

Low-tension glaucoma in identical twins.

Ofner S, Samples JR.


PMID: 1463047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1691. Am J Ophthalmol. 1992 Dec 15;114(6):758-63.

Visual field defects in patients with normal-tension glaucoma and patients with
high-tension glaucoma.

Zeiter JH(1), Shin DH, Juzych MS, Jarvi TS, Spoor TC, Zwas F.

Author information: 
(1)Kresge Eye Institute, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit,
Michigan 48201.

We compared the automated visual field test results of 24 patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and 24 patients with high-tension glaucoma who were
closely matched for the amount of visual field loss to determine any differences 
in the characteristics of visual field defects between the two groups. Patients
were matched with a maximum allowable difference in mean deviation of 0.3 dB.
Although the normal-tension group had a greater amount of focal visual field loss
(pattern standard deviation), the difference was not statistically significant (P
= .628). Additionally, there was no statistically significant difference in the
amount of diffuse or focal visual field damage in the superior hemifields between
the two groups; however, the patients with normal-tension glaucoma had a
significantly greater amount of localized visual field loss in the inferior
hemifield than the patients with high-tension glaucoma (P = .015). Our data
support the hypothesis that a vascular mechanism may have a greater role in the
pathogenesis of optic nerve damage and visual field loss in patients with
normal-tension glaucoma than in patients with high-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 1463046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1692. Ophthalmologe. 1992 Dec;89(6):477-88.

[White-noise field campimetry before and after artificial increase of intraocular
pressure. Possible applications in diagnosis and evaluation of glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Schiefer U(1), Ulrich WD, Ulrich C, Wilhelm H, Aulhorn E.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Pathophysiologie des Sehens und Neuroophthalmologie,
Universitäts-Augenklinik Tübingen.

A total of 173 eyes (visual field defect stages O-V) of 99 glaucoma patients were
investigated by means of conventional threshold-oriented suprathreshold automated
test point perimetry using the Tübingen Automatic Perimeter (TAP) and by means of
white-noise-field campimetry (flickering random dot pattern) using the Tübingen
Electronic Campimeter (TEC). Most eyes were affected by primary open-angle
glaucoma (119) or low tension glaucoma (35). The concordance between the two
methods was good in 65 eyes (37.6%). Sufficient in 32 (18.5%) eyes, poor in 32
cases (18.5%) and inadequate in 44 eyes (25.4%). Among the last group of 44 eyes,
32 perceived a scotoma in the noise field (NF) but did not show any pathologic
defect in conventional automated test point perimetry: the opposite constellation
was found in only 12 eyes. In most cases, scotoma in the NF showed a change in
both brightness and motion (noise) perception. No clear relationship between the 
type of glaucoma and a certain constellation of the aforementioned NF
specifications could be found. Complete lack of noise perception in the scotoma
occurred more frequently in advanced glaucoma (stage > or = IV). In 110 eyes of
63 of the glaucoma patients, white-noise-field campimetry was carried out during 
artificial IOP elevation achieved by suction-cup oculopression: during steplike
increases of the negative pressure in the suction-cup up to maximum of 375 mmHg
the following stages could be seen (the percentage of eyes that perceived each
phenomena over the negative pressure range is shown in brackets): change in NF
perception compared with initial findings (96.4%); impairment of central
noise-field perception (78.2%); concentric constriction of NF (61.8%); complete
breakdown of noise (field) perception (42.7%). A further, quantitative
classification of these eyes was possible by evaluation of the negative pressure 
in the suction-cup that led to any one of these NF phenomena. The results
demonstrate the usefulness of white-noise-field campimetry as a very fast
screening method for detecting glaucomatous visual field defects. It can also be 
performed as a pressure tolerance test and thus be used to classify glaucomatous 
risk stages.


PMID: 1486264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1693. Ophthalmologe. 1992 Dec;89(6):472-6.

[Visual acuity perimetry. Detection of glaucomatous visual field defects].

[Article in German]

Reiser EM(1), Lachenmayr BJ, Vivell PM.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik der Universität München.

50 eyes of 50 patients with different types of glaucoma (27 eyes with POAG, 14
eyes with glaucoma due to pseudoexfoliation, 8 eyes with chronic narrow-angle
glaucoma, 1 eye with normal-tension glaucoma) were examined with light-sense
perimetry (Humphrey-Field-Analyzer, program 30-2) and resolution perimetry
according to Frisén [2-7]. As the field area tested by Frisén's ring perimeter is
smaller than that of the HFA, the comparison was restricted to the area of the
ring perimeter, so that 50 out of 77 test locations of the HFA were included. In 
addition to a quantitative comparison with statistical criteria based on
age-corrected normal values, a subjective qualitative assessment was established.
The quantitative comparison of all hemifields showed good agreement in 61% of
eyes, the ring perimeter indicating moderately and markedly increased numbers of 
defects in 13% and 4% of eyes and the HFA in 18% and 4% of eyes, respectively.
Qualitative comparison of the entire fields revealed good agreement in 46% of
eyes, with moderately and markedly more defects in 18% and 10% for the ring
perimeter and 12% and 14% for the HFA, respectively. The average time needed for 
examination was 6.0 +/- 1.1 min for the ring perimeter and 17.2 +/- 2.7 min for
the HFA. The Global Deviation of the ring perimeter correlates linearly with the 
Mean Deviation of the HFA (r = 0.4824, P < 0.001).


PMID: 1486263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1694. Ophthalmologe. 1992 Dec;89(6):452-4.

[Does timolol modify retinal hemodynamics in patients with normal pressure
glaucoma?].

[Article in German]

Truckenbrodt C(1), Klein S, Vilser W.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Jena.

In 31 patients with normal-pressure glaucoma, retinal blood flow, diameter of the
retinal vessels and velocity were measured with 2-point fluorometry and automatic
measurement of the diameters before and after administration of 0.5% timolol over
2 weeks. After timolol therapy the tension was significantly decreased (before
therapy: 18.26 +/- 2.50; after therapy: 15.61 +/- 2.56 mm Hg, P < or = 0.01). The
arterial and venous diameters and blood flow were nearly unchanged, but a slight 
increase in the arterial and venous velocity was noted. We conclude that timolol 
does not significantly influence the retinal hemodynamics in patients with
normal-pressure glaucoma.


PMID: 1486259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1695. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Dec;96(12):1501-31.

[Primary open angle glaucoma and low tension glaucoma--pathogenesis and mechanism
of optic nerve damage].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwata K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University, School of Medicine.

The etiology, pathogenesis and mechanism of optic nerve damage in primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG) and low tension glaucoma (LTG) were investigated by
experimental glaucoma in monkey and by follow-up studies of many patients over 15
years, by pathohistological and immunohistochemical analysis. 1) LTG was proved
to be a real glaucoma, showing pressure-dependent optic nerve damage. The
pathological entity was a primary weakness of the lamina cribrosa (LC), and
therefore even normal pressure could deform the LC. Due to backward distortion of
LC the channels were disarranged and twisted, inducing mechanical optic nerve
damage. There was no active vascular damage or vascular constriction at the site 
of the optic nerve damage. The filling defects of the advanced glaucomatous optic
disc were not the cause of optic nerve damage, but the result of regressive
vascular change after axon bundle loss. Splinter hemorrhage of the optic disc
might be the result of the same process. 2) The weakness of LC might be induced
by the abnormal metabolism of the extracellular matrix of the LC. 3) To arrest
the progressive optic nerve damage in LTG, the intraocular pressure (IOP) should 
be maintained under 12, or ideally, 10 mmHg. 4) The optic nerve damage in POAG
was not only pressure-dependent, but also dependent on the weakness of the LC, as
in the case of LTG. In the early stage the IOP should be under 19 mmHg, in the
advanced stage under 14 mmHg in order to arrest progression for over 15 years. 5)
In advanced experimental glaucoma of monkeys, the LC showed reduction of elastin,
fragmentation of collagen, and change of proteoglycans. 6) As in the LC, the
trabecular meshwork also showed abnormal metabolism and abnormal deposits on the 
extracellular matrix in POAG, and LTG as well. 7) POAG and LTG might belong to
the same family in which common abnormal metabolism of LC and trabecular meshwork
induce various clinical features.


PMID: 1485570  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1696. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Nov;96(11):1423-8.

[Fluorescein fundus angiography of optic nerve head in primary open angle
glaucoma and low tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Nagata A(1), Mishima H, Choshi K, Shimada S, Furumoto Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hiroshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

Fluorescein fundus angiography was performed at angle of 20 degrees in the 58 low
tension glaucoma (LTG) eyes (30 cases) and 77 primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) 
eyes (41 cases) and the relation of the optic nerve head fluorescein changes to
visual field disturbances (stage classification of Kosaki) was compared between
POAG and LTG groups. The filling defect of fluorescein in the deep area and the
decrease in number of superficial capillaries were observed in the optic nerve
head. The filling defect area of fluorescein in the optic nerve head
corresponding to Bjerrum scotoma was recognized even in the mild visual field
disturbance cases of both LTG and POAG. The following findings were noted in both
LTG and POAG cases; expansion of the filling defect area and the decrease in
number of superficial capillaries in the same area with progression of visual
field disturbances. Filling defect area of fluorescein of the optic nerve head
accorded with visual field disturbance area in 19 LTG eyes (32.8%) and 61 POAG
eyes (79.2%). On the contrary, the filling defect area of the optic nerve head
was wider than the visual disturbance area in 37 LTG eyes (63.8%) and 16 POAG
eyes (20.8%). These findings suggest that blood circulatory disorders of the
optic nerve head occurred earlier in LTG than in POAG and that the development of
LTG might be closely associated with the blood circulatory disorders.


PMID: 1476072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1697. Biofizika. 1992 Nov-Dec;37(6):1076-9.

[Surface tension of diluted solutions of human tears in the normal state and in
various types of eye pathology].

[Article in Russian]

Chasovnikova LV, Formaziuk VE, Riabtseva AA, Sergienko VI.

It is shown that the measurement of diluted solutions surface tension of normal
tears and tears at different eye pathologies (cataract, glaucoma before and after
operation) gave identical results. It is interpreted as a normal function of the 
lacrimal gland at these pathologies.


PMID: 1298349  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1698. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis. 1992 Oct;3(5):541-5.

Lupus anticoagulants/anticardiolipin antibodies in patients with normal tension
glaucoma.

Tsakiris DA(1), Osusky R, Kaiser HJ, Mueri R, Flammer J, Marbet GA.

Author information: 
(1)Coagulation and Fibrinolysis Laboratory, University Hospital of Basel,
Switzerland.

Ocular vascular occlusive disease resulting in severe retinopathy and/or
post-thrombotic glaucoma has been extensively discussed in patients with lupus
anticoagulant and/or anticardiolipin antibodies (LA/aCL). Inadequate circulation 
plays an important role in the pathogenesis of another ophthalmic entity--the
normal tension glaucoma. We studied 22 patients with normal tension glaucoma
(group I) and 23 with chronic open-angle glaucoma (group II) and compared them
with a control group (n = 25, group III). LA, aCL, the aCL cofactor beta
2-Glycoprotein I, and other haemostatic parameters including factor VIII:C, von
Willebrand factor, factors II, V, VII and plasminogen activator inhibitor were
measured. Five out of 22 (22.7%) in group I, five out of 23 (21.7%) in group II
and three out of 25 (12.0%) in group III had positive LA and/or aCL. These
prevalences were not statistically significantly different. beta 2-Glycoprotein I
was normal in all groups. No other parameters were significantly different
between groups. These findings do not support the contribution of ocular
microvascular occlusive disease, due to elevated aCL, in the pathogenesis of
glaucomatous damage.


PMID: 1450320  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1699. Klin Oczna. 1992 Oct;94(10):294-6.

[Surgical treatment of low pressure glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Szymański A(1), Brozyna-Zyłka B, Sobieraj A, Otrzonsek D.

Author information: 
(1)Kliniki Okulistycznej Slaskiej Akademii Medycznej, Katowicach.

Eyes with non-controlled--in spite of a conservative treatment--bilateral
low-tension glaucoma with a decreased facility of outflow (10 patients, 20 eyes) 
were subjected to antiglaucoma operations. Trabeculectomy was performed in one
eye, a filtering operation in the second one. During the observation period of
1.5 years it showed that in the low-tension glaucoma the visual function
undergoes more frequently stabilization after a more radical glaucomatous
procedure (of filtration type) when the postoperative fall in the intraocular
pressure exceeds 20% and its daily oscillations are considerably reduced.


PMID: 1306538  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1700. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 1992 Oct;12(4):400-4.

Screening for glaucoma: age and sex of referrals and confirmed cases in England
and Wales.

Tuck MW(1), Crick RP.

Author information: 
(1)International Glaucoma Association, King's College Hospital, Denmark Hill,
London, UK.

This paper is based on a prospective survey covering 275,600 sight tests by
optometrists in England and Wales. It analyses the age and sex distribution of
1402 referrals for suspected glaucoma and 456 confirmed cases of the disease. The
proportion of sight tests which led to a confirmed case increased with age, for
both sexes, to a maximum at approximately 70 years, and then tended to decline.
Cases of glaucoma in people aged 36-51 years accounted for about a tenth of the
total, which is more than is generally recognized. Wider adoption of routine
tonometry for middle aged people would help to ensure that these cases are
detected at an early stage. Confirmed cases of glaucoma in which raised
intraocular pressure had not been given as a reason for referral, i.e. probable
low tension glaucomas, increased from 5% of patients < 51 years old to 13% of
patients > 75 years old. Glaucoma was found to be much more common in men.


PMID: 1293525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1701. Int Ophthalmol. 1992 Sep;16(4-5):251-7.

Spectrometric investigations in ocular hypertension and early stages of primary
open angle glaucoma and of low tension glaucoma--multisubstance analysis.

Schweitzer D(1), Guenther S, Scibor M, Hammer M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Jena, Germany.

The approximation of logarithmic difference spectra between the reflectance of
the normal fundus and the fundus reflectance in different stages of glaucoma is
demonstrated by a model. The influences of fundus pigments like oxihemoglobin,
melanin, xanthophyll and rhodopsin as well as the intensity and the exponent of
the scattered light are optimized. Glaucomatous alterations in the extinction of 
these pigments and of the scattering parameters are different in the macula, in
the papillo-macular bundle and in the parapapillary region temporal to the optic 
disc. A lack of oxihemoglobin only in the papillo-macular bundle in first
relative losses in the visual field function points to a damaged microcirculation
in early POAG. In progressive glaucoma the extinction spectrum of xanthophyll is 
detectable in the papillo-macular bundle. A decreased intensity of the scattered 
light and an altered scattering exponent are suggestive of a damage in the nerve 
fiber layer at early stages of glaucoma.


PMID: 1428553  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1702. Int Ophthalmol. 1992 Sep;16(4-5):247-50.

Diffuse nerve fiber layer loss in normal tension glaucoma.

Yamazaki Y(1), Koide C, Takahashi F, Yamada H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nihon University, Tokyo, Japan.

14 eyes of 14 normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients with the maximum intraocular
pressure (IOP) > or = 19 mmHg and 16 eyes of 16 NTG patients with the maximum IOP
< 19 mmHg were examined. All patients had a scotoma confined to the upper or
lower hemifield. Eyes with the maximum IOP > or = 19 mmHg showed significantly
diffuse retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) loss in the RNFL area corresponded to
the spared visual hemifield as compared to those with the maximum IOP < 19 mmHg. 
The results suggests that, even in NTG, IOP may be an important factor causing
optic nerve damage.


PMID: 1428552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1703. Int Ophthalmol. 1992 Sep;16(4-5):203-9.

Central function and visual field damage in glaucoma.

Lachenmayr BJ(1), Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

82 eyes of 82 patients with different types of glaucoma were examined with
various psychophysical tests assessing central and paracentral function,
including foveal temporal contrast sensitivity function, FM 100-Hue test, and
foveal and parafoveal blue-on-yellow-sensitivity. For all eyes visual field tests
were performed with the Humphrey-Field-Analyzer, program 30-2. Global visual
field indices were calculated as follows: Mean Sensitivity MS, Mean Deviation MD,
and Corrected Pattern Standard Deviation CPSD. Linear regression analysis and
multiple regression analysis correcting for a possible influence of age between
the central and paracentral criteria and the global indices was performed. For
the entire study population highly significant correlations are present between
foveal and parafoveal blue-on-yellow-sensitivity and MS, MD and CPSD. Whereas in 
the Normal Tension Glaucoma subgroup (19/82 eyes) no significant correlations are
found, the subgroup of 35/82 eyes with markedly elevated intraocular pressure (> 
or = 30 mmHg) shows highly statistically significant correlations between the
low- and high-frequency end of the foveal temporal contrast sensitivity function 
and foveal and parafoveal blue-on-yellow-sensitivity and the global field
indices. The results of the present study support the idea that there are two
different mechanisms of glaucomatous damage, one which is pressure-dependent and 
one which may be pressure-independent. The pressure-dependent mechanism is
responsible for deficits of central or paracentral function which are correlated 
to overall visual field damage.


PMID: 1428544  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1704. Ophthalmology. 1992 Sep;99(9):1468-70.

Intraocular pressure reduction in normal-tension glaucoma patients. The Normal
Tension Glaucoma Study Group.

Schulzer M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

BACKGROUND: In a collaborative study, patients with untreated normal-tension
glaucoma were randomly assigned to a marked intraocular pressure reduction group 
or to a no therapy group. It was anticipated that medical therapy and laser
trabeculoplasty would generally not achieve adequate pressure lowering and that
fistulizing surgery would be required. This hypothesis was examined using current
observations in the study.
METHODS: Patients randomized to the therapy group had a pressure reduction of at 
least 30% from their last prerandomization level. This was achieved within 6
months by means of fistulizing surgery or with pilocarpine and/or laser
trabeculoplasty. Beta-blockers and adrenergic agonists were excluded from both
eyes.
RESULTS: Of 30 patients with documented stable 30% pressure reduction, 17 (57%)
achieved this with topical medication and/or laser trabeculoplasty: 8 with
pilocarpine alone, 2 with laser trabeculoplasty alone, and 7 with laser
trabeculoplasty after initial topical medication. The remaining 13 (43%) patients
required a single fistulizing procedure. There was no statistically significant
difference between the mean follow-up time for the nonfistulized group (533.8 +/-
437.6 days) and for the fistulized group (502.7 +/- 344.7 days). Both treatment
groups had similar baseline profiles.
CONCLUSION: Marked pressure reduction can be achieved and maintained on a
long-term basis by means other than fistulizing surgery in a large proportion of 
patients with untreated normal-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 1407981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1705. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Aug;96(8):1007-13.

[Relationship of the office intraocular pressure (IOP) to diurnal fluctuation of 
IOP in low-tension glaucoma: a multivariate analysis].

[Article in Japanese]

Aihara M(1), Yamagami J, Araie M, Yamamoto S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo, School of Medicine,
Bunkyo-ku, Japan.

In 288 eyes of 114 low-tension glaucoma (LTG) patients, the mean, peak, trough
and magnitude of the diurnal fluctuation of the intraocular pressure (IOP)
determined over a period of 24 hours (diurnal IOP) were correlated with the IOPs 
recorded at the daytime office (office IOP), refraction, extent of visual field
loss, age, sex, blood pressure and obesity index by the method of multivariate
analysis. Only the mean office IOP was found to have a statistically significant 
contribution for estimating the mean, peak and trough of the diurnal IOP with the
proportion (R) of 0.71 0.67 and 0.68 respectively. Furthermore, an analysis of
the IOP data obtained from 118 LTG suspects using the receiver operating
characteristics (ROC) curve showed that a patient whose peak diurnal IOP exceeds 
21 mmHg could be detected with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 46% if 
around-the-clock IOP measurements were carried out in patients whose mean office 
IOP are above 16 mmHg at least in one eye. In view of high prevalence of LTG in
Japanese, estimation of mean diurnal IOP from mean office IOP and exclusion of
primary open angle glaucoma using the mean office IOP of 16 mmHg as a cutoff IOP 
level are thought to be clinically useful.


PMID: 1519501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1706. Br J Ophthalmol. 1992 Aug;76(8):494-6.

Low tension glaucoma--its place in modern glaucoma practice.

Hitchings RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.


PMCID: PMC504325
PMID: 1390534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1707. Med Lav. 1992 Jul-Aug;83(4):330-7.

[Ocular hypertension in radiologists and radiology technicians].

[Article in Italian]

Scurti D(1), L'Abbate N, Capozzi D, Lofrumento R, Crivellini S, Ambrosi L.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Medicina del Lavoro, Università degli Studi di Bari.

Comment in
    Med Lav. 1994 Jan-Feb;85(1):90-1.

Ionizing radiations (IR) produce changes in the eye and, above all, in the lens. 
Several studies on radiotherapy in neoplastic diseases and dangerous nuclear
accidents like Chernobyl have indicated the percentage and the exposure level at 
which the eye becomes the target organ of IR. The aim of the study was to
establish the association between ocular tension and low-level IR exposure. The
incidence of ocular hypertension in the general population is about 1-2% in
persons aged 30-40 years and 10% in the 70-80 years age group; the frequency of
glaucoma is 0.2-0.5% in persons aged 50-55 years and 2% in those aged 70 years
and over; after 15 years of disease, conversion from ocular hypertension to
glaucoma is observed in 40% of the cases. We examined 128 subjects occupationally
exposed to IR (42 radiologists and 86 radiology technicians) and 130 non-exposed.
For each subject we recorded age, length of employment, job titles, dosimetry,
ocular tension, refraction and motility impairments. The data obtained from a
complete ophthalmologic test was analyzed by the t-Student test, Chi-square and
Pearson's test. The ocular tension of 33 occupationally exposed subjects and 2
non-occupationally exposed subjects was higher than the cut-off value of 18 mmHg.
There was no analogy between age distribution of ocular hypertension in the
groups under study and the general population. There seems to have been a
relationship between ocular tension and job titles since a higher incidence was
observed among the radiology technicians than among the radiologists and also in 
the 30-40 years age class.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 1461191  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1708. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1992 Jul;28(4):217-20.

[Intraocular pressure and optic nerve damages in monocular early glaucoma: a
comparative study of primary open angle glaucoma and low tension glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen RY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, First Teaching Hospital, Beijing Medical
University.

The correlation of intraocular pressure (IOP) to optic nerve damages was studied 
in 17 patients of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and 24 patients of low
tension glaucoma (LTG) both with monocular early glaucomatous damages. In the
POAG group, the mean IOP was higher in the glaucomatous eye than in the other,
while in the LTG group there was no significant IOP difference between the two
eyes. Comparing the optic nerve damages in both groups, patients of POAG
presented a concentrically enlarged cup with even disc rim and diffuse retinal
nerve fiber layer defect (RNFLD), while patients of LTG exhibited a paracentrical
cup with uneven disc rim and localized RNFLD. The results suggested that there
could be different mechanisms of optic nerve damages in the two groups.


PMID: 1299565  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1709. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1992 Jul;28(4):209-13.

[Comparison of optic disc damages and fluorescein filling defect of the disc
between low tension and primary open angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang LN(1), Zhou WB.

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Sciences,
Guangzhou.

The neuroretinal rim area (NRA), the cup area and the ratio of absolute
fluorescein filling defect of the disc were measured in 23 cases of low tension
glaucoma (LTG) and 25 cases of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) with
fluorescein angiography and computerized image analysis. The results showed that 
the inferior and temporal quarters of NRA in eyes of LTG were significantly
smaller than in eyes of POAG, while the ratio of absolute fluorescein filling
defect of the disc in LTG was larger than in POAG, and the cup of LTG was larger 
than that of POAG, indicating that there might be different mechanisms of optic
disc damages in the two types of glaucoma.


PMID: 1299563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1710. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1992 Jul;28(4):199-202.

[Neuroretinal rim area (NRA) in early glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Li JB(1), Li MY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, First Hospital of Beijing Medical University.

The authors photographically measured the optic disks in 6 groups, namely, normal
subjects with small cups and those with large cups, suspected glaucoma with small
cups and those with large cups, primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and low
tension glaucoma (LTG). The effect of ocular optical magnification was corrected.
The mean NRAs of POAG, LTG and suspected glaucoma with large cups were found less
than those of the other 3 groups. In the normal subjects, an evident positive
correlation existed between the cup area and the disk area, and the NRA was
weakly correlated with the disk area. The diffuse and localized retinal nerve
fiber layer defects were negatively correlated with the NRA significantly.


PMID: 1299560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1711. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1992 Jun;33(7):2340-3.

Nitric oxide and endothelin-1 are important regulators of human ophthalmic
artery.

Haefliger IO(1), Flammer J, Lüscher TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals, Basel, Switzerland.

The vascular endothelial cells have the ability to modulate local vascular tone
by releasing relaxing factors such as nitric oxide or the vasoconstrictor peptide
endothelin-1. Although this regulatory system is found in all vertebrates, there 
is a great heterogeneity in the release of these endothelium-derived substances, 
from one organ to an other, between large and small vessels, and between
different species. Therefore, observations made in certain vascular beds or
animals do not necessarily apply to human ophthalmic circulation. The present
study was designed to investigate endothelial mediators in the human ophthalmic
artery. The results show that in the human ophthalmic artery, nitric oxide is
released under basal conditions and that its production can be markedly
stimulated by bradykinin, acetylcholine, and particularly histamine, which cause 
profound vascular relaxation. In contrast, endothelin-1 evoked potent
contractions, which were unaffected by the calcium antagonist nifedipine.
However, upon re-exposure of the blood vessels to the peptide, marked
tachyphylaxis occurred. These findings demonstrate that in the human ophthalmic
artery, endothelium-derived nitric oxide and endothelin are very potent
modulators of vascular tone, suggesting that they play an important role in the
regulation of local blood flow in the eye. Hence, endothelium dysfunction may
represent a new pathogenetic mechanism in disease states associated with altered 
blood flow to the eye, such as diabetes, hypertension, and some forms of
low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 1607246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1712. Ophthalmic Surg. 1992 Jun;23(6):395-8.

The effect of trabeculectomy on corneal topography.

Rosen WJ(1), Mannis MJ, Brandt JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, Davis, Sacramento
95816-7051.

Comment in
    Ophthalmic Surg. 1993 Feb;24(2):135.

Trabeculectomy is increasingly being performed earlier in the treatment of
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Surgically-induced alterations in corneal
curvature resulting from filtering surgery may have a significant impact on
patients, especially younger ones, whose vision may already be compromised by
visual-field loss. Using data obtained by computer-assisted topographic analysis 
performed preoperatively and at 12 weeks postoperatively, we longitudinally
studied the corneal surface changes induced by primary trabeculectomy in eight
eyes undergoing surgery for POAG or normal-tension glaucoma. Additional data
collected included refraction, keratometry, axial length, intraocular pressure,
and pachometry. Five of eight eyes developed 1.50 to 2.50 diopters of steepening 
in the 90-degree meridian. One patient developed flattening in the 180-degree
meridian without vertical steepening. Two patients had little change in the
central optical zone. Of the six eyes with induced with-the-rule astigmatism,
keratometry was less sensitive than topographic analysis in detecting the changes
induced by trabeculectomy. Our data indicate that changes in corneal curvature
are induced by filtering surgery, but may be undetectable without topographic
analysis.


PMID: 1513535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1713. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1992 May;200(5):407-8.

[Effect of naftidrofuryl (Praxilene) in primary open angle glaucoma: prospective 
double-blind study].

[Article in French]

Beati D(1), Mermoud A, Faggioni R.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Ophtalmique Jules Gonin, Lausanne.

The positive effect of Naftidrofuryl (Praxilène), a specific serotonine-S2
receptor antagonist, has already been described in the treatment of normal
pressure glaucoma. Despite the fact that in POAG intraocular pressure (IOP) is
the primary ethiopathogenic mechanism, vascular factors could also influence the 
progression of the disease, especially in old patients with cardiovascular risk
factors. We have studied the effect of Naftidrofuryl versus placebo in a
randomised double-blind study on 42 POAG patients. Visual acuity, IOP, Visual
field (Octopus program G1), Arterial pressure, Plasma viscosity have been
recorded at 0, 12 and 24 weeks. Our results showed no difference between the
Naftidrofuryl and the Placebo group for each studied parameter except a decrease 
of CLV at 12 weeks in the Naftidrofuryl group (p = 0.012). This suggests that
Naftidrofuryl is not as effective in POAG as it is in normal tension glaucoma.
Other studies with a greater patient - collective and the use of other vasoactive
substances will be necessary in the future.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045778 
PMID: 1614112  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1714. Cesk Oftalmol. 1992 May;48(3):167-70.

[Steroid glaucoma in severe atopic keratoconjunctivitis. A reminder for possible 
therapy with plasmapheresis].

[Article in Czech]

Mach R(1), Rozsíval P, Jílek D.

Author information: 
(1)Ocní klinika ILF Masarykovy nemocnice, Ustí nad Labem.

In 1989 in the authors' hospital four plasmaphereses were performed in a patient 
treated with steroids on account of severe atopic keratoconjunctivitis with
suspicion of hyperimmunoglobulinaemia IgE. As a result of treatment of the basic 
disease the patient developed steroid glaucoma. The authors recommended as
alternative treatment plasmapheresis in order to discontinue corticoid therapy.
Three months after the fourth plasmapheresis the intraocular tension improved and
is still within a normal range.


PMID: 1525888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1715. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Apr;96(4):492-5.

[Subjective detection of visual field defects using the noise-field on a home TV 
set in low-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Adachi M(1), Shirato S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine,
Bunkyo-ku, Japan.

The usefulness of the Noise-Field Test was studied in 196 normal eyes and 146
eyes of low-tension glaucoma patients (including 74 eyes of early glaucoma) who
had never perceived their filed defects. The noise-field spontaneously generated 
on a 21-inch home television screen through a non-transmitting channel was
utilized for the test. A white mark 5 mm in diameter was stuck on the center of
the screen as a fixation point. At a distance of 30 cm, the subjects were asked
to watch the screen, gazing at the fixation point with one eye for 3-5 seconds,
checking to see whether the flickering area on the noise-field diminished or
disappeared. The test was performed 3 times on each eye. In 136 glaucoma eyes,
the field defects detected by static perimetry (Humphrey) were clearly identified
in the Noise-Field Test. In normal eyes, a scotoma was noted on the blind spot in
6 eyes, The sensitivity and specificity was 93.2% and 96.9%, respectively. The
Noise-Field Test can be an excellent method in screening for low-tension glaucoma
which is easily missed by tonometric screening only.


PMID: 1621589  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1716. Arch Ophthalmol. 1992 Apr;110(4):500-2.

Immune-related disease and normal-tension glaucoma. A case-control study.

Cartwright MJ(1), Grajewski AL, Friedberg ML, Anderson DR, Richards DW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond.

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1993 Jan;111(1):22-3; author reply 23-4.
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1993 Jan;111(1):23; author reply 23-4.

We reviewed the charts of 67 patients with the diagnosis of normal-tension
glaucoma listed in the Bascom Palmer Eye Institute computer database. These
patients were matched with respect to age, race, and sex with an equal number of 
patients having ocular hypertension. All medical diagnoses in the charts for both
groups were tabulated and classified as either immune-related or
non-immune-related. Twenty (30%) patients with normal-tension glaucoma had one or
more immune-related disease(s) compared with five (8%) patients in the comparison
group (P = .00134, McNemar statistic with continuity correction).


PMID: 1562256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1717. Int Ophthalmol. 1992 Mar;16(2):65-73.

Platelet aggregation, disc haemorrhage and progressive loss of visual fields in
glaucoma. A seven year follow-up study on glaucoma.

Hoyng PF(1), de Jong N, Oosting H, Stilma J.

Author information: 
(1)The Netherlands Ophthalmic Research Institute, Amsterdam.

Platelet aggregation in vitro, deterioration of visual field defects (VFD) and
the prevalence of disc haemorrhages (DH) were assessed in 49 patients with
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and compared with the findings for 67
individuals with suspected glaucoma (GS) in a seven-year follow-up study (range
5.8 to 8.2 years). The percentage patients with spontaneous platelet aggregation 
(SPA) was higher for POAG patients with visual field deterioration (60%) than
both POAG patients without progressive loss of visual fields (12.5%; P less than 
0.005) and those with suspected glaucoma (22.4%; P less than 0.005). The
occurrence of DH was higher among POAG patients with progressive loss of visual
field (28%) compared to the GS group (8.4%; P less than 0.025) and the group of
patients consisting of POAG patients without deterioration of VFD and GS (9.9%; P
less than 0.05). DH also occurred more often in patients with low tension
glaucoma (41.6%) than in the remaining POAG patients (13.5%; P less than 0.05).
No relation between the patients with SPA and the patients with DH was observed.


PMID: 1587697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1718. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Mar;96(3):352-8.

[Visual field change and risk factors for progression of visual field damage in
low tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Shirai H(1), Sakuma T, Sogano S, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Hirata Eye Clinic, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

The authors carried out a prospective study in an attempt to determine the
possible effect of intraocular pressure (IOP) and some clinical factors on the
clinical course of low tension glaucoma (LTG). During the study period all the
patients were followed without any antiglaucoma medication. The enrollment
criteria for the study were reproducible, mild to moderate field loss as defined 
as a mean defect (MD) of greater than 2 dB and less than 10 dB or corrected loss 
variance (CLV) of greater than 7 dB revealed by the Octopus 201, G1 program.
Forty-two consecutive patients (56 eyes) who fulfilled this criteria were
enrolled. Baseline and follow-up examinations included applanation tonometry,
perimetry with G1 program, blood pressure and pulse rate. When the MD increased
by 4 dB or more on two consecutive perimetry examinations, the field defect was
judged as "progressed". During the follow-up period (6-51 months, 25.1 +/- 12.5
months), the field defect progressed in 14 eyes of 12 patients. The life-table
analysis (Kaplan-Meier) revealed that the rate of nonprogression of visual field 
defects was 55.5% at 48 months. The rate of nonprogression was significantly
lower in 16 eyes with a mean IOP equal to or higher than 15 mmHg as opposed to 40
eyes with that lower than 15 mmHg (34.3% and 67.2% respectively, p less than
0.05). The results seem to indicate that IOP is likely to be responsible for the 
aggravation of visual fields in LTG. Canonical discriminant analysis revealed
that the discriminant function containing four variables gives the best
separation between the "progressed" and "nonprogressed" group (discriminant
efficacy: 83.9%).


PMID: 1580219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1719. Arch Ophthalmol. 1992 Feb;110(2):211-3.

Optic disc size in exfoliative, primary open angle, and low-tension glaucoma.

Tuulonen A(1), Airaksinen PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Oulu, Finland.

We examined the magnification-corrected optic disc size in 54 patients with
exfoliative glaucoma, 61 patients with primary open angle glaucoma, and 50
patients with low-tension glaucoma. The mean optic disc area in low-tension
glaucoma was statistically significantly larger than that in primary open angle
and exfoliative glaucoma. The mean values of eyes with primary open angle and
exfoliative glaucoma did not differ significantly from each other. Frequency
distribution of the optic disc size showed, however, that all three diagnostic
groups differed significantly from each other. Small discs were more frequent in 
eyes with exfoliative glaucoma, and large discs were more frequent in eyes with
low-tension glaucoma. In primary open angle glaucoma, small and large optic discs
were found equally frequently. It is possible that in some eyes large optic discs
are vulnerable to even low intraocular pressures due to qualitative properties of
the extracellular matrix.


PMID: 1736870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1720. Br J Ophthalmol. 1992 Jan;76(1):2-4.

Finger blood flow in patients with low tension glaucoma and primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Usui T(1), Iwata K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1992 Jan;76(1):1.

Finger blood flow was studied by means of laser Doppler flowmetry in 12 patients 
with low tension glaucoma (LTG), 12 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG) and 12 normal subjects. Baseline flow, flow after immersion of the hand in
warm water (+40 degrees C), and flow after exposure of the hand in cold water (+4
degrees C) were measured. Statistically significant differences were not found in
each flow between the three groups of the patients (p greater than 0.05).
Vasospastic response to warm and cold water was observed in 25% of LTG patients, 
17% of POAG patients, and 25% of normal subjects. There was no significant
difference between LTG, POAG, and normal subjects in finger blood flow.


PMCID: PMC504138
PMID: 1739685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1721. Br J Ophthalmol. 1992 Jan;76(1):1.

The vascular factor in low tension glaucoma: alchemists' gold?

Jay JL.

Comment on
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1992 Jan;76(1):2-4.


PMCID: PMC504137
PMID: 1739682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1722. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1992;230(3):201-5.

Multiple defects in the retinal nerve fiber layer in glaucoma.

Chihara E(1), Honda Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan.

We investigated the parameters that correlated with multiple defects in the
retinal nerve fiber layer in 77 human eyes with normal-tension glaucoma, 110 with
chronic high-tension glaucoma, and 102 control eyes. All 187 glaucomatous eyes
had a nerve defect that was multiple in 20 cases. Correlation was significant
between the multiple defect and the type of defect in the nerve fiber layer (P
less than 0.002), size of the disc (P less than 0.02), and oblique insertion of
the disc (P less than 0.02), as evaluated by the chi-square test. By multivariate
analysis, refractive error was a high-ranking risk factor for multiple defect.
Eyes with multiple defects tended to have moderate myopia, a focal nerve fiber
layer defect and a small optic disc (category scores 0.0932, 0.0878 and 0.0697)
and were less likely to have a diffuse defect in the nerve fiber layer,
emmetropia or hyperopia, and a normal disc size (category scores -0.1077,
-0.0705, and -0.548). The multiple defect in the retinal nerve fiber in glaucoma 
was frequently focal and correlated with myopia and a small optic disc.


PMID: 1597281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1723. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1992;230(5):446-50.

A comparative study of optic nerve head in low- and high-tension glaucomas.

Yamagami J(1), Araie M, Shirato S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, University of the Ryukyus,
Japan.

The disc and rim areas in 15 eyes from 15 selected low-tension glaucoma (LTG)
patients were compared with those in 15 eyes from 15 selected high-tension
glaucoma (HTG) patients. In all patients, visual field defects (VFD) were at an
early stage (mean deviation greater than -5 dB, program 30-2 of Humphrey Visual
Field Analyzer, STATPAC) and were confined to either the upper or lower
hemifield. There were no significant differences in the degree of VFD between LTG
and HTG, and the peak intraocular pressure averaged 18.9 and 29.2 mmHg for LTG
and HTG eyes, respectively. The disc and rim areas were determined from
stereoscopic disc photographs using the method of Littman. The half rim area
corresponding to the upper or lower hemifield without VFD was significantly
smaller for LTG than HTG (LTG 0.26 +/- 0.08 mm2, HTG 0.31 +/- 0.08 mm2, mean +/- 
SD, n = 15, P less than 0.005). The rim area corresponding to the upper or lower 
hemifield with VFD was also significantly smaller for LTG than HTG (LTG 0.19 +/- 
0.08 mm2, HTG 0.24 +/- 0.08 mm2, P less than 0.01). On the other hand, there was 
no significant difference in the disc area between LTG and HTG (LTG 1.96 +/- 0.57
mm2, HTG 2.03 +/- 0.45 mm2, P greater than 0.4). It was suggested that the
differences in rim area were already present prior to the manifestation of the
VFD.


PMID: 1521811  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1724. Oftalmologia. 1992 Jan-Mar;36(1):3-12.

[Open-angle glaucoma yesterday and today].

[Article in Romanian]

Cernea P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Oftalmologică Craiova.

Glaucoma with open angle is now considered as an early optical neuropathy, that
is determined by an uneasiness in flowing of the aqueous humour at the trabecular
level. The ocular hypertension is the most frequent manifestation of the
evolution of glaucoma, but it is not obligatory because there is a glaucoma with 
open angle that develop with low pressure. The automatically perimetry and the
photography of the retinal arcuate fibers in aneritre light, may evidence
incipient lesions before increasing of the ocular tension. Stereophotographies of
the optic papillae make possible the calculus of the neuroretinal ring surface
that replaces the old ratio cup/disk. The investigation of the microcirculation
of the papillae, the determination of the papillar blood tide by pneumotonography
and the velocimetry laser Doppler have brought new data for determining the
incipient lesions of the optic disk. The large utilization of beta-blockings has 
changed the life of a glaucoma patient and the filtrant surgery has extended and 
diversified so being prolonged the visual function.


PMID: 1520666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1725. Ger J Ophthalmol. 1992;1(1):41-4.

Size of glaucomatous optic discs.

Jonas JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Federal Republic
of Germany.

In normal eyes, the optic disc size shows a high interindividual variability. In 
the diseased eye, some optic nerve anomalies and diseases occur preferentially in
small optic discs, and some are more common in large optic nerve heads. We
conducted a study to determine whether glaucoma subtypes are correlated with the 
optic disc size or not. Stereo optic disc photographs of 997 eyes with primary
open-angle glaucoma, 44 eyes with normal-tension glaucoma, 129 eyes with
pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, and 850 normal eyes were examined. Compared to eyes
with primary open-angle glaucoma (mean optic disc area: 2.63 +/- 0.61 mm2), the
optic disc was significantly larger in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma (2.96
+/- 0.73 mm2; P < 0.05), and it was smaller but not significantly smaller in eyes
with pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (2.53 +/- 0.51 mm2). Eyes with primary open-angle
glaucoma and normal eyes (2.69 +/- 0.69 mm2) did not differ significantly in
optic disc size. The abnormally large optic disc in eyes with normal-tension
glaucoma may be important diagnostically and pathogenetically.


PMID: 1477617  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1726. Ger J Ophthalmol. 1992;1(1):26-31.

The selective effects of elevated intraocular pressure on temporal resolution.

Lachenmayr BJ(1), Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

Twenty-seven eyes of 27 patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), 68 eyes of
68 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and 11 eyes of 11 patients
with special forms of high-tension glaucoma (SHTG) including (pigmentary
glaucoma, angle-closure glaucoma, secondary glaucoma, etc.), were examined by
automated light-sense and temporal resolution perimetry. Light-sense perimetry
was performed with the Humphrey Field Analyzer, using program 30-2. Temporal
resolution perimetry was conducted with a system developed by Lachenmayr. Global 
field indices were calculated for all visual fields and modalities: mean defect
(MD) for light-sense perimetry and mean flicker defect (FD) for flicker
perimetry. For each of the three glaucoma groups there was a significant linear
correlation of FD over MD. The slope of the regression line (regression
coefficient a) increased with increasing maximal pressure level of the
glaucomatous group: for NTG a = 0.6671, for POAG a = -1.2413, and for SHTG a =
-2.235. The differences of the regression coefficients between NTG and POAG and
between NTG and SHTG were statistically significant (P = 0.0366 and P = 0.0046,
respectively). The results of the present study provide evidence that the
relative amount of damage to flicker compared to light-sense perimetry increases 
with increasing maximal pressure level of a glaucomatous population. Thus,
flicker perimetry may be a tool for the identification of eyes with
pressure-produced damage.


PMID: 1477614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1727. Ophthalmic Res. 1992;24(5):280-4.

Axial length and scleral thickness effect on susceptibility to glaucomatous
damage: a theoretical model implementing Laplace's law.

Cahane M(1), Bartov E.

Author information: 
(1)Goldschleger Eye Institute, Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Ramat Gan,
Israel.

Laplace's law relates the pressure inside a hollow sphere with its radius and the
tension in its walls. A theoretical model implementing Laplace's law in the eye
globe is presented. The physical model may help to explain certain aspects in
glaucomatous disk damage such as higher susceptibility of myopic eyes to
glaucomatous damage and a possible explanation for glaucoma nerve head damage in 
low tension glaucoma.


PMID: 1475075  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1728. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1992;230(6):552-60.

Are large optic nerve heads susceptible to glaucomatous damage at normal
intraocular pressure? A three-dimensional study by laser scanning tomography.

Burk RO(1), Rohrschneider K, Noack H, Völcker HE.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Heidelberg, Federal Republic of Germany.

To evaluate the effects of the presence of glaucomatous visual field defects and 
of intraocular pressure elevations on optic nerve head topography, we analyzed
148 left optic nerve heads of 148 patients using laser scanning tomography. The
optic discs are classified according to computerized static perimetry and
documented IOP readings: 101 discs show normal visual fields (36 normal discs, 22
ocular hypertensives, 28 normotensive glaucoma suspects and 15 ocular
hypertensive glaucoma suspects), 47 discs (34 high-pressure glaucoma discs, 13
normal-tension glaucoma discs) demonstrate glaucomatous visual field damage. A
two-way analysis of variance discloses significant differences (P < 0.01) between
the groups of optic discs classified according to perimetry for most topometric
parameters evaluated except for disc area. Classification according to documented
IOP (cut off at 21 mmHg) results in larger disc areas in normotensive discs
compared to hypertensive optic nerve heads in the study population. Results
suggest that large discs may be susceptible to glaucomatous visual field damage
at statistically normal IOP readings.


PMID: 1427140  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1729. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1992;230(6):511-7.

Parameters associated with papillomacular bundle defects in glaucoma.

Chihara E(1), Tanihara H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan.

To evaluate the relationship between the papillomacular bundle defect and
glaucoma types, abnormalities of the optic disc, distance between the disc and
foveola, and axial length, we examined one eye of 82 patients with normal tension
glaucoma, 117 patients with chronic high tension glaucoma, and 102 controls. Two 
types (diffuse and focal types) were found in the papillomacular bundle defect,
and the former predominated. Eyes with a long axial length (P < 0.01), a
diagnosis of normal tension glaucoma (P < 0.05), or a large optic disc (P < 0.05)
tended to have diffuse-type papillomacular bundle defects, while eyes with a
short axial length, a diagnosis of high tension glaucoma, or a large ovalness
index are less likely to have it. Thus, a long axial length, a large optic disc, 
and normal tension glaucoma are risk factors for the diffuse-type papillomacular 
bundle defect.


PMID: 1427132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1730. Ups J Med Sci. 1992;97(3):251-60.

Visual impairment of open angle glaucomas at first presentation and after a five 
to ten year follow-up.

Berggren L(1), Widengård I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Uppsala, Sweden.

Of all patients attended to in a clinic during 1986, 441 had open angle glaucoma 
diagnosed during 1974-1986 on the basis of either a verified visual field defect,
a glaucomatous disc, or a repeated intraocular pressure value of at least 35 mm
Hg. At first presentation of recent cases 1984-1986 (N = 128) 65 per cent were
more than 70 years old. Capsular glaucomas were twice as common as simple
glaucomas (low tension cases included). 62 per cent of capsular but only 26 per
cent of simple glaucomas had an initial pressure of 35 mm Hg or more (p < 0.001).
One third of both capsular and simple glaucomas had an advanced visual field
defect with breakthrough to the periphery in the worse eye already at first
presentation. This was more common if the initial pressure was 35 mm Hg or more
(p < 0.05). Almost half remained unilateral cases, and the rate of severely
impaired visual function in the better eye did not exceed 15 per cent. While
generally 30-50 per cent of glaucomatous field defects had progressed in five
years, the progression in early detected cases was only three per cent (p <
0.05). Visual field defects with breakthrough to the periphery already at first
presentation progressed more often than circumscribed scotomas (p < 0.02).


PMID: 1300676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1731. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 1992;244:129-34.

Psychophysical mechanisms and treatment of vasospastic disorders in
normal-tension glaucoma.

Flammer J(1).

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Basel, Switserland.

Vasospasms are inappropriate constrictions of small vessels leading to a variety 
of clinical pictures depending on the location of such spasms. Although the
pathophysiological mechanism is not yet well understood, we know some factors
able to provoke spasm in patients with appropriate predisposition like
hemorrhage, coldness, emotional stress and others. Such vasoconstrictions provoke
normally relative mild symptoms like cold fingers, or pain as in variant angina
and in only very rare cases, to irreversible structural damage such as myocardial
infarction. There is not much known about the involvement of the eye in
vasospastic disorders. Retinal migraine is a known entity but occurs quite
seldom. If one looks for it, one can often find (mostly reversible) visual field 
damage in patients with vasospastic disorders. This might be a sign of a
reversible functional damage most probably due to a decreased circulation in the 
optic nerve head or the surrounding choroid. In most of these patients the optic 
nerve head looks normal, sometimes slightly pale. In patients with the so-called 
normal-tension glaucoma however, the prevalence of vasospastic disorders, is very
clearly increased. This leads to the hypothesis that recurrent vasospasm in the
eye may, in some cases, finally lead to structural damage, presenting itself
phenomenologically as normal-tension glaucoma. Therefore treatment or selected
normal tension glaucoma patients with calcium-channel-blockers is helpful, as has
been proven in prospective studies.


PMID: 1297507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1732. Can J Ophthalmol. 1991 Dec;26(7):377-82.

Glaucomatous optic neuropathy and field loss in primary empty sella syndrome.

Beattie AM(1), Trope GE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Toronto General Hospital, University of Toronto, 
ON.

Primary empty sella syndrome is associated with certain visual field defects.
Typical glaucomatous field defects, however, have rarely been reported. We
reviewed eight cases of primary empty sella syndrome. Seven patients had typical 
glaucomatous optic disc and visual field changes. Three patients had low-tension 
glaucoma and four had typical primary open-angle glaucoma. We recommend that in
addition to neurologic and endocrinologic assessment, patients with primary empty
sella syndrome and visual field loss should have a detailed ophthalmologic
examination, particular attention being paid to intraocular pressure and optic
disc appearance to rule out glaucoma as a cause of the field loss.


PMID: 1764644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1733. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1991 Nov;27(6):323-5.

[The neuroretinal rim area and the rim disc areal ratio in normal eyes].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang LN(1), Zhou WB.

Author information: 
(1)Shenzhen Eye Hospital.

A study of the neuroretinal rim area (NRA) and the rim disc areal ratio (R/D) in 
normal, suspected low tension glaucoma and low tension glaucoma eyes indicated
that NRA had greater variation than did R/D in normal eyes, and NRA was
positively correlated with the disc area whereas R/D was not. Meanwhile, R/D was 
more sensitive to glaucoma than was NRA or the cup and disc ratio, suggesting
that R/D was useful in early diagnosis of glaucoma.


PMID: 1818816  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1734. Br J Ophthalmol. 1991 Nov;75(11):652-5.

Postural change of intraocular and blood pressures in ocular hypertension and low
tension glaucoma.

Yamabayashi S(1), Aguilar RN, Hosoda M, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yamanashi Medical College, Japan.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1991 Nov;75(11):643.

The effect of body position on the intraocular and blood pressures of normal
volunteers and of patients with ocular hypertension and low tension glaucoma was 
studied. Changing from the sitting to the supine position increased the
intraocular pressure by an average of 4.4 (SD 2.0) mm Hg in the control group,
4.0 (SD 2.0) mm Hg in the ocular hypertension group, and 4.1 (SD 1.8 mm Hg) in
the low-tension glaucoma group. After 30 minutes in the supine position the
intraocular pressure in normal volunteers and patients with low tension glaucoma 
remained stable. In contrast patients with ocular hypertension showed a further
significant increase in intraocular pressure of 1.6 (SD 2.8) mm Hg (p = 0.004).
This was accompanied by an equally significant decrease in blood pressure (p less
than 0.001). We believe that these are manifestations of different mechanism of
intraocular pressure regulation between these groups.


PMCID: PMC1042519
PMID: 1751457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1735. Ann Ophthalmol. 1991 Oct;23(10):377-82.

The use of a new portable noncontact tonometer in home tonometry.

Stewart WC(1), Cascairo MA, Banta R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston.

We used a new portable noncontact tonometer for home tonometry on 26 patients
with chronic open-angle glaucoma or suspected low-tension glaucoma. In an
outpatient setting, the mean difference and correlation coefficient between the
family member's noncontact tonometry values and the nursing staff's applanation
tonometry values used as a control was 1.0mmHg and 0.894mmHg, respectively. The
difference between the means was not statistically significant (P greater than
.05, by Student's t test). At home, the variances of four noncontact tonometric
values obtained every other hour did not differ significantly from those obtained
in the outpatient setting by the nursing staff (P greater than .05). Five of 26
patients had their medical regimen changed based on the results of home
tonometry. This study suggests that many nonmedical personnel can do noncontact
tonometric scanning reliably. At home, noncontact tonometry may help evaluate a
patient's intraocular pressure control.


PMID: 1755613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1736. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1991 Aug;95(8):790-4.

[A comparative study on visual field defect in low tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Ito M(1), Sugiura T, Mizokami K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Kobe University, Japan.

The mode of visual field defect and the change of intraocular pressure (IOP) were
analyzed between progressive low tension glaucoma (LTG) and non-progressive LTG. 
Maximum IOP and phasic fluctuation in IOP during the follow-up period in
progressive cases were significantly higher than those in non-progressive cases
(p less than 0.01). This greater range in phasic fluctuation may lead to the
development of glaucomatous damage. Analysis of the pattern of visual field
defect revealed significantly greater frequency of dense defects within 10
degrees of the fixation area in progressive cases. Another analysis on the mode
of visual field damage between progressive LTG and POAG demonstrated higher
frequency of focal progression of the damage. These results suggest that there
are some different etiological factors among progressive LTG, non-progressive LTG
and POAG, while focal anatomical weakness at the optic nerve head also influences
the development of damage in some case of progressive LTG.


PMID: 1950837  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1737. Br J Ophthalmol. 1991 Aug;75(8):493-5.

Regression analysis of visual field progression in low tension glaucoma.

Noureddin BN(1), Poinoosawmy D, Fietzke FW, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, Glaucoma Unit, London.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1993 Mar;77(3):194.

Eighty four patients (168 eyes) with low tension glaucoma were retrospectively
reviewed (mean follow-up was 28 months). The mean age was 66 years, and 69% were 
females. Regression analysis of their automated Humphrey fields (a mean of eight 
fields per eye) showed progression in 50% of patients and in 37% of eyes. There
was no statistically significant difference between patients with progression and
non-progression with respect to age (p less than 0.05) or intraocular pressure (p
less than 0.5). Visual field defects were located most frequently in the superior
hemifield in both groups of patients. A considerable proportion of patients had
advanced field loss at the time of diagnosis.


PMCID: PMC1042440
PMID: 1873271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1738. Br J Ophthalmol. 1991 Aug;75(8):466-70.

Pulsatile ocular blood flow in patients with low tension glaucoma.

James CB(1), Smith SE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmacological Sciences and Toxicology, United Medical School,
Guy's Hospital, London.

Measurements of the intraocular pressure (IOP) pulse and pulsatile ocular blood
flow (POBF) have been made in 22 patients with bilateral low tension glaucoma
(LTG) and 29 healthy subjects matched as closely as possible for age, refractive 
error, IOP, systemic pulse pressure, and heart rate. Recordings were made in both
the standing and supine positions. The amplitude of the intraocular pressure
pulse was significantly lower in patients with LTG (1.2, SEM 0.1 mmHg standing,
and 1.3, SEM 0.1 mmHg lying) than in healthy subjects (1.9, SEM 0.1 mmHg
standing, and 2.0 SEM 0.1 mmHg lying): p less than 0.001 standing and p less than
0.002 lying. Measurement of POBF also showed a significant reduction between the 
healthy subjects (428 (31) SEM microliters/min standing and 345 (28) SEM
microliters/min lying) and subjects with LTG (301 (27) SEM microliters/min
standing and 249 (24) SEM microliters/min lying), p less than 0.005 standing and 
p less than 0.02 lying. This represents a difference of approximately 30% between
the two groups in either posture. A close non-parametric correlation existed
between the level of IOP and the POBF (r = 0.75, p less than 0.001 standing, and 
r = -0.55, p less than 0.02 lying). Such a correlation was not present in the
healthy subjects. A reduction in POBF occurred in both groups on assuming the
supine posture (healthy subjects 83 (16) SEM microliters/min, LTG subjects 52
(17) SEM microliters/min). These figures represent reductions of 19% and 17%
respectively in comparison with the standing value. The results lend further
confirmation to the hypothesis that vascular factors are associated with low
tension glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC1042432
PMID: 1873264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1739. Arch Ophthalmol. 1991 Aug;109(8):1090-5.

Relationship between intraocular pressure and primary open angle glaucoma among
white and black Americans. The Baltimore Eye Survey.

Sommer A(1), Tielsch JM, Katz J, Quigley HA, Gottsch JD, Javitt J, Singh K.

Author information: 
(1)Dana Center for Preventive Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Md.

A detailed ocular examination, including perimetry, was conducted on 5308 black
and white subjects aged 40 years and older in a population-based prevalence
survey in east Baltimore, Md. Repeated, detailed examinations were carried out on
selected subjects. Roughly half of all subjects with optic nerve damage from
primary open angle glaucoma, regardless of race, were unaware that they had the
condition. The average intraocular pressure (IOP) among black patients with
glaucoma who were receiving treatment was virtually identical to that in those
black patients who were not receiving treatment (median IOP, 20 mm Hg); treated
eyes of white patients had a lower IOP than those eyes of white patients who were
not receiving treatment (mean [+/- SD] IOP, 18.69 +/- 3.23 mm Hg vs 24.15 +/-
5.23 mm Hg; P less than .001). The risk of glaucomatous optic nerve damage
increased with the height of the screening IOP, particularly at levels of 22 to
29 and 30 mm Hg and above (relative rate compared with IOP of 15 mm Hg or lower, 
12.8 and 40.1 mm Hg, respectively). More than half of all glaucomatous eyes had a
screening IOP below 21 mm Hg, whether these eyes were receiving treatment or not.
The IOP in glaucomatous eyes tended to rise on follow-up, in contrast with
nonglaucomatous eyes in which the IOP was as likely to rise as to fall. Results
confirmed that IOP is an important factor in glaucoma, but did not support the
traditional distinction between "normal" and "elevated" pressure, nor its
corollaries, "low-tension" glaucoma and "high-tension" glaucoma.


PMID: 1867550  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1740. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1991 Jul;95(7):692-7.

[Study of follow-up period and provocative tests for diagnosis of primary
open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamazaki S(1), Baba H, Inoue Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Medical and Dental University School of
Medicine, Bunkyo-ku, Japan.

How long should we follow up the patients with glaucomatous visual field defects 
to confirm the diagnosis of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)? What is the most 
important examination for the diagnosis of POAG? In order to answer these
questions, 108 eyes of 60 cases were followed up for more than 4 years. All of
these subjects presented both open angle and glaucomatous field defects. In the
patients who did not present the increment of the intraocular pressure (IOP)
within one month from the first visit, the relationship between the increment of 
IOP after one month and provocative tests, sex, age and refractions were
evaluated. Of these, 47 eyes showed an increment of IOP within one month from the
first visit. The other 61 eyes, suspected of low tension glaucoma (LTG), were
followed up for the further course of IOP. Of these, 25 eyes showed an increment 
of IOP after one month to 6 years from the first visit, and the other 36 eyes did
not for more than 4 years to 21 years. Follow-up for at least one year is
necessary to confirm the diagnosis of POAG. In order to predict the increment of 
IOP in the subjects with normal IOP and glaucomatous field defects, the ratio
Po/C after drinking water is the most sensitive examination.


PMID: 1927750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1741. Ophthalmology. 1991 Jul;98(7):1047-52.

Use of trabeculectomy with postoperative 5-fluorouracil in patients requiring
extremely low intraocular pressure levels to limit further glaucoma progression.

Wilson RP(1), Steinmann WC.

Author information: 
(1)Wills Eye Hospital, Department of Ophthalmology, Thomas Jefferson University
Medical School, Philadelphia, PA 19107.

The authors conducted a randomized, controlled clinical trial to quantify the
effect of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) on filtration surgery. Both eyes of 17 patients
with either bilateral low-tension glaucoma or advanced chronic open-angle
glaucoma that would be expected to progress at intraocular pressures in the
normal range were included. One eye received a full-thickness filtering procedure
with a modified shell tamponade technique, and the other received a
trabeculectomy with postoperative 5-FU. Follow-up was equal for both eyes and
averaged 9.2 months. In eyes in the shell group, the average postoperative
pressure was 10.94 mmHg, and in the 5-FU group it was 6.94 mmHg, (P = 0.0001).
However, the postoperative visual acuity decrease was significantly greater in
the 5-FU group (P less than 0.05). Choroidal detachments also were more frequent 
in the 5-FU group, but this was not statistically significant.


PMID: 1891212  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1742. Appl Opt. 1991 Jun 1;30(16):2121-35. doi: 10.1364/AO.30.002121.

Profound reductions of flicker sensitivity in the elderly: can glaucoma involve
the retina distal to ganglion cells?

Eisner A, Samples JR.

Flicker sensitivities were measured for more than 100 people age 60 and older
with stimulus-conditions originally designed to obtain estimates of preretinal
absorption by the lens and macular pigment. Flicker sensitivities were measured
on two chromatic backgrounds: a 1000-td, 480-nm background and a 5800-td, Wratten
33 background (approximately metameric with 633 nm). Testing sessions were
administered at 18-month intervals across a 3-yr period. No subject tested had a 
history of glaucoma or ocular hypertension at the time of entry into the study.
For ten subjects, however, flicker sensitivity was sometimes reduced by more than
2.0 log units from the mean norm for at least one of the two backgrounds. For
most other subjects, flicker sensitivities were within 0.5 log units of the mean 
norms. On retrospective analysis, the profound reductions of flicker sensitivity 
(PRFS) were associated significantly with (a) advanced age (perhaps especially
when combined with relatively high intraocular pressure), and (b) the use of
cardiovascular medications. The PRFS probably were associated with (c) female
sex, and (d) large intraocular pressure fluctuations. In addition, the majority
of subjects with PRFS were found to have evidence of glaucomatous cupping or
field loss. These results suggest that PRFS result from glaucoma or share
etiologies with low-tension glaucoma. The use of cardiovascular medications
suggested that PRFS could depend on retinal dysfunction rather than on optic
nerve compromise alone. Predicted results from two additional subject populations
support this possibility. For young healthy subjects, flicker threshold vs
illuminance curves attained very steep slopes for sufficiently short wavelength
tests on sufficiently extreme long wavelength backgrounds (655 nm, 50,000 td);
the steep slopes coincided with the breakdown of effective M-cone isolation.
Reductions of flicker sensitivity on the 5800-td Wratten 33 background depended
correspondingly on test wavelength for subjects with well-documented low-tension 
glaucoma.


PMID: 20700187  [PubMed]


1743. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1991 Jun;69(3):293-8.

Neuroretinal rim area in low tension glaucoma: effect of nifedipine and
acetazolamide compared to no treatment.

Lumme P(1), Tuulonen A, Airaksinen PJ, Alanko HI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Oulu, Finland.

The purpose of this study was to measure the change of neuroretinal rim area in
patients with low tension glaucoma on- and off-treatment. Thirty-two patients
were followed up for a mean of 2.6 years. Ten patients received treatment with
nifedipine, 11 patients with acetazolamide and 11 patients had no treatment. The 
total change of rim area and the yearly rate of rim area change did not differ
statistically significantly between the three groups. Seven patients in each
group suffered from cold hands and feet. The response to cold provocation visual 
field testing was positive in 25% of patients. Neither the history of cold hands 
and feet nor the cold provocation test result affected the rate of progression of
optic disc abnormalities. Nifedipine and acetazolamide treatment seemed to show
no advantage over no-treatment in our patients.


PMID: 1927310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1744. Am J Ophthalmol. 1991 May 15;111(5):585-8.

Blood-cell velocity in the nailfold capillaries of patients with normal-tension
and high-tension glaucoma.

Gasser P(1), Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Claraspital, Basel, Switzerland.

We compared the capillary blood-cell velocity in the fingertips of 30 patients
with high-tension glaucoma, 30 patients with normal-tension glaucoma, and 30
control subjects by nailfold capillaroscopy. There were no measurable differences
in the morphologic findings. The blood-flow velocity, however, was reduced
significantly in the patients with normal-tension glaucoma compared with the
control subjects (P less than .05). This difference was especially pronounced
after cold provocation (P less than .0005). After cooling, 25 of 30 patients with
normal-tension glaucoma had a blood standstill of 12 seconds or more, whereas
only three of 30 control subjects and four of 30 patients with high-tension
glaucoma had a measurable blood standstill.


PMID: 2021167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1745. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1991 May;27(3):145-8.

[Cerebral and carotid arterial radiograms in low tension glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen RY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, First Teaching Hospital, Beijing Medical
University.

Cerebral and carotid arterial radiograms were performed for 22 healthy
volunteers, 8 patients with primary open angle glaucoma(POAG), and 10 patients
with low tension glaucoma (LTG). Analysis of the Time-Radioactivity Curves
suggested that insufficient perfusion of the carotid artery, especially the
internal carotid artery, might play an important role in the optic nerve damage
of some cases of LTG.


PMID: 1914704  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1746. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1991 May;198(5):415-8.

[Ocular vasospasm. 4: Clinical examples].

[Article in German]

Prünte-Glowazki A(1), Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Basel.

The presumed ocular vasospasms provoke a variety of symptoms. Out of the large
spectrum, two typical cases are described. The first case is a patient that
developed visual field defect under psychological stress conditions. A drug
therapy relieved the patient from the symptoms. The second case is a patient with
a normal-tension-glaucoma. The treatment of the vasospasm improved the visual
field markedly.


PMID: 1886374  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1747. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1991 May;198(5):411-2.

[Ocular vasospasm. 1: Functional circulatory disorders in the visual system, a
working hypothesis].

[Article in German]

Flammer J(1), Prünte C.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Basel.

Patients with normal-tension-glaucoma and with visual field defects of non-known 
origin, often suffer from mild vasospasm in the fingers. The observation often be
provocated by coldness or emotional stress and that these defects can very often 
be reduced by a treatment of the vasospasm led to the hypothesis that a
functional dysregulation of the circulation in the visual system might occur.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045995 
PMID: 1886371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1748. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1991 May;198(5):332-4.

[Treatment of normal pressure glaucoma with a serotonin S2 receptor antagonist,
naftidrofuryl (praxilen)].

[Article in French]

Mermoud A(1), Faggioni R.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital ophtalmique Jules Gonin, Lausanne.

35 normal tension glaucoma patients were followed during 8 to 11 month. 12
patients received 2 x 200 mg/day Naftidrofuryl, a serotonine S2 receptor
antagonist. As controles, another 23 patients were followed without treatment.
The treated group, compared with the 23 non treated patients showed a significant
increase in visual acuity (p = 0.001), a significant increase of the MS (p =
0.03), and a non significant decrease of the MD and CLV on the Octopus visual
field (p, NS). The physiology and physiopathology of serotonine and S2 receptor
antagonist are discussed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045973 
PMID: 1886349  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1749. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1991 May;95(5):495-9.

[Diurnal variation of intraocular pressure in low tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamagami J(1), Araie M, Shirato S, Ishii R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, University of the Ryukyus,
Okinawa, Japan.

Around-the clock intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement were performed in 104
eyes of 52 low tension glaucoma (LTG) cases. Subjects were all hospitalized and
IOP measurements were done every 2 hours from 6:00 AM to 12:00 PM and every 3
hours from 12:00 PM to 6:00 AM. All LTG patients met the following criteria, (1) 
glaucomatous optic nerve head change and corresponding visual field defect, (2)
normal open angle, (3) IOP less than or equal to 21mmHg at any time of IOP
measurement, (4) no obvious neurological or rhinological disorders that could
affect the optic nerve, (5) no history of hemodynamic crisis or cardiovascular
disorders except mild hypertension. Peak IOPs were most frequently observed at
10:00 AM, but about 55% of all observed peaks were in the time period from 6:00
PM to 8:00 AM. Most troughs were observed from 2:00 PM to 10:00 PM. The mean IOP,
the diurnal variation and the difference between both eyes in the same person
averaged 14.1, 4.9, and 0.6mmHg, respectively. Assuming that the period of rhythm
is 24 hours, the results of IOP measurements fitted a cosine curve using the
least square method. In 44% of all eyes, significant correlation coefficient (r
greater than or equal to 0.6, p less than 0.05) between the measured and the
predicted IOPs was noted, and an equation, IOP = 14.3 + 1.7cos 2 pi (t/24-0.4
radian), was obtained. Comparing the present results with former ones, we
concluded that the IOP changes in LTG patients were similar to those in normal
individuals.


PMID: 1872223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1750. Br J Ophthalmol. 1991 Apr;75(4):224-6.

Prevalence of migraine in low-tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma in
Japanese.

Usui T(1), Iwata K, Shirakashi M, Abe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

We studied the prevalence of migraine in low-tension glaucoma (LTG) and primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Seventy seven Japanese patients with LTG, 73 with
POAG, and 75 normal subjects were randomly selected and tested with a headache
questionnaire. The prevalence of headache with or without typical migrainous
features (unilateral headache or ocular pain, nausea, vomiting, and visual
disturbance before headache) was 51% in LTG, 42% in POAG, and 44% in normal
patients. The prevalence of headache with two migrainous features or more
(probable migraine) was 17% in LTG, 11% in POAG, and 12% in normal subjects. The 
prevalence of headache with three migrainous features (classical migraine) was 5%
in LTG, 3% in POAG, and 3% in normal subjects. There was no statistically
significant difference in the prevalence of any types of migraine between the
three groups of patients (p greater than 0.05). These results suggest there is no
significant relationship between migraine and LTG or POAG in Japanese patients.


PMCID: PMC1042327
PMID: 2021590  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1751. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1991 Apr;95(4):343-7.

[A comparative study of optic disc appearances in progressive and non-progressive
low-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugiura T(1), Ito M, Mizokami K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Kobe University, Japan.

The relation between the optic disc appearances and the progression of visual
field defects was studied by retrospective case review of 148 eyes of 74 patients
with a diagnosis of low-tension glaucoma (LTG). Visual fields were tested by a
Goldmann perimeter and the subjects were divided into two groups, i.e. 43 eyes
(29.1%) with progression and 105 eyes (70.9%) without progression, according to
Esterman's scale. In the group which showed progression, mean IOP (p less than
0.05), level of change in IOP and maximum of IOP (p less than 0.01) were
significantly higher. No differences were observed in any of the following
parameters: prevalence of peripapillary hemorrhage or crescent, rim pallor,
disc/arteriole ratio, number of rim-crossing vessels. Mildly hypoplastic disc,
however, was statistically more frequent in the progressive group (p less than
0.05). The authors suspect that not only IOP but some inherent factors concerning
the optic nerve head may play an important role in the progression of LTG.


PMID: 1877407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1752. Ophthalmology. 1991 Mar;98(3):296-300.

Diurnal variation of intraocular pressure of normal-tension glaucoma. Influence
of sleep and arousal.

Ido T(1), Tomita G, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 1991 Oct;98(10):1485-6.

The measurement of the diurnal variation of intraocular pressure (IOP) is
indispensable for the diagnosis of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). To determine
the diurnal variation of IOP, its measurement has to be made repeatedly for 24
hours, which interferes with patients's sleep at night and may influence the
physiologic IOP variation. The authors studied the IOP variation in 82 NTG
suspects, whose IOP was first measured every 2 hours for 24 hours. The following 
night they were suddenly aroused without any notice and IOP was measured. The
diurnal IOP variation of NTG patients was found to be similar to that of the
normal population and there was no significant difference in the IOP values at
the same time points on the two successive nights. Sleep may have little, if any,
influence on diurnal IOP variation in NTG patients.


PMID: 2023748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1753. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1991;229(3):267-73.

Diffuse and localized glaucomatous field loss in light-sense, flicker and
resolution perimetry.

Lachenmayr BJ(1), Drance SM, Chauhan BC, House PH, Lalani S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

A total of 75 eyes in 75 patients with different types of glaucoma (21 eyes with 
low-tension glaucoma, 49 with primary open-angle glaucoma and 5 with pigmentary
glaucoma) were examined by automated light-sense, flicker and resolution
perimetry. All fields were classified in a masked fashion as being "normal" (N)
or as having "diffuse loss" (D), "localized loss" (L) or "diffuse plus localized 
loss" (DL). The frequency distributions for the various field loss categories
were plotted against the highest intraocular pressure ever reported in the
patients' records. The frequency distribution for the purely localized defects
showed a peak at 20 mmHg and were markedly skewed to low pressure values, whereas
those for both diffuse plus localized damage and purely diffuse loss peaked at
about 30 mmHg. The data suggest that diffuse field loss may be an indicator of
pressure-induced damage.


PMID: 1869065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1754. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1991;103(8):217-21.

Clinical syndromes with vasoconstrictor response.

Gasser P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Claraspital, Basel, Switzerland.

Vasospasm implies reversible vasoconstriction that may diminish blood flow to the
perfused tissues followed by an ischaemia of varying severity. The exact
pathophysiology of the condition remains unknown to this day. Vasospasms are not 
only present in Raynaud's disease, migraine, Prinzmetal's variant angina, visual 
field defects and partially in low-tension glaucoma, but may also be involved in 
the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease. Vasospastic diseases may result from more
than one mechanism. It is difficult to determine which of the underlying
abnormalities is the most important in vasospastic syndromes of different
vascular beds.


PMID: 1858387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1755. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1991;88(6):694-7.

[Value of Doppler carotid artery sonography in ophthalmologic diagnosis].

[Article in German]

Schilling H(1), Mellin KB, Waubke TN.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Essen, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.

We report the clinical and Doppler sonographic findings on the internal carotid
artery in 230 patients with various purely ocular vascular symptoms. For
evaluation, the patients were subdivided into four groups: group I (107): central
retinal artery obstruction (CRAO) (13), branch retinal artery obstruction (BRAO) 
(31), amaurosis fugax (AF) (13), anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) (50); 
group II: retinal vein occlusion (25); group III: "low-tension glaucoma" (55);
group IV: chronic open-angle glaucoma with a possible vascular co-factor (43). In
group I with signs of arterial ocular mal-perfusion; 29.5% of cases with CRAO and
BRAO revealed significant stenosis or complete obstruction of the ipsilateral
internal carotid artery. Only 4 of 50 cases (8.0%) with AION showed positive
findings. A remarkable result of this evaluation is the coincidence that nearly
all high-grade obliterations and obstructions of the internal carotid arteries
diagnosed in this study were exclusively confined to eyes with very severe
ischemic changes in both anterior and posterior segments. In no other case was
localization or extent of the obstructive process in the internal carotid artery 
predictive. Venous retinal obstructions with only 16% positive findings did not
show any correlation with arterial occlusive disease of extracranial vessels
based on demographic aspects and clinicopathological studies. Also no etiological
correlation could be detected in either of the glaucoma groups (III and IV).


PMID: 1794793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1756. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1991;35(2):133-55.

Epidemiology of glaucoma in Japan--a nationwide glaucoma survey.

Shiose Y(1), Kitazawa Y, Tsukahara S, Akamatsu T, Mizokami K, Futa R, Katsushima 
H, Kosaki H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, Aichi Prefectural Center of Health Care, Nagoya,
Japan.

A population-based, collaborative glaucoma survey was conducted in seven regions 
throughout Japan, during the years of 1988 and 1989. The total number of subjects
examined was 8,126 out of 16,078 residents aged 40 years or older, representing a
participation rate of 50.54%. There were no significant differences in background
factors between participants and randomly sampled nonparticipants. A mainstay of 
the screening consisted of tonometry and fundus photography with nonmydriatic
camera, followed by automatic perimetry as a recall examination. Overall
prevalences obtained were primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) 0.58%, low-tension
glaucoma (LTG) 2.04%, primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) 0.34%, other types of
glaucomas 0.60%, and ocular hypertension (OH) 1.37% at the time of screening. The
very high prevalence of LTG and extremely low prevalence of OH in the Japanese
might reflect a racial peculiarity in the age-specific trend of the intraocular
pressure. The prevalence of PACG was found much higher in Japanese than in
Caucasians, with a predilection for women. Racial peculiarities as revealed in
this study were discussed, with particular reference to the refractive status in 
the Japanese that showed progressive decrease in myopia with age.


PMID: 1779484  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1757. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1991;35(3):273-81.

Subjective detection of visual field defects using home TV set.

Shirato S(1), Adachi M, Hara T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

The usefulness of the noise-field spontaneously generated on a home television
screen for subjective perception of visual field defects was studied in 196 eyes 
of ocular hypertensive or normal subjects, 166 eyes with primary open angle
glaucoma and 124 eyes with low-tension glaucoma. All subjects had never perceived
their field defects. In 290 glaucoma eyes, including 71 eyes of early glaucoma,
265 eyes (91.4%) could perceive abnormality of the noise-field which corresponded
to visual field defects confirmed by static perimetry. In 6 normal eyes
abnormality of the noise-field was perceived at the blind spot. The sensitivity
and specificity of the test was 91% and 97%, respectively. The time required for 
testing one eye was 3-5 seconds. The results indicate that the Noise-Field Test
using a home television set can be an excellent method for subjective perception 
of visual field defects, and can also be used for glaucoma screening.


PMID: 1770667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1758. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1991;229(6):517-20.

Comparison of retinal nerve-fiber layer in high- and normal-tension glaucoma.

Yamazaki Y(1), Koide C, Miyazawa T, Kuwagaki N, Yamada H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nihon University, Tokyo, Japan.

In all, 20 eyes of 20 normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) patients and 20 eyes of
high-tension glaucoma (HTG) patients matched for similar visual field defects
underwent retinal nerve-fiber-layer (RNFL) analysis using a computerized
digital-image analysis system. Subjects with NTG showed more localized RNFL loss 
than diffuse loss as compared with HTG patients. The results support the
hypothesis that there may be different mechanisms of damage in glaucoma.


PMID: 1765290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1759. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1991;88(5):530-7.

[Diffuse and localized glaucomatous visual field changes in light sense, flicker 
and visual acuity perimetry. Evidence of pressure damage].

[Article in German]

Lachenmayr BJ(1), Drance SM, Chauhan BC, House PH, Lalani S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Faculty of
Medicine, Vancouver, Canada.

75 eyes of 75 patients with different types of glaucoma (21 eyes with
normal-tension glaucoma, 49 eyes with primary open-angle glaucoma and 5 eyes with
pigmentary glaucoma) were examined by automated light-sense, flicker and
resolution perimetry. All fields were classified as being "normal" (N) or having 
"diffuse loss" (D), "localized loss" (L) and "diffuse plus localized loss" (DL)
in masked fashion. The frequency distributions for the various field loss
categories against the highest intraocular pressure ever reported in the
patients' records were plotted. The frequency distributions for the purely
localized defects show a peak at 20 mmHg and are markedly skewed to low pressure 
values, while the diffuse plus localized damage and the purely diffuse loss,
however, show a peak at about 30 mmHg. The data support the hypothesis that
diffuse field loss may be an indicator of pressure-induced damage.


PMID: 1757044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1760. Optom Clin. 1991;1(1):255-65.

Low-tension glaucoma.

Alexander LJ, Fingeret M, Jennings B, Thimons JJ.


PMID: 1686844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1761. Yan Ke Xue Bao. 1990 Dec;6(3-4):58-9, 94.

[The relationship of structure in vivo of low tension glaucoma and myopia].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang L(1), Zhou W.

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Sciences,
Guangzhou, China.

The structure in vivo and incidence of myopia on thirty patients with low tension
glaucoma were studied in this paper. Results showed that the incidence of high
myopia of patients with low tension glaucoma was higher than normal. All of the
mean values of the thickness of lens, the length of vitreous and axis, and the
area of optic disc were larger than normal too. These indicate that patients with
low tension glaucoma may often be associated with high myopia, and their
structure of eye in vivo differs from normal. These may be related to
pathogenesis of disease with low tension glaucoma. The relationship of myopia and
structure of optic disc with glaucoma were briefly summarized.


PMID: 2289575  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1762. Am J Ophthalmol. 1990 Nov 15;110(5):490-9.

Pseudoexfoliative fibrillopathy in the skin of patients with ocular
pseudoexfoliation.

Streeten BW(1), Dark AJ, Wallace RN, Li ZY, Hoepner JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, State University of New York, Health Science
Center, Syracuse 13210.

In addition to its occurrence within the eye, pseudoexfoliative fibrillopathy has
been reported in the conjunctiva and around a posterior ciliary artery. To
determine whether it has a more diffuse extraocular distribution, we studied skin
biopsy specimens ultrastructurally from one to three areas in 13 patients with
classic pseudoexfoliation. A fibrillopathy closely resembling that in the eye was
found in 11 of the 13 patients. Only one of the 13 control subjects, a
78-year-old man with advanced low-tension glaucoma, had a similar fibrillopathy. 
In the patients with pseudoexfoliation who were more than 70 years of age, the
accompanying dermal elastosis made evaluation difficult, because the
pseudoexfoliative nodules in the skin occur primarily along elastic fibers, and
their morphologic characteristics appeared to be influenced by the elastotic
process. These results suggest that pseudoexfoliation is a systemic process
related closely to elastosis, and that further search for pseudoexfoliative
fibers should be made in the elastic system of the deep tissues and internal
organs.


PMID: 2240134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1763. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1990 Nov;31(11):2367-72.

The influence of intraocular pressure on visual field damage in patients with
normal-tension and high-tension glaucoma.

Chauhan BC(1), Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canda.

There have been several reports to suggest that the type of visual field damage
in open-angle glaucoma is influenced by intraocular pressure (IOP). This study
was undertaken to determine the extent to which patients with normal-tension
(NTG) and high-tension glaucoma (HTG) could be differentiated on the basis of
some features of their visual fields. The results from 40 pairs of NTG and HTG
patients were matched closely for the extent of visual field damage, pupil size, 
and visual acuity. Using this pooled material, the authors increased the IOP
difference between the two groups in either direction, ie, by either
progressively lowering the highest recorded IOP allowed for inclusion in the NTG 
group or by progressively increasing that required for inclusion in the HTG
group. They compared the normal areas of the patients' visual fields by using
simple visual field indices designed to quantify the undisturbed field. Using
receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis, they showed that changing the 
inclusion criterion in the NTG group resulted in no better separation between the
groups. However, when the inclusion criterion was changed in the HTG group, the
two groups tended to become more separable. In this case, the degree of
separation appeared to be related to the difference in the highest recorded IOP
between the two groups although the separation was not complete. These findings
show that pressure has a greater influence on the type of visual field damage at 
the higher end of the IOP spectrum encountered in open-angle glaucoma and suggest
that there is no common single pathophysiologic mechanism in this disease.


PMID: 2243001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1764. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1990 Oct;68(5):564-7.

Relationship between asymmetry of visual field defects and intraocular pressure
difference in an untreated normal (low) tension glaucoma population.

Haefliger IO(1), Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Clinic of Ophthalmology, Hôpital Cantonal Universitaire de Genève,
Switzerland.

The importance of intraocular pressure on the pathogenesis of optic disc damage
in normal (low) tension glaucoma has been much debated. This paper looks at the
interocular difference in intraocular pressure in an untreated group of 60
patients with normal (low) tension glaucoma. In addition it assesses whether any 
relationship exists in any one subject between the higher intraocular pressure
and the more severe visual field defect. We found that this relationship occurred
in 22% (13) of the subjects. In the other 78% (47) of this population no
correlation could be found. The existence of such a sizeable subgroup suggests
that patients with normal tension glaucoma may be divided into those where
intraocular pressure level could be important in the pathogenesis of the visual
field defect and a majority where this relationship is less likely.


PMID: 2275352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1765. Can J Ophthalmol. 1990 Oct;25(6):298-300.

Possible significance of cilioretinal arteries in low-tension glaucoma.

Mikelberg FS(1), Drance SM, Schulzer M, Wijsman K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver.

Cilioretinal arteries arise from the short posterior ciliary artery circulation
or directly from the choroidal circulation. The presence of a cilioretinal artery
may in compromised discs steal flow from the peripapillary circulation and
account for worsening glaucoma damage. We reviewed the records of 33 patients
with unilateral cilioretinal arteries admitted for investigation of low-tension
glaucoma. We looked for absolute difference between the affected and unaffected
eyes as well as percent difference relative to the mean value for the two eyes
and to the value for the unaffected eye in the following variables: mean defect, 
corrected loss variance or corrected pattern standard deviation, and adjusted
neuroretinal rim area. No statistically significant differences were found. The
mean disc area for the eyes with cilioretinal arteries was significantly larger
than that previously reported for normal eyes. The results suggest that if
vascular steal exists because of the presence of this artery, it is not of major 
clinical importance.


PMID: 2249166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1766. Doc Ophthalmol. 1990 Oct;75(3-4):203-14.

Long-term follow-up of laser trabeculoplasty.

Eendebak GR(1), Boen-Tan TN, Bezemer PD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Free University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

In a retrospective study 274 eyes of 207 patients with glaucoma were followed,
after they had undergone laser trabeculoplasty (LTP). We evaluated the success of
the laser treatment and followed the course of the intraocular pressure (IOP)
during 5 1/2 years after treatment. Three diagnosis-groups were formed. Group I
consisted of primary open angle glaucoma (n = 208), secondary glaucoma (n = 8)
and pigmentary glaucoma (n = 3). Group II (n = 29) consisted of low tension
glaucoma. Group III (n = 26) had the diagnosis narrow angle glaucoma. Success was
defined as follows: a reduction in IOP, no progressive visual field loss, no
visual acuity loss due to glaucoma, no filtering surgery and no repeat LTP.
Follow-up was continued until the moment of failure. In the case of success the
minimum follow-up was 6 months. The mean decrease in IOP after LTP stabilized in 
all three groups. During a follow-up of 5 1/2 years the IOP lowering effect did
not diminish in successful eyes. To compute the rate of success we used the
Kaplan-Meier method. The low tension glaucoma group had a success rate of 82%
after 4 years. The probability of success in group I was 53% after 5 1/2 years
and in group III 51% after 4 1/2 years. These success rates did not differ
significantly. Resuming, this study shows that LTP has postponed the need for
surgical intervention at least up to 5 1/2 years.


PMID: 2090393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1767. Ophthalmology. 1990 Aug;97(8):1038-43; discussion 1043-4.

Acquired pits of the optic nerve. Increased prevalence in patients with
low-tension glaucoma.

Javitt JC(1), Spaeth GL, Katz LJ, Poryzees E, Addiego R.

Author information: 
(1)William and Anna Goldberg Glaucoma Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Department of 
Ophthalmology, Thomas Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia.

The authors studied 232 glaucoma patients in an attempt to shed light on the
implications of the pit-like localized cupping of the optic nerve often referred 
to as an "acquired pit of the optic nerve" (APON) both in low-tension glaucoma
and in glaucoma associated with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). Twenty (74%)
of the 27 patients with low-tension glaucoma had APONs, whereas 31 (15%) of the
232 patients with elevated pressure did (P less than 0.001). Overall, there was
no difference between the degree of field loss in patients with APONs and in
those without. We suggest that APONs may signal an abnormal susceptibility of the
optic nerve to the damaging effects of IOP.


PMID: 2402415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1768. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1990 Jul;26(4):201-4.

[The relation of fluorescein angiography in low tension glaucoma with retinal
nerve fiber layer defect and visual field damage].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang LN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yatsen University of Medical Sciences,
Guangzhou, Guangdong province.

The fluorescein angiography, visual field and retinal nerve fiber layer defects
(RNFLD) in 23 patients (35 eyes) with low tension glaucoma (LTG) showed that
there was a marked positional correspondency between the fluorescein filling
defect of the optic disc and the RNFLD (91.4%) or the visual field defect
(77.1%). Besides, the rate of positional correspondent between the RNFLD and
visual field defect was 80.0%. The study indicated that RNFLD and visual field
defect of LTG are related to ischemia of the optic disc.


PMID: 2249574  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1769. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1990 Jul;26(4):196-200.

[The significance of retinal nerve fiber layer examination in the diagnosis of
glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Li M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, First Hospital of Beijing Medical University.

To evaluate the significance of nerve fiber layer (NFL) changes in the diagnosis 
of glaucoma, the authors examined 197 cases (347 eyes) of normal subjects,
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), low tension glaucoma (LTG) and suspects of
these two types of glaucoma. The sensitivity of NFL atrophy to glaucoma was high:
in POAG eyes with field loss, 88.9% (64/72) had NFL atrophy. In 123 normal eyes, 
NFL atrophy was found in only one eye, the specificity of NFL atrophy being
99.2%. All LTG patients and suspects of LTG had NFL atrophy. In the fellow eyes
of POAG with normal fields and eyes of POAG suspects, NFL defects occurred in
53.8% (7/13) and 20.6% (15/73) respectively. The examination of NFL is a simple
procedure; the nerve fibers themselves are directly observed rather than their
function. When half of the thickness of NFL is lost, it Will be manifested
clinically. With its high sensitivity and specificity, NFL atrophy can be
regarded as an important indicator in the diagnosis of glaucoma.


PMID: 2249573  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1770. Ophthalmology. 1990 Jul;97(7):838-9.

Low-tension glaucoma.

O'Rourke J.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 1990 Jan;97(1):49-55.


PMID: 2248661  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1771. Arch Ophthalmol. 1990 May;108(5):705-8.

Optic disc topography in patients with low-tension and primary open angle
glaucoma.

Fazio P(1), Krupin T, Feitl ME, Werner EB, Carré DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
Philadelphia.

Computerized optic disc topographic measurements (cup-disc ratio, neuroretinal
rim area, disc volume) and automated visual field parameters (total field loss,
mean sensitivity) were similar in 48 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma and 27
eyes with low-tension glaucoma. In open angle glaucoma, the neuroretinal rim area
was negatively correlated with the cup-disc ratio and the disc volume. Total
field loss was positively correlated with the cup-disc ratio and the disc volume 
and negatively correlated with the neuroretinal rim area. Eyes with low-tension
glaucoma showed a negative correlation between neuroretinal rim area and cup-disc
ratio, and between total field loss and rim area. However, low-tension
glaucomatous eyes did not have significant correlations between disc volume and
rim area and between total field loss and cup-disc ratio or disc volume. Cupping 
in low-tension glaucoma was broadly sloping, resulting in less disc volume
alteration.


PMID: 2334330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1772. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1990 May;94(5):514-8.

[The influence of the intraocular pressure on the visual field of low tension
glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamagami J(1), Shirato S, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine University of Tokyo, Japan.

To study the effect of the intraocular pressure (IOP) on the visual field (VF)
damage in low tension glaucoma (LTG), we compared the IOP and the VF damage in
both eyes of 46 LTG patients. As an index of the VF damage, we used the mean
deviation (MD) value calculated by the Humphry (30-2) STATPAC program, and for
the IOP data, the mean of 24 hour IOP measurements (diurnal IOP) and the mean of 
the IOPs measured at each visit to our outpatient clinics (follow-up IOP). In 13 
cases, the diurnal and the follow-up IOPs were 0.3 mmHg higher or more in the
more damaged eye than those in the less damaged eye, and in 7 cases they were 0.3
mmHg higher or more in the less damaged eye than those in the more damaged eye.
Between these two groups, no significant difference was seen in the value of MD, 
but the diurnal IOP and the follow-up IOP was significantly higher in the former 
than in the latter group. By discrimination analysis, the two groups were
distinguished at the diurnal IOP of 14.1 mmHg (hit rate 77.6%) and the follow-up 
IOP of 15.0 mmHg (74.2%). An analysis using the whole 46 LTG cases yielded the
following results: when the diurnal or follow-up IOP of the more damaged eye was 
higher than the above determined level, the IOP in the more damaged eye was
significantly higher than that in the contralateral less damaged eye.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 2220494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1773. Br J Ophthalmol. 1990 Apr;74(4):196-200.

Biostatistical evidence for two distinct chronic open angle glaucoma populations.

Schulzer M(1), Drance SM, Carter CJ, Brooks DE, Douglas GR, Lau W.

Author information: 
(1)University of British Columbia, Department of Statistics, Vancouver, Canada.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1990 Apr;74(4):193.

Twenty-six eyes of 26 patients with low-tension glaucoma and 34 eyes of 34
patients with high-tension glaucoma were studied. Fifty-one measurements were
available on each patient, including visual field indices, finger blood flow
measurements, as well as haematological, coagulation, and biochemical and
rheological variables. Multivariate analysis revealed two statistically distinct 
groups of patients, with low and high tension glaucoma cases equally distributed 
in both. The smaller group (15 patients) showed a suggestion of vasospastic
finger blood flow measurements, and had a high positive correlation between the
mean deviation (MD) index of field severity and the highest intraocular pressure 
(r = 0.715, p = 0.0008). The second, larger group (45 patients) showed disturbed 
coagulation and biochemical measurements, suggestive of vascular disease, and had
no correlation between the MD index and the highest intraocular pressure.


PMCID: PMC1042058
PMID: 2337541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1774. Oftalmologia. 1990 Apr-Jun;34(2):85-95.

[Low-pressure glaucoma (a clinico-statistical study)].

[Article in Romanian]

Cernea P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Oftalmologică, Craiova.

Study of 50 cases of glaucoma with low pressure shows a frequency of the
affection in 6.39% of the cases of glaucoma with open angle. In 75% of the cases,
glaucoma with low pressure appears after the age of 60, with distinct
predominance in females. In 10% of the cases this glaucoma was hereditary. For
the diagnosis of glaucoma with low pressure, the systematic research of the
ocular tension, stimulation of provocative tests, and the examination of the
visual field and of the optic papilla, are of great use. The presence in the same
family of the glaucoma with open angle with high tension, of that with low
tension shows that the low pressure glaucoma is not a special form of glaucoma.
It is the result of a circulatory insufficiency at the level of papilla of the
optic nerve, with the appearance of characteristic functional deficiencies, even 
where the ocular tension is apparently within normal limits.


PMID: 2101047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1775. Angiology. 1990 Mar;41(3):213-20.

Do vasospasms provoke ocular diseases?

Gasser P(1), Flammer J, Guthauser U, Mahler F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Claraspital, Basel, Switzerland.

Vasospasms in the eye are often combined with digital vasospasms, as can be
diagnosed with a nailfold capillaroscopic local cooling test. In 16 patients with
a history of cold hands and feet the presence of peripheral vasospasms without
any underlying disease was demonstrated by means of nailfold
video-capillaroscopy. These patients showed the phenomenologic diagnosis of
low-tension glaucoma with visual field defects characteristic of glaucoma even
though intraocular pressure above 21 mmHg was excluded. The visual field defects 
were not homonymous, indicating a prechiasmal location of the vascular
disturbance. Ocular vasospasms cause visual field damage that can be aggravated
or provoked by cooling one hand in cold water and that often improves after
treatment with the calcium channel blocker nifedipine. The results suggest that
vasospasms not only are present in Raynaud's disease, migraine, and Prinzmetal's 
variant angina but also may be an important factor in the genesis of low-tension 
glaucoma. This is a new finding and may be related to a general vasospastic
syndrome.


PMID: 2310050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1776. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1990 Feb;68(1):34-6.

Hemodynamic variables in progressive and non-progressive low tension glaucoma.

Rouhiainen HJ(1), Teräsvirta ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Central Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.

Systemic blood pressure and medications for different general diseases were
retrospectively examined in 30 low-tension glaucoma patients. Thirty patients
with POAG were used as controls. LTG was divided into a progressive and
non-progressive form on basis of the course of the disease. Systemic blood
pressure was higher in POAG and the progressive form of LTG than in the
non-progressive LTG. There was twice as much antihypertensive medication in LTG
than POAG patients.


PMID: 2336932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1777. Arch Ophthalmol. 1990 Feb;108(2):228-32.

Atypical nerve fiber layer defects in high myopes with high-tension glaucoma.

Chihara E(1), Sawada A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan.

The incidence of atypical optic nerve head and retinal nerve fiber layer defects 
was studied in 61 high myopic eyes (greater than or equal to -5 diopters) and 91 
emmetropic or hyperopic eyes (0 to +3 diopters) of 152 patients with chronic
high-tension glaucoma, and in 45 control myopic eyes (greater than or equal to -5
diopters). Horizontal ovalness or cyclotorsion, oblique insertion of the optic
disc, and bean pot disc were more common in the high myopes. In the eyes with
high myopia with glaucoma, inferior dominant nerve fiber layer defects, ectopic
fiber defects, and multiple nerve fiber layer defects were common. The incidence 
of superior nerve fiber layer defects or superior-inferior equal nerve fiber
layer defects was high in round or vertically oval discs and low in cyclotorted
or horizontal oval discs. The oblique insertion of the discs correlated
positively with a higher incidence of ectopic defects in high myopic eyes with
glaucoma. The incidence of focal type nerve defects is higher in older patients
and high myopes with oblique insertion of the optic disc. Atypical shape of the
optic disc correlates positively with atypical retinal nerve fiber layer defects 
in eyes with high-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 2302107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1778. Ophthalmology. 1990 Jan;97(1):49-55.

Investigations into a vascular etiology for low-tension glaucoma.

Carter CJ(1), Brooks DE, Doyle DL, Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 1990 Jul;97(7):838-9.

Increased intraocular pressure is accepted as a primary etiologic factor for the 
atrophy of the optic nerve head and visual field defects of high-tension
glaucoma. Other factors must be present to explain these findings in low-tension 
glaucoma. One of the current theories is that low-tension glaucoma is the result 
of decreased optic nerve perfusion on the basis of vascular disease or other
factors such as altered blood viscosity. This study compared the non-invasive
vascular profiles, coagulation tests, and rheological profiles of 46 consecutive 
cases of low-tension glaucoma with 69 similarly unselected cases of high-tension 
glaucoma and 47 age-matched controls. Despite the multifactorial approach and the
use of previously validated objective tests, no significant group differences
were detected with any of the above investigations. If vascular disease is
important in the etiology of low-tension glaucoma, then it must be localized or
vasospastic since this study does not support the concept of a generalized
vascular etiology, either of an atheromatous or hyperviscous nature, for the
genesis of low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 2314843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1779. Oftalmologia. 1990 Jan-Mar;34(1):31-4.

[Supplementary concepts in the physiopathology of the vitreous].

[Article in Romanian]

Begu DC(1), Mănescu MR.

Author information: 
(1)Serviciul Oftalmologic, Policlinica nr. 1, Craiova.

The normal vitreous defends the posterior pole damping the traumatic and tension 
shocks coming from the anterior pole reducing their intensity according to
formula P = F/S The buffering function decreases in direct proportion to the
degree of fluidity of the vitreous, fluidity that enlarges the volume of the
vitreous whereas the mass does not change according to the density formula p =
m/v, the density of the liquefied vitreous being greatly diminished. The
liquefied vitreous may lead to degenerative lesions of the retina due to
prolonged tension of the retina resulting in ruptures and detachment. An anterior
pole pressure of 15-16 mmHg transmitted non-modified to the posterior pole
through the liquefied vitreous, exceeding by far the pressure of the
opticoretinal tissular fluid pressure which in 9 mmHg leads to papillary
excavation and glaucoma without tension; hence the liquefied vitreous must be
replaced by a normal one or its density built up again.


PMID: 2101028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1780. Ophthalmologica. 1990;201(3):145-51.

Double-blind study in the treatment of normal tension glaucoma with
naftidrofuryl.

Mermoud A(1), Faggioni R, Van Melle GD.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Hospital, IUMSP, Lausanne, Switzerland.

Naftidrofuryl is an antiserotonin S2-specific agent, with the three following
effects: (1) peripheral vasodilatation, (2) antiaggregation and (3) increase in
cellular metabolic. These effects could be interesting in the management of the
optic nerve ischemia of glaucomatous patients and especially of those with normal
tension glaucoma. The administration of 2 x 200 mg/day of naftidrofuryl during 6 
weeks to 12 patients with normal tension glaucoma has shown an improvement of the
visual acuity and the visual field compared with a 6-week period of placebo
administration, with a double-blind study method. It suggested that naftidrofuryl
might be administered as a useful complement to conventional hypotensive therapy,
since it acts positively on the glaucomatous optic nerve damage.


PMID: 2089356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1781. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1990;87 Suppl:S187-9.

[Normal-pressure glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Flammer J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Basel.

Normal tension glaucoma is defined as a clinical condition in which the optic
nerve head is pathologically excavated and the visual field is disturbed,
although the intraocular pressure is in the normal range. The following
pathogenetic factors are considered responsible: too high IOP (even lying within 
the normal range) and primary circulatory disturbances, such as arteriosclerosis,
systemic hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, hyperviscosity and functional
vasospasms. The purpose of a clinical evaluation is to define the most important 
damaging factors for the individual patient. Accordingly, the therapy is directed
towards the possible factors involved. Practically, this can mean: additional
lowering of the intraocular pressure, increasing the blood pressure, lowering the
blood viscosity and treating the vasospasms.


PMID: 2083901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1782. Am J Ophthalmol. 1989 Dec 15;108(6):636-42.

Visual field damage in normal-tension and high-tension glaucoma.

Chauhan BC(1), Drance SM, Douglas GR, Johnson CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

We studied the ocular characteristics of 40 pairs of normal-tension and
high-tension glaucoma patients who matched closely for the extent of field
damage, pupil size, and visual acuity. To determine if there were differences in 
visual field damage between patients with normal-tension and high-tension
glaucoma, we studied characteristics of the areas of the patients' visual fields 
that were undisturbed. We computed the number of normal locations, the number of 
clustered normal locations, and the size of the largest cluster of normal
locations. The results showed that for an equivalent extent of damage, the
individuals in the normal-tension group had greater areas with normal
sensitivity, hence more localized damage. A comparison of the patient data to
control data showed that paired differences were larger when the normal-tension
member of a pair had a larger value in any of the parameters. The results support
the hypothesis that glaucoma patients with lower intraocular pressures have more 
localized damage and those with higher intraocular pressures have more diffuse
damage.


PMID: 2596542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1783. Arch Ophthalmol. 1989 Dec;107(12):1777-9.

The effects of apraclonidine on conjunctival oxygen tension.

Serdahl CL(1), Galustian J, Lewis RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California at Davis, Sacramento.

A prospective, randomized study evaluated the effects of unilateral, topical 1%
apraclonidine hydrochloride on conjunctival oxygen tension in 10 normal
volunteers using a conjunctival oxygen monitor. Conjunctival oxygen tension and
intraocular pressure were measured prior to instillation of apraclonidine, then
at 1, 3, and 5 hours. Apraclonidine was found to significantly decrease
conjunctival oxygen tension 76% at 1 hour compared with baseline values. At 3
hours conjunctival oxygen tension was decreased to 56% and at 5 hours to 10% of
baseline. Intraocular pressure was lowered maximally at 3 hours to 40% of
baseline measurements in the treated eye. The contralateral eye had a small
decrease in conjunctival oxygen tension and intraocular pressure that was not
statistically significant. Lid retraction and conjunctival blanching were noted
to occur maximally between 1 and 3 hours. Further study is needed to determine if
the apraclonidine-induced conjunctival hypoxia noted in this study has clinical
significance for ocular blood flow, particularly in patients with glaucoma.


PMID: 2688618  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1784. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 1989 Nov;25(6):322-5.

[Comparison between the optic nerve heads in low tension glaucoma and primary
open angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Li MY.

The optic nerve heads of 52 eyes of 42 patients with low tension glaucoma (LTG)
were compared with those of 67 eyes of 47 patients with primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG). The mean of the highest intraocular pressure was 2.43 +/- 0.03
kPa (18.3 +/- 0.2 mmHg) in the LTG group, and 3.90 +/- 0.09 kPa (29.3 +/- 0.7
mmHg) in the POAG group, the difference being significant (P less than 0.001).
The visual field loss was similar in the two groups, only the temporal optic disc
rim in LTG was narrower than in POAG, the rim to disc ratios in other meridians
and the cup to disc ratios were not significantly different between the two
groups. Deep cups, striate openings on the lamina cribrosa and blood vessel
overpasses were significantly more seen in POAG than in LTG Hemorrhages on the
disc were more frequent in LTG than in POAG. All these findings may serve as
complementary indicators in differential diagnosis between these two types of
glaucoma, and support the belief that different mechanisms exist for optic nerve 
damage in glaucoma.


PMID: 2627852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1785. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1989 Nov;195(5):294-6.

[Oculo-oscillodynamography findings in glaucoma without hypertension].

[Article in German]

Hofmann H(1), Merté HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik und -poliklinik rechts der Isar der Technischen Universität
München.

Oculo-oscillodynamography after Ulrich was performed in 27 patients suffering
from glaucoma without hypertension (so-called low-tension glaucoma). Patients who
had severe systemic disease or were receiving systemic medication which might
influence IOP, and patients with narrow angle and an IOP higher than 22 mm Hg
were excluded. In 85% of the patients a severe decrease in systolic ciliary
perfusion pressure was found, whereas the systolic retinal and diastolic ocular
perfusion pressures were significantly lower in almost 30% of the cases. Glaucoma
without hypertension appears to be caused by the vascular change at the disk.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1050042 
PMID: 2601274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1786. Am J Ophthalmol. 1989 Sep 15;108(3):238-44.

An autosomal dominant form of low-tension glaucoma.

Bennett SR(1), Alward WL, Folberg R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Iowa, Iowa City 52242.

A condition causing glaucomatous optic atrophy and visual field loss at normal or
borderline intraocular pressure affected eight members of a family of consecutive
generations. The disease was detectable in early adulthood and progressed slowly 
throughout life. The pattern of inheritance is autosomal dominant. One affected
individual died of a myocardial infarction, and his eyes were obtained post
mortem. Light and electron microscopic examination demonstrated glaucomatous
optic atrophy with loss of ganglion cells. The trabecular meshwork, choroidal and
optic nerve vasculature, retinal pigment epithelium, and photoreceptors were
normal in appearance. We believe this family has an autosomal dominant genetic
condition that is a distinct type of low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 2774031  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1787. Ophthalmology. 1989 Sep;96(9):1312-4.

Unequal intraocular pressure and its relation to asymmetric visual field defects 
in low-tension glaucoma.

Crichton A(1), Drance SM, Douglas GR, Schulzer M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver.

Fifty-nine low-tension glaucoma patients were reviewed with respect to asymmetry 
of intraocular pressure (IOP) and visual field defects. In the presence of
unequal IOP the visual field damage is almost always greater on the side with
higher mean IOP. However, only 13 of 47 patients with asymmetric visual field
defects had a mean IOP difference between the two eyes of greater than or equal
to 1 mmHg. Although in the case of IOP asymmetry visual field damage is greater
in the eye with higher mean IOP, other factors must also play an important role
in the development of visual field defects in low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 2779999  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1788. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1989 Aug;67(4):367-70.

Co-existence of empty sella syndrome and low tension glaucoma.

Rouhiainen H(1), Teräsvirta M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Central Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.

In 15 low-tension glaucoma patients computed tomography of the head was
re-evaluated in order to find the possible empty-sella syndrome. Fourteen
CT-scans were normal, and empty sella was found in one patient with progressive
low tension glaucoma. The possible role of empty sella syndrome in glaucomatous
visual field defects is discussed.


PMID: 2801037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1789. Int Ophthalmol. 1989 Jul;13(4):281-90.

Ocular vasospasm: a risk factor in the pathogenesis of low-tension glaucoma.

Gasser P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Claraspital, Basle, Switzerland.

The typical morphological and consequent functional damage caused by disease
entities covered by the term 'glaucoma' is the result of inadequate circulation
to the optic nerve fibres, predominantly in the papillary region, as a result of 
elevated intraocular pressure. The aim of this study is classification of
different forms of glaucoma on the basis of blood flow parameters. Physiological 
and pathophysiological aspects of ocular blood flow and of microcirculation and
hemorrheology will be considered and the significance of ocular vasospasm in
low-tension glaucoma discussed. The frequent occurrence of vasospasm in the
nailfold capillaries and of visual field deterioration after a cold-water test
demonstrates that vasospasm is an expression of different underlying phenomena.
Our results show that, in patients with ocular vasospasm, treatment with a
calcium antagonist brings about a clear reversal of their visual field defects.


PMID: 2693385  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1790. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1989 Jun;67(3):261-4.

Observations concerning the course of glaucoma.

Sonnsjö B(1), Bengtsson B, Krakau CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Clinic, Malmö,
Sweden.

Four cases with glaucomatous damage to the optic nerve head preceding a rise in
intraocular pressure from normal or borderline to high values, are reported. The 
question of whether such cases are exceptional or typical and, therefore, best
explained by a coincidence of diseases or by one disease going through successive
stages is discussed on the basis of 10 further cases from a population study.
Many clinicians claim that there are two groups of patients: a large one with
'ordinary' glaucomas supposedly caused by high intraocular pressures and a small 
one with low tension glaucomas presumed to have low perfusion pressures for other
reasons. This classification circumvents the discussion on etiology and gives
theoretical support to conventional treatment. Accumulated clinical observations 
indicate, however, that it should not be accepted without discussion. We describe
here a few selected cases with glaucomatous damage to the optic nerve head
preceding a rise in the intraocular pressure from normal or borderline to high
values.


PMID: 2763813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1791. Arch Ophthalmol. 1989 Jun;107(6):844-6.

Laser trabeculoplasty in glaucoma. Ten-year evaluation.

Ticho U(1), Nesher R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1990 Feb;108(2):167-8.

Argon laser trabeculoplasty was evaluated in 134 eyes of 94 patients with
glaucoma, over a follow-up period of three to ten years. Success was defined by
the patient having intraocular pressures (IOPs) below 20 mm Hg under the prelaser
medical regimen, or taking less medication, and having no evidence of progressive
field loss. The overall success rate by three years was 70%; it decreased to 55% 
after six years and remained at this level thereafter. Altogether, there were 26 
eyes that had controlled glaucoma for six to ten years. The favorable factors for
success were age over 60 years (82%), pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (75%), and lower
baseline IOPs (69.3%). Argon laser trabeculoplasty was found to be a useful means
of treatment in low tension glaucoma.


PMID: 2730404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1792. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Apr;93(4):405-11.

[Reversibility of glaucomatous defects of the central visual field].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshikawa K, Baba H, Ochi T, Inoue T, Inoue Y.

We analyzed more than 4 consecutive measurements of the central area of the
visual field in 1,004 eyes of 533 subjects with various types of glaucoma as
diagnosed by the Octopus 201 and its examination program No. 31. We used a
non-repeated analysis of variance to determine the statistical relationship
between the mean sensitivity measurements for individual quadrants of the central
visual field. We made the series of measurements used in this statistical
analysis during repeated examinations that took place over a follow-up period of 
1 year. Out of 1,004 eyes, 53 eyes (5.3%) were shown to have an improved mean
sensitivity of the central 30 degrees of the visual field. We adopted the degree 
of sensitivity improvement [(final mean sensitivity - initial mean
sensitivity)/follow-up period] as the indicator of the degree of reversibility in
the central visual field to determine which factors might influence changes in
the visual field. In patients under 50 years of age, who were at an early stage
of the disease, as opposed to those over 50 years of age, who were at an
intermediate or advanced stage of this disease or who had undergone reduction of 
intraocular pressure, a relatively high degree of sensitivity improvement was
more frequently observed. In the cases with primary open angle glaucoma which
includes low tension glaucoma, we think treatment for abnormality in the aqueous 
humor dynamics is very important. We concluded, that the reversibility of the
central visual field defect in glaucomatous eyes is possible, though it can only 
be clearly detected by careful follow-up examinations employing computerized
perimetry.


PMID: 2801342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1793. Rev Chir Oncol Radiol O R L Oftalmol Stomatol Ser Oftalmol. 1989
Apr-Jun;33(2):133-8.

[Diagnostic problems in "glaucoma without pressure"].

[Article in Romanian]

Mureşeanu D.

Glaucoma low tension in the clinical result of an important haemodynamic ocular
imbalance of frequently arteriosclerotic etiology, characterized by decrease of
the ciliary gradient, with evolution in the aged patients within a characteristic
clinical context, dominated by the presence of arterial hypotension and increase 
of plasmatic fibrinogen.


PMID: 2529594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1794. Rev Chir Oncol Radiol O R L Oftalmol Stomatol Ser Oftalmol. 1989
Apr-Jun;33(2):113-6.

[Reflections on the timeliness and utility of an ambulatory glaucoma center as
part of the Colţea Ophthalmologic Clinic and the Bucharest Municipal Hospital].

[Article in Romanian]

David M, Popa DP.

The paper presents several remarks on opportunity and usefulness of the centre
for outpatient follow up of glaucoma within the "Colţea" Ophthalmology Clinic and
of the Bucharest Municipal Hospital. The unconfirmed, suspected patients were not
considered glaucomatous. The exam of the eye has to be complete, to include the
systematic investigation of the ocular tension, and of the visual field, by
evidencing scotoma in Bjerrum's area photometric disharmonies and chromatic
alterations. A special attention must be paid to the low pressure glaucoma, as a 
peculiar evolution form of glaucoma with open angle.


PMID: 2529591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1795. Ophthalmology. 1989 Mar;96(3):316-20.

Visual field change in low-tension glaucoma over a five-year follow-up.

Gliklich RE(1), Steinmann WC, Spaeth GL.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Cambridge.

There is some evidence that the nature and progression of disease in low-tension 
glaucoma may be distinct from other open-angle glaucomas. The authors assessed
visual field change by retrospective case review of all patients treated for
low-tension glaucoma by the Glaucoma Service, Wills Eye Hospital, for at least 5 
years. Sixty-two glaucomatous eyes of 36 patients were identified. All eyes were 
treated medically and 40 (65%) underwent at least one surgical procedure.
Twenty-eight eyes (47%) had initial field loss confined to a single hemi-field
and in the remainder both hemi-fields were involved. Thirty of 57 eyes (53%)
showed progression at 3 years and 38 (62%) of 57 had progressed by 5 years. A
dense scotoma extending from the nasal periphery toward fixation was the most
common visual field defect. The rate of field change in this population is
significantly greater than in a cohort of primary open-angle glaucoma patients
also seen at Wills Eye Hospital, but who had elevated intraocular pressures.
Patterns of field loss and rate of progression in this low-tension glaucoma
population suggest that the natural history of low-tension glaucoma differs from 
high-tension open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 2710522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1796. Surv Ophthalmol. 1989 Mar-Apr;33(5):331-7.

Disc hemorrhages in the glaucomas.

Drance SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vancouver General Hospital, British Columbia, Canada.

Over the past two decades, hemorrhages on the optic disc have become recognized
as a common and significant sign of glaucomatous damage. It is not known what
causes the hemorrhages, and since at least monthly examinations of the disc would
be required to identify most hemorrhages, it is not clear whether some patients
have them frequently while others do not, or whether hemorrhages occur in some
phases of glaucoma more than in others. Because it is evident that disc
hemorrhages precede glaucomatous change in the retinal nerve fiber bundle, the
visual field, and the topography of the disc, "normal" patients with such
hemorrhages should be considered glaucoma suspects or low tension glaucoma
patients, depending on their intraocular pressures. The literature regarding the 
appearance, prevalence, location and recurrence rates of disc hemorrhages is
reviewed, and their significance to the diagnosis of glaucoma is discussed.


PMID: 2655138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1797. Arch Ophthalmol. 1989 Feb;107(2):167-8.

Correlation of asymmetric damage with asymmetric intraocular pressure in
normal-tension glaucoma (low-tension glaucoma)

Choplin NT.


PMID: 2916963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1798. Ophthalmology. 1989 Jan;96(1):16-9.

Peripapillary crescents and halos in normal-tension glaucoma and ocular
hypertension.

Buus DR(1), Anderson DR.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Miami 
School of Medicine, FL 33101.

In normal-tension glaucoma ("low-tension" glaucoma), 21 of 33 eyes (64%) had a
peripapillary chorioscleral crescent or halo, compared with 13 of 38 eyes (34%)
with ocular hypertension. The average area of bared choroid and sclera was
greater in normal-tension glaucoma (5.8 arbitrary units of area) than in ocular
hypertension (1.4 units). Myopic eyes were prevalent among the normal-tension
glaucoma group. When eyes with more than 4 diopters (D) of myopia were excluded
from the analysis, the difference in prevalence and size of chorioscleral
crescents and halos remained. Thus, the presence of a crescent correlates with
disc damage, but further work is needed to determine if the correlation
represents peripapillary atrophy that accompanies glaucomatous nerve atrophy or
represents a greater susceptibility of discs with preexisting peripapillary
abnormality.


PMID: 2919047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1799. Ophthalmology. 1989 Jan;96(1):12-5.

A comparison of the blue color mechanism in high- and low-tension glaucoma.

Yamazaki Y(1), Lakowski R, Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

Twenty-five eyes of 25 high-tension glaucoma patients and 25 eyes of 25
low-tension glaucoma patients matched for similar visual field defects had their 
spectral increment threshold measured. Patients with high-tension glaucoma showed
significant losses in both chromatic and achromatic sensitivities when compared
with low-tension glaucoma patients. The results support the hypothesis that there
may be different mechanisms of damage in glaucoma.


PMID: 2919043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1800. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1989;227(5):408-12.

The effect of Ca2(+) -antagonist on visual field in low-tension glaucoma.

Kitazawa Y(1), Shirai H, Go FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

A prospective study was conducted to evaluate the effects of Ca2(+)-antagonist on
the visual field in low-tension glaucoma (LTG). Twenty-five consecutive patients 
(50 eyes) with LTG received nifedipine at 30 mg/day per os for 6 months. Visual
field was tested with an Octopus 201 (program G1) prior to and each month during 
the period of nifedipine administration. In addition to tonometry and the
measurements of systemic blood pressure and pulse rate, the reactivity of
peripheral vessels was estimated by determining the response of skin temperature 
of a finger to cold water (4 degrees C). Twelve eyes (six patients) showed a
constant improvement of visual field as expressed by an increase in mean
sensitivity (MS). Canonical discriminant analysis demonstrated that the visual
field is likely to improve with systemic nifedipine in patients who are young,
have a higher initial MS and lower intraocular pressure, and have less decrease
in diastolic blood pressure with the nifedipine administration and better cold
recovery of skin temperature after their hand is soaked in cold water.


PMID: 2806924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1801. Dev Ophthalmol. 1989;18:138-41.

Filtering surgery in low tension glaucoma.

Mellin KB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Essen, FRG.


PMID: 2776943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1802. Int Ophthalmol. 1989 Jan;13(1-2):37-42.

Ocular perfusion pressures in different types of glaucoma.

Pillunat LE(1), Stodtmeister R, Marquardt R, Mattern A.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Ulm, FRG.

It is widely accepted that a disturbed blood supply of the optic disc may cause
(in addition with an increased intraocular pressure) optic nerve fibre damage.
Therefore we measured ocular perfusion pressures in 79 healthy subjects. In 18
patients with low tension glaucoma, in 27 patients suffering from ocular
hypertension and in 49 glaucoma (OAG) patients. For measuring perfusion pressures
we used the technique of oculo-oscillo-dynamography (OODG) as described by
Ulrich. Additionally we measured intraocular pressure and systemic blood
pressure. In OODG the IOP is simultaneously increased in both eyes by application
of a suction cup. After increase of the IOP the negative pressure in the suction 
cup is slowly and linearly decreased. During this decrease the pulse-depending
oscillations of each eye are recorded on a strip-chart-recorder. By means of this
method retinal and ciliary perfusion pressures can be separated. As a result we
could show that mean arterial blood pressure and systolic retinal perfusion
pressure were comparable and not statistically significantly different between
the groups examined. The systolic ocular perfusion pressures in patients with low
tension glaucoma showed a highly statistically significant reduction compared
with the other groups. Between healthy subjects, OAG-patients and patients
suffering from ocular hypertension there was no difference in systolic ciliary
perfusion pressure detectable.


PMID: 2744953  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1803. Int Ophthalmol. 1989 Jan;13(1-2):31-5.

Is there general reduction of sensitivity in glaucoma?

Langerhorst CT(1), van den Berg TJ, Greve EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

Ten normal controls, ten ocular hypertensive patients, ten high tension, 12
medium tension and nine low tension glaucoma patients were studied prospectively 
by means of automated static perimetry. Multiple double threshold measurements
were obtained during at most three years. A computer algorithm estimated for each
visual field the Individual General Sensitivity IGS, in which local defects do
not contribute. Thus we were able to estimate pure general reduction of
sensitivity by comparing the IGS to age-corrected normal reference values. No
significant difference in mean general reduction of sensitivity was found between
the glaucoma patients and the normal group. Patients with local defects in one
field half only also showed IGS values not different from normals. Our findings
indicate that the impression of 'general' sensitivity loss may be caused by the
presence of multiple local defects, and is not a phenomenon in itself.


PMID: 2744952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1804. Int Ophthalmol. 1989 Jan;13(1-2):131-8.

Results of a filtering procedure in low tension glaucoma.

de Jong N(1), Greve EL, Hoyng PF, Geijssen HC.

Author information: 
(1)The Netherlands Ophthalmic Research Institute, Amsterdam.

Twenty-six eyes of twenty patients with established low tension glaucoma, who had
either a 'double flap' Scheie filtering operation or a trabeculectomy, were
followed over a period ranging from one to ten years, with a median of three
years. These 26 eyes include two second eyes that served as a contralateral
control eye until the visual field deteriorated. All 26 eyes showed progression
of visual field defects preoperatively, while postoperatively only 2 eyes showed 
further progression. Of the 16 nonoperated contralateral eyes, 7 showed
progression of visual field defects over the same follow-up period. Two of these 
7 eyes had to be operated during the study-period. The difference in progression 
between the operated and the non-operated eyes was significant (P less than
0.01). The filtering procedure provided a reduction in IOP of 20% or more in 21
of 26 eyes. There was a significant difference in the mean intraocular pressure
(IOP) between the operated and the non-operated contralateral eye of 6.8 mmHg
(37%) at one year postoperatively. The diurnal variation decreased highly
significantly from 4.3 to 2.1 mmHg (P less than 0.001). It is concluded that
filtering surgery in low tension glaucoma may result not only in a significant
lowering of IOP, but is also effective in slowing further deterioration of the
visual fields.


PMID: 2744942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1805. Vestn Rentgenol Radiol. 1989 Jan-Feb;(1):57-9.

[Computed tomography in the Multidisciplinary Science and Technology Complex "Eye
Microsurgery"].

[Article in Russian]

Fedorov SN, Ivashina AI, Anisimov SI, Prokopenko LN, Moskvichev AL.

The paper is devoted to analysis of the results of CT in 1000 patients examined
in the Multibranch Research and Technology Complex "Eye Microsurgery". The
specific feature of CT in this institution is that 52% of all investigations of
ophthalmological patients fall to the share of eyeball abnormality and 40%--to a 
study of the other parts of the organ of vision. CT indications are extended for 
low tension glaucoma, complicated high myopia, and for monitoring the position of
microsurgical implants. The use of CT in such a highly specialized medical
institution as the MRTC "Eye Microsurgery" is considered indispensable.


PMID: 2718362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1806. Vestn Oftalmol. 1989 Jan-Feb;105(1):5-7.

[True tolerant intraocular pressure in glaucoma, ocular hypertension and
low-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Vodovozov AM, Boriskina LN.

Measurements of the true tolerant intraocular pressure (IOP) in 500 eyes of 384
patients with primary glaucoma and in 26 eyes of 13 patients with ophthalmic
hypertension have demonstrated that the value of the true tolerant 10P is close
to the lowest border of the mean statistical range of normal ophthalmic tone
values, this value being, on an average, 13.4 mm Hg in primary glaucoma and 10.2 
mm Hg in low-pressure glaucoma, whereas in ophthalmic hypertension it has been
much higher - 24.8 mm Hg. The intolerance index in stabilized glaucoma does not
surpass 4 mm Hg with both the true and the tonometric 10P.


PMID: 2718314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1807. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1989;12(3):183-9.

[Argon laser trabeculoretraction in chronic open-angle glaucoma with normal
pressure. A prospective study on the tonometric and perimetric effect].

[Article in French]

Demailly P(1), Lehrer M, Kretz G.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Saint-Joseph, Paris.

A prospective randomised study was undertaken on sixty eyes, thirty five
patients, (27 women, 8 men) followed in the Saint-Joseph hospital of Paris, with 
low tension glaucoma (LTG). The thirty five patients were selected at random and 
had either an argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) or received only vascular
medications (medial). The first group (ALT) included 29 eyes. The second group
(medical) included 31 eyes. The two groups were comparable: mean age, men/women
distribution, mean intraocular pressure, mean C/D ratio, mean total visual
capability (TVC) with the friedmann analyser. The mean follow up for the two
groups was seven years. Nevertheless for the ALT group the mean follow up after
ALT was four years. We compared for the two groups: --the aspect of the mean
intraocular pressure (IOP) curve with time, --the evolution gradient of visual
capabilities with time. For the ALT group we compared: --the mean IOP and 24
hours diurnal curves before and after laser treatment and the evolution gradient 
of visual capabilities before and after laser treatment. The introduction of ALT 
in the treatment of LTG had neither tonometric effect nor effect on the slope of 
visual field damage. We concluded that ALT is not recommended in LTG, but not
that the IOP should not be reduced in this form of glaucoma.


PMID: 2695558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1808. Acta Ophthalmol Suppl. 1989;191:31-3.

Disc haemorrhages and the etiology of glaucoma.

Krakau T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of Lund in Malmö, Sweden.

As a consequence of the hypothesis that all open angle glaucomas at some time
exhibit a disc haemorrhage, it is proposed that both low and high tension
glaucomas have the same etiology. That the primary lesion should be sought in the
small vessels of the optic disc seems to be a reasonable suggestion.


PMID: 2546364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1809. Ophtalmologie. 1988 Nov-Dec;2(5):423-5.

[Do specific morpho-functional features exist in critical low-tension glaucoma?].

[Article in French]

Miglior M, Bozzini S, Brambilla ML, Prioschi A.


PMID: 3244462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1810. Ophthalmic Surg. 1988 Nov;19(11):814-6.

Role of Nd:YAG peripheral iridectomy in the management of ocular hypertension
with a narrow angle.

Romano JH(1), Hitchings RA, Pooinasawmy D.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, England.

One half of 20 patients (40 eyes) with ocular hypertension and occludable angles,
some with peripheral anterior synechiae, were randomly assigned for treatment by 
Nd:YAG laser iridotomy. Pre-randomization patients required pilocarpine to
maintain normal intraocular tension. Following laser treatment, all eyes were
followed a minimum of 12 months (mean of 24). In the nonlaser-treated group,
pilocarpine alone controlled intraocular pressure. In the laser treated group,
eyes without peripheral anterior synechiae required fewer medications to maintain
normal pressures while eyes with peripheral anterior synechiae required more.
Although relief of pupillary block by laser iridotomy can facilitate management
of this group of patients, preexisting peripheral anterior synechiae may be
associated with greater therapeutic requirements following laser treatment.


PMID: 3222045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1811. Br J Ophthalmol. 1988 Nov;72(11):852-5.

A case of 'low tension glaucoma' with primary empty sella.

Yamabayashi S(1), Yamamoto T, Sasaki T, Tsukahara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yamanashi Medical College, Japan.

A case of 'low tension glaucoma' with primary empty sella is reported. The visual
field defect and optic disc change were characteristic of glaucoma. The
intraocular pressure was within normal limits. X-ray examination and the
metrizamide-CF procedures revealed a primary empty sella. The coexistence of 'low
tension glaucoma' and empty sella is discussed.


PMCID: PMC1041605
PMID: 3207661  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1812. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1988 Nov;16(4):343-51.

Argon laser trabeculoplasty five years on.

Brooks AM(1), West RH, Gillies WE.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Investigation and Research Unit, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear
Hospital, East Melbourne, Australia.

The results of argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) in a series of 252 patients are 
presented with follow-up of up to five years. The procedure is effective in
chronic open-angle glaucoma (COAG), ocular hypertension and pseudoexfoliative
(PXF) glaucoma. Most cases were treated initially over 180 degrees of the angle
and repeat treatment of the remaining 180 degrees usually resulted in an
additional fall in IOP which was maintained at two, three and four year follow-up
with only a small number of these retreated cases having no fall on later
follow-up. ALT was not very effective in further lowering IOP in eyes with IOP
controlled to a low level before treatment or in low tension glaucoma. It was
effective in most of a number of miscellaneous glaucomas including pigmentary
glaucoma. Apart from the immediate high rise in IOP the main complication was a
late high rise in IOP which was serious in degree and appeared mainly in PXF but 
also in two cases of ocular hypertension. The presence of a concomitant fall in
IOP in the fellow untreated eye is important and probably due to better
compliance with treatment. Almost all cases required medical treatment for
glaucoma which could not be ceased after ALT. ALT should be seen as an adjunct
to, but not a substitute for, medical treatment.


PMID: 3073798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1813. J Am Optom Assoc. 1988 Aug;59(8):630-4.

Pigmentary dispersion syndrome and suspected low tension pigmentary glaucoma.

Bass LJ(1), Constantine VA.

Author information: 
(1)VA medical Center, Bay Pines, FL 33504.

Recent evidence suggests that pigmentary dispersion syndrome is a result of the
mechanical abrasion of the posterior iris surface and the anterior zonular fibers
causing pigmentary release onto the ocular structures. Irreversible glaucomatous 
changes may be the result of the inability of the endothelial cells lining the
trabecular beams to continue to phagocytize the release pigment. Glaucomatous
field changes may occur despite low intraocular pressures and no clinically
observable cupping. Visual field testing is indicated in any patient presenting
with pigmentary dispersion syndrome since pressure spikes inducing nerve damage
occur with stress, exercise, or prolonged mydriasis. Treatment may include
miotics to prevent further abrasion rather than typical pressure-lowering
medication.


PMID: 3171067  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1814. Arch Ophthalmol. 1988 Jul;106(7):898-900.

Correlation of asymmetric damage with asymmetric intraocular pressure in
normal-tension glaucoma (low-tension glaucoma).

Cartwright MJ(1), Anderson DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami,
FL 33101.

If intraocular pressure plays a role in producing visual field loss in
normal-tension glaucoma, there may be a possible benefit from therapeutic efforts
to lower the pressure. To see whether pressure plays a role in the production of 
damage, we studied 14 cases of normal-tension glaucoma with asymmetric
intraocular pressure (1- to 6-mm Hg interocular difference in pressure). In 12 of
these 14 cases, we found that glaucomatous cupping and field loss (damage) was
greater in the eye with higher pressure. This statistically significant
correspondence of the higher pressure with the greater visual damage suggests
that the level of pressure is a factor in producing optic nerve damage. Other
factors also must contribute to account for the few instances in which damage
asymmetry did not reflect interocular pressure-difference and for the occurrence 
of injury at such low levels of pressure in the first place. Although benefit may
be expected from therapeutic lowering of pressure in this condition, the degree
of benefit, as well as the side effects from treatment required for successful
lowering of pressure, remains to be documented by a future clinical trial.


PMID: 3390051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1815. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1988 May;92(5):792-7.

[The effects of Ca2+-antagonist on visual field in low tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Shirai H, Asano K, Kitazawa Y, Go FJ.


PMID: 3189059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1816. Br J Ophthalmol. 1988 Apr;72(4):270-3.

Blood groups as genetic markers in glaucoma.

Brooks AM(1), Gillies WE.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Investigation and Research Unit, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear
Hospital, East Melbourne, Australia.

A series of 474 mixed cases of glaucoma was assessed to determine whether there
were any genetic differences between different types of glaucoma. A careful
distinction was made between chronic open angle glaucoma (COAG), acute and
chronic angle closure glaucoma, ocular hypertension, low tension glaucoma,
patients with large cup disc ratios, and various types of secondary glaucoma
including pseudoexfoliation of the lens capsule, uveitic and traumatic glaucoma. 
Using ABO blood groups, Rhesus groups, ABH secretion or non-secretion, and
phenylthiourea tasting we identified certain differences. The differences from
normal were significant decrease in Rh-negative patients in chronic closed angle 
glaucoma (p less than 0.05), a decrease in ABH secretors in ocular hypertension
(p less than 0.01), and fewer HB secretors in patients with COAG (p less than
0.02). There was a significant decrease in AH secretors and increase in HB
secretors in both pseudoexfoliation with raised intraocular pressure compared
with COAG (p less than 0.01) and in secondary glaucomas as a group compared with 
COAG (p less than 0.01). Tasters of phenylthiourea were more common in traumatic 
and uveitic glaucoma than in normal controls (p less than 0.05). These results
suggest that secondary glaucoma develops in different subjects from COAG, while
patients who develop a rise in intraocular pressure proceed to cupping and field 
loss if they have a certain genetic constitution. The groups of patients are too 
small for the differences to be of great prognostic value.


PMCID: PMC1041430
PMID: 3132201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1817. Am J Ophthalmol. 1988 Jan 15;105(1):35-9.

Response of blood flow to warm and cold in normal and low-tension glaucoma
patients.

Drance SM(1), Douglas GR, Wijsman K, Schulzer M, Britton RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Vancouver General Hospital, British Columbia,
Canada.

We measured blood flow in the finger in 38 control subjects with normal ocular
findings without migraine, 13 control subjects with normal ocular findings with
classic migraine, 17 patients with low-tension glaucoma with classic migraine,
and 29 patients with low-tension glaucoma without migraine. Three blood flow
measurements were recorded: one at baseline, one after immersion in warm water
(40 C), and one after ten seconds' exposure to cold water (4 C). The mean
baseline flow and the mean flow after exposure to cold was lower in patients with
low-tension glaucoma (P = .013 and P less than .001, respectively).


PMID: 3337192  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1818. Eye (Lond). 1988;2 ( Pt 6):636-40.

Low tension glaucoma--is treatment worthwhile?

Hitchings RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1988.117 
PMID: 3256501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1819. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1988;85(4):369-72.

[Hemodynamics of the eye in chronic simple glaucoma and low tension glaucoma--a
videoangiography study].

[Article in German]

Richard G, Hackelbusch R, Schmidt KU, Schäfer M.


PMID: 3220354  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1820. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1988;11(4):329-32.

[Fluoroiridographic aspects of iridoschisis].

[Article in French]

Carnevalini A(1), Menchini U, Bandello F, Scialdone A, Brancato R.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Oculistica dell'Università di Milano, Istituto Scientifico H San
Raffaele.

Iridoschisis is a rare condition of uncertain etiology characterized by a
cleavage of the iris layers. We report four cases studied by fluorescein
angiography to display possible occurrence of vascular abnormalities in the
pathogenesis of the disease. Case 1: 80 year old woman with bilateral schisis of 
the peripheral iris, in the inferonasal quadrant in RE and inferotemporal in LE. 
A shallow anterior chamber was present in OU; IOP was 18 in RE and 15 in LE. No
corneal abnormalities were present. Fluoroiridography showed a normal pattern
filling of the iris vascularity, that was more visible in the schisis area. Case 
2: 66 year old man with diabetes and open-angle glaucoma operated on for
trabeculectomy five years previously. The examination showed a normal cornea, a
shallow anterior chamber and miotic pupils for pilocarpine therapy. IOP was 12 in
OU. The iridoschisis was present in RE in the lower sectors which were totally
involved from the outer iris to the inner pupillary margin. Fluoroiridography
indicated a normal vessel perfusion without any abnormality in the affected
sectors. A slight bilateral pupillary dye leakage without any stromal diffusion
was attributable to the patient's age. Case 3: 55 year old woman treated with
miotics in RE for a glaucoma diagnosed after head trauma twenty years before,
after which the vision in LE was reduced to 2/200 for post-traumatic optic nerve 
atrophy. No corneal abnormality was present. The anterior chamber was shallow and
the ocular tension was 14 in RE and 10 in LE.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 3171099  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1821. Am J Ophthalmol. 1987 Dec 15;104(6):577-80.

Diffuse visual field loss in chronic open-angle and low-tension glaucoma.

Drance SM(1), Douglas GR, Airaksinen PJ, Schulzer M, Hitchings RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Canada.

We examined 37 eyes of 37 patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma and 24 eyes
of 24 patients with low-tension glaucoma. All patients had a scotoma confined to 
the upper or lower hemifield. Eyes with open-angle glaucoma showed twice as much 
loss of sensitivity in the spared hemifield as compared to eyes with low-tension 
glaucoma. These differences were statistically significant.


PMID: 3688098  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1822. Ophthalmic Surg. 1987 Dec;18(12):882-9.

Comparison of optic disc features in low-tension and typical open-angle glaucoma.

Miller KM(1), Quigley HA.

Author information: 
(1)Wilmer Institute, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

This study was undertaken to identify features of optic nerve head architecture
that might explain, in part, why ganglion cell loss occurs in patients with
low-tension glaucoma. We compared retrospectively the disc photographs of 25
patients with low-tension glaucoma with those of 26 control patients with typical
open-angle glaucoma. No differences were observed in any of the following
features: pore length, shape, or size variation; cup/disc and disc/arteriole
ratio; clock positions of total rim loss; central retinal vessel entry site; rim 
pallor; number of rim-crossing vessels; and presence or absence of peripapillary 
nerve fiber layer hemorrhages, optic pits, and central retinal vessel canals. An 
hour-glass appearance of connective tissue bundles within the scleral lamina
cribrosa, however, was present statistically less often in patients with
low-tension glaucoma (p = 0.007). We speculate that the microscopic arrangement
of fiber bundles within the lamina cribrosa may play an etiologic role in the
pathogenesis of low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 3444599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1823. Ophthalmology. 1987 Dec;94(12):1531-7.

Low-energy linear-incision neodymium: YAG laser iridotomy versus linear-incision 
argon laser iridotomy. A prospective clinical investigation.

Wise JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Baptist Medical Center of Oklahoma, Oklahoma
City.

When the Q-switched neodymium: YAG (Nd: YAG) laser is focused through the Wise
103-diopter (D) iridotomy-sphincterotomy lens (103-D lens) at low energy levels, 
the peripheral iris fibers can be cut individually across the iris tension lines 
to produce large iridotomies of controllable size. Thirty patients had
linear-incision Nd:YAG laser iridotomy in one eye and linear-incision argon laser
iridotomy in the other. Two-hour post-laser IOP rises averaged 7.33 mmHg for the 
Nd:YAG laser and 8.64 mmHg for the argon laser. The argon laser produced lens
burns in 9 of 30 eyes, including 7 of 9 blue eyes. No lens damage occurred with
the Nd:YAG laser. No corneal or retinal damage was seen with either laser. Local 
oozing of blood inhibited optical breakdown and required a pause before
completion in 5 of 30 eyes with Nd:YAG iridotomy, including 4 of 6 dark brown
thick irides. Because the iris fibers must be cut by direct contact with the
laser plasma, serial cutting of iris fibers by multiple low-energy plasmas is
safer than a single-shot, high-power plasma occupying the full thickness of the
iris. Because it is effective and because it avoids the hazards of argon laser
iridotomy and of high-power Nd:YAG laser iridotomy, linear incision Nd:YAG laser 
iridotomy is recommended as the safest method of iridotomy.


PMID: 3323983  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1824. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1987 Sep;191(3):184-98.

[Quantification and progression of the visual field defect in glaucoma without
hypertension, glaucoma simplex and pigmentary glaucoma. A clinical study with the
Delta Program of the 201 Octopus perimeter].

[Article in German]

Gramer E(1), Althaus G.

Author information: 
(1)Univ.-Augenklinik Würzburg.

Visual field defects of stages I-IV, in 451 eyes of 451 glaucoma patients, were
examined with the Octopus 201 perimeter: 83 patients with low-tension glaucoma
(LTG), 316 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and 52 patients with
pigmentary glaucoma (PG). Program 31 or 33 was used, with an eccentricity range
of up to 30 degrees, 73 test points, and a 6 degrees grid. The mean total field
loss (TL) as well as the mean loss per test point (TL/TP) in the 30 degrees
field, in the field quadrants, and in the eccentricity ranges from 0-10 degrees, 
10-20 degrees, and 20-30 degrees were calculated for each patient with Program
Delta. In addition, for each visual field the quotient of total loss and of the
number of disturbed test points was calculated, providing a measurement of the
mean depth of the field defects. For definition and comparison of visual fields
in the different glaucomas at identical stages of the disease according to the
amount of TL, the 3 patient groups were subdivided into 4 stages of sensitivity
loss: Stage 1: TL less than or equal to 100 dB; Stage 2: TL 101-400 dB; Stage 3: 
TL 401-800 dB; Stage 4: 801-1600 dB. The results of a comparison of eyes with
LTG, POAG, and PG at the same stage of disease were as follows: I. Location of
scotomas: 1. Defects more frequent in the lower field in LTG as compared to POAG 
in stage 2. 2. Defects more frequent in the upper than in the lower field in
POAG. 3. Almost equal number of defects in the upper and lower halves in PG. 4.
In all 3 glaucoma types the defects are more frequently found in the nasal than
in the temporal half of the visual field. 5. In LTG and POAG of all stages the
defects are most frequently found in the upper nasal and most seldom in the lower
temporal quadrant. 6. In all glaucoma types the defects occur on average most
frequently between 10 degrees and 20 degrees of eccentricity. 7. With increasing 
IOP in POAG the scotomas tend to be equally distributed in the upper and lower
quadrants. II. Depth of scotomas: 1. Scotomas are deepest in LTG; they are less
deep in POAG, and least deep in PG. 2. In PG the mean scotoma depth depends
significantly on maximum IOP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1050492 
PMID: 3682683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1825. Can J Ophthalmol. 1987 Jun;22(4):221-5.

Short-term effect of intraocular pressure variation on differential light
threshold and colour vision.

Drance SM, Schulzer M, Douglas GR, Wijsman K.

Laser trabeculoplasty was performed in one eye in each of 38 patients with
uncontrolled chronic open-angle glaucoma (37 patients) or low-tension glaucoma
(1). Topical therapy was stopped for 1 week before the procedure and for 1 week
before reassessment 6 weeks later. Differential light threshold values were
determined with an automatic perimeter four times throughout the study, and
colour vision was tested twice. The patients were followed for 3 months. The rise
and subsequent drop in intraocular pressure were not found to be correlated with 
differential light threshold or colour error scores.


PMID: 3607596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1826. Can J Ophthalmol. 1987 Apr;22(3):157-60.

Effects of laser trabeculoplasty on intraocular pressure in the medically
untreated eye.

Douglas GR, Wijsman K.

Laser trabeculoplasty was carried out in one eye in each of 38 patients, 37 with 
chronic open-angle glaucoma and 1 with low-tension glaucoma, whose visual fields 
were deteriorating. The patients were randomly assigned to receive 10, 50 or 100 
burns. Topical therapy was stopped for 1 week before treatment and for 1 week
before reassessment 6 weeks later. Patients who received 50 or 100 burns had
significant pressure reduction (p = 0.000). The difference in mean reduction
between these two groups was not significant. Ten burns occasionally produced a
reduction in pressure. Some patients may need fewer laser burns than are
currently given, but most require the current treatment schedules.


PMID: 3594304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1827. Br J Ophthalmol. 1987 Mar;71(3):181-7.

Pressure compliance of the optic nerve head in low tension glaucoma.

Pillunat LE, Stodtmeister R, Wilmanns I.

Twenty eyes of 10 healthy subjects, 11 eyes of seven patients with low tension
glaucoma, and three eyes of three patients with ischaemic optic neuropathy were
investigated. Visual evoked responses were recorded under stepwise artificially
increased intraocular pressures. The results of the visual evoked response
recording (pressure compliance test) allow a clear distinction to be made between
healthy subjects, patients with low tension glaucoma, and patients with ischaemic
optic neuropathy. In the groups investigated a lack of autoregulation of the
optic nerve head circulation was found in patients with low tension glaucoma
only. Patients with anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy showed the same pressure 
compliance behaviour as healthy subjects. The methods used here seem to provide a
practicable clinical tool in the differential diagnosis of low tension glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC1041115
PMID: 3828272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1828. Doc Ophthalmol. 1987 Mar;65(3):271-86.

The electrical response of the human eye to patterned stimuli: clinical
observations.

Dodt E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Physiological and Clinical Research, Bad Nauheim,
FRG.

Following the first recording of electroretinographic responses in man to a
barred pattern by Riggs and associates (1964) in normal and by Lawwill (1973,
1974) in clinical cases, the first striking observation of a complete loss of
pattern electroretinogram (PERG) after injurious section of the optic nerve by
Groneberg & Teping (1980) has led to the conclusion that the PERG originates from
proximal retinal structures different from those responsible for the luminance
electroretinogram (LERG). Typical changes of the PERG are seen during branch
occlusion of the central retinal artery and vein. In ocular hypertension without 
visual field loss and glaucoma-related papillary changes the PERG is decreased at
intraocular pressures above 26 mm Hg. In cases of primary glaucoma with regulated
intraocular tension and without using miotics the amplitude of the PERG reflects 
the damage to the inner retinal layers. This favorably compares with the P100
latencies of the visual evoked cortical potential (VECP) which in primary
glaucoma were partly within, partly outside the normal range. Other retinal
diseases showing amplitude changes in the PERG are primary macular dystrophy,
diabetic retinopathy, and the acute stage of optic neuritis. In all these cases
the Ganzfeld LERG may be normal or nearly normal, whereas the PERG undergoes
typical changes. On the contrary a highly preserved PERG can be recorded in cases
of retinitis pigmentosa where the electrooculogram light rise and the LERG are
already missing. In light of these findings the recording of PERG constitutes a
new promising method of clinical electroretinography reflecting the activity of
the hitherto omitted innermost retinal layers. It thereby contributes essentially
to the location of disturbances within the visual system.


PMID: 3678000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1829. Ophthalmic Surg. 1987 Mar;18(3):207-13.

The spectrum of primary open angle glaucoma. I: Senile sclerotic glaucoma versus 
high tension glaucoma.

Geijssen HC, Greve EL.

This paper describes two subgroups of primary open angle glaucoma: senile
sclerotic glaucoma in the elderly with relatively low intraocular pressures,
normal chamber angles, senile excavation, peripapillary atrophy and choroidal
sclerosis; high tension glaucoma in the younger age-group with high intraocular
pressures, signs of mesodermal dysgenesis in the chamber angle, deep and steep
excavation, little peripapillary atrophy and no choroidal sclerosis. The
description of senile sclerotic glaucoma is new as are the differences in the
chamber angle and peripapillary atrophy. The size of the visual field defects in 
the upper and lower half of the visual field is similar in high tension glaucoma.
In senile sclerotic glaucoma the larger defect tends to be in the upper half of
the visual field. It is suggested that in senile sclerotic glaucoma the primary
cause of damage is local vascular disease, and that in high tension glaucoma the 
intraocular pressure with a secondary role for an insufficient blood supply is
the major cause of damage. Primary open angle glaucoma can be characterized by
the ratio of pressure risk factors and vascular risk factors.


PMID: 3587860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1830. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1987 Jan;91(1):174-80.

[Studies on the clinical differences between low-tension glaucoma and
high-tension glaucoma (preliminary report)].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanihara H, Chihara E, Nao-i N, Horibe T, Honda Y.


PMID: 3591577  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1831. Br J Ophthalmol. 1986 Nov;70(11):831-6.

Anterior chamber depth in open angle glaucoma.

Caprioli J, Spaeth GL, Wilson RP.

Anterior chamber depth was measured in patients with primary open angle glaucoma,
low tension glaucoma, pigmentary dispersion syndrome, and glaucoma suspects.
Multiple linear regression analysis demonstrated that anterior chamber depth is a
function of sex, age, and refractive error. Values for anterior chamber depth
corrected for age and refractive error were greater in patients with pigmentary
dispersion syndrome than in patients with other forms of open angle glaucoma or
in glaucoma suspects.


PMCID: PMC1040837
PMID: 3790484  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1832. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1986 Oct;189(4):267-9.

[Individually consistent (tolerable) intraocular pressure in glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Vodovozov AM.

The author has devised a technique for determining tolerable intraocular
pressure; after the intake of hypotensive drugs the intraocular pressure and the 
optic functions (size of the blind spot, visual fields, visual acuity) are
periodically checked. The lowered tonometric value which coincides with the
maximum improvement in visual function is considered the individually compatible 
level of intraocular pressure. Determination of the individually tolerable
pressure is important for diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. Actual intraocular
pressure must not exceed the tolerable pressure by more than 5 mm Hg, otherwise
the prognosis will be poor. Differential diagnosis between glaucoma, ocular
hypertension, and low-tension glaucoma can be established by determining the
tolerable pressure.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1050801 
PMID: 3807217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1833. Am J Ophthalmol. 1986 Sep 15;102(3):402-4.

Comparison of visual field defects in normal-tension glaucoma and high-tension
glaucoma.

Caprioli J, Sears M, Spaeth GL.


PMID: 3752213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1834. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1986 Sep;189(3):190-8.

[Site and depth of glaucomatous visual field defects in relation to the size of
the neuroretinal edge zone of the optic disk in glaucoma without hypertension,
simple glaucoma, pigmentary glaucoma. A clinical study with the Octopus perimeter
201 and the optic nerve head analyzer].

[Article in German]

Gramer E, Althaus G, Leydhecker W.

The size of the neuroretinal rim area of the disk was measured with the Optic
Nerve Head Analyzer in 57 eyes of 57 patients with low-tension glaucoma (LTG),
glaucoma simplex (POAG), and pigmentary glaucoma. The visual fields were examined
with Program 33 or 31 (30 degrees eccentricity, 6 degrees grid) of the Octopus
201 Perimeter. The mean sensitivity loss per test point in the central field, in 
the field quadrants, and in the ranges from 0 degrees-10 degrees, 10 degrees-20
degrees, and 20 degrees-30 degrees were calculated with the Delta program. In
addition, the mean loss per disturbed point, which gives the mean depth of
scotomata, was calculated. In LTG a larger vertical cup/disk ratio (CDR) was
found than in POAG for the same amount of total loss. The comparison of eyes with
neuroretinal rim areas of equal size revealed that in contrast to POAG and
pigmentary glaucoma, eyes with LTG had a smaller mean sensitivity loss; deeper,
more localized scotomata; more visual field defects in the lower field in the
initial stages; more scotomata in the area up to 20 degrees. The differences
between glaucoma with and without high intraocular pressure were found to be most
pronounced in the initial stages of the disease. These differences appear to be
caused by the varying amounts of vascular pathogenesis involved. Therefore, at
least two pathomechanisms have to be considered in glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1050784 
PMID: 3784407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1835. Ophthalmology. 1986 Jun;93(6):853-7.

Optic disc hemorrhage in low-tension glaucoma.

Kitazawa Y, Shirato S, Yamamoto T.

The prevalence of optic disc hemorrhage (DH) was determined in groups consisting 
of 192 primary open-angle glaucoma, 113 primary angle-closure glaucoma, 78
low-tension glaucoma, and 473 normal patients. The DH was mot prevalent (20.5%)
among low tension glaucoma patients (chi 2; P less than 0.001). The
epidemiological features of DH were studied in 58 low-tension glaucoma patients
by examining them every one to four weeks from 6 to 32 months. All the DHs but
one took place within a seven-month follow-up and the incidence of DH varies from
0 to 10% during the 32-month follow-up period. The overall incidence of DH was
24.8% during that period of time. Recurrences were seen in 64% of the eyes and
92% of these occurred within 28 weeks following the previous hemorrhages.
Ninety-two percent of all DHs were present for at least four weeks. Low-tension
glaucoma eyes seem to consist of two different groups; one which develops
recurrent DH and one which is very unlikely to bleed through its entire course.


PMID: 3737131  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1836. Br J Ophthalmol. 1986 Jun;70(6):451-5.

Subconjunctival suspension of RU486 lowers intraocular pressure in normal
rabbits.

Tsukahara S, Sasaki T, Phillips CI, Gore SM.

RU486 is both a progesterone blocker and a corticosteroid blocker (peripheral).
Subconjunctival injections of 0.2 ml of a 1% suspension of RU486 powder (2 mg)
were given twice weekly to one eye chosen at random of 12 rabbits. The fellow eye
received the same volume, 0.2 ml, of vehicle (normal saline) only. Ocular tension
was measured twice daily for six days per week by an Alcon pneumatonograph, the
tonometrist(s) being unaware of which eyes were treated and which untreated. A
small but significant reduction in intraocular pressure, about 0.7 mmHg, occurred
in treated eyes. No intereye difference in the ocular hypertensive response to
intraperitoneal injections of distilled water (50 ml/kg) was found. Clinical
trials are planned in which a larger fall is expected because the trabecular
meshwork in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension is
presumably more affected by (normal) tissue levels of corticosteroid.


PMCID: PMC1041040
PMID: 3718909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1837. Klin Oczna. 1986 May;88(5):155-6.

[Low tension glaucoma. IV. Comparative ophthalmodynamometry].

[Article in Polish]

Czajkowski J.


PMID: 3795826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1838. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1986 Apr;27(4):632-3.

Migraine and low-tension glaucoma. A case control study.

Ederer F.


PMID: 3957584  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1839. Am J Ophthalmol. 1986 Feb 15;101(2):204-7.

Comparison of visual field defects in normal-tension glaucoma and high-tension
glaucoma.

King D, Drance SM, Douglas G, Schulzer M, Wijsman K.

In a prospective comparison of visual defects in 23 patients with normal-tension 
glaucoma and 23 with high-tension glaucoma, the groups were matched for equal
involvement of the optic disk. F profiles on the Octopus 201 Perimeter were used 
to quantify thresholds at 1-degree intervals from fixation to define
eccentricity, depth, and slope of the scotoma. The mean eccentricity of scotomas 
in the normal-tension group was 4.86 degrees from fixation; in the high-tension
group it was 2.96 degrees. These differences were statistically significant (P
less than .01). No statistically significant differences were found between the
slopes of the scotomas or depths of the scotomas in the two groups.


PMID: 3946537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1840. Indian J Ophthalmol. 1986;34:213.

Conditions simulating low tension glaucoma.

Narang SK, Audich KL, Soni KN.


PMID: 3155073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1841. Br J Ophthalmol. 1985 Oct;69(10):765-70.

Blood and plasma viscosity measurements in patients with glaucoma.

Klaver JH, Greve EL, Goslinga H, Geijssen HC, Heuvelmans JH.

Blood viscosity at 10 shear rates, plasma viscosity, packed cell volume, plasma
fibrinogen, serum alpha 2-macroglobulin, and serum proteins were measured in 83
patients with low-tension glaucoma (LTG) and 23 patients with 'high-tension
glaucoma' (HTG: at least one IOP reading above 40 mmHg) and compared with those
in 50 controls. Blood and plasma viscosity values and packed cell volume were
significantly higher in the LTG group than those in controls. The HTG and the LTG
groups differed only in plasma viscosity, but smoking and drinking habits in the 
HTG patients were greatly different from those in LTG patients and controls, thus
preventing interpretation of data in the HTG group. Within the LTG group
viscosity values were highest in a subgroup designated earlier by us as focal
ischaemic LTG, whereas another subgroup, senile sclerotic LTG, did not show
significant differences compared with controls. These findings may indicate a
factor in the pathogenesis of visual field defects and disc cupping in some
patients with LTG.


PMCID: PMC1040735
PMID: 4052362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1842. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1985 Aug;13(3):243-8.

Argon laser trabeculoplasty and the open-angle glaucomas.

Goldberg I.

Argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) was used to treat 237 eyes of 156 presurgical
patients with various open-angle glaucomas. Patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma formed the largest group; intraocular pressure (IOP) control judged
clinically to be adequate was achieved in 77.3% of eyes. Eyes with
pseudoexfoliative glaucoma demonstrated the greatest IOP reduction achieving
control in 90.7%. Eyes with combined-mechanism glaucoma underwent argon laser
iridectomy prior to ALT. One month after ALT the IOP was considered adequate in
70% of eyes. ALT may benefit eyes with low-tension glaucoma, pigmentary glaucoma 
and aphakic open-angle glaucoma. Treatment failures were frequent in eyes with
angle recession and uveitis. Complications included IOP elevation (7.8%) and mild
iritis; technique modifications minimized their frequency and intensity. ALT
demonstrated an excellent benefit-to-risk ratio. Its effect additive to
medications, ALT often permitted a reduction in the medical regimen, but rarely
cessation of drug therapy. ALT is recommended as an alternative to drainage
surgery.


PMID: 4074552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1843. Arch Ophthalmol. 1985 Aug;103(8):1145-9.

Comparison of the optic nerve head in high- and low-tension glaucoma.

Caprioli J, Spaeth GL.

The optic nerves of 34 eyes of 34 patients with low-tension glaucoma were
compared with those of 41 eyes of 41 patients with high-tension glaucoma. Mean
intraocular pressure in the low-tension group was 16.9 +/- 0.7 mm Hg (mean +/-
SEM) compared with 31.7 +/- 0.8 mm Hg in the high-tension group. Mean total
visual field loss was not significantly different in the two groups, as
determined by computerized threshold perimetry (OCTOPUS). The optic disc rim in
low-tension eyes was significantly thinner than in high-tension eyes (P = .018); 
the largest difference occurred inferiorly and inferotemporally (P less than
.001). The appearance of the optic nerve is useful to distinguish between these
two subtypes of glaucoma and may be a more meaningful indicator than intraocular 
pressure. Our findings support the hypothesis that there are at least two
different mechanisms for optic nerve damage in glaucoma.


PMID: 4026644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1844. Arch Ophthalmol. 1985 Aug;103(8):1131-3.

Low-tension glaucoma. Enigma and opportunity.

Drance SM.


PMID: 4026640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1845. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1985 Aug;26(8):1105-8.

Migraine and low-tension glaucoma. A case-control study.

Phelps CD, Corbett JJ.

The authors administered a standardized headache questionnaire to 54 patients
with low-tension glaucoma, 182 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, 126
patients with ocular hypertension, and 493 normal subjects. Patients with
low-tension glaucoma had headaches with or without features of migraine
(unilateral headache, nausea or vomiting, or visual prodromata) more frequently
than did any of the other groups. The higher prevalence of headache in
low-tension glaucoma patients, who were usually elderly, was especially striking 
when their age was considered, since headaches are less common in elderly normal 
subjects than in young normal subjects. Headaches were present in 86% of elderly 
low-tension glaucoma patients (70 yr of age or older) but in only 64% of elderly 
normal subjects (P = 0.04) and only 59% of elderly ocular hypertensive patients
(P = 0.02). Because migraine is an ischemic disorder, its possible association
with low-tension glaucoma has etiologic and therapeutic implications.


PMID: 4019101  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1846. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1985 Aug;26(8):1101-4.

The neurologic evaluation of patients with low-tension glaucoma.

Corbett JJ, Phelps CD, Eslinger P, Montague PR.

One hypothesized cause of low-tension glaucoma is chronic or intermittent
ischemia of the optic nerve. Since the optic nerve and brain are both parts of
the central nervous system and share a common blood supply, the authors wondered 
if patients with low-tension glaucoma might also have clinical or radiographic
evidence of cerebral atrophy. In this study, 27 patients with low-tension
glaucoma were examined using neurobehavioral testing, electroencephalography,
computerized tomographic scan, neurological history, and physical examination. In
only a small number of patients were these tests abnormal. However, 12 of the 27 
patients gave a history of common or classic migraine. This unexpected finding
raises the possibility that migraine-related ischemia might be the pathogenic
mechanism in some cases of low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 4019100  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1847. Vestn Oftalmol. 1985 Jul-Aug;101(4):8-10.

[Hemodynamics of patients with low-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Gusev EV, Kondé LA, Forofonova TI.


PMID: 4060425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1848. Ophthalmology. 1985 May;92(5):641-5.

Iris sphincterotomy, iridotomy, and synechiotomy by linear incision with the
argon laser.

Wise JB.

Linear cuts can be made across the iris fibers by multiple 0.01- to 0.05-second
duration argon laser burns delivered through an Abraham iridectomy lens.
Intrinsic iris tension will then cause the linear cuts to spread apart. This
allows enlargement, reshaping, or repositioning of the pupil and large laser
iridotomies with minimal burn energies and a very high percentage of success. The
technique minimizes risk to the retina and eliminates the need for stretch burns 
in laser iridotomy. It requires the use of the Abraham lens and an argon laser,
which generates a small spot of high power density. Posterior synechiae can be
incised by using a line of low-power 0.01- or 0.02-second burns applied to the
adherent pigment epithelium along the iris margin.


PMID: 4011137  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1849. Doc Ophthalmol. 1985 Apr 30;59(3):217-46.

Inter-individual variation in blood supply of the optic nerve head. Its
importance in various ischemic disorders of the optic nerve head, and glaucoma,
low-tension glaucoma and allied disorders.

Hayreh SS.

There is no one standard pattern of the blood supply of the optic nerve head in
all human eyes. There is a marked inter-individual variation in the blood supply 
of the optic nerve head, and the various factors which produce this include
variations in (I) the anatomical pattern of blood supply, (II) the pattern of
posterior ciliary artery (PCA) circulation (the main source of blood supply to
the optic nerve head), and (III) the blood flow. The variations in the pattern of
PCA circulation include the variations in (a) number of PCAs supplying an eye,
(b) area of supply to the optic nerve head by each PCA, (c) location of the
watershed zones between the various PCAs in relation to the optic nerve head, and
(d) blood pressure in various PCAs as well as short PCAs. The variations in the
blood flow in the optic nerve head can be produced by changes in (i) the
intraocular pressure, (ii) mean blood pressure in the capillaries of the optic
nerve head and (iii) peripheral vascular resistance. These variations are
discussed in detail. A lack of appreciation of these complexities of the blood
supply of the optic nerve head in health and disease is responsible for many of
the current problems in the understanding of the role of vascular disturbances in
anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, glaucoma, low-tension glaucoma and various
ischemic disorders of the optic nerve head.


PMID: 4006669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1850. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1985 Apr;186(4):262-7.

[Glaucoma without ocular hypertension. A clinical study].

[Article in German]

Gramer E, Leydhecker W.

One hundred eighty-four glaucomatous eyes (125 patients) with visual field
defects of Stage I and II in the central visual field were examined with the
Octopus perimeter 201, Program 31 or 33, and were divided into 3 groups according
to maximum intraocular pressures: (1) low-tension glaucoma (21 mm Hg), (2)
glaucoma simplex (22-29 mm Hg), (3) glaucoma simplex (30-39 mm Hg). In these
three groups of glaucomatous eyes the cupping of the optic disk, vision and blood
pressure were examined and a further check for cardiovascular risk factors was
carried out by the internist. All three groups proved to have an equally high
incidence of cardiac insufficiency, abnormal EKG changes and diabetes. However, a
low systolic blood pressure was found to be the risk factor more often in
patients with low-tension glaucoma than with glaucoma simplex. Furthermore,
intraocular pressures in the low-tension glaucoma group were higher than those in
the normal population. The occurrence of cupping of the optic disk, which is not 
present with purely vascular optic nerve diseases, and the location of visual
field defects in low-tension glaucoma, which is similar to that in glaucoma
simplex but different from vascular diseases, as well as the increased diurnal
tension variations of diurnal tension curves compared to the normal population
are all factors which indicate that low-tension glaucoma is not a purely vascular
optic nerve disease, and that pressure-lowering therapy is necessary.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1050918 
PMID: 3999610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1851. Ann Ophthalmol. 1985 Feb;17(2):146-8.

Leber's optic atrophy with myopia masquerading as glaucoma: case report.

Lauer SA, Ackerman J, Sunness J, Bluth EM, Kim CK.

In recent years there has been much discussion in the literature regarding the
proper approach to the patient who presents with apparent "low tension" glaucoma.
In addition to a complete workup and proper management of such a patient, careful
consideration must be given to the differential diagnosis of clinical conditions 
presenting with optic disc cupping and visual field changes. We present an
interesting clinical situation in which a patient with severe myopia and Leber's 
optic atrophy was referred for surgery for treatment of apparent progressive "low
tension" glaucoma.


PMID: 3994214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1852. Am J Ophthalmol. 1984 Dec 15;98(6):823-5.

Comparison of visual field defects in the low-tension glaucomas with those in the
high-tension glaucomas.

Phelps CD, Hayreh SS, Montague PR.


PMID: 6507569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1853. Br J Ophthalmol. 1984 Aug;68(8):585-9.

Ocular effects of acute hyperglycaemia.

Poinoosawmy D, Winder AF.

Intraocular pressure and levels of glucose in plasma were recorded during a
standard glucose tolerance test for 54 patients with chronic simple or
low-tension glaucoma, and osmolality in plasma was also recorded for 12 patients.
Significant correlations between the rates of change of these variables were not 
obtained, but the overall response of intraocular pressure correlated with the
overall increase of plasma glucose, which also correlated with the increase of
osmolality. These results show that the changes in refraction associated with
acute hyperglycaemia arise from adjustments in fluid balance between intraocular 
compartments.


PMCID: PMC1040417
PMID: 6743629  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1854. Ann Ophthalmol. 1984 Jun;16(6):560-2, 566.

Argon laser trabeculoplasty in progressive low-tension glaucoma.

Schwartz AL, Perman KI, Whitten M.

Twenty-two phakic eyes with progressive low-tension glaucoma had a 360-degree
argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT). Seven of these eyes had diurnal curves
performed pre- and two months postlaser treatment to measure the effect of ALT on
diurnal pressure variation. Sixteen of the 22 eyes (73%) were clinical successes 
with a 4.9 mm Hg decrease at 12 months in the successful group. However there was
a decreasing pressure lowering effect with time with a mean follow-up of 21.6
months. The diurnal curve data showed a 6.2 mm Hg decrease between the mean
pressure pretreatment and two months postlaser treatment. The mean peak pressure 
posttreatment was 13.29 mm Hg, a 6.17 mm Hg decrease from the prelaser mean peak 
pressure. The finding of 24-hour pressure control and a reduction in the mean
peak pressure confirms the usefulness of ALT in progressive low-tension glaucoma 
and we recommend that it be utilized as the step in between maximally tolerated
medical therapy and filtering surgery.


PMID: 6742697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1855. Am J Ophthalmol. 1984 Jun;97(6):730-7.

Comparison of visual field defects in the low-tension glaucomas with those in the
high-tension glaucomas.

Caprioli J, Spaeth GL.

We compared the visual fields of 79 eyes (48 patients) with low-tension glaucoma 
(intraocular pressure less than 21 mm Hg) to the visual fields of 106 eyes (74
patients) with high-tension glaucoma (intraocular pressure greater than 30 mm
Hg). Both groups had similar amounts of total field loss as determined by
computerized threshold perimetry. Scotomas in the low-tension group had a steeper
slope (P less than .001), were significantly closer to fixation (P less than
.001), and had greater depth (P less than .001) than those in the high-tension
group. These findings suggested that more than one causative factor is important 
in the production of optic nerve damage in glaucoma.


PMID: 6731537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1856. Br J Ophthalmol. 1984 Jun;68(6):389-92.

Postural change of IOP in normal persons and in patients with primary wide
open-angle glaucoma and low-tension glaucoma.

Tsukahara S, Sasaki T.

The values of intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements by an Alcon pneumatic
tonometer and a Goldmann applanation tonometer were found to be close, with a
correlation coefficient of 0.92. Measured by the pneumatonograph the IOP after 30
minutes in the supine position was highest in normal persons, in patients with
primary wide open-angle glaucoma and low-tension glaucoma. The greatest
difference in IOP between subjects sitting and supine was observed in patients
with low-tension glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC1040359
PMID: 6722071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1857. Lancet. 1984 Apr 7;1(8380):767-8.

Eye drops of RU 486-6, a peripheral steroid blocker, lower intraocular pressure
in rabbits.

Phillips CI, Green K, Gore SM, Cullen PM, Campbell M.

A peripheral corticosteroid blocker RU 486-6, instilled as a 1% suspension at
random into one eye of 12 rabbits, produced a consistent fall in intraocular
pressure as measured by a hand-held applanation tonometer, when compared with the
fellow control eye. This or a similar drug may be applicable for treatment of
human open-angle glaucoma, or ocular hypertension, by eliminating that part of
ocular tension attributable to the effect on aqueous outflow of the normal and
fluctuating level of tissue corticosteroids.


PMID: 6143086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1858. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1984 Apr;184(4):303-4.

[Ocular pulse curve in glaucoma without hypertension].

[Article in German]

Perkins ES, Phelps CD.

The ocular pulse amplitudes were measured with a recording applanation tonometer 
in eyes of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, low-tension glaucoma and in
normal subjects. The mean ocular pulse amplitude of 62 eyes of 31 patients with
low-tension glaucoma did not differ significantly from that of normal eyes, but
there were more eyes with low and high pulse amplitudes than would be expected in
a normal population. These results suggest that the patients with low-tension
glaucoma did not comprise a homogeneous population, but contained one group of
patients with evidence of reduced choroidal blood flow and another group with
pulse amplitudes similar to those found in primary open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1054471 
PMID: 6727259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1859. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Apr;88(4):806-13.

[Prevalence and background of ocular hypertension and low tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Shiose Y, Ito T, Komuro K, Amano M.


PMID: 6464902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1860. Ophthalmologica. 1984;188(2):65-75.

Do patients with low tension glaucoma have particular cardiovascular
characteristics?

Demailly P, Cambien F, Plouin PF, Baron P, Chevallier B.

It has been suggested that low tension glaucoma (LTG) could be the consequence of
a hemodynamic crisis or chronic occlusive disease. The purpose of the present
study was to test this hypothesis by comparing three groups of patients matched
for age and sex: 51 patients with LTG, 51 patients with open angle glaucoma (OAG)
and 46 control patients. Clinical symptoms and history of occlusive arterial
disease and conditions which could be associated with or were the consequence of 
acute blood pressure lowering were not more frequent in the LTG group. The
prevalence of rhythm and conduction abnormalities on the ECG was two times more
frequent in the glaucoma groups, but the differences were not statistically
significant. Mean cardiovascular risk factor levels were not higher in the LTG
group than in the two other groups. But the mean difference of blood pressure
between the standing and lying positions was significantly greater in the LTG
group (systolic blood pressure: -6.9 mm Hg) than in the OAG group (-1.2 mm HG)
and the control group (-1.5 mm Hg). These results suggest that postural
hypotension could play a role in the pathogenesis of LTG.


PMID: 6709306  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1861. Br J Ophthalmol. 1983 Dec;67(12):818-21.

A comparative study of visual field defects seen in patients with low-tension
glaucoma and chronic simple glaucoma.

Hitchings RA, Anderton SA.

In a study comparing the visual field defects of patients with chronic simple and
low-tension glaucoma differences in the nature of the defect were found between
the 2 groups. Patients with low-tension glaucoma had far 'steeper sided' defects 
than those seen in chronic simple glaucoma (p less than 0.01).


PMCID: PMC1040211
PMID: 6671097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1862. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1983 Dec;183(6):507-8.

[Laser trabeculoplasty in low-tension glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Strasser G, Stelzer R.

Eight patients suffering from bilateral low-tension glaucoma underwent laser
trabeculoplasty on one eye; the contralateral eye was used as a control. Facility
of outflow and the intraocular pressure in both eyes were measured before and
after laser treatment. After laser trabeculoplasty a significant increase in
outflow (means = 0.084 +/- 0.031) and a reduction in intraocular pressure (means 
= -4.13 +/- 1.25 mmHg) were observed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1054995 
PMID: 6668882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1863. Am J Ophthalmol. 1983 Aug;96(2):148-52.

Optic disk and visual field correlations in primary open-angle and low-tension
glaucoma.

Lewis RA, Hayreh SS, Phelps CD.

If the amount of visual field loss is less than expected from the amount of optic
disk cupping in low-tension glaucoma compared with primary open-angle glaucoma,
it might imply a difference between the two conditions in the type of optic nerve
lesion produced. To test this hypothesis, three observers independently examined,
in a masked fashion, optic disk stereoscopic photographs of 127 eyes with primary
open-angle glaucoma and 71 eyes with low-tension glaucoma. For each stereoscopic 
photograph the observer predicted whether the visual field loss would be mild,
moderate, or severe. The visual field were then classified, according to the
number of sectors defective on the Goldmann perimeter chart, as having mild (1 to
15 sectors), moderate (16 to 30 sectors), or severe (more than 30 sectors) visual
field loss. For no observer did the frequency of underpredictions or
overpredictions in the two conditions differ significantly. The results of this
study, thus, did not support the theory that the optic disk damage in primary
open-angle glaucoma differs from that in low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 6881239  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1864. Aust J Ophthalmol. 1983 Aug;11(3):159-61.

Experience with dipivalyl epinephrine. Its effectiveness, alone or in
combination, and its side effects.

Cebon L, West RH, Gillies WE.

Dipivalyl epinephrine was as effective as adrenaline as an eyedrop for glaucoma. 
It was responsible for fewer side effects, through side effects did occur. It had
an additive effect when used with timolol maleate and, in 12 of 14 patients on
long-term medication with both drugs, a rise of pressure of 3 mmHg or more
occurred when dipivalyl epinephrine was stopped. As sole therapy dipivalyl
epinephrine was effective in chronic simple open-angle glaucoma, ocular
hypertension and pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, and may be useful on its own in the 
latter two conditions. In low-tension glaucoma it seemed the best therapy when
combined with timolol. Headache and ocular pain were uncommon but prominent side 
effects.


PMID: 6639507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1865. Aust J Ophthalmol. 1983 Aug;11(3):149-53.

Drop attack in glaucoma. The Melbourne experience with topical miotics,
adrenergic and neuronal blocking drops.

West RH, Cebon L, Gillies WE.

We have considered the effectiveness of miotics (pilocarpine 2% and ecothiopate
iodide (Phospholine Iodide) 0.125 or 0.25%), adrenaline (Eppy/N 1%) or adrenaline
precursors (dipivalyl epinephrine or dipivefrin hydrochloride (Propine) 0.1%) and
neuronal blockers (timolol maleate (Timoptol) 0.5%) in 165 patients in the
clinical situation. All drops were effective in lowering intraocular pressure
with an average fall of 6.6 mmHg for timolol (160 eyes), 8.21 mmHg for
pilocarpine (79 eyes), 5.77 mmHg for dipivalyl epinephrine (57 eyes), 7.23 mmHg
for adrenaline (17 eyes) and 10.5 mmHg for ecothiopate iodide (16 eyes). In
chronic simple open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension and pseudoexfoliative
glaucoma, pilocarpine and timolol were almost equally effective while dipivalyl
epinephrine and adrenaline were also effective, but more as additive therapy,
though dipivalyl epinephrine may be useful on its own in ocular hypertension. In 
low-tension glaucoma timolol and dipivalyl epinephrine together seemed best,
while in secondary glaucomas all were effective at times, but ecothiopate iodide 
was best in aphakic glaucoma and fluorometholone (FML Liquifilm) 0.1% was
important in inflammatory glaucoma. Side effects were frequent with dipivalyl
epinephrine and timolol, with respiratory disease a strong contraindication to
timolol.


PMID: 6639505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1866. Int Ophthalmol. 1983 Jun;6(3):213-20.

Development of cupping and pallor in posterior ischemic optic neuropathy.

Sonty S, Schwartz B.

A case of arteriosclerotic posterior ischemic optic neuropathy without optic disc
edema is described and documented photographically. The development of optic disc
cupping and pallor with ischemia in this patient supports the vascular basis for 
development of similar cupping and pallor in open angle glaucoma and low tension 
glaucoma.


PMID: 6885256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1867. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1983 Mar;24(3):354-60.

Intraocular blood flow from analysis of angiograms.

Moses RA.

A method of analysing fluorescein angiograms that yields a parameter of
intraocular blood flow designated as the fluorescein appearance rate is
presented. The appearance rate was decreased in those eyes in which intraocular
pressure (Pi) was found to be increased. The appearance rate was also decreased
in the two cases of "low tension glaucoma" whose angiograms we have analysed. The
decrease in appearance rate with increase of Pi is the result of increasing
vascular flow resistance due to constriction of veins at their exit from the eye.


PMID: 6832910  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1868. Trans Ophthalmol Soc U K. 1983;103 ( Pt 3):288-96.

Argon laser trabeculoplasty for open angle glaucoma. A retrospective study of 380
eyes.

Horns DJ, Bellows AR, Hutchinson BT, Allen RC.

Three hundred and eighty eyes of 300 patients which were treated with argon laser
trabeculoplasty for medically uncontrolled open angle glaucoma were studied
retrospectively. Among the 334 eyes having at least six weeks follow up, the mean
overall pressure drop was 8.1 mm Hg. In 19.2 per cent of eyes, pressure was
inadequately controlled by laser treatment and subsequent glaucoma surgery was
required. Phakic primary chronic open angle glaucoma (COAG), aphakic COAG,
pseudoexfoliation, pigmentary, and low tension glaucoma eyes all had a
significant drop in pressure. Eyes with juvenile glaucoma or inflammatory
glaucoma had a much poorer response in terms of mean pressure drop and number
requiring later operation. There was no statistically significant difference in
response between aphakic and phakic coag eyes, between pseudoexfoliation and
phakic COAG eyes, or between eyes treated over the full 360 degrees and eyes
treated over half the angle with treatment over the second half later if needed. 
A higher initial pressure usually resulted in a greater lowering of pressure.
Medication was reduced after treatment in 28.7 per cent of eyes. The data suggest
that the effect of laser trabeculoplasty generally persists for at least one
year. Complications were few, the most serious being elevated intraocular
pressure, which rose 10 mm Hg or more in 2.1 per cent of all eyes.


PMID: 6585072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1869. Trans Ophthalmol Soc N Z. 1983;35:81-4.

Low tension neovascular glaucoma treated by draining implant.

Molteno AC.


PMID: 6195799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1870. Can J Ophthalmol. 1982 Dec;17(6):245-8.

Risk factors for progression of visual field defects in medically treated
patients with glaucoma.

Richler M, Werner EB, Thomas D.

A multivariate discriminant analysis of potential risk factors for the
progression of visual field defects was performed in 70 patients with chronic
open-angle or low-tension glaucoma. Male sex, low diastolic blood pressure and
diabetes mellitus were found to be significant risk factors. When the patients
with low-tension glaucoma were excluded, a high mean intraocular pressure was
identified as a risk factor. It was concluded that there is no reliable way to
predict future visual field loss in patients with glaucoma.


PMID: 7165838  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1871. Ophthalmology. 1982 Sep;89(9):991-8.

Why do some people go blind from glaucoma?

Grant WM, Burke JF Jr.

Retrospective analysis of patients blinded by glaucoma has revealed a need to
educate patients to the significance of premonitory symptoms, to investigate a
higher incidence of blindness from open-angle glaucoma among blacks than whites, 
and to define the goals of therapy in relation to presenting pathology.
Responding to this third need, circumstances of patients followed for 20 to 40
years with extensive documentation relating to open-angle glaucoma were analyzed.
Some eyes with normal discs and fields were found to tolerate a tension of 30 mm 
Hg for many years without need of treatment. But, when abnormalities ranging from
early glaucomatous cupping to advanced visual field defects were present on
initial evaluation, progressive loss of field tended to occur at lower tensions. 
It appears that the worse the initial condition of the eye, the lower the tension
needs to be to prevent further loss or blindness.


PMID: 7177577  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1872. Arch Ophthalmol. 1982 Sep;100(9):1464-7.

Open angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension, low-tension glaucoma, and refraction.

Perkins ES, Phelps CD.

An analysis of the refractions of patients with primary open angle glaucoma,
ocular hypertension (OH), and low-tension glaucoma showed that myopia occurred
more frequently in each group than would be expected in a normal population of
similar age. One in three of the myopes with OH had glaucomatous field defects on
follow-up examination, whereas the defects developed in only one in 20 of the
emmetropes and in one in 40 of the hypermetropes. These results suggest that
myopic eyes are more susceptible to the effects of raised intraocular pressure
than are nonmyopic eyes and that myopes with OH have a particularly high risk of 
the development of field defects.


PMID: 7115175  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1873. Aust J Ophthalmol. 1982 Aug;10(3):183-5.

Timolol maleate and intra-ocular pressure in low-tension glaucoma.

Gillies WE, West RH.


PMID: 7181759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1874. Ophthalmic Surg. 1982 Aug;13(8):647-50.

Pupillary block glaucoma following intraocular lens implantation.

Kielar RA, Stambaugh JL.

Seven cases of pupillary block granuloma occurred in a series of 665 consecutive 
cases of cataract extraction with insertion of an iris supported intraocular
lens, an overall incidence of 1%. The incidence with an iris plane lens was 1.7%,
and for all other styles used the incidence was 0.3%. Common factors noted were
iris plane intraocular lens and early postoperative complications predisposing to
pupillary block. In four of the seven cases, there was a period of normal
intraocular pressure followed by elevated intraocular tension with a deep central
anterior chamber two weeks to fifteen months following cataract extraction, with 
subsequent development of corneal edema and typical shallowing of the anterior
chamber with iris bombe. Five of seven cases ultimately regained control of
intraocular pressure although extensive peripheral anterior synechia were
present. No patient ultimately had a visual acuity better than 20/50.


PMID: 7133608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1875. Am J Ophthalmol. 1982 Aug;94(2):190-6.

Nonprogressive low-tension glaucoma with pigmentary dispersion.

Ritch R.

Four patients with nonprogressive glaucomatous cupping and nonprogressive visual 
field damage, three of whom were referred with a diagnosis of low-tension
glaucoma, were found to have slit-like radial peripheral iris transillumination
defects. Three of these patients had Krukenberg spindles and dense pigmentation
of the trabecular meshwork. These findings are considered pathognomonic for
pigmentary glaucoma. Little is known of the natural course of this disease. A
decrease in corneal and trabecular pigmentation with age and normalization of
intraocular pressures after years of treatment have been noted. The patients
described here were all much older than the average patient with pigmentary
glaucoma, yet in none of them had a diagnosis of glaucoma been made at the time
the damage presumably developed. In these patients the pigmentary glaucoma had
probably remitted spontaneously.


PMID: 7114141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1876. Arch Ophthalmol. 1982 Jul;100(7):1074-7.

Visual field defects in low-tension glaucoma. Comparison of defects in
low-tension glaucoma and chronic open angle glaucoma.

Motolko M, Drance SM, Douglas GR.

In a study of the visual fields of 160 eyes with low-tension glaucoma (LTG) and
154 eyes with chronic open angle glaucoma with the same degree of optic nerve
change, no differences in the qualitative or quantitative characteristics were
found. The field defects in those eyes with LTG in which a major hemodynamic
crisis had occurred were not different from those in which no crisis had been
documented.


PMID: 7092645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1877. Doc Ophthalmol. 1982 Jan 29;52(3-4):227-39.

X-recessive angiopathic opticopathy.

Bastiaensen LA, Vandoninck JJ.

A familial optic atrophy with X-recessive heredity, distinct from Leber's optic
atrophy (LOA), is described. The symptoms are: slight to moderate pallor of the
papillomacular bundle at the disc possibly preceded by some hyperaemia of the
disc, telangiectasia on the disc with normal retinal vessels, occurrence in the
second decade of life, slow progression with often subclinical visual loss, a
small relative central scotoma with an intact peripheral visual field, slight
acquired tritanopia and deuteranopia, and vasomotor headaches. The disease may
exhibit severe exacerbations with loss of vision to 1/60, provoked by
vasoconstrictors and reacting favourably to vasodilators. This acute loss of
vision is associated with ischaemia of the disc, a deep central scotoma with
marked disturbance of colour vision in the form of an acquired deuteranopia, and 
sensoparalytic pupils. This is followed by increasing pallor of the disc, slow
resolution of the central scotoma with a permanent reduction in the central light
sensitivity, markedly disturbed Visual Evoked Potentials (VEP), acquired
deuteranopia and normal ERG and EOG. In contrast to all hereditary opticopathies 
so far described, fluorescein angiography showed a disturbance of perfusion in
the peripapillary choroid and the prelaminar part of the optic nerve. A similar
disturbance of perfusion is described in anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy
(AION) and low-tension glaucoma. To these acquired, non-hereditary recessive
vascular opticopathies, which usually occur late in life, will have to be added
the X-recessive vascular optic atrophy which we describe here, for which we
propose the name: X-recessive angiopathic opticopathy. The differential diagnosis
from some other hereditary, especially X-recessive, optic atrophies is discussed.


PMID: 7067594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1878. Ophthalmology. 1982 Jan;89(1):1-6.

Progressive low-tension glaucoma: treatment to stop glaucomatous cupping and
field loss when these progress despite normal intraocular pressure.

Abedin S, Simmons RJ, Grant WM.

Our thesis, inspired by the experience and teaching of Paul A. Chandler, is that 
after the optic discs have developed cupping and atrophy from elevated
intraocular pressure they tend to become abnormally vulnerable and, in some
cases, may continue to deteriorate even if the intraocular pressure is brought to
the teens. At this stage they behave the same as in eyes with so-called
low-tension glaucoma, which have developed progressive cupping and atrophy with
pressures always in the teens. In either case, we find that the progression of
cupping and field loss can be stopped by reducing the intraocular pressure to
lower levels, preferably to 10 mm Hg or less. We have found that such low
pressures are most reliably attained by surgery, using a special technique we
call the shell tamponade filtration procedure, which involves the use of a
glaucoma shell in conjunction with standard (full-thickness sclerostomy)
filtration operations and certain specific operative and perioperative maneuvers.
We present nine case reports illustrating our thesis. Glaucomatous cupping and
loss of visual field were progressing relentlessly at normal pressures in each
case. This progressive deterioration was shown to be arrested by reduction of the
pressure to less than 12 mm Hg in 13 eyes.


PMID: 7070766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1879. Arch Ophthalmol. 1981 Oct;99(10):1795-801.

Optic disc hemorrhages. Analysis of stereophotographs and clinical data of 112
patients.

Airaksinen PJ, Mustonen E, Alanko HI.

Examination of optic disc stereophotographs of 1,548 patients with glaucoma or
suspected glaucoma revealed a disc hemorrhage in 112 cases. Multivariate analysis
showed that disposition of hemorrhages on the disc is related to mean intraocular
pressure, even lower levels of which increased probability of bleeding in
inferior sectors, which showed hemorrhages more frequently than superior and
horizontal sectors. Locations of hemorrhages correlated highly significantly with
locations of neural rim notches. Predominance of large optic cups in eyes with
normal central visual fields suggests that a genetically determined large cup may
be a risk factor in addition to pathologic diurnal variation of IOP, which seemed
more important than mean IOP in the development of hemorrhages. Capsular glaucoma
was observed more seldom and low-tension glaucoma was observed more often than
expected.


PMID: 7295129  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1880. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1981 Oct;179(4):274-5.

[Extraction of cataract after goniotrepanation (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Stelzer R.

The author reports on the results of cataract extraction after fistulating
operations in 20 patients with observation periods of between 3 and 71/2 years.
The intraocular tension remained normal in 16 eyes; in 4 cases (one after
epidemic keratoconjunctivitis) conservative antiglaucomatous treatment was
recently necessary.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1057309 
PMID: 7031347  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1881. Br J Ophthalmol. 1981 Jul;65(7):452-6.

Incidence of optic disc haemorrhages in chronic simple glaucoma and ocular
hypertension.

Gloster J.

1829 photographs of optic discs taken during routine examination and follow-up of
320 glaucoma patients and 169 cases of ocular hypertension were examined for the 
presence of haemorrhages on the disc. As expected, the observed incidence of disc
haemorrhages rose with increase in the number of occasions on which the patient
was photographed. It was concluded that at least one-third of glaucoma patients
show a disc haemorrhage at one time or another. Disc haemorrhages were seen more 
often in patients with established glaucoma than in those with ocular
hypertension. In patients with chronic simple glaucoma eyes with full fields and 
low cup: disc ratios showed haemorrhages less often than eyes with field defects 
and more advanced damage to the optic disc, but apart from this there was no
marked tendency for haemorrhages to occur at a particular stage of the disease.
Haemorrhages were more frequent in low-tension than in chronic simple glaucoma,
but this was probably only part of a more general variation which was revealed
when eyes were graded according to the maximum pressures ever recorded, there
being a very significant trend in which more haemorrhages were found in eyes with
lower than with higher intraocular pressures over the range from 10 to 60 mmHg.


PMCID: PMC1039548
PMID: 7260018  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1882. Arch Ophthalmol. 1981 Jun;99(6):1063-5.

Surgical scars after trepanotrabeculectomy.

Dellaporta A.

Trabeculectomy has proved to be superior to the classic filtering glaucoma
operations. The final postoperative surgical scars should determine the most
desirable technique. In this article, the scars observed in 73 eyes after primary
trepanotrabeculectomy were followed up for two to eight years. Fifty-six of 73
eyes (80%) showed flat scars covered by normal conjunctiva without avascular
cystic areas, no evidence of external filtration, and normalized intraocular
tension. These scars did not impair the anatomic integrity of the eye and
remained unchanged during the years.


PMID: 7236104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1883. Ann Ophthalmol. 1981 May;13(5):597-602.

Nuclear cataract as a cause of senile glaucoma.

Nakabayashi M.

When radial cortical opacities occurred in the lenses of glaucomatous eyes,
ocular hypertension soon became normal. Glaucoma operations were not performed on
patients over 50 years of age, and medical control or simple lens extraction was 
adopted. In 86% of the lenses extracted from glaucomatous eyes no medication was 
necessary to keep normal ocular tension for two years postoperatively. The water 
content of extracted lens from glaucomatous eyes was always in the lower half
compared to water content of nonglaucomatous cataractous lenses. Thus the absence
of radial cortical opacities is a cause of senile glaucoma. Three laws of aging
in the human body and eye are advocated and hypothesized. Simple glaucoma is
caused by an ischemia of Schlemm's canal through bending of the scleral branch of
anterior ciliary artery caused by continuous zonular traction. From the cation
material assortment of extracted dried lenses, it was found that human senile
cataracts including glaucomatous nuclear cataracts had normal membranes except in
the final stage. Glaucomatous diffuse cortical opacities also had normal
membrane, contrary to the damaged membrane in the swollen lens in the final stage
of cortical senile cataract.


PMID: 7258955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1884. Surv Ophthalmol. 1981 May-Jun;25(6):383-90.

Glaucomatous cupping -- sine glaucoma.

Gittinger JW Jr, Miller NR, Keltner JL, Burde RM.

A 72-year-old man presented with transient episodes of gradually descending
vision loss in either eye. Both discs showed marked cupping, but applanation
tensions were normal. Carotid occlusions were present. The etiology of the
transient visual disturbances, the relationship of carotid disease to low tension
glaucoma, and the management of such patients are discussed.


PMID: 7245024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1885. Br J Ophthalmol. 1981 Jan;65(1):56-62.

Systemic factors in patients with low-tension glaucoma.

Goldberg I, Hollows FC, Kass MA, Becker B.

Nineteen patients (38 eyes) with low-tension glaucoma were compared with 53
subjects (106 eyes) with ocular hypertension. Comparable for age and sex, the 2
groups were assessed with respect to haematological and biochemical criteria,
physical activity, and medical history. Statistical analyses of the differences
between the 2 groups highlighted the importance of diastolic ophthalmodynamometry
levels, prediagnosis exercise habits, cardiovascular disease status, and possibly
systolic blood pressure. Patients with low-tension glaucoma suffered a higher
prevalence of multiple abnormalities of these systemic factors than did their
ocular hypertensive counterparts. There were no significant differences between
the 2 groups with respect to the many other factors examined.


PMCID: PMC1039414
PMID: 7448157  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1886. Ophthalmologica. 1981;183(2):77-80.

Low-tension glaucoma: our clinical experience.

Cennamo G, Reccia R, Pignalosa B, Vassallo P.


PMID: 7301299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1887. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1981;4(6-7):503-8.

[Cortisone-induced glaucoma: a report on 44 affected eyes (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Espildora J, Vicuna P, Diaz E.

A clinical study of 44 eyes in 22 patients with cortisone-induced glaucoma
confirmed the importance of the duration of employ of the corticoid. Those
patients who had instilled the medication for less than 8 weeks recovered normal 
ocular tension after discontinuation of the corticoid. On the contrary, those who
had employed the corticoid for more than 4 years did not regain normal ocular
tension, and medical treatment, or even surgical therapy in a large number of
cases, had to be employed. The frequency of congenital anomalies of the angle has
to be emphasized, particularly persistence of the pectinate ligament. Papilla
asymmetry was noted in a large percentage of cases, and was related to the
difference in the stage of evolution of the eyes. The appearance of the papilla
has important prognostic value. Of the patients with abnormal papilla, 61.9 p.
cent had normal ocular tension after stopping treatment, but normal tension did
not appear in patients with anexcavated and apale papilla. The authors consider
trabeculotomy to be the operation of choice in cortisone induced glaucoma, but
this tends to be ineffective in young patients because of sclerous and/or
conjunctival blocking.


PMID: 7299067  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1888. Curr Eye Res. 1981;1(1):19-23.

The ocular pulse.

Perkins ES.

A recording applanation tonometer was used to examine the ocular pulse in normal 
subjects and patients with ocular hypertension, open angle glaucoma and low
tension glaucoma. The mean pulse amplitude of right eyes of normal subjects was
2.84 mm Hg +/- 1.16 and 2.83 mm Hg +/- 1.18 for left eyes. Only 2% of subjects
showed an interocular difference in pulse amplitude of more than 0.5 mm Hg. There
were significant differences in pulse amplitude with refractive errors.
Hypermetropic eyes had the largest pulse amplitude and myopic eyes the smallest. 
There was no significant correlation between pulse amplitude and intraocular
pressure or age in normal subjects. The mean pulse amplitude of eyes with open
angle glaucoma was significantly higher than that of normals. The mean pulse
amplitude of a small number of eyes with ocular hypertension was significantly
higher and eyes with low tension glaucoma had significantly lower pulse
amplitudes than normal subjects.


PMID: 7297091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1889. Trans Ophthalmol Soc N Z. 1981;33:33-5.

Timolol maleate and intraocular pressure in low-tension glaucoma.

Gillies WE, West RH.


PMID: 6942572  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1890. Ann Ophthalmol. 1980 Dec;12(12):1383.

Low tension glaucoma. Part II. Clinical characteristics and pathogenesis.

Levene RZ.


PMID: 7224498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1891. Int Ophthalmol. 1980 Dec;3(1):19-23.

A long term study of low concentration guanethidine and adrenaline therapy in
glaucoma.

Nagasubramanian S, Gloster J, Poinoosawmy D, Watkins R.

A long term study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of combined
guanethidine (1%) and adrenaline (0.05-0.5%) therapy in controlling intra-ocular 
pressure in 89 patients with chronic open angle glaucoma, in whom ocular tensions
proved difficult to control on miotics and/or carbonic anhydrase inhibitors.
Visual acuity, fields of vision, applanation tension, size of the pupil, anterior
chamber depth and gonioscopic examination of the angle were recorded before and
during treatment. The follow-up extended over a period of 12 to 42 months, the
mean being 28 months. The combined therapy was found to lower the intra-ocular
pressure significantly in a large number of patients and the most potent
combination was guanethidine 1% and adrenaline 1/4% and the average fall of
intraocular pressure with the combined therapy was around 8 mm Hg. Intolerance to
the combined preparation was noticed in three patients during a period of 12-18
months with the symptoms of sore eyes, conjunctival hyperaemia and lid irritation
of such severity that the treatment had to be withdrawn. Resistant to treatment
developed in four patients during a period of 12-36 months and treatment had to
be changed. Addition to guanethidine (1%) and adrenaline up to 1/4% to
pilocarpine therapy (2-4%) in eyes with narrow angles did not result in any
appreciable change of the width of the angle, the size of the pupil and the depth
of the anterior chamber.


PMID: 7216625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1892. Arch Ophthalmol. 1980 Sep;98(9):1579-87.

Fluorescein angiography of the optic disc. A longitudinal follow-up study.

Talusan ED, Schwartz B, Wilcox LM Jr.

A comparison of two or more disc fluorescein angiograms performed on separate
occasions was done on 60 eyes of normal subjects and patients with ocular
hypertension, primary open-angle glaucoma, and low-tension glaucoma. Clinically
stable patients did not show any change in their disc angiographic filling
patterns. Eyes that developed new visual-field defects with increased disc
cupping and pallor correspondingly showed new absolute filling defects or areas
of hypofluorescence. In those with established field defects, however, further
changes in the visual field occurred without obvious changes in the disc
fluorescein filling defect. Surgical lowering of intraocular pressure with or
without decrease in disc cupping and pallor did not result in visible improvement
of the disc angiographic pattern. Thus, the development of new visual-field
defects is associated with changes of the circulation of the optic disc.


PMID: 7425919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1893. Aust J Ophthalmol. 1980 May;8(2):173-5.

A trial of Timoptol (timolol maleate) in a clinical situation.

Gilles WE, West RH, Cebon L.

The results of treatment with Timoptol in 138 cases are reviewed. There was an
average lowering of pressure by 6mm Hg in the whole group with an average follow 
up of 10 weeks (range 2-26 weeks). Most patients had a satisfactory fall only
when Timoptol was combined with other treatment, with a fall of 3mm Hg or more in
60% of patients and with pressure controlled to less than 22mm Hg in 48 to 55%. A
good response was achieved in all types of chronic open angle glaucoma except in 
low tension glaucoma. In established glaucoma it seems best to add Timoptol to
the existing therapy and then modify treatment as indicated. Serious side effects
occurred in five patients; 2 with severe pain, 2 with an attack of angle closure 
glaucoma, one a general sensitivity reaction and one with temporary central
visual loss, but these do not detract from the immense potential of the drug in
treatment of glaucoma.


PMID: 7447803  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1894. Surv Ophthalmol. 1980 May-Jun;24(6):621-64.

Low tension glaucoma: a critical review and new material.

Levene RZ.

Low tension glaucoma (LTG) is a condition consisting of typical gluacomatous disc
and field changes, an open angle and pressures within the statisticaly normal
range. The controversy surrounding low tension glaucoma pertains not only to the 
definition and characteristics of the entity itself, but to the fundamental
questions it raises regarding the causal relationship between intraocular
pressure and disc and field changes. This review of LTG is based on material from
three major sources: Sjögren's review from 1857 to 1946; the author's review of
the world literature from 1947 through 1979; and an analysis of 32 of the
author's cases. 767 cases from clinic and private practice and 241 cases from
defined populations are considered. Definitions, incidence, characteristics,
differential diagnosis and management of LTG are discussed, as are its
relationship to primary open angle glaucoma and its possible association with
various other entities. Pathogenesis and possible mechanisms are also explored.


PMID: 7414505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1895. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1980 Apr;58(2):288-91.

Acute ocular hypotony as a manifestation of mumps. A case report.

Slagsvold JE.

A 27-year-old woman with epidemic parotitis developed acute hypotony in her right
eye. This complication is not mentioned in earlier reports concerning this
disease. She also suffered from keratitis and iritis. The inflammatory reaction
of the anterior eye subsided on topical medication, but the hypotony persisted
for two weeks. Factors possibly influencing the low intraocular tension are
discussed.


PMID: 7395489  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1896. Ophthalmologica. 1980;180(2):88-100.

Circulatory disorders of the optic nerve.

Böke W, Voigt GJ.

Circulatory disorders of the optic nerve may be classified into acute and chronic
lesions as well as into anterior and posterior ones. In general, anterior lesions
clinically prevail; they are located around the lamina cribrosa and are
pathogenetically explained as a consequence of decreased blood flow in the
posterior ciliary arteries as well as in the perilaminar capillaries. The
symptoms of the acute anterior lesions are described. The nerve head infarction
may be induced by various circulatory disorders such as arteriosclerosis,
diabetes, elevated blood pressure, giant cell arteritis or other collagen
diseases, but also by others. The particular importance of giant cell arteritis
is stressed. The prognosis of acute anterior ischemic optic neuropathy is poor,
possibilities of treatment are discussed. The chronic anterior lesion is
considered to be caused by an imbalance between intraocular pressure and the
perfusion pressure in the posterior ciliary arteries and consequently in the
perilaminar capillaries. The clinical signs ('low tension glaucoma') are
described, the therapeutic measures, although limited, are outlined. The ischemic
lesions of the posterior part of the optic nerve are less well defined. However, 
theoretical considerations as well as clinical experience suggest that such
lesions occasionally occur taking either an acute or a chronic course.


PMID: 7454223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1897. Ophthalmology. 1979 Oct;86(10):1875-8.

Peripheral nasal field defects in glaucoma.

Werner EB, Beraskow J.

One hundred fifty-one eyes of 101 consecutive patients with chronic open-angle
and low tension glaucoma showed typical visual field changes. Sixty of the eyes
had a nasal step, either alone or in combination with other defects. In 17 of
these eyes, it was possible to demonstrate an isolated scotoma in the nasal
periphery. It was concluded that the peripheral nasal step is a nerve fiber
bundle defect that in its earliest phase produces a scotoma. In this sense, it
behaves similar to the more central defects, rather than simply as a depression
of isopters nasally.


PMID: 553259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1898. Ophthalmic Surg. 1979 Sep;10(9):17-34.

Shell tamponade in filtering surgery for glaucoma.

Simmons RJ, Kimbrough RL.

The glaucoma shell tamponade technique in filtering surgery for glaucoma is a
technique for (1) decreasing the incidence of flat anterior chamber and choroidal
separation postoperatively, (2) promoting the development of a low diffuse
filtration area, and (3) increasing the possibility of achieving very low
resulting postoperative pressure. The glaucoma shell technique is applicable to
all types of filtration procedures, including conventional filtering procedures
utilizing no scleral flap and those utilizing a scleral flap, such as
trabeculectomy. It can be used at surgery or can be applied in the postoperative 
period to deal with flat or shallow anterior chambers immediately at the time of 
onset. The shell tamponade technique can be utilized to aid in the management of 
some cases of leaking bleb in the early postoperative period or in the late
postoperative period. The technique for operative and postoperative use of the
glaucoma shell tamponade technique and its closely related pressure dressing is a
demanding and exacting art. Because the technique increases the possibility of
very low resulting tensions, its use should be considered especially for cases in
which very low pressures are desired, such as some cases of extremely advanced
cupping and field loss and low-tension glaucoma.


PMID: 523069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1899. Ann Ophthalmol. 1979 Aug;11(8):1155-71.

Low tension glaucoma: a practical approach.

Sugar HS.


PMID: 556143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1900. Bull World Health Organ. 1979;57(6):963-9.

Epidemiological aspects of intraocular pressure in an onchocerciasis endemic
area.

Thylefors B, Duppenthaler JL.

A field investigation of intraocular pressure in populations in onchocerciasis
endemic areas of West Africa revealed a normal pressure distribution in
individuals without signs of ocular onchocerciasis or with only microfilariae or 
reversible lesions in the eye. Females showed a significantly higher mean ocular 
tension, and in both sexes tension decreased with age. Patients with irreversible
onchocercal ocular lesions and signs of anterior uveitis showed a significantly
lower and abnormally distributed intraocular pressure. The prevalence of glaucoma
was significantly higher in this group, thus indicating that a high intensity of 
onchocercal infection may be associated with a risk of secondary glaucoma. The
presence of microfilariae in the ocular tissues and consequent inflammatory
reactions may possibly give rise to an abnormal distribution of ocular tension.


PMCID: PMC2395854
PMID: 317024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1901. Br J Ophthalmol. 1978 Oct;62(10):688-93.

Effect of posture on the intraocular pressure of patients with retinal vein
obstruction.

Williams BI, Peart WS.

The effect of change of posture on the level of the intraocular pressure was
studied in 22 patients who had suffered 'occlusion' of a central retinal vein, 14
patients with occlusion of a tributary of the central vein, and 23 normal
subjects. The results showed a significant difference in behaviour between
subjects in the control group and both groups of patients with retinal vein
occlusions. In general it appears that the normal person maintains a relatively
rigid control of ocular tension. The eyes are maintained at similar pressures
which vary very little with change in posture. In contrast, the patient with a
retinal vein occlusion (whether central or tributary) does not appear to have a
similar degree of control. The eyes are not maintained at closely similar
pressures, and each eye shows a change of pressure with change of posture which
is considerably greater than that shown by the eyes of normal persons. The
significance of these results is discussed with particular reference to the
clinical association of retinal vein occlusion and chronic simple glaucoma, in
which latter condition a similar lack of postural control of the intraocular
pressure is found.


PMCID: PMC1043328
PMID: 708670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1902. Am J Ophthalmol. 1978 Jul;86(1):101-5.

Serum obstruction of aqueous outflow in enucleated eyes.

Epstein DL, Hashimoto JM, Grant WM.

We perfused enucleated human eyes via the anterior chamber by the constant
pressure technique. Infusion of human serum into the anterior chamber of
enucleated human eyes for 30 minutes at 23 mm Hg pressure induced a 42% decrease 
in facility of outflow, which was not relieved by irrigation of the anterior
chamber with balanced salt solution or alpha-chymotrypsin. Diluted serum also
reduced the facility of outflow. Measured in a glass viscometer, diluted serum
had less viscosity than undiluted, but interfered with outflow from the eye more 
than anticipated on the basis of viscosity alone. When we used lens depression to
induce tension on the iridocorneal angle to simulate the effects of contraction
of the ciliary muscle, outflow facility increased in control eyes that had not
been exposed to serum and in serum-perfused eyes. However, the partial
obstruction to outflow that had been induced by serum persisted. Normal serum
components may become adsorbed or entrapped in the aqueous outflow system so as
to obstruct outflow, and this may result in secondary glaucoma in eyes with
chronic uveitis.


PMID: 677220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1903. Ann Ophthalmol. 1978 Jun;10(6):787-90.

Evaluation of ocular tension: are terms "ocular hypertension" and "low tension
glaucoma" necessary?

Gorin G.


PMID: 677660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1904. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1978 Apr;172(4):569-71.

[Postural glaucoma (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Wüthrich UW.

Three patients with different eye problems show pathological intraocular pressure
in the supine position, while the pressure in the seated position was normal. In 
all three cases normalisation of intraocular pressure in the supine position
could be achieved by treatment with Pilocarpine and other antiglaucomatous
agents. Unfortunately one cases showed an aggravation of the visual acuity and
visual fields. The term low tension glaucoma is discussed.


PMID: 651234  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1905. Trans Ophthalmol Soc U K. 1978 Apr;98(1):22-7.

Immunological investigations in chronic simple glaucoma.

Nagasubramanian S, Rahi AH, Gloster J.

Serum immunoglobulins and antinuclear antibodies were estimated in 225 patients, 
including cases of chronic simple glaucoma, "low tension glaucoma", and ocular
hypertension. The results showed that, while the mean levels of immunoglobulins
Ig A and Ig M were not significantly higher in patients with glaucoma than a
control series of normal adults, the mean level of Ig G was higher in those with 
chronic simple glaucoma. There was no clear relationship between Ig G levels and 
the severity of the disease as judged by the visual fields and optic disc
changes. Antinuclear antibodies were found in a larger proportion of patients
with chronic simple glaucoma and ocular hypertension as compared to the normal
population, but there was no correlation with the severity of the disease. The
incidence of other non-organ-specific and organ-specific autoantibodies was not
significantly different from that of the control group. Although these results
suggest an association of raised levels of Ig G and a higher incidence of
antinuclear antibodies in patients with glaucoma, the evidence is insufficient to
suggest that disorders of the immune system have an aetiological significance in 
chronic simple glaucoma.


PMID: 311961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1906. Gac Med Mex. 1978 Mar;114(3):129-33.

[Ischemic optic neuropathy and glaucoma of low ocular tension].

[Article in Spanish]

Puig-Solanes M.


PMID: 680448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1907. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1978 Jan;17(1):23-32.

A simple grating test for contrast sensitivity: preliminary results indicate
value in screening for glaucoma.

Arden GB, Jacobson JJ.

Using a new test, in which patients are asked to view printed sinusoidal gratings
of varying contrast, we have established normal population values and have
investigated a small series of glaucomatous patients. In these, test scores are
higher than the normal range and increase with the severity of the disease.
Patients with raised intraocular tension, normal discs, and no field loss may
give abnormal results. The test can be scored so that a very sharp distinction
may be made between normal and glaucomatous eyes. The test is simple, quick to
perform, portable, and can be done in almost any situation.


PMID: 621124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1908. Br J Ophthalmol. 1977 Oct;61(10):641-5.

Circulating lipoprotein and blood glucose levels in association with low-tension 
and chronic simple glaucoma.

Winder AF.

Circulating lipoprotein and blood glucose levels were determined for 53 patients 
with low-tension glaucoma and 39 patients with chronic simple glaucoma. The
incidence of hypercholesterolaemia was significantly higher in the low-tension
group than in the chronic simple glaucoma group and control data obtained
elsewhere. Preliminary follow-up results of the effects of treatment are also
reported. The incidence of raised fasting blood glucose levels was not
significantly increased in either group.


PMCID: PMC1043075
PMID: 588516  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1909. Trans Sect Ophthalmol Am Acad Ophthalmol Otolaryngol. 1977 Sep-Oct;83(5):755-62.

Cupping of the optic disc in ischemic optic neuropathy.

Quigley H, Anderson DR.

Stereophotographs of the optic disc were reviewed in 78 patients with ischemic
optic neuropathy (ION). Only 10% (6) of 61 nonarteritic (idiopathic) ION eyes
developed optic disc cupping similar to that seen in glaucomatous eyes. Five of
ten eyes with ION due to giant cell arteritis had cupping simulating glaucoma;
however, two had elevated intraocular pressure, and the other three had large
physiologic cups in the opposite eye. Optic disc pallor was proportionately more 
severe in ION eyes than in glaucomatous eyes of similar cup size. While there are
similarities in the type of visual field loss in ION and glaucoma, the two
disorders differ in the usual appearance of the disc after field loss has
occurred and in the portion of the field most frequently affected. These
observations suggest that if both disorders have an ischemic mechanism, there is 
a difference in the nature or distribution of the ischemia. There should be
little difficulty under most circumstances in making the clinical differentiation
between a disc that has suffered ION and a disc that has suffered
pressure-induced damage, although occasional instances of ION may be classified
as low-tension glaucoma on the basis of field loss and cupping without elevated
intraocular pressure.


PMID: 929794  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1910. Ann Ophthalmol. 1977 Sep;9(9):1151-4.

Plasma cortisol in glaucoma.

Ray S, Mehra KS, Misra S, Singh R.

Plasma cortisol level and intraocular tension were determined diurnally in 40
normal and 40 glaucomatous patients at 8 AM and 8 PM. It was observed that (1)
plasma cortisol level was higher in glaucomatous patients at both the periods;
(2) the diurnal variation in plasma cortisol was parallel to diurnal variation in
intraocular tension in both glaucomatous and normal persons; and (3) the diurnal 
variation in plasma cortisol level also was more marked in glaucomatous patients 
as compared to normal persons.


PMID: 561563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1911. Arch Ophthalmol. 1977 Aug;95(8):1359-61.

The visual field of low tension glaucoma and shock-induced optic neuropathy.

Drance SM.

The visual fields of patients with shock-induced optic neuropathy with
excavation, low tension glaucoma, and chronic simple glaucoma were analyzed. True
altitudinal defects are seldom found. The three disease states showed identical
field defects. Subtle defects can occur in all three disease states. The
preponderance of defects occurred in the upper field. There are obvious
differences from ischemic optic neuropathy.


PMID: 889508  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1912. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1977 Jun;55(3):422-30.

Congenital glaucoma before and after the introduction of microsurgery. Results of
"macrosurgery" 1943-1963 and of microsurgery (trabeculotomy/ectomy) 1970-1974.

Gregersen E, Kessing SV.

Primary trabeculotomy (in five eyes "converted" to trabeculectomy) normalized the
tension in all 21 eyes with congenital glaucoma without associated diseases,
(mean postoperative tension 12 mmHg, range 8-20 mm). Re-operation was needed for 
only one eye. Preoperatively glaucomatous cupping was present in 18 of these 21
eyes. Ten of the 18 eyes with glaucomatous cupping were operated upon before the 
age of 6 months two before 11 months and the appearance of the disc was
normalized in these 12 eyes. Repeated trabeculotomy, -ectomy was without success 
in three of five operated eyes in patients with congenital glaucoma of several
years duration previously treated by "macrosurgery". In patients with associated 
diseases normal tension was achieved by means of trabeculotomy/-ectomy in two
eyes in two Sturge-Weber children with unilateral congenital glaucoma and in both
eyes in a child with a chromosomal defect with bilateral congenital glaucoma.
Repeated trabeculotomy/ectomy was on the other hand without success in a child
with bilateral aniridia with congenital glaucoma and hydrocephalus. Presupposing 
acute or subacute microsurgery, the present operative results of congenital
glaucoma without diseases are far better than those obtained in previous decades 
by "macrosurgery" which, despite frequent re-operations, effected normalization
of the tension in only 61% of the eyes (11 of 26 patients (42%) with bilateral
congenital glaucoma without associated diseases and treated by macrosurgery in
previous decades were under the Care of the Blind).


PMID: 577354  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1913. Br J Ophthalmol. 1977 May;61(5):345-8.

Comparison of ocular hypotensive effects of acetazolamide and atenolol.

Macdonald MJ, Gore SM, Cullen PM, Phillips CI.

The ocular hypotensive effect of single oral doses of (a) atenolol (50 mg), (b)
acetazolamide (500 mg), (c) atenolol (50 mg) and acetazolamide (500 mg) in
combination, and (d) vehicle (inert tablets) were compared in 8 patients with
glaucoma. In this single-dose, double-masked trial the combination was observed
as most effective in reducing ocular tension. Both the combination and atenolol
performed markedly better than vehicle. That acetazolamide did not reduce ocular 
tension significantly more than vehicle is probably explained by relatively low
initial ocular tensions. There was no evidence of interaction between atenolol
and acetazolamide in this study. Acetazolamide probably remains the first-choice 
oral medication for glaucoma. It is cautiously suggested that beta-blocking drugs
may have a future therapeutic role, but longer-term studies on larger numbers
will be required to establish this.


PMCID: PMC1042966
PMID: 326302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1914. J Am Optom Assoc. 1977 Feb;48(2):149-54.

Does this patient have primary open angle glaucoma?

Meyers H.

An overview on the literature on primary open angle glaucoma that has appeared in
the optometric and ophthalmological journals during the past ten years indicates 
a continuing reevaluation, and perhaps at times a seeming disagreement, regarding
the parameters of this disease. Opinions have varied, and still do, on such
matters as to whether or not the diagnosis of glaucoma is contingent upon a field
defect, the existence of low tension glaucoma, the ramifications of ocular
hypertension, what constitutes a glaucomatous appearance of the disc, field
defects versus the appearance of the disc, field defects versus the appearance of
the disc, and what constitutes an early glaucomatous field defect. Voices have
been raised in some quarters that claim that waiting for a field defect to
develop may not be in the best interest of the patient, and that the glaucoma
suspect should be identified as early as possible. Treatment before the
development of a field defect is enjoying support from some glaucoma authorities.
Good clinical practice will permit the conscientious optometrist to identify
those patients who have very early signs of this disease.


PMID: 856909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1915. Br J Ophthalmol. 1977 Feb;61(2):148-53.

Response of the human eye to laser irradiation of the iris.

Unger WG, Brown NA, Edwards J.

Irradiation of the iris of glaucoma patients with either a ruby or an argon laser
caused no obvious disruption of the blood-aqueous barrier (as visualised by
fluorescein angiography), in contrast to a sudden and pronounced effect in the
rabbit eye. Only a low and variable increase in intraocular pressure occurred in 
the human subjects after the laser irradiation in comparison with a consistently 
high rise of ocular tension in the rabbit. This investigation indicates that the 
human eye is much less responsive to injury.


PMCID: PMC1042900
PMID: 843513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1916. Br J Ophthalmol. 1977 Feb;61(2):126-32.

Fluorescein angiography in chronic simple and low-tension glaucoma.

Hitchings RA, Spaeth GL.

Fluorescein angiograms were performed on a group of low-tension glaucoma and
chronic simple glaucoma patients with similar extent of visual field loss, under 
standardised conditions, to see whether differences attributable to chronic
intraocular pressure elevation could be detected. There was no evidence for
difference in circulation times between these two groups. There was no evidence
that hypoperfusion of the peripapillary choroid contributed to optic nerve
hypoperfusion. Low-tension glaucoma patients demonstrated focal sector
hypoperfusion of the optic nerve in every case, while the chronic simple glaucoma
patients demonstrated a wide range of optic nerve fluorescence, suggesting both
focal and diffuse optic nerve head hypoperfusion. It was concluded that, while
focal hypoperfusion of the optic nerve may reflect susceptible vasculature at the
nerve head with or without intraocular pressure elevation, diffuse hypoperfusion 
suggested that prolonged intraocular pressure elevation may simultaneously affect
the whole of the optic nerve head. This could be a direct effect on blood vessels
or a mechanical effect with secondary vascular changes.


PMCID: PMC1042896
PMID: 843509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1917. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1977 Jan;170(1):10-9.

[The effect of filtering operations (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Benedikt O.

The effect of filtering operations on 133 eyes was investigated by fluorescence
photography after intracameral injection of fluorescein. The following drainage
mechanisms could be found: 1. the transconjunctival route, 2. the diffuse
resorption through degenerated veins, 3. bulkflow through lymphatic vessels, 4.
bulkflow through atypic aqueous veins, 5. outflow through normal aqueous veins. A
filtering bleb develops, if the transconjunctival route and the diffuse
resorption is predominent. Newly incorporated veins and lymphatic vessels enable 
the drainage of the aqueous humour without a visible bleb. Most important for the
formation of these vessels is the surgical technique. Therefore it is not only
necessary to cover the fistula with a scleral flap but also to gain a
physiological intraocular pressure immediately after the operation. If the
tension is too low in most cases a filtering bleb will form. If it is at a
physiological level (i.c. above the episcleral vein pressure) new vessels can
develop and drain the aqueous humour by bulkflow from the scleral fistula and
that means a good pressure regulating effect without a filtering bleb.


PMID: 850340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1918. Bibl Anat. 1977;(16 Pt 2):105-8.

Low tension glaucoma: a microvascular thrombotic disorder due to blood
hypercoagulability?

Joist JH, Lichtenfeld P, Mandell AI, Kolker AE.


PMID: 603490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1919. Am J Ophthalmol. 1976 Nov;82(5):736-40.

Changes in the facility of aqueous outflow induced by lens depression and
intraocular pressure in excised human eyes.

Van Buskirk EM.

The effects of intraocular pressure on aqueous outflow facility and mechanical
tension on the iridocorneal angle were evaluated in 44 excised postmortem human
eyes. Mechanical tension on the iridocorneal angle was induced by depression of
the crystalline lens posteriorly in a quantitative manner to simulate the effect 
of cyclotonia on the facility of aqueout outflow. In eyes perfused at constant
intraocular pressure but with stepwise increases in lens depression, the increase
in facility of outflow produced by the increased tension on the iridocorneal
angle was minimal at low levels of intraocular pressure (2.5 and 5 mm Hg) and
greatest at higher levels of intraocular pressure (10 to 25 mm Hg). Conversely,
in pairs of eyes perfused over a graded series of increasing intraocular
pressure, and subjected to maximal lens depression, facility of outflow remained 
constant until intraocular pressure exceeded 20 mm Hg; in the fellow eyes,
perfused without lens depression, facility of outflow diminished linearly with
increasing intraocular pressure.


PMID: 998694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1920. Arch Ophthalmol. 1976 Nov;94(11):1893-5.

Platelet function, blood coagulability, and fibrinolysis in patients with low
tension glaucoma.

Joist JH, Lichtenfeld P, Mandell AI, Kolker AE.

Platelet function in vitro and in vivo and certain measurements of blood
coagulability and fibrinolysis were examined in 12 patients with low tension
glaucoma and the results were compared with those obtained in 12 normal subjects 
matched for age, race, and sex. The data obtained seem to indicate that patients 
with low tension glaucoma cannot be readily distinguished from individuals of
similar age and sex not afflicted with this disorder by measuring these
variables. Thus, a "hypercoagulable state," ie, a thrombotic tendency, does not
appear to be of major importance in the pathogenesis of this disorder.


PMID: 985164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1921. Am J Ophthalmol. 1976 Jun;81(6):761-7.

Low-tension glaucoma.

Chumbley LC, Brubaker RF.

A retrospective study of 45 patients with low-tension glaucoma revealed the mean 
age at diagnosis to be 66 years. Seventeen patients had follow-up visual field
examinations, the average follow-up period being 6.4 years. There was no
significant difference in prognosis of the ocular course between patients with
Po/C equal to or greater than 100 and those with Po/C less than 100. The presence
of splinter hemorrhages at the optic disk (10% of affected eyes) or of systemic
arterial hypertension (diastolic blood pressure greater than 100 mm Hg) was
associated with progression of visual field defects. Patients with sudden visual 
loss or associated hemodynamic events (33% of the total patients) had a more
favorable prognosis regarding stability (lack of progression) of visual field
defects than those without such an event. Extension of visual field defects
across the macula was a common finding (25% of affected eyes). No firm evidence
was obtained to indicate that treatment of the low-tension glaucoma improved the 
prognosis of the ocular course.


PMID: 937430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1922. Ann Ophthalmol. 1976 Apr;8(4):462-4.

Tobacco smoking and glaucoma.

Mehra KS, Roy PN, Khare BB.

Effect of cigarette smoking on aqueous humor dynamics in 70 normal males and 70
primary glaucoma patients was studied. A rise of intraocular tension of more than
5 mm after last puff of cigarette was taken as a positive result. It was observed
that this test was positive in 37.1% of primary glaucoma patients and only in
11.4% in normal persons--a statistically significant difference. Cigarette
smoking causes vasoconstriction and may be leading to rise in episcleral venous
pressure and thus inhibiting aquenous outflow from the angle. This test can be
used as a provocative test for primary glaucoma patients.


PMID: 1267318  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1923. Acta Anaesthesiol Belg. 1976;27 suppl:29-40.

Ocular tonometry in the child under general anesthesia with IM ketamine.

Marynen L, Libert.

In the young child, the ocular tension cannot be taken without general
anesthesia. Most of the anesthetic drugs lower the ocular tension which may give 
false low results in glaucoma. Ketamine is the only practical drug elevating the 
ocular tension. To determine the amount of the change in ocular tension under
ketamine, the ocular tension was measured under I.M. ketamine 5 to 10 mg/kg in 30
children without ocular disease. The ocular tension before the anesthesia has not
been measured. As soon as the child fell asleep, the ocular tension was recorded 
between 15 to 20 minutes. We noticed that the ocular tension remains stable in
the beginning, but that it tends to rise after eight minutes of narcosis. So the 
ocular tension must be measured as soon as possible after induction, as soon as
the child does not react to stimuli. Abnormal ocular tensions under ketamine are 
discussed. The ocular tensions under two different types of anesthesia (ketamine 
and methohexital + Thalamonal) are compared. Some examples of ocular tensions in 
glaucoma under ketamine are presented.


PMID: 1015231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1924. Arch Ophthalmol. 1976 Jan;94(1):61-4.

Argon laser application to the angle structures in the glaucomas.

Ticho U, Zauberman H.

The argon laser beams' effect on angle structures was studied in 20 uncontrolled 
glaucomatous eyes. Nineteen eyes became hypotensive quickly, but in 15, the
elevated tension returned during the 20 to 40 day follow-up period. Four eyes
sustained low pressures throughout the ten-month follow-up period. Two were of
babies with congenital glaucoma, one had simple glaucoma following an
unsuccessful filtering operation, and one was aphakic following congenital
cataract extraction. Ten eyes were medically controlled postoperatively, and six 
were failures that had to undergo further surgery. Outflow facility measurements 
revealed an increase in C values during the hypotensive period. The C values were
reduced later, with the decrease corresponding to the increase in intraocular
pressures. The hypotensive effect together with the increase in outflow facility 
was probably related to laser-induced openings in the angle structures. The
varying results at the later stages depended on whether or not these openings
remained opened, or became partially or completely closed during healing.


PMID: 942847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1925. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1976;80(4):212-6.

[Definitions (classifications) of the low-tension glaucoma and their criticism
(author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Suda K.


PMID: 779434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1926. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1975 Sep;53(4):652-9.

Biometric correlations of corneal thickness.

Ehlers N, Hansen FK, Aasved H.

Central corneal thickness, depth of anterior chamber, thickness of lens, length
of vitreous, axial length, applanation (Goldmann) and indentation (Schiotz)
tension and rigidity (Friedenwald) were determined in three groups of patients;
(1) 16 patients with glaucoma simplex, (2) 25 patients with ocular hypertension, 
and (3) 26 patients with fibrillopathia epitheliocapsularis (so-called
pseudoexfoliation of the lens). Average data and computed correlations between
the parameters are given in tabular form. Corneal thickness was normal in
glaucoma simplex, but significantly increased in ocular hypertension. Corneal
thickness was positively correlated to applanation tension but not to indentation
tension, nor to any other of the studied parameters. It is suggested that corneal
thickness can be considered as a biometric parameter which yields new information
about the eye not covered by the conventional parameters.


PMID: 1242286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1927. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1975 Sep;53(4):513-21.

The noncontact tonometer. Clinical evaluation on normal and diseased eyes.

Sorensen PN.

The measurement of intraocular pressure with a noncontact tonometer was
correlated to a Goldmann tonometer in 20 normal persons, 20 glaucomatous
patients, and 8 patients suffering from corneal diseases. In normal persons the
error in measurement for the noncontact tonometer was related to their skill in
fixation, and in eye patients to height of pressure and corneal state. Acceptable
correlation was found between noncontact tonometry and Goldmann applanation
tonometry when the cornea was normal and the pressure below 35 mmHg (Goldmann),
otherwise noncontact tonometry was only a guide, and in the presence of corneal
disease, unreliable. Good fixation reduced the method error. The standard
deviation was 1.09 mmHg at poor fixation and 0.60 mmHg at good fixation. Repeated
measurements on the same eye with noncontact tonometry did not alter the
intraocular tension.


PMID: 1242275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1928. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1975 Jul;167(1):27-34.

[Principle and results of a new "non-contact-tonometer" are discussed (author's
transl)].

[Article in German]

Draeger J, Jessen K, Haselmann G.

Comparing measurements with Non-Contact-Tonometer and handapplanation tonometer
on 462 eyes with normal and elevated intraocular tension are statistically
evaluated. The 2-s-limits for normal i.o. pressure at +/- 6.52 mm Hg (+/- 8.6
mbar), for elevated intraocular pressure +/- 13.2 mm Hg (+/- 17.6 mbar). This
means less reliability than conventional applanation tonometers or even
Schiötz-tonometers. The unability to read the tension when the corneal surface is
rough means remarkable disadvantages to clinical use.


PMID: 1202268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1929. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1975 Jul;167(1):1-18.

[Vascular pseudopapillitis (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

François J.

Besides the true ischaemias of the optic nerve, which explain the
post-haemorrhagic amaurosis, the low tension glaucoma and the open angle
glaucoma, there are two varieties of vascular pseudopapillitis. First the variety
due to arteriosclerosis, which is characterized by a palid oedema of the disc,
followed by optic atrophy, a diminution of the vision field, as well as by signs 
of arteriosclerosis at the biopsy of the temporal artery. The second variety is
the temporal arteritis, which is also characterized by a palid oedema of the
disc, followed by optic atrophy, a visual loss, which is often complete, a marked
rise of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate and a typical granulomatous arteritis 
at the biopsy of the temporal artery. These two varieties are due to an
involvement either of the short posterior ciliary arteries or of the central
vascular or pial system of the optic nerve.


PMID: 1202256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1930. Br J Ophthalmol. 1975 Jun;59(6):301-3.

Effect of pindolol on intraocular pressure.

Bonomi I, Steindler P.

Pindolol, a strong beta-adrenergic blocking agent, instilled into the
conjunctival sac of normal and glaucomatous eyes, produced a significant drop in 
intraocular pressure. This was not, at first, accompanied by any variation in
outflow facility; only after prolonged treatment did an increase in facility
appear, which accounted only for one-third of the tension-lowering effect. The
drug was well tolerated, and did not affect either pupil motility or corneal
sensitivity. It seems suitable for a trial use in the treatment of glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC1042625
PMID: 1100097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1931. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1975 Apr;166(4):483-8.

[Differential diagnosis of bitemporal paracentral visual fields defects in
"low-tension glaucoma" and tumors of the pituitary gland (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Schmidt D.

A 46-year-old patient shows paracentral scotomas in the oblique meridians of the 
visual fields. Additionally there exists pathologically cupped, atrophical disks 
which lead to the tentative diagnosis of "low-tension glaucoma". As the scotomas 
are bitemporally located a tumor near the chiasm must be the cause for these
field defects. During the operation a chromophobe adenoma of the pituitary gland 
was found in the patient. We pointed out that even arcuate scotomas which cross
the vertical meridian of the visual field can be caused by an intra- or
parasellar tumor. As Hoyt has shown in his investigations in animals one could
suppose that these scotomas can be developed from direct compression of the
chiasm.


PMID: 1206918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1932. Am J Ophthalmol. 1975 Apr;79(4):681-6.

Atypical retinitis pigmentosa masquerading as a nerve fiber bundle lesion.

Trobe JD, Bergsma DR.

"Sector" or "asymmetric" retinitis pigmentosa was mistaken as bilateral nerve
fiber bundle defects in a 56-year-old man for six years, leading to an
unnecessary work-up for anterior visual pathway disease and to an incorrect
diagnosis of low-tension glaucoma. Confusion arises because this variant may
present with bilateral, superior, half-ring visual field defects that intersect
the blindspots. These defects may be misplotted as typical arcuate Bjerrum's
scotomas. The ophthalmoscopic changes that correspond to these visual field
defects may be so subtle as to be overlooked. Fluorescein angiography helps bring
out the retinal lesions, and moderately subnormal electroretinographic and dark
adaptation studies are definitive.


PMID: 1078938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1933. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1975 Jan;166(1):18-23.

[Low tension glaucoma. Contribution to etiology (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Krieglstein GK, Langham ME.

A report on a patient with pathological cupping of the disc and visual field
defects similar to those found in glaucoma. In the sitting position the IOP was
18 and 21 mm Hg and in lying over 30 mm Hg. This abnormal positional effect was
measured with the pneumotonograph which is based on a new principle of
applanation independent of position. The classification of glaucoma simplex and
low tension glaucoma as well as the differentiation from pseudoglaucoma are
discussed.


PMID: 1117638  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1934. Ann Ophthalmol. 1975 Jan;7(1):31-4.

The influence of tropicamide on intraocular pressure.

Portney GL, Purcell TW.

Elevation of intraocular pressure by many cycloplegic drugs has been reported to 
occur in eyes in which the filtration angle remained open during mydriasis.
Tropicamide 1% is also capable of this phenomenon in patients with open angle
glaucoma who are being medicated with pilocarpine. However, in normal eyes as
well as those with untreated open angle glaucoma, this cycloplegic has a
relatively small effect on intraocular pressure. It is postulated that this
difference between the subject groups may be due to competitive inhibition of the
miotic at the receptor site in those treated with pilocarpine. In 3 patients in
whom the intraocular tension elevation was found to be quite marked, heavy
pigments showers in the anterior chamber occurred which suggested an outflow
obstructive phenomenon similar to that seen in "Pigmentary Glaucoma."


PMID: 1111414  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1935. Trans Ophthalmol Soc N Z. 1975;27:32.

Patient with low-tension glaucoma.

Elliott ID.


PMID: 1060225  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1936. Can J Ophthalmol. 1974 Oct;9(4):399-403.

Factors involved in the production of low tension glaucoma.

Drance SM, Sweeney VP, Morgan RW, Feldman F.


PMID: 4423185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1937. Trans Ophthalmol Soc U K. 1974 Jul;94(2):518-24.

Biochemical abnormalities associated with ocular hypertension and low tension
glaucoma.

Winder AF, Paterson G, Miller SJ.


PMID: 4377696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1938. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1974;52(5):740-6.

Central corneal thickness in low-tension glaucoma.

Ehlers N, Hansen FK.


PMID: 4479566  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1939. Ann Ophthalmol. 1973 Sep;5(9):933.

Editorial: The enigma of low tension glaucoma.

Bellows JG.


PMID: 4743854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1940. Br J Ophthalmol. 1973 Jul;57(7):499-502.

Ocular tension and axial length of the eyeball in open-angle glaucoma and low
tension glaucoma.

Leighton DA, Tomlinson A.


PMCID: PMC1214959
PMID: 4725857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1941. Arch Ophthalmol. 1973 Jun;89(6):457-65.

Studies of factors involved in the production of low tension glaucoma.

Drance SM, Sweeney VP, Morgan RW, Feldman F.


PMID: 4706442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1942. N Engl J Med. 1973 Feb 22;288(8):417-8.

Shock and low-tension glaucoma.

Schwartz B.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197302222880813 
PMID: 4684047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1943. Br J Ophthalmol. 1972 Jun;56(6):447-53.

Systemic blood pressure in open-angle glaucoma, low tension glaucoma, and the
normal eye.

Leighton DA, Phillips CI.


PMCID: PMC1208816
PMID: 5069183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1944. Br J Ophthalmol. 1972 Mar;56(3):229-42.

Some factors in the production of low tension glaucoma.

Drance SM.


PMCID: PMC1208757
PMID: 5032759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1945. Br J Ophthalmol. 1972 Feb;56(2):97-105.

Ocular dimensions in low tension glaucoma compared with open-angle glaucoma and
the normal.

Tomlinson A, Leighton DA.


PMCID: PMC1208693
PMID: 5010318  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1946. Acta Ophthalmol Suppl. 1971;111:3-83.

Fluorescein angiographic studies of the peripapillary and perilimbal regions in
simple, capsular and low-tension glaucoma.

Laatikainen L.


PMID: 4335893  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1947. Ann Ophthalmol. 1971 Jan;3(1):85-6 passim.

Low tension glaucoma.

Hiatt RL, Deutsch AR, Ringer C.


PMID: 4150337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1948. Am J Ophthalmol. 1969 Sep;68(3):401-7.

The optic cup in the normal eye. I. Cup width, depth, vessel displacement, ocular
tension and outflow facility.

Armaly MF.


PMID: 5807666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1949. Riv Otoneurooftalmol. 1968 May-Jun;43(3):245-67.

[Changes of tension discriminatory capacity caused by ophthalmodynamometric
compression in normal subjects].

[Article in Italian]

Caramazza R, Meduri R, Anselmi P.


PMID: 5737888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1950. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1968 Feb;72(2):172-8.

[On the two cases of low-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakamura Y.


PMID: 5691568  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1951. Int Surg. 1967 Jul;48(1):63-8.

Ocular tension and electrolyte changes after glycerol. A study of blood and
aqueous humor in normal rabbits and those in which intraocular pressure has been 
raised artificially.

Sarda RP, Charan H, Ohri RN.


PMID: 6035230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1952. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1967;45(4):594-600.

Pigmentliberation test in "low-tension glaucoma".

Kristensen P.


PMID: 6072272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1953. Trans Ophthalmol Soc U K. 1967;87:873-92.

Problems of low tension glaucoma.

Macdougald TJ.


PMID: 5255264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1954. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1966;149(5):725-36.

[About the effect of adrenalin-containing eye drops on the intraocular tension in
normal and glaucomatous eyes].

[Article in German]

Stein HJ.


PMID: 5994674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1955. J All India Ophthalmol Soc. 1965 Dec;13(4):151-7.

Effect of sustained release acetazolamide on the intraocular tension in normal
and glaucomatous eyes.

Malik SR, Sood GC, Bhardwaj PC, Saha SK.


PMID: 5863358  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1956. Br J Ophthalmol. 1962 Oct;46(10):601-6.

LOW TENSION IN ACUTE GLAUCOMA.

Nixseaman DH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Late Registrar, Ophthalmic Unit, Neasden Hospital, London.


PMCID: PMC510250
PMID: 18170820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1957. Trans Pac Coast Otoophthalmol Soc Annu Meet. 1962;43:153-60.

Low tension glaucoma.

HAAS JS.


PMID: 13951598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1958. J Tn State Med Assoc. 1961 Mar;54:84-9.

Differential characteristics of low tension glaucoma.

DEUTSCH AR.


PMID: 13722311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1959. Arch Ophthalmol. 1960 Oct;64:494-501.

The significance of the diurnal tension variations in normal and glaucomatous
eyes.

DRANCE SM.


PMID: 13724271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1960. Proc R Soc Med. 1959 Jun;52(6):429-35.

Discussion on low-tension glaucoma.

PERKINS ES, WINSTANLEY J, PRIMROSE J.


PMCID: PMC1871158
PMID: 13667919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1961. Eye Ear Nose Throat Mon. 1956 Nov;35(11):733-4.

Low-tension glaucoma.

POSNER A.


PMID: 13365644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1962. J Am Med Assoc. 1955 Nov 12;159(11):1113-4.

Propantheline (pro-banthine) bromide in relation to normal and gluacomatous eyes;
effects on intraocular tension and pupillary size.

MODY MV, KEENEY AH.


PMID: 13263156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1963. Am J Ophthalmol. 1955 May;39(5):700-5.

Influence of coffee upon ocular tension in normal and in glaucomatous eyes.

LEYDHECKER W.


PMID: 14361633  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1964. Albrecht Von Graefes Arch Ophthalmol. 1954;155(4):386-96.

[Effect of homatropine on tension of normal and glaucomatous eye].

[Article in German]

LEYDHECKER W.


PMID: 13206987  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1965. Am J Ophthalmol. 1953 Aug;36(8):1067-70.

The results of surgery for low-tension glaucoma.

BLOOMFIELD S.


PMID: 13080371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1966. Br J Ophthalmol. 1931 Jun;15(6):323-33.

GLAUCOMA AND LOW TENSION DISC CUP ENLARGEMENTS.

Pickard R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Exeter.


PMCID: PMC511316
PMID: 18168964  [PubMed]

