
1. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2016 Jun;57(6):754-9. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.57.754.

Spontaneous splenic rupture in a patient with light-chain deposition disease
undergoing autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.

Haji S(1), Kiyasu J, Tachikawa Y, Toyonaga J, Ikeda M, Tsuda M, Tsukamoto Y,
Kozuru M, Yufu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, Iizuka Hospital.

Light-chain deposition disease (LCDD) is a rare plasma cell neoplasm that
secretes an abnormal immunoglobulin light chain, which is deposited in tissues,
leading to organ dysfunction. Spontaneous splenic rupture is a rare and
life-threatening complication of treatment with granulocyte colony-stimulating
factor (G-CSF). Herein, we describe spontaneous splenic rupture after the
administration of lenograstim to a patient with LCDD undergoing autologous stem
cell transplantation (ASCT). The patient was successfully treated by
transcatheter embolization of the splenic artery, and long-term stringent
complete remission was attained. Plasma cell neoplasms, including multiple
myeloma with amyloidosis, are among the most commonly reported conditions
associated with spontaneous splenic rupture in patients undergoing ASCT. This
finding suggests that, in addition to the effect of G-CSF on the spleen, a
combination of factors, including tissue vulnerability induced by the
infiltration of abnormal immunoglobulins, may be involved in the pathogenesis of 
spontaneous splenic rupture. Notably, splenomegaly is not always evident in these
patients. Surgical treatment may not be an option, because of severe
myelosuppression, and thus less invasive treatment using transcatheter
embolization may be feasible.

DOI: 10.11406/rinketsu.57.754 
PMID: 27384856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Clin Imaging. 2016 Jul-Aug;40(4):769-79. doi: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2016.01.012.
Epub 2016 Jan 28.

Improving diagnosis of atraumatic splenic lesions, part I: nonneoplastic lesions.

Ricci ZJ(1), Oh SK(2), Chernyak V(3), Flusberg M(4), Rozenblit AM(5), Kaul B(6), 
Stein MW(7), Mazzariol FS(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert
Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210(th) Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic
address: zinaricci@aol.com. (2)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore
Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210(th) Street,
Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address: sarahoh@gmail.com. (3)Department of
Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of 
Medicine, 111 E 210(th) Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address:
vchernya@montefiore.org. (4)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore
Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210(th) Street,
Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address: mflusberg@gmail.com. (5)Department of
Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of 
Medicine, 111 E 210(th) Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address:
allaroz@optonline.net. (6)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Jack D. Weiler
Hospital of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine, 1825 Eastchester Rd, Bronx,
NY 10461. Electronic address: kaulmd@hotmail.com. (7)Department of Diagnostic
Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine,
111 E 210(th) Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address: mstein17@aol.com.
(8)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert
Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210(th) Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic
address: fmazzariolgunduz@gmail.com.

Focal atraumatic splenic lesions often pose a diagnostic challenge on
cross-sectional imaging. They can be categorized based on etiology as
nonneoplastic (reviewed in Part I), benign neoplastic, and malignant neoplastic
lesions. Lesions can also be characterized based on prevalence as common,
uncommon, and rare. Familiarity with pertinent clinical parameters, etiology,
pathology, prevalence, and ancillary features such as splenomegaly, concomitant
hepatic involvement, and extrasplenic findings, in addition to knowledge of
imaging spectra of these lesions, can improve diagnostic confidence. Since the
nonneoplastic lesions are usually easily recognized, it is critical that the
radiologist identifies them avoiding unnecessary work up.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2016.01.012 
PMID: 27317223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Clin Imaging. 2016 Jul-Aug;40(4):691-704. doi: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2016.02.002.
Epub 2016 Feb 6.

Improving diagnosis of atraumatic splenic lesions, part II: benign
neoplasms/nonneoplastic mass-like lesions.

Ricci ZJ(1), Mazzariol FS(2), Flusberg M(3), Chernyak V(4), Oh SK(5), Kaul B(6), 
Stein MW(7), Rozenblit AM(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert
Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic
address: zinaricci@aol.com. (2)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore
Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210th Street,
Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address: fmazzariolgunduz@gmail.com. (3)Department
of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School 
of Medicine, 111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address:
mflusberg@gmail.com. (4)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical
Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 
10467. Electronic address: vchernya@montefiore.org. (5)Department of Diagnostic
Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine,
111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address: sarahoh@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Jack D. Weiler Hospital of the Albert
Einstein School of Medicine, 1825 Eastchester Rd, Bronx, NY, 10461. Electronic
address: kaulmd@hotmail.com. (7)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore
Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210th Street,
Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address: mstein17@aol.com. (8)Department of
Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of 
Medicine, 111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address:
allaroz@optonline.net.

Focal atraumatic splenic lesions often pose a diagnostic challenge on
cross-sectional imaging. They can be categorized based on etiology as
nonneoplastic, benign neoplastic (discussed in Part II), and malignant neoplastic
lesions or on prevalence as common, uncommon, and rare lesions. Familiarity with 
pertinent clinical parameters, etiology, pathology, prevalence and ancillary
features such as splenomegaly, concomitant hepatic involvement, and extrasplenic 
findings, in addition to knowledge of imaging spectra of the lesions, can improve
diagnostic confidence. Consideration of these factors together can arm the
radiologist with the necessary tools to render a more confident diagnosis and,
thus, better aid management.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2016.02.002 
PMID: 27317213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Jun 14;(6):CD010517. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD010517.pub2.

Splenectomy for people with thalassaemia major or intermedia.

Easow Mathew M(1), Sharma A, Aravindakshan R.

Author information: 
(1)South Asian Cochrane Network & Center, Prof. BV Moses Center for
Evidence-Informed Health Care and Health Policy, Christian Medical College,
Carman Block II Floor, CMC Campus, Bagayam, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India, 632002.

BACKGROUND: Thalassaemia is a genetic disease of the haemoglobin protein in red
blood cells. It is classified into thalassaemia minor, intermedia and major,
depending on the severity of the disease and the genetic defect. Thalassaemia
major and intermedia require frequent blood transfusions to compensate for the
lack of well-functioning red blood cells, although this need is significantly
less in thalassaemia intermedia.Damaged or defective red blood cells are normally
eliminated in the spleen. In people with thalassaemia there is a large quantity
of defective red blood cells which results in an enlarged hyperfunctioning spleen
(splenomegaly). Removal of the spleen may thus prolong red blood cell survival by
reducing the amount of red blood cells removed from circulation and may
ultimately result in the reduced need for blood transfusions.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy and safety of splenectomy in people with
beta-thalassaemia major or intermedia.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Review Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, compiled from searches of
electronic databases and the handsearching of journals and conference abstract
books. We also searched the reference lists of relevant articles and reviews.Date
of the most recent search: 25 April 2016.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled studies and
quasi-randomised controlled studies of people of any age with thalassaemia major 
or intermedia, evaluating splenectomy in comparison to conservative treatment
(transfusion therapy and iron chelation) or other forms of splenectomy compared
to each other (laparoscopic, open, radio-frequency).
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently selected and extracted
data from the single included study using a customised data extraction form and
assessed the risk of bias.
MAIN RESULTS: One study, including 28 participants was included in the review;
the results were described, primarily, in a narrative manner. The study assessed 
the feasibility of splenectomy using laparoscopy in comparison to open surgery.
Given the lack of detail regarding the study methods beyond randomisation, the
overall risk of bias for this study was unclear. The study was carried out over a
period of 3.5 years, with each participant followed up only until discharge (less
than one week after the intervention); it did not assess the majority of the
outcomes outlined in this review (including two of the three primary outcomes,
frequency of transfusion and quality of life). A total of three serious
post-operative adverse events (the review's third primary outcome) were reported 
in the laparoscopic splenectomy group (one case of atelectasis and two cases of
bleeding), compared to two events of atelectasis in the open surgery group;
however, there were no significant differences between the groups for either
atelectasis, risk ratio 0.50 (95% confidence interval 0.05 to 4.90) or for
bleeding, risk ratio 5.00 (95% confidence interval 0.26 to 95.61). In addition,
the study also reported three serious cases of intra-operative bleeding in the
laparoscopic group which mandated conversion to open surgery, although the
difference between groups was not statistically significant, risk ratio 7.00 (95%
confidence interval 0.39 to 124.14). These effect estimates are based on very
small numbers and hence are unreliable and imprecise. From this small study,
there appeared to be an advantage for the laparoscopic approach, in terms of
post-operative hospital stay, although the group difference was not large (median
difference of 1.5 days, P = 0.03).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The review was unable to find good quality evidence, in the
form of randomised controlled studies, regarding the efficacy of splenectomy for 
treating thalassaemia major or intermedia. The single included study provided
little information about the efficacy of splenectomy, and compared open surgery
and laparoscopic methods. Further studies need to evaluate the long-term
effectiveness of splenectomy and the comparative advantages of surgical methods. 
Due to a lack of high quality evidence from randomised controlled studies,
well-conducted observational studies may be used to answer this question.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010517.pub2 
PMID: 27296775  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Autoimmun Rev. 2016 Aug;15(8):843-7. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2016.06.004. Epub 2016
Jun 11.

Small molecule phagocytosis inhibitors for immune cytopenias.

Neschadim A(1), Kotra LP(2), Branch DR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Innovation, Canadian Blood Services, Toronto, ON, Canada. (2)Center
for Molecular Design and Preformulations, University Health Network, Toronto, ON,
Canada; Toronto General Hospital Research Institute, University Health Network,
Toronto, ON, Canada; McLaughlin Center for Molecular Medicine, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Leslie Dan
Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. (3)Centre for
Innovation, Canadian Blood Services, Toronto, ON, Canada; Department of Medicine,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; Department of Laboratory Medicine and
Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; Division of Advanced
Diagnostics, Infection and Immunity Group, Toronto General Hospital Research
Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic address: don.branch@utoronto.ca.

Immune cytopenias are conditions characterized by low blood cell counts, such as 
platelets in immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) and red blood cells in autoimmune
hemolytic anemia (AIHA). Chronic ITP affects approximately 4 in 100,000 adults
annually while AIHA is much less common. Extravascular phagocytosis and massive
destruction of autoantibody-opsonized blood cells by macrophages in the spleen
and liver are the hallmark of these conditions. Current treatment modalities for 
ITP and AIHA include the first-line use of corticosteroids; whereas, IVIg shows
efficacy in ITP but not AIHA. One main mechanism of action by which IVIg
treatment leads to the reduction in platelet destruction rates in ITP is thought 
to involve Fcγ receptor (FcγR) blockade, ultimately leading to the inhibition of 
extravascular platelet phagocytosis. IVIg, which is manufactured from the human
plasma of thousands of donors, is a limited resource, and alternative treatments,
particularly those based on bioavailable small molecules, are needed. In this
review, we overview the pathophysiology of ITP, the role of Fcγ receptors, and
the mechanisms of action of IVIg in treating ITP, and outline the efforts and
progress towards developing novel, first-in-class inhibitors of phagocytosis as
synthetic, small molecule substitutes for IVIg in ITP and other conditions where 
the pathobiology of the disease involves phagocytosis.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2016.06.004 
PMID: 27296447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Clin Imaging. 2016 Sep-Oct;40(5):846-55. doi: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2016.02.015.
Epub 2016 Feb 19.

Improving diagnosis of atraumatic splenic lesions, Part III: malignant lesions.

Ricci ZJ(1), Kaul B(2), Stein MW(3), Chernyak V(4), Rozenblit AM(5), Oh SK(6),
Flusberg M(7), Mazzariol FS(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert
Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic
address: zinaricci@aol.com. (2)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Jack D. Weiler
Hospital of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine, 1825 Eastchester Road, Bronx,
NY, 10461. Electronic address: kaulmd@hotmail.com. (3)Department of Diagnostic
Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine,
111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address: mstein17@aol.com.
(4)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert
Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic
address: vchernya@montefiore.org. (5)Department of Diagnostic Radiology,
Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210th 
Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address: allaroz@optonline.net.
(6)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert
Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic
address: sarahoh@gmail.com. (7)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore
Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of Medicine, 111 E 210th Street,
Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address: mflusberg@gmail.com. (8)Department of
Diagnostic Radiology, Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein School of 
Medicine, 111 E 210th Street, Bronx, NY, 10467. Electronic address:
fmazzariolgunduz@gmail.com.

Focal atraumatic splenic lesions often pose a diagnostic challenge on
cross-sectional imaging. They can be categorized based on etiology, as
nonneoplastic, benign neoplastic, and malignant neoplastic (discussed in Part
III) lesions, or on prevalence, as common, uncommon, and rare lesions.
Familiarity with pertinent clinical parameters, etiology, pathology, prevalence, 
and ancillary features such as splenomegaly, concomitant hepatic involvement, and
extrasplenic findings, in addition to knowledge of imaging spectra of the
lesions, can improve diagnostic confidence. Consideration of these factors
together can arm the radiologist with the necessary tools to render a more
confident diagnosis and thus better aid management.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2016.02.015 
PMID: 27179158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Immunol Rev. 2016 May;271(1):185-99. doi: 10.1111/imr.12407.

Innate lymphoid cells in secondary lymphoid organs.

Bar-Ephraïm YE(1), Mebius RE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, VU University Medical
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The family of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) has attracted attention in recent
years as its members are important regulators of immunity, while they can also
cause pathology. In both mouse and man, ILCs were initially discovered in
developing lymph nodes as lymphoid tissue inducer (LTi) cells. These cells form
the prototypic members of the ILC family and play a central role in the formation
of secondary lymphoid organs (SLOs). In the absence of LTi cells, lymph nodes
(LN) and Peyer's Patches (PP) fail to form in mice, although the splenic white
pulp can develop normally. Besides LTi cells, the ILC family encompasses
helper-like ILCs with functional distinctions as seen by T-helper cells, as well 
as cytotoxic natural killer (NK) cells. ILCs are still present in adult SLOs
where they have been shown to play a role in lymphoid tissue regeneration.
Furthermore, ILCs were implicated to interact with adaptive lymphocytes and
influence the adaptive immune response. Here, we review the recent literature on 
the role of ILCs in secondary lymphoid tissue from the formation of SLOs to
mature SLOs in adults, during homeostasis and pathology.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imr.12407 
PMID: 27088915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Z Gastroenterol. 2016 Mar;54(3):238-44. doi: 10.1055/s-0041-110810. Epub 2016 Apr
4.

[Extrapulmonary sarcoidosis: gastrointestinal involvement -case report and review
of literature].

[Article in German]

Thermann P(1), Dollinger MM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin IV, Carl-von-Basedow-Klinikum Saalekreis gGmbH,
Merseburg, Germany. (2)Innere Medizin I, Universitätsklinik Ulm, Germany.

Sarcoidosis is a rare systemic disease characterized by noncaseating granulomas
in affected organs. With > 90 % of all cases lung involvement is the most
frequent site of manifestation of sarcoidosis, nevertheless multiple other organs
can be affected. Extrapulmonary manifestations are lymph nodes, skin, nervous
system, heart, eyes, bone marrow, spleen or gastrointestinal tract including
liver and pancreas. Involvement of the gastrointestinal tract is rare, it can
affect the whole intestine and is most frequently found in the stomach. Despite
its infrequent manifestation, gastrointestinal sarcoidosis can have a significant
clinical impact depending on the organ involved, so that early diagnosis is
warranted. Medical treatment mainly consists of immunosuppressive therapy, most
frequently with corticosteroids being the first treatment of choice. Dosage and
duration of therapy is not well established yet. In the literature very limited
data are available on this topic with randomized trials missing completely. The
aim of this paper is to give a summary of the available data to this date.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0041-110810 
PMID: 27043887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


9. World J Surg Oncol. 2016 Apr 1;14:98. doi: 10.1186/s12957-016-0857-x.

A recurrent epidermoid cyst of the spleen: report of a case and literature
review.

Cianci P(1), Tartaglia N(2), Altamura A(2), Fersini A(2), Vovola F(3),
Sanguedolce F(3), Ambrosi A(2), Neri V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Foggia, Luigi Pinto
str 1, 71122, Foggia, Italy. ciancidoc1@virgilio.it. (2)Department of Medical and
Surgical Sciences, University of Foggia, Luigi Pinto str 1, 71122, Foggia, Italy.
(3)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Foggia, 71122,
Foggia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Splenic cysts are rare disease. Epidermoid cysts of the spleen belong
to the primary nonparasitic splenic cysts group. They are an unusual event in
surgical practice. Usually, epidermoid cysts occur in children and young female. 
Most often, they are asymptomatic, but they may present with abdominal
discomfort.
CASE PRESENTATION: We are reporting a rare case of a 23-year-old female came to
our attention with history of intermittent pain and previously undergone two
times to laparoscopic decapsulation of the cyst in others institutions. During
hospitalization, serum and intracystic levels of tumor marker CA19-9 increased.
Enhanced CT of the abdomen showed recurrent large cyst in the upper pole of the
spleen with satellite nodules. Laparotomic total splenectomy was performed.
Histopathological and immunoreactive examinations were executed, and they
revealed stratified squamous epithelium on the inner surface of cystic wall,
which was positive for EMA, CEA, and CA19-9. The diagnosis of epidermoid cyst was
confirmed.
CONCLUSIONS: Recently, the surgical approach is changing towards conservative
treatments in order to save the spleen in young patients for immunological
reasons. Sometimes, this target is not achievable. In such circumstances, like
recurrent large cyst, anomalous anatomical relationship to the surrounding
tissues, total splenectomy is safe and necessary.

DOI: 10.1186/s12957-016-0857-x 
PMCID: PMC4818458
PMID: 27036391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Oncologist. 2016 Apr;21(4):475-80. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0380. Epub
2016 Mar 14.

Where to Turn for Second-Line Cytoreduction After Hydroxyurea in Polycythemia
Vera?

Nazha A(1), Gerds AT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Leukemia Program, Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Taussig
Cancer Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. (2)Leukemia Program,
Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Taussig Cancer Institute,
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA gerdsa@ccf.org.

The goals of therapy in patients with polycythemia vera (PV) are to improve
disease-related symptoms, prevent the incidence or recurrence of thrombosis, and 
possibly delay or prevent the transformation into myelofibrosis or acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML). Cytoreductive therapies have been used in older patients and
those with a history of thrombosis to achieve these goals. Hydroxyurea (HU)
remains the first-line cytoreductive choice; however, up to one in four patients 
treated with HU over time will develop resistance or intolerance to HU. More
importantly, patients who fail HU have a 5.6-fold increase in mortality and a
6.8-fold increase risk of transformation to myelofibrosis or AML; therefore,
alternative therapies are needed for these patients. Interferon-α has been used
in PV and has shown significant activity in achieving hematologic responses and
decreasing JAK2 V617F mutation allele burden. JAK inhibition has also been
investigated and recently garnered regulatory approval for this indication. In
this review, we will discuss the current treatment options that are available for
patients after HU and the novel therapies that are currently under
investigation.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The outcomes of PV patients who fail or 
who are intolerant of hydroxyurea are poor. Although pegylated interferon can be 
considered in younger patients, currently, ruxolitinib is the only U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration-approved agent in this setting, representing a viable option,
leading to hematocrit control and a reduction in spleen size and constitutional
symptoms. Although a small number of patients will achieve a molecular response
with continuous treatment, the implications of such response on the clinical
outcomes are still unknown. Patients whose disease is not adequately controlled
with ruxolitinib, or who lose their response, can be treated with low-dose
busulfan or pipobroman; however, they should be encouraged to participate in
trials with novel therapies.

©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0380 
PMCID: PMC4828120 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 26975864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2016 May;32(3):189-94. doi:
10.1097/MOG.0000000000000262.

Cell therapy in chronic liver disease.

Nicolas CT(1), Wang Y, Nyberg SL.

Author information: 
(1)aWilliam J. von Liebig Center for Transplantation and Clinical
RegenerationbDepartment of Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To date, the only curative treatment for end-stage liver
disease is liver transplantation, which is limited by the shortage of available
organs. Cell therapy, in the form of cell transplantation or cell-based
extracorporeal support devices, may in the future offer an alternative to
transplantation, or at least provide liver function support as a bridging therapy
until surgery may be performed. The purpose of this review is to highlight the
most recent advances made in the field of cell therapy and regenerative medicine 
for the treatment of chronic liver disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: After hepatocyte transplantation, long-term engraftment in the
liver and spleen may be achieved, which can be stimulated through
preconditioning, multiple infusions, and inflammatory response blockade.
Mesenchymal stem cells are promising candidates for cell transplantation, as they
have been shown to reduce liver fibrosis and support endogenous regeneration.
Adipose tissue-derived stem cells are also being tested in this setting, because 
of their ready availability. Bioartificial liver devices are being built that
allow for effective preservation of hepatocytes, and one such device has recently
demonstrated survival benefit in a porcine model of liver failure.
SUMMARY: Cell transplantation of primary hepatocytes or stem cell-derived
hepatocyte-like cells for the treatment of chronic liver disease holds promise.
Bioartificial liver systems may in the future be able to bridge acute-on-chronic 
liver failure patients to liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000262 
PMID: 26950359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Mar 4;3:CD009806. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD009806.pub2.

Enzyme replacement therapy with galsulfase for mucopolysaccharidosis type VI.

Brunelli MJ(1), Atallah ÁN, da Silva EM.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Dr Wladimir dos Santos Mello 122, São
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil, 04112-030.

BACKGROUND: Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI or Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome is a rare
genetic disorder caused by the deficiency of arylsulphatase B. The resultant
accumulation of dermatan sulphate causes lysosomal damage.The clinical symptoms
are related to skeletal dysplasia (i.e. short stature and degenerative joint
disease). Other manifestations include cardiac disease, impaired pulmonary
function, ophthalmological complications, hepatosplenomegaly, sinusitis, otitis, 
hearing loss and sleep apnea. Intellectual impairment is generally absent.
Clinical manifestation is typically by two or three years of age; however, slowly
progressive cases may not present until adulthood.Enzyme replacement therapy with
galsulfase is considered a new approach for treating mucopolysaccharidosis type
VI.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of treating
mucopolysaccharidosis VI by enzyme replacement therapy with galsulfase compared
to other interventions, placebo or no intervention.
SEARCH METHODS: Eletronic searches were performed on the Cystic Fibrosis and
Genetic Disorders Group's Inborn Errors of Metabolism Trials Register, in
CENTRAL, MEDLINE, LILACS, the Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease and
ClinicalTrials.gov. Date of the last search of the Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic
Disorders Group's Inborn Errors of Metabolism Trials Register: 05 February 2016.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized and quasi-randomized controlled clinical studies
of enzyme replacement therapy with galsulfase compared to other interventions or 
placebo.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently screened the studies,
assessed the risk of bias and extracted data.
MAIN RESULTS: One study was included involving 39 participants who received
either enzyme replacement therapy with galsulfase (recombinant human
arylsulphatase B) or placebo. This small study was considered to be of overall
unclear quality, since the authors did not report how both the allocation
generation and concealment were performed.The key finding at 24 weeks in the
12-minute walk test was a statistically significant mean difference of 92.00
meters between the two groups in favour of the galsulfase group (95% confidence
interval 11.00 to 172.00). While week 24 results for the three-minute stair climb
demonstrated some improvement in the treatment group as compared to the placebo
group, this was not significant, mean difference 5.70 (95% confidence interval
-0.10 to 11.50).A significant decrease in the urinary glycosaminoglycan levels
was observed in favour of the galsulfase group at 24 weeks, mean difference
-227.00 (95% confidence interval -264.00 to -190.00).In general, the dose of
galsulfase was well tolerated and there were no significant differences in
relation to adverse events. These events include drug-related adverse events,
serious and severe adverse events, those during infusion, drug-related adverse
events during infusion, and deaths. More infusion-related reactions were observed
in the galsulfase group and were managed with interruption or slowing of infusion
rate or administration of antihistamines or corticosteroids drugs. No deaths
occurred during the study.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The results of one small study (based on 24-week randomised
phase of the study and prior to the open-label extension) demonstrated that
galsulfase is more effective than placebo in people with MPS VI, with significant
improvements in the 12-minute walk test and a reduction in urinary
glycosaminoglycans.There were no significant changes in cardiac or pulmonary
functions, liver or spleen volume, overnight apnea-hypopnea, height and weight,
quality of life and adverse effects.Further studies are needed to obtain more
information on the long-term effectiveness and safety of enzyme replacement
therapy with galsulfase.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009806.pub2 
PMID: 26943923  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


13. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016 Mar 8;67(9):1091-103. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2015.12.048.

Leukocytes Link Local and Systemic Inflammation in Ischemic Cardiovascular
Disease: An Expanded "Cardiovascular Continuum".

Libby P(1), Nahrendorf M(2), Swirski FK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic
address: plibby@rics.bwh.harvard.edu. (2)Center for Systems Biology,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Physicians have traditionally viewed ischemic heart disease in a cardiocentric
manner: plaques grow in arteries until they block blood flow, causing acute
coronary and other ischemic syndromes. Recent research provides new insight into 
the integrative biology of inflammation as it contributes to ischemic
cardiovascular disease. These results have revealed hitherto unsuspected
inflammatory signaling networks at work in these disorders that link the brain,
autonomic nervous system, bone marrow, and spleen to the atherosclerotic plaque
and to the infarcting myocardium. A burgeoning clinical published data indicates 
that such inflammatory networks-far from a mere laboratory curiosity-operate in
our patients and can influence aspects of ischemic cardiovascular disease that
determine decisively clinical outcomes. These new findings enlarge the circle of 
the traditional "cardiovascular continuum" beyond the heart and vessels to
include the nervous system, the spleen, and the bone marrow.

Copyright © 2016 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2015.12.048 
PMCID: PMC4779182 [Available on 2017-03-08]
PMID: 26940931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther. 2016;14(4):435-42. doi:
10.1586/14787210.2016.1160779.

Host resistance to visceral leishmaniasis: prevalence and prevention.

Maran N(1), Gomes PS(1), Freire-de-Lima L(2), Freitas EO(1), Freire-de-Lima
CG(2), Morrot A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Departamento de Microbiologia Geral , Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro
, Rio de Janeiro , Brazil. (2)b Instituto de Biofísica Carlos Chagas F ilho ,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil.

Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a chronic parasitic disease caused by the
vector-borne Leishmania donovani and Leishmania (L.) infantum chagasi parasites. 
The disease affects about 12 million humans in more than 90 countries worldwide. 
If not treated, the visceral form of Leishmania infection is potentially fatal,
yielding about 50000 deaths per year. In the vertebrate host, the Leishmania
species causing VL spread systematically to propagate in macrophage reservoirs
distributed in the tissues of internal organs, primarily the liver, spleen, bone 
marrow and the lymph nodes. The infection is associated with evolved mechanisms
from the parasite to subvert the host immune system in order to establish a
persistent infection. Currently, efforts are being deployed to develop new
anti-leishmanial therapies in VL combining immunomodulatory treatment regimens
that burst the host immune responses together with leishmanicidal drugs that
target the parasite growth. Discoveries in this field are discussed in this
article.

DOI: 10.1586/14787210.2016.1160779 
PMID: 26934623  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Mar 2;3:CD011602. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD011602.pub2.

Ultrasonography for diagnosis of alcoholic cirrhosis in people with alcoholic
liver disease.

Pavlov CS(1), Casazza G, Semenistaia M, Nikolova D, Tsochatzis E, Liusina E,
Ivashkin VT, Gluud C.

Author information: 
(1)The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group, Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical 
Intervention Research, Department 7812, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University
Hospital, Blegdamsvej 9, Copenhagen, Denmark, DK-2100.

BACKGROUND: Heavy alcohol consumption causes alcoholic liver disease and is a
causal factor of many types of liver injuries and concomitant diseases. It is a
true systemic disease that may damage the digestive tract, the nervous system,
the heart and vascular system, the bone and skeletal muscle system, and the
endocrine and immune system, and can lead to cancer. Liver damage in turn, can
present as multiple alcoholic liver diseases, including fatty liver,
steatohepatitis, fibrosis, alcoholic cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma,
with presence or absence of hepatitis B or C virus infection. There are three
scarring types (fibrosis) that are most commonly found in alcoholic liver
disease: centrilobular scarring, pericellular fibrosis, and periportal fibrosis. 
When liver fibrosis progresses, alcoholic cirrhosis occurs. Hepatocellular
carcinoma occurs in 5% to 15% of people with alcoholic cirrhosis, but people in
whom hepatocellular carcinoma has developed are often co-infected with hepatitis 
B or C virus.Abstinence from alcohol may help people with alcoholic disease in
improving their prognosis of survival at any stage of their disease; however, the
more advanced the stage, the higher the risk of complications, co-morbidities,
and mortality, and lesser the effect of abstinence. Being abstinent one month
after diagnosis of early cirrhosis will improve the chance of a seven-year life
expectancy by 1.6 times. Liver transplantation is the only radical method that
may change the prognosis of a person with alcoholic liver disease; however,
besides the difficulties of finding a suitable liver transplant organ, there are 
many other factors that may influence a person's survival.Ultrasound is an
inexpensive method that has been used for years in clinical practice to diagnose 
alcoholic cirrhosis. Ultrasound parameters for assessing cirrhosis in people with
alcoholic liver disease encompass among others liver size, bluntness of the liver
edge, coarseness of the liver parenchyma, nodularity of the liver surface, size
of the lymph nodes around the hepatic artery, irregularity and narrowness of the 
inferior vena cava, portal vein velocity, and spleen size.Diagnosis of cirrhosis 
by ultrasound, especially in people who are asymptomatic, may have its advantages
for the prognosis, motivation, and treatment of these people to decrease their
alcohol consumption or become abstinent.Timely diagnosis of alcoholic cirrhosis
in people with alcoholic liver disease is the cornerstone for evaluation of
prognosis or choosing treatment strategies.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasonography for detecting
the presence or absence of cirrhosis in people with alcoholic liver disease
compared with liver biopsy as reference standard.To determine the diagnostic
accuracy of any of the ultrasonography tests, B-mode or echo-colour Doppler
ultrasonography, used singly or combined, or plus ultrasonography signs, or a
combination of these, for detecting hepatic cirrhosis in people with alcoholic
liver disease compared with liver biopsy as a reference standard, irrespective of
sequence.
SEARCH METHODS: We performed searches in The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group
Controlled Trials Register, The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Diagnostic Test
Accuracy Studies Register, The Cochrane Library (Wiley), MEDLINE (OvidSP), EMBASE
(OvidSP), and the Science Citation Index Expanded to 8 January 2015. We applied
no language limitations.We screened study references of the retrieved studies to 
identify other potentially relevant studies for inclusion in the review and read 
abstract and poster publications.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Three review authors independently identified studies for
possible inclusion in the review. We excluded references not fulfilling the
inclusion criteria of the review protocol. We sent e-mails to study authors.The
included studies had to evaluate ultrasound in the diagnosis of hepatic cirrhosis
using only liver biopsy as the reference standard.The maximum time interval of
investigation with liver biopsy and ultrasonography should not have exceeded six 
months. In addition, ultrasonography could have been performed before or after
liver biopsy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We followed the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic
Reviews of Diagnostic Test Accuracy.
MAIN RESULTS: The review included two studies that provided numerical data
regarding alcoholic cirrhosis in 205 men and women with alcoholic liver disease. 
Although there were no applicability concerns in terms of participant selection, 
index text, and reference standard, we judged the two studies at high risk of
bias. Participants in both studies had undergone both liver biopsy and
ultrasonography investigations. The studies shared only a few comparable clinical
signs and symptoms (index tests).We decided to not perform a meta-analysis due to
the high risk of bias and the high degree of heterogeneity of the included
studies.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: As the accuracy of ultrasonography in the two included
studies was not informative enough, we could not recommend the use of
ultrasonography as a diagnostic tool for liver cirrhosis in people with alcoholic
liver disease. In order to be able to answer the review questions, we need
diagnostic ultrasonography prospective studies of adequate sample size, enrolling
only participants with alcoholic liver disease.The design and report of the
studies should follow the Standards for Reporting of Diagnostic Accuracy. The
sonographic features, with validated cut-offs, which may help identify clinical
signs used for diagnosis of fibrosis in alcoholic liver disease, should be
carefully selected to achieve maximum diagnostic accuracy on ultrasonography.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011602.pub2 
PMID: 26934429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Parasit Vectors. 2016 Mar 1;9:118. doi: 10.1186/s13071-016-1412-x.

Regulation of immunity during visceral Leishmania infection.

Rodrigues V(1), Cordeiro-da-Silva A(2,)(3), Laforge M(4), Silvestre R(5,)(6),
Estaquier J(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)CNRS FR3636, Université Paris-Descartes, Paris, France.
vasco.rodrigues@parisdescartes.fr. (2)Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em
Saúde, Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal. cordeiro@ibmc.up.pt.
(3)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade do
Porto, Porto, Portugal. cordeiro@ibmc.up.pt. (4)CNRS FR3636, Université
Paris-Descartes, Paris, France. mirhaddad@gmail.com. (5)School of Health
Sciences, Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), University of
Minho, Braga, Portugal. ricardosilvestre@ecsaude.uminho.pt. (6)ICVS/3B's-PT
Government Associate Laboratory, Braga, Guimarães, Portugal.
ricardosilvestre@ecsaude.uminho.pt. (7)CNRS FR3636, Université Paris-Descartes,
Paris, France. estaquier@yahoo.fr. (8)Centre de Recherche en Infectiologie,
Université Laval, Québec, Canada. estaquier@yahoo.fr.

Unicellular eukaryotes of the genus Leishmania are collectively responsible for a
heterogeneous group of diseases known as leishmaniasis. The visceral form of
leishmaniasis, caused by L. donovani or L. infantum, is a devastating condition, 
claiming 20,000 to 40,000 lives annually, with particular incidence in some of
the poorest regions of the world. Immunity to Leishmania depends on the
development of protective type I immune responses capable of activating infected 
phagocytes to kill intracellular amastigotes. However, despite the induction of
protective responses, disease progresses due to a multitude of factors that
impede an optimal response. These include the action of suppressive cytokines,
exhaustion of specific T cells, loss of lymphoid tissue architecture and a
defective humoral response. We will review how these responses are orchestrated
during the course of infection, including both early and chronic stages, focusing
on the spleen and the liver, which are the main target organs of visceral
Leishmania in the host. A comprehensive understanding of the immune events that
occur during visceral Leishmania infection is crucial for the implementation of
immunotherapeutic approaches that complement the current anti-Leishmania
chemotherapy and the development of effective vaccines to prevent disease.

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-016-1412-x 
PMCID: PMC4774109
PMID: 26932389  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Hell J Nucl Med. 2016 Jan-Apr;19(1):42-5. doi: 10.1967/s002449910336. Epub 2016
Mar 1.

(18)F-FDG PET/CT imaging in systemic lupus erythematosus related autoimmune
haemolytic anaemia and lymphadenopathy.

Zhang X(1), Xu C, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1). Linyi People's Hospital, Linyi, Shandong, China, East Jiangfang Road 27
Linyi, 276000, China. wxclinyi@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: We present a case of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) related
autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (AIHA) and lymphadenopathy. AIHA as a serious
complication of SLE, requiring urgent appropriate management. The timely
differential diagnosis between SLE with lymphadenopathy and lymphoma, primary and
SLE-related AIHA often looms as practical challenge under clinical scenario.
Fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose position emission tomography/computed tomography
((18)F-FDG PET/CT) performed for fever of a known origin and for possible
malignancy, showed increased (18)F-FDG uptake in lymph nodes, as well as
increased spleen uptake, which was probably due to lymphoma.
CONCLUSIONS: A symmetrically increased (18)F-FDG uptake in small lymph nodes with
multiple serous cavity effusion helped the differential diagnosis between SLE
related AIHA and lymphoma. In addition, PET/CT can visualize not only the degree 
of disease activity or the "burden of inflammation" but also the distribution of 
the disease in the entire body.

DOI: 10.1967/s002449910336 
PMID: 26929939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Card Electrophysiol Clin. 2016 Mar;8(1):211-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ccep.2015.12.001.

Twin Atrioventricular Nodal Reentrant Tachycardia Associated with Heterotaxy
Syndrome with Malaligned Atrioventricular Canal Defect and Atrioventricular
Discordance.

Patel A(1), Tanel R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Electrophysiologist, Pediatric and Congenital
Arrhythmia Center, UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital, University of California-San
Francisco, Box 0544, 550 16th Street, Floor 5, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.
Electronic address: Akash.Patel@ucsf.edu. (2)Department of Pediatrics,
Electrophysiologist, Pediatric and Congenital Arrhythmia Center, UCSF Benioff
Children's Hospital, University of California-San Francisco, Box 0544, 550 16th
Street, Floor 5, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.

There are limited data on the experience of transbaffle access for catheter
ablation in patients who have undergone a Fontan palliation for complex
congenital heart. Nevertheless, these issues will be encountered more frequently,
because patients who have undergone Fontan palliation continue to survive into
adulthood and develop a variety of arrhythmias that may be refractory to medical 
therapy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccep.2015.12.001 
PMID: 26920197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2016 Mar;51:73-9. doi: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2016.02.022. Epub
2016 Feb 22.

Xenopus as a model organism for birth defects-Congenital heart disease and
heterotaxy.

Duncan AR(1), Khokha MK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 3401 Civic
Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104, United States. (2)Department of Pediatrics
and Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar St, New Haven, CT
06520, United States. Electronic address: mustafa.khokha@yale.edu.

Congenital heart disease is the leading cause of birth defects, affecting 9 out
of 1000 newborns each year. A particularly severe form of congenital heart
disease is heterotaxy, a disorder of left-right development. Despite aggressive
surgical management, patients with heterotaxy have poor survival rates and severe
morbidity due to their complex congenital heart disease. Recent genetic analysis 
of affected patients has found novel candidate genes for heterotaxy although
their underlying mechanisms remain unknown. In this review, we discuss the
importance and challenges of birth defects research including high locus
heterogeneity and few second alleles that make defining disease causality
difficult. A powerful strategy moving forward is to analyze these candidate genes
in a high-throughput human disease model. Xenopus is ideal for these studies. We 
present multiple examples demonstrating the power of Xenopus in discovering new
biology from the analysis of candidate heterotaxy genes such as GALNT11, NEK2 and
BCOR. These genes have diverse roles in embryos and have led to a greater
understanding of complex signaling pathways and basic developmental biology. It
is our hope that the mechanistic analysis of these candidate genes in Xenopus
enabled by next generation sequencing of patients will provide clinicians with a 
greater understanding of patient pathophysiology allowing more precise and
personalized medicine, to help patients more effectively in the future.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2016.02.022 
PMCID: PMC4809202 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26910255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Zhonghua Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Jan;37(1):39-44. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-2727.2016.01.008.

[Marginal zone lymphoma with monoclonal immunoglobulin: three cases report and
literatures review].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang F(1), Han X, Bai B, Wang C, Chen Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical University,
Beijing 100029, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical features and treatment in patients of
marginal zone lymphoma (MZL)with monoclonal immunoglobulin (McIg).
METHODS: The clinical data of MZL patients with McIg, including 3 cases diagnosed
and treated in Beijing Anzhen Hospital from Jan 2007 to Dec 2014 were
retrospectively studied, meanwhile 36 patients searched from literatures were
reviewed.
RESULTS: Of a total of 39 patients, the ratio of male and female was 1.05∶1 with 
an average age of 65.1± 12.3 years old. 28 cases (71.8%)were with mucosa
associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas (MALTL), 9 cases (23.1% )with nodal marginal
zone lymphoma, and 2 cases (5.1%)with splenic marginal zone lymphoma. Nine cases 
(23.1% )were in the early stage, 30 cases (76.9%)in the advanced stage. The
common initial symptom was non-mass lesions (65.5%), such as skin purpura,
peripheral neuropathy; 13 patients (33.3% )were accompanied by autoimmune
phenomenon, and most were with Sjogren's syndrome. Among MALTL patients, the
common primary lesion was in non- gastrointestinal tract (17 cases, 60.7%). Most 
of patients with McIg were one with McIgM (82.0%); the others with McIgA,
Mcκ-light chain, McIgG and double McIg. The level of plasma McIgM was
(25.55±21.31)g/L, which was higher in advanced stage patients than in early stage
ones [(29.85±20.60)g/Lvs (3.23±2.95)g/L,P= 0.008]. The complete remission
(CR)rate was 56.0% and the overall response rate (ORR)92.0%, respectively in 30
patients treated by chemotherapy. At a median follow- up of 10 months, the 3-
year progression free survival and the 3-year overall survival were 44.7% and
76.5%, respectively. The rates of ORR and CR in the patients received rituximab- 
included regimen were seemly better than those without rituximab one (100.0%vs
78.6%, 63.6%vs 50.0%;P>0.05), but no statistic differences were found. The CR
rate in patients with McIgM was significantly higher than that with non- McIgM
(P=0.026). The plasma McIgM level decreased after chemotherapy (P=0.002).
CONCLUSION: The MZL with McIg, perhaps a kind of unique subtype, usually occurred
in 60 years or older patients. It was often diagnosed in patients of advanced
stage and susceptible to autoimmune phenomenon. MALTL in non- gastrointestinal
tract was more prone to find McIg. In MZL patients with McIg, McIgM was more
common and other McIg rare. Rituximab-included regimen produced a better
therapeutic response.


PMID: 26876252  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Pediatr. 2016 Apr;171:153-62.e1-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2015.12.074. Epub 2016 
Feb 8.

Screening and Treatment of Intestinal Rotational Abnormalities in Heterotaxy: A
Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Tan YW(1), Khalil A(2), Kakade M(3), Carvalho JS(4), Bradley S(1), Cleeve S(5),
Giuliani S(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric and Neonatal Surgery, St. George's University
Hospitals National Health Service Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Fetal Medicine Unit, Division of Developmental Science, St George's University
of London, London, United Kingdom. (3)Department of Pediatric and Neonatal
Surgery, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Fetal Medicine Unit, Division of Developmental Science, St George's University
of London, London, United Kingdom; Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Royal
Brompton and Harefield NHS Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Pediatric and Neonatal Surgery, Royal London Hospital, London,
United Kingdom. (6)Department of Pediatric and Neonatal Surgery, St. George's
University Hospitals National Health Service Foundation Trust, London, United
Kingdom. Electronic address: Stefano.giuliani@nhs.net.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the role of screening and prophylactic surgery for
intestinal rotational abnormalities (IRAs) in asymptomatic patients with
heterotaxy.
STUDY DESIGN: PubMed, Embase, and Cinahl were searched electronically to
determine the overall incidence of IRAs in heterotaxy; the detection rate of IRAs
associated with screening; the incidence of midgut volvulus in patients without
screening; and the incidence of morbidity and mortality after prophylactic and
emergency Ladd procedures. Relevant data were computed with a meta-analysis of
proportions. Between-study heterogeneity was assessed with the I(2) statistic.
RESULTS: From 276 papers identified, 24 studies with a total of 1433 patients
with heterotaxy were included for systematic review. No randomized study was
identified. True incidence of IRA in heterotaxy could not be ascertained through 
meta-analysis. In patients who underwent screening, the incidence of IRA was 58%.
Acute midgut volvulus occurred in 5.8% of those who did not undergo screening.
Postoperative mortality after Ladd procedure mainly was associated with cardiac
insufficiency, and overall it was significantly greater in the emergency group
compared with the prophylactic group (18% vs 5.6%). The complication rate also
was greater in case of emergency vs prophylactic abdominal surgery (27% vs 16%); 
adhesional small bowel obstruction was the most common complication overall (6%).
CONCLUSION: The screen-detected incidences of IRA and acute midgut volvulus were 
significantly greater in heterotaxy than the normal population. Prophylactic Ladd
procedure was associated with less morbidity and mortality compared with
emergency surgery. A long-term prospective randomized trial is needed to define
the indication for screening and prophylactic treatment of IRA in heterotaxy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2015.12.074 
PMID: 26868865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Feb 5;2:CD008185. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD008185.pub4.

Enzyme replacement therapy with idursulfase for mucopolysaccharidosis type II
(Hunter syndrome).

da Silva EM(1), Strufaldi MW, Andriolo RB, Silva LA.

Author information: 
(1)Emergency Medicine and Evidence Based Medicine, Universidade Federal de São
Paulo, Rua Borges Lagoa 564 cj 64, Vl. Clementino, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil, 
04038-000.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014;(1):CD008185.

BACKGROUND: Mucopolysaccharidosis II, also known as Hunter syndrome, is a rare,
X-linked disease caused by a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme
iduronate-2-sulfatase, which catalyses a step in the catabolism of
glycosaminoglycans. The glycosaminoglycans accumulate within tissues affecting
multiple organs and physiologic systems. The clinical manifestations include
neurologic involvement, severe airways obstruction, skeletal deformities and
cardiomyopathy. The disease has a variable age of onset and variable rate of
progression. In those with severe disease, death usually occurs in the second
decade of life, whereas those individuals with less severe disease may survive
into adulthood. Enzyme replacement therapy with intravenous infusions of
idursulfase has emerged as a new treatment for mucopolysaccharidosis type II.
This is an update of a previously published version of this review.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of enzyme replacement
therapy with idursulfase compared to other interventions, placebo or no
intervention, for treating mucopolysaccharidosis type II.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Group's Trials Register (date of last search 23 November 2015).We also searched
Embase, PubMed and the Literature Latino-Americana e do Caribe em Ciências da
Saúde (LILACS) (date of last search 28 November 2015).
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials of enzyme
replacement therapy with idursulfase compared to no intervention, placebo or
other options (e.g. behavioral strategies, transplantation).
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently screened the trials
identified, appraised quality of papers and extracted data.
MAIN RESULTS: One study (96 male participants) met the inclusion criteria,
although the primary outcome of this review - z score for height and weight, was 
not assessed in the study. This trial was considered to be of overall good
quality. Following 53 weeks of treatment, participants in the weekly idursulfase 
0.5 mg/kg group demonstrated a significant improvement rate compared with placebo
for the primary outcome: distance walked in six minutes on the basis of the sum
of ranks of change from baseline, mean difference 37.00 (95% confidence interval 
6.52 to 67.48). The every-other-week idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg group also showed an
improvement, which was not significant compared with placebo, mean difference
23.00 (95% confidence interval -4.49 to 50.49). After 53 weeks, there was no
statistical significance difference in per cent predicted forced vital capacity
between the three groups and absolute forced vital capacity was significantly
increased from baseline in the weekly dosing group compared to placebo, mean
difference 0.16 (95% confidence interval CI 0.05 to 0.27). No difference was
observed between the every-other-week idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg group and placebo.In 
addition, liver and spleen volumes and urine glycosaminoglycan excretion were
significantly reduced from baseline by both idursulfase dosing regimens.
Idursulfase was generally well tolerated, but infusion reactions did occur.
Idursulfase antibodies were detected in 31.7% of participants at the end of the
study and they were related to a smaller reduction in urine glycosaminoglycan
levels.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The current evidence is limited. While the randomised
clinical trial identified was considered to be of good quality, it failed to
describe important outcomes. It has been demonstrated that enzyme replacement
therapy with idursulfase is effective in relation to functional capacity
(distance walked in six minutes and forced vital capacity), liver and spleen
volumes and urine glycosaminoglycan excretion in people with
mucopolysaccharidosis type II compared with placebo. There is no available
evidence in the included study and in the literature on outcomes such as
improvement in growth, sleep apnoea, cardiac function, quality of life and
mortality. More studies are needed to obtain more information on the long-term
effectiveness and safety of enzyme replacement therapy.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008185.pub4 
PMID: 26845288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2016;12(1):104-16. doi: 10.1080/21645515.2015.1066050.

Duality at the gate: Skin dendritic cells as mediators of vaccine immunity and
tolerance.

Nirschl CJ(1), Anandasabapathy N(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Dermatology ; Harvard Skin Disease Research Center; Brigham
and Women's Hospital ; Boston , MA USA.

Since Edward Jenner's discovery that intentional exposure to cowpox could provide
lifelong protection from smallpox, vaccinations have been a major focus of
medical research. However, while the protective benefits of many vaccines have
been successfully translated into the clinic, the cellular and molecular
mechanisms that differentiate effective vaccines from sub-optimal ones are not
well understood. Dendritic cells (DCs) are the gatekeepers of the immune system, 
and are ultimately responsible for the generation of adaptive immunity and
lifelong protective memory through interactions with T cells. In addition to
lymph node and spleen resident DCs, a number of tissue resident DC populations
have been identified at barrier tissues, such as the skin, which migrate to the
local lymph node (migDC). These populations have unique characteristics, and play
a key role in the function of cutaneous vaccinations by shuttling antigen from
the vaccination site to the draining lymph node, rapidly capturing freely
draining antigens in the lymph node, and providing key stimuli to T cells.
However, while migDCs are responsible for the generation of immunity following
exposure to certain pathogens and vaccines, recent work has identified a
tolerogenic role for migDCs in the steady state as well as during protein
immunization. Here, we examine the roles and functions of skin DC populations in 
the generation of protective immunity, as well as their role as regulators of the
immune system.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2015.1066050 
PMCID: PMC4962728 [Available on 2017-02-02]
PMID: 26836327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Jan;95(4):e2532. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000002532.

Polysplenia Syndrome With Splenic and Skeletal Muscle Metastases From Thyroid
Carcinoma Evaluated by FDG PET/CT: Case Report and Literature Review: A
Care-Compliant Article.

Li ZG(1), Lin ZC, Mu HY.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Nuclear Medicine (Z-GL, Z-CL); and Department of
Oncology (H-YM), Pingjin Hospital, Logistics University of Chinese People's Armed
Police Force, Tianjin, People's Republic of China.

Polysplenia syndrome (PSS) is a rare congenital abnormality. Metastases to spleen
and skeletal muscle from differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) are also extremely
rare. Our case report aims to present an interesting case of PSS associated with 
splenic metastasis (SM) and skeletal muscle metastasis (SMM) from advanced
papillary thyroid carcinoma which was evaluated on fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)
positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). An 84-year-old Chinese
man was admitted with the history of multiple enlarged masses in bilateral neck, 
right axillary, and inguinal areas for >2 months. The results of ultrasonography 
examination were highly suggestive of malignancy. The histological results of the
following biopsy were consistent with papillary thyroid carcinoma with
involvement of multiple regional lymph nodes. He was referred for an FDG PET/CT
imaging to evaluate the situation. FDG PET/CT showed that an intense FDG-avid
thyroid mass with widespread regional lymph node involvement and distant
metastases in the body. Unexpected sites of metastases were detected in the
spleens and skeletal muscles. Most interestingly, FDG PET/CT imaging also
described the typical imaging findings of PSS including the 2 right-sided
spleens, azygos and hemiazygos continuation of inferior vena cava (IVC),
right-sided stomach, middle line liver, a short pancreas, preduodenal portal vein
(PPV), and malrotation of gut. Whole body FDG PET/CT imaging can accurately
evaluate the situation of DTC by detecting regional lymph node involvement,
common and rare sites of distant metastases which are closely related to staging,
management, and prognosis of this disease. Whole-body FDG PET/CT is also valuable
in demonstrating the typical imaging features of PSS.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000002532 
PMID: 26825891  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2015 Nov 1;8(11):14040-4. eCollection 2015.

Primary splenic angiosarcoma with fever and anemia: a case report and literature 
review.

Deng R(1), Chang W(1), Wu X(2), Chen J(1), Tao K(1), Zhang P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology Wuhan, China.

Primary splenic angiosarcoma is an extremely rare and aggressive neoplasm. The
prognosis of this disease is dismal, and the mean survival is less than 6 months 
after the diagnosis. This neoplasm typically presents with abdominal pain,
splenomegaly, weight loss, and spontaneous splenic rupture. Fever is a very rare 
presentation of splenic angiosarcoma. Here we report the case of a 64-year-old
man who presented with fever and anemia. A laparoscopic splenectomy was performed
and revealed splenic angiosarcoma. The postoperative course was uneventful and
the patient received 5 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy with ifosfamide plus
epirubicin. He remained disease free at 9 months after surgery. This is the first
case of splenic angiosarcoma with fever as the initial presentation that was
treated with laparoscopic splenectomy to be reported in the English literature.


PMCID: PMC4713503
PMID: 26823717  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Obstet Gynecol Surv. 2016 Jan;71(1):33-8. doi: 10.1097/OGX.0000000000000262.

Abnormalities of Fetal Situs: An Overview and Literature Review.

Lambert TE(1), Kuller J(2), Small M(3), Rhee E(3), Barker P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Resident Physician, Obstetrics and Gynecology. (2)Professor. (3)Assistant
Professor, Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine. (4)Professor of Pediatrics,
Division of Cardiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC.

The incidence of congenital heart disease is most commonly reported in 8 per 1000
live births. Situs anomalies are among the least common forms of congenital heart
disease. This study defines situs and describes the variations of fetal situs
anomalies. Situs refers to the arrangement of the viscera, atria, and vessels
within the body. Situs solitus describes the normal arrangement; situs inversus
describes inverted arrangement of the viscera and atria; and situs ambiguous
(also referred to as heterotaxy) describes disturbances in arrangements that can 
neither be identified as solitus nor inversus. This review will concentrate on
heterotaxy, as it is the most complicated situs abnormality to define, classify, 
and study. Prognosis of heterotaxy is variable but most correlated with cardiac
anatomy. Management is concentrated on numerous cardiac operations and requires a
multidisciplinary approach to address coexisting congenital anomalies.

DOI: 10.1097/OGX.0000000000000262 
PMID: 26819133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2015 Nov;42(12):2227-9.

[Case Report of a Splenic Abscess Due to Colon Cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki K(1), Akai T, Nakamura K, Higashi Y, Shoji T, Yamazaki M, Taniguchi M,
Nishiyama R, Maruo H.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Shizuoka City Shimizu Hospital.

The patient was a 63-year-old man with a chief complaint of fever and abdominal
pain. He was admitted with the diagnosis of splenic abscess on enhanced abdominal
computed tomography. After improvement of general condition, we planned a
colonoscopy. However, the symptoms were not relieved, so we decided to perform
splenectomy. The operative findings included a bulky mass at the splenic flexure,
which involved the spleen and the pancreatic tail. Therefore, partial colectomy, 
splenectomy, and distal pancreatectomy were performed. The pathological
examination revealed that the splenic abscess had not developed as a direct
extension of the colon cancer but the cancer spread to the splenic hilus.
Surgical resection is the first choice in the therapy of splenic abscess
developing from colon cancer.


PMID: 26805319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Life Sci. 2016 Feb 15;147:46-58. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2016.01.024. Epub 2016 Jan
18.

Natural products for treatment of osteoporosis: The effects and mechanisms on
promoting osteoblast-mediated bone formation.

An J(1), Yang H(2), Zhang Q(2), Liu C(2), Zhao J(2), Zhang L(2), Chen B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Medicine Centre, Hong-Hui Hospital, Xi'an Jiaotong University
College of Medicine, Xi'an 710054, China. Electronic address:
anjing198812@126.com. (2)Translational Medicine Centre, Hong-Hui Hospital, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University College of Medicine, Xi'an 710054, China.

Osteoporosis is a systemic metabolic bone disease characterized by a reduction in
bone mass, bone quality, and microarchitectural deterioration. An imbalance in
bone remodeling that is caused by more osteoclast-mediated bone resorption than
osteoblast-mediated bone formation results in such pathologic bone disorder.
Traditional Chinese medicines (TCM) have long been used to prevent and treat
osteoporosis and have received extensive attentions and researches at home and
abroad, because they have fewer adverse reactions and are more suitable for
long-term use compared with chemically synthesized medicines. Here, we put the
emphasis on osteoblasts, summarized the detailed research progress on the active 
compounds derived from TCM with potential anti-osteoporosis effects and their
molecular mechanisms on promoting osteoblast-mediated bone formation. It could be
concluded that TCM with kidney-tonifying, spleen-tonifying, and stasis-removing
effects all have the potential effects on treating osteoporosis. The active
ingredients derived from TCM that possess effects on promoting osteoblasts
proliferation and differentiation include flavonoids, glycosides, coumarins,
terpenoids (sesquiterpenoids, monoterpenoids, diterpenoids), phenolic acids,
phenols and others (tetrameric stilbene, anthraquinones, diarylheptanoids). And
it was confirmed that the bone formation effect induced by the above natural
products was regulated by the expressions of bone specific matrix proteins (ALP, 
BSP, OCN, OPN, COL I), transcription factor (Runx2, Cbfa1, Osx), signal pathways 
(MAPK, BMP), local factors (ROS, NO), OPG/RANKL system of osteoblasts and
estrogen-like biological activities. All the studies provided theoretical basis
for clinical application, as well as new drug research and development on
treating osteoporosis.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2016.01.024 
PMID: 26796578  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


29. South Med J. 2016 Jan;109(1):38-41. doi: 10.14423/SMJ.0000000000000399.

Common Misconceptions, Advancements, and Updates in Pediatric Vaccination
Administration.

Oldfield BJ(1), Stewart RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Departments of Internal Medicine and Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

Vaccines are among the greatest achievements in biomedicine and public health.
Yet for a variety of reasons, some vaccine-preventable illnesses have experienced
resurgences during the last decade. As such, there is a particular need for
pediatric providers to be aware of the newest guidelines for vaccination
administration to provide consistent and evidence-based recommendations and
thoughtful reassurance to families. We aimed to enhance providers' understanding 
of pediatric vaccinations by highlighting recent changes in vaccination
guidelines and addressing common knowledge gaps. This is not a comprehensive list
or systematic review of vaccination recommendations. Rather, we present a
collection of new developments and misconceptions we have found particularly
relevant in our own experience in providing vaccination education at a training
institution.

DOI: 10.14423/SMJ.0000000000000399 
PMID: 26741872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


30. World J Pediatr Congenit Heart Surg. 2016 Jan;7(1):54-62. doi:
10.1177/2150135115601831.

Impact of Era, Type of Isomerism, and Ventricular Morphology on Survival in
Heterotaxy: Implications for Therapeutic Management.

Loomba RS(1), Nijhawan K(2), Anderson R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Children's Hospital of Wisconsin/Medical College of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA loomba.rohit@gmail.com. (2)Department of Medicine, 
Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA. (3)Institute of Genetic
Medicine, Newcastle University, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Heterotaxy has been demonstrated to reduce survival. There are
several different subgroups of patients, however, and no single study has had a
large number of patients and analyzed survival across the different subgroups
such as patients born in different eras, patients with right and left isomerism, 
and patients with biventricular or functionally univentricular hearts. This study
pools previously reported data from Kaplan-Meier curves and performs such
subgroup analysis.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was performed to identify studies 
reporting survival of patients with the so-called "heterotaxy" by means of
Kaplan-Meier survival curves. Data were extracted from these survival curves and 
then pooled together. A polynomial regression was then used to generate a pooled 
survival curve. This was done for all patients, those born in a more recent era, 
those with right and left isomerism, and those with biventricular or functionally
univentricular hearts.
RESULTS: Those born in the more recent era (after 2000) had increased survival
compared to the overall cohort. Those with left isomerism tended to have a
survival benefit compared to those with right isomerism until about 16 years of
age, beyond which those with right isomerism developed a survival benefit. Those 
with biventricular hearts had a survival benefit compared to those with left
isomerism.
CONCLUSION: Survival in the so-called heterotaxy syndrome is based on several
factors, which include era of birth, sidedness of isomerism, and whether the
heart is biventricular or functionally univentricular.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/2150135115601831 
PMID: 26714995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2015;(4):413-8.

[Hyposlenism After Splenectomy].

[Article in Russian]

Morozov DA, Klyuev SA.

Splenectomy is a serious operation, which includes the removal of the largest
peripheral immune organ. Vast array of different pools of immunocompetent cells
and immune-factors eliminate from the body as a result of this operation.
Occurrence of hyposplenism in our country pediatric service is not
determined--there are neither clear criteria for its diagnosis, nor approved
algorithms for prevention. Data of postsplenectomy sepsis incidence in Russia are
unknown. In this review article authors give contemporary literature data
relating to the issue of developing hyposplenism and changes in the body after
removal of spleen. Systemic effect of organ-resecting operation and the basic
directions of overwhelming postsplenectomy infection and sepsis prevention are
discussed.


PMID: 26710523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Immunol Rev. 2016 Jan;269(1):26-43. doi: 10.1111/imr.12382.

Apoptotic cell responses in the splenic marginal zone: a paradigm for immunologic
reactions to apoptotic antigens with implications for autoimmunity.

McGaha TL(1,)(2), Karlsson MC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto,
ON, Canada. (2)Princess Margaret Cancer Center, University Health Network,
Toronto, ON, Canada. (3)Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology,
Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Apoptotic cells drive innate regulatory responses that result in tolerogenic
immunity. This is a critical aspect of cell physiology as apoptotic cells expose 
potentially dangerous nuclear antigens on the surface in apoptotic blebs, and
failure in their recognition, phagocytosis, or destruction can cause dramatic
autoimmunity in experimental models and is linked to development and progression 
of systemic pathology in human. The marginal zone is a specialized splenic
environment that serves as a transitional site from circulation to peripheral
lymphoid structures. The marginal zone serves a key role in trapping of
particulates and initiation of innate responses against systemic microbial
pathogens. However in recent years, it has become clear the marginal zone is also
important for initiation of immune tolerance to apoptotic cells, driving a
coordinated response involving multiple phagocyte and lymphocyte subsets. Recent 
reports linking defects in splenic macrophage function to systemic lupus
erythematosus in a manner analogous to marginal zone macrophages in lupus-prone
mice provide an impetus to better understand the mechanistic basis of the
apoptotic cell response in the marginal zone and its general applicability to
apoptotic cell-driven tolerance at other tissue sites. In this review, we discuss
immune responses to apoptotic cells in the spleen in general and the marginal
zone in particular, the relationship of these responses to autoimmune disease,
and comparisons to apoptotic cell immunity in humans.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imr.12382 
PMCID: PMC4732741
PMID: 26683143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


33. J Pediatr Surg. 2016 Feb;51(2):200-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2015.10.058. Epub
2015 Nov 4.

Biliary atresia: From Australia to the zebrafish.

Davenport M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery, King's College Hospital, London, UK.
Electronic address: Markdav2@ntlworld.com.

This review is based upon an invited lecture for the 52nd Annual Meeting of the
British Association of Paediatric Surgeons, July 2015. The aetiology of biliary
atresia (BA) is at best obscure, but it is probable that a number of causes or
pathophysiological mechanisms may be involved leading to the final common
phenotype we recognise clinically. By way of illustration, similar conditions to 
human BA are described, including biliary agenesis, which is the normal state and
peculiar final pattern of bile duct development in the jawless fish, the lamprey.
Furthermore, there have been remarkable outbreaks in the Australian outback of BA
in newborn lambs whose mothers were exposed to and grazed upon a particular plant
species (Dysphania glomulifera) during gestation. More recent work using a
zebrafish model has isolated a toxic isoflavonoid, now named Biliatresone,
thought to be responsible for these outbreaks. Normal development of the bile
ducts is reviewed and parallels drawn with two clinical variants thought to
definitively have their origins in intrauterine life: Biliary Atresia Splenic
Malformation syndrome (BASM) and Cystic Biliary Atresia (CBA). For both variants 
there is sufficient clinical evidence, including associated anomalies and
antenatal detection, respectively, to warrant their aetiological attribution as
developmental BA. CMV IgM +ve associated BA is a further variant that appears
separate with distinct clinical, histological, and immunohistochemical features. 
In these it seems possible that this involves perinatal obliteration of a
normally formed duct system. Although still circumstantial, this evidence appears
convincing enough to perhaps warrant a different treatment strategy. This then
still leaves the most common (more than 60% in Western series) variant, now
termed Isolated BA, whereby origins can only be alluded to.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2015.10.058 
PMID: 26653951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Radiol Case Rep. 2015 Jul 31;9(7):22-37. doi: 10.3941/jrcr.v9i7.2210.
eCollection 2015.

Heterotaxy Polysplenia Syndrome In An Adult With Unique Vascular Anomalies: Case 
Report With Review Of Literature.

Rameshbabu CS(1), Gupta KK(2), Qasim M(2), Gupta OP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Muzaffarnagar Medical College, N.H.-58, Muzaffarnagar- 
251203 (U.P), India. (2)Dr. O.P.Gupta Imaging Center, 387, Sumer Bhawan, Bachcha 
Park, Meerut- 250002. (U.P), India.

The pattern of anatomical organization of the thoraco-abdominal visceral and
vascular structures which is not the expected normal arrangement, is called as
situs ambiguous or heterotaxy syndrome. Patients with heterotaxy syndrome exhibit
a wide spectrum of anatomical variations involving thoraco-abdominal structures. 
We present here an incidental finding of heterotaxy syndrome associated with
unique vascular anomalies in a 35 year old male patient evaluated initially for
nephrolithiasis by ultrasonography, and intravenous pyelography. Further
evaluation by multidetector row computed tomography showed bilateral bilobed
lungs with hyparterial bronchi, cardiac apex to the left, five branches from
left-sided aortic arch with retroesophageal right subclavian artery, interrupted 
inferior vena cava with azygos continuation, left renal vein continuing as
hemiazygos vein and replaced common hepatic artery arising from the superior
mesenteric artery. Other vascular anomalies include right internal iliac vein
joining the left common iliac vein and precaval course of the single main right
renal artery. Anomalies involving abdominal organs include right-sided stomach,
midline liver, multiple splenules (polysplenia) in right upper quadrant of
abdomen, short truncated pancreas, intestinal malrotation, inversion of superior 
mesenteric vessels and a preduodenal portal vein. To the best of our knowledge
this is the first report of association of left renal vein continuing as
hemiazygos vein, precaval right renal artery and anomalous branching pattern of
aortic arch with heterotaxy syndrome.

DOI: 10.3941/jrcr.v9i7.2210 
PMCID: PMC4638408
PMID: 26629295  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Haematologica. 2015 Dec;100(12):1495-507. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2014.119123.

The role of B-cell receptor inhibitors in the treatment of patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia.

Wiestner A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA wiestnera@mail.nih.gov.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a malignancy of mature auto-reactive B cells.
Genetic and functional studies implicate B-cell receptor signaling as a pivotal
pathway in its pathogenesis. Full B-cell receptor activation requires
tumor-microenvironment interactions in lymphoid tissues. Spleen tyrosine kinase, 
Bruton's tyrosine kinase, and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) δ isoform 
are essential for B-cell receptor signal transduction but also mediate the effect
of other pathways engaged in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells in the
tissue-microenvironment. Orally bioavailable inhibitors of spleen tyrosine
kinase, Bruton's tyrosine kinase, or PI3Kδ, induce high rates of durable
responses. Ibrutinib, a covalent inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase, and
idelalisib, a selective inhibitor of PI3Kδ, have obtained regulatory approval in 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Ibrutinib and idelalisib are active in patients
with high-risk features, achieving superior disease control in difficult-to-treat
patients than prior best therapy, making them the preferred agents for chronic
lymphocytic leukemia with TP53 aberrations and for patients resistant to
chemoimmunotherapy. In randomized trials, both ibrutinib, versus ofatumumab, and 
idelalisib in combination with rituximab, versus placebo with rituximab improved 
survival in relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Responses to B-cell
receptor inhibitors are mostly partial, and within clinical trials treatment is
continued until progression or occurrence of intolerable side effects. Ibrutinib 
and idelalisib are, overall, well tolerated; notable adverse events include
increased bruising and incidence of atrial fibrillation on ibrutinib and colitis,
pneumonitis and transaminase elevations on idelalisib. Randomized trials
investigate the role of B-cell receptor inhibitors in first-line therapy and the 
benefit of combinations. This review discusses the biological basis for targeted 
therapy of chronic lymphocytic leukemia with B-cell receptor inhibitors, and
summarizes the clinical experience with these agents.

Copyright© Ferrata Storti Foundation.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2014.119123 
PMCID: PMC4666325
PMID: 26628631  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2015 Dec;28(4):253-63. doi:
10.1016/j.beha.2015.09.002. Epub 2015 Oct 8.

Hairy cell leukaemia-variant: Disease features and treatment.

Matutes E(1), Martínez-Trillos A(2), Campo E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hematopathology Unit, Hospital Clínic, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques
August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address:
estella.matutes.juan@gmail.com. (2)Department of Hematology, Hospital Clínic,
Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: smartine1@clinic.ub.es. (3)Hematopathology 
Unit, Hospital Clínic, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer
(IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: ecampo@clinic.ub.es.

Hairy cell leukaemia-variant (HCL-V) is a rare B-cell malignancy that affects
elderly males and manifests with splenomegaly, lymphocytosis and cytopenias
without monocytopenia. The neoplastic cells have morphological features of
prolymphocytes and hairy cells. The immunophenotype is that of a clonal B-cell
CD11c and CD103 positive but, unlike classical HCL, CD25, CD123 and CD200
negative. The spleen histology is similar to classical HCL and the pattern of
bone marrow infiltration is interstitial and/or intrasinusoidal. Mutations of the
immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGVH) are seen in two thirds of cases with a
preferential VH4-34 family usage. There is no distinct chromosomal abnormality
but del17p13 and mutations of the TP53 gene are frequent. Mutations in the MAP2K1
gene have been documented in half of the cases. The course is chronic with median
survivals of 7-9 years. Patients are refractory to purine analogues and the most 
effective therapy is the combination of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine and Rituximab.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beha.2015.09.002 
PMID: 26614904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2015 Dec;28(4):200-7. doi:
10.1016/j.beha.2015.10.019. Epub 2015 Oct 24.

Bone marrow and splenic histology in hairy cell leukaemia.

Wotherspoon A(1), Attygalle A(2), Mendes LS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Histopathology, Royal Marsden Hopsital, Fulham Road, London SW3 
6JJ, UK. Electronic address: Andrew.Wotherspoon@rmh.nhs.uk. (2)Department of
Histopathology, Royal Marsden Hopsital, Fulham Road, London SW3 6JJ, UK.
Electronic address: Ayoma.Attygalle@rmh.nhs.uk. (3)Department of Histopathology, 
Royal Marsden Hopsital, Fulham Road, London SW3 6JJ, UK. Electronic address:
lara_senna@yahoo.com.br.

Hairy cell leukaemia is a rare chronic neoplastic B-cell lymphoproliferation that
characteristically involves blood, bone marrow and spleen with liver, lymph node 
and skin less commonly involved. Histologically, the cells have a characteristic 
appearance with pale/clear cytoplasm and round or reniform nuclei. In the spleen,
the infiltrate involves the red pulp and is frequently associated with areas of
haemorrhage (blood lakes). The cells stain for B-cell related antigens as well as
with antibodies against tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase, DBA44 (CD72), CD11c,
CD25, CD103, CD123, cyclin D1 and annexin A1. Mutation of BRAF -V600E is present 
and antibody to the mutant protein can be used as a specific marker. Bone marrow 
biopsy is essential in the initial assessment of disease as the bone marrow may
be inaspirable or unrepresentative of degree of marrow infiltration as a result
of the tumour associated fibrosis preventing aspiration of the tumour cell
component. Bone marrow biopsy is important in the assessment of therapy response 
but in this context staining for CD11c and Annexin A1 is not helpful as they are 
also markers of myeloid lineage and identification of low level infiltration may 
be obscured. In this context staining for CD20 may be used in conjunction with
morphological assessment and staining of serial sections for cyclin D1 and DBA44 
to identify subtle residual infiltration. Staining for CD79a and CD19 is not
recommended as these antibodies will identify plasma cells and can lead to
over-estimation of disease. Staining for CD20 should not be used in patients
following with anti-CD20 based treatments. Down regulation of cyclin D1 and CD25 
has been reported in patients following BRAF inhibitor therapy and assessment of 
these antigens should not be used in this context. Histologically, hairy cell
leukaemia needs to be distinguished from other B-cell lymphoproliferations
associated with splenomegaly including splenic marginal zone lymphoma, splenic
diffuse red pulp small B-cell lymphoma and hairy cell leukaemia variant. This can
be done by assessment of the spleen but as this is now rarely performed in this
disorder distinction is almost always possible by a combination of morphological 
and immunophenotypic studies on bone marrow trephine biopsy, which can be
supplemented by assessment of BRAF-V600E mutation assessment in borderline cases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beha.2015.10.019 
PMID: 26614898  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Mol Med. 2015 Oct 27;21 Suppl 1:S13-8. doi: 10.2119/molmed.2015.00027.

Once Upon a Time: The Adaptive Immune Response in Atherosclerosis--a Fairy Tale
No More.

Le Borgne M(1), Caligiuri G(1), Nicoletti A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unité 1148, Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale
(INSERM), Hôpital Xavier Bichat, Paris, France; Université Paris Diderot,
Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France; Département Hospitalo-Universitaire DHU FIRE,
Paris, France.

Extensive research has been carried out to decipher the function of the adaptive 
immune response in atherosclerosis, with the expectation that it will pave the
road for the design of immunomodulatory therapies that will prevent or reverse
the progression of the disease. All this work has led to the concept that some T-
and B-cell subsets are proatherogenic, whereas others are atheroprotective. In
addition to the immune response occurring in the spleen and lymph nodes, it has
been shown that lymphoid neo-genesis takes place in the adventitia of
atherosclerotic vessels, leading to the formation of tertiary lymphoid organs
where an adaptive immune response can be mounted. Whereas the mechanisms
orchestrating the formation of these organs are becoming better understood, their
impact on atherosclerosis progression remains unclear. Several potential
therapeutic strategies against atherosclerosis, such as protective vaccination
against atherosclerosis antigens or inhibiting the activation of proatherogenic B
cells, have been proposed based on our improving knowledge of the role of the
immune system in atherosclerosis. These strategies have shown success in
preclinical studies, giving hope that they will lead to clinical applications.

DOI: 10.2119/molmed.2015.00027 
PMCID: PMC4661052
PMID: 26605642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Semin Diagn Pathol. 2016 Jan;33(1):31-42. doi: 10.1053/j.semdp.2015.09.005. Epub 
2015 Sep 7.

Non-neoplastic pancreatic lesions that may mimic malignancy.

Okun SD(1), Lewin DN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of South
Carolina, 171 Ashley Ave MSC 908, Charleston, South Carolina 29425-9080.
Electronic address: okuns@musc.edu. (2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, 171 Ashley Ave MSC 908,
Charleston, South Carolina 29425-9080.

The widespread use of abdominal ultrasound (US), computed tomography (CT), and
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has resulted in an increased identification of
asymptomatic pancreatic lesions. Preoperative diagnoses of pancreatic lesions can
be difficult. Solid and cystic lesions and anatomic variants of normal can all
mimic tumor clinically and radiologically. Newer imaging modalities have
increased the likelihood of the accurate diagnosis of non-neoplastic pancreatic
disease, however, despite the many advances; it still remains a challenge to
differentiate rarer non-neoplastic entities and inflammatory masses from
adenocarcinoma, preoperatively. Adding to the challenge is the fact that a
variety of inflammatory, solid and cystic non-neoplastic lesions have significant
clinical and radiological overlap with malignancies. About 5-10% of
pancreatectomies performed with the primary clinical diagnosis of pancreatic
carcinoma are later proved to be essentially non-neoplastic lesions. It is vital 
to include these non-neoplastic entities in the differential diagnosis while
working up abnormal clinical and radiological pancreatic findings because it may 
drastically alter therapeutic options for the patients. The significance of
recognizing these lesions preoperatively is to help to guide the clinical
decision-making process and the avoidance of an unnecessary pancreatectomy.
Examples of such entities include chronic pancreatitis, sarcoidosis,
intrapancreatic accessory spleen (IPAS), lymphoid hyperplasia, lipomatous
pseudohypertrophy (LPH), lymphangioma, lymphoepithelial cyst (LEC) and
endometriosis.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semdp.2015.09.005 
PMID: 26602569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Hepatol. 2016 Feb;64(2):505-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.11.009. Epub 2015 Nov 
17.

Iron metabolism and related genetic diseases: A cleared land, keeping mysteries.

Brissot P(1), Loréal O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Inserm-UMR 991, National Center of Reference for Rare Iron Overload Diseases, 
University Hospital Pontchaillou, Faculty of Medicine, Rennes, France. Electronic
address: pierre.brissot@univ-rennes1.fr. (2)Inserm-UMR 991, National Center of
Reference for Rare Iron Overload Diseases, University Hospital Pontchaillou,
Faculty of Medicine, Rennes, France. Electronic address:
olivier.loreal@inserm.fr.

Body iron has a very close relationship with the liver. Physiologically, the
liver synthesizes transferrin, in charge of blood iron transport; ceruloplasmin, 
acting through its ferroxidase activity; and hepcidin, the master regulator of
systemic iron. It also stores iron inside ferritin and serves as an iron
reservoir, both protecting the cell from free iron toxicity and ensuring iron
delivery to the body whenever needed. The liver is first in line for receiving
iron from the gut and the spleen, and is, therefore, highly exposed to iron
overload when plasma iron is in excess, especially through its high affinity for 
plasma non-transferrin bound iron. The liver is strongly involved when iron
excess is related either to hepcidin deficiency, as in HFE, hemojuvelin,
hepcidin, and transferrin receptor 2 related haemochromatosis, or to hepcidin
resistance, as in type B ferroportin disease. It is less involved in the usual
(type A) form of ferroportin disease which targets primarily the macrophagic
system. Hereditary aceruloplasminemia raises important pathophysiological issues 
in light of its peculiar organ iron distribution.

Copyright © 2015 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.11.009 
PMID: 26596411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Trop Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan-Mar;36(1):14-20.

Primary hepatic lymphoma.

Padhan RK, Das P, Shalimar.

Erratum in
    Trop Gastroenterol. 2015 Apr-Jun;36(2):144.

Primary hepatic lymphoma (PHL) is a lymphoproliferative disorder confined to the 
liver without evidence of involvement of spleen, lymph nodes, bone marrow or
other lymphoid structures. This is in contrast to Non Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL)
that often involves the liver as a secondary manifestation. PHL is a rare disease
and constitutes 0.016% of all cases of NHL. PHL typically occurs in middle aged
men, and usually the chief presenting symptoms are non specific which includes
right upper quadrant pain, B symptoms like fever and weight loss and
constitutional symptoms. Most frequent physical finding is hepatomegaly which
occurs in 75% of patients. Jaundice is rare and present only in less than 5% of
patients. Majority of PHL originates from B cells. The blood investigations and
imaging findings are nonspecific. Histopathology is essential and confirms the
diagnosis. Treatment modalities include combination of surgical resection,
chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The prognosis without therapy is grim. The
prognosis and management of PHL is different from hepatocellular carcinoma or
metastatic disease, hence it is essential to differentiate it from these
diseases. The purpose of this review is to emphasize the importance of accurate
diagnosis before implementing therapeutic plan for any hepatic space occupying
lesion in liver.


PMID: 26591949  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Int J Surg Pathol. 2016 Apr;24(2):177-80. doi: 10.1177/1066896915617027. Epub
2015 Nov 20.

Giant Myelolipoma in the Spleen: A Rare Case Report and Literature Review.

Zeng Y(1), Ma Q(1), Lin L(1), Fu P(1), Shen Y(1), Luo QY(1), Zhao LH(1), Mou
JH(1), Xiao HL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Daping Hospital and Research Institute of Surgery, The Third Military Medical 
University, Chongqing, China. (2)Daping Hospital and Research Institute of
Surgery, The Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China dpblxhl@126.com.

Myelolipomas are benign tumors, consisting of hematopoietic cells and mature
adipose tissue, which mainly occur within the adrenal gland. Extra-adrenal
myelolipomas are rare, and fewer than 60 cases have been reported in the
literature. Here, we report a case of intrasplenic myelolipoma in a 42-year-old
man with more than 1 month of abdominal pain. Computed tomography scanning
revealed a giant, heterogeneous, well-demarcated mass in the spleen. Splenectomy 
was performed, and an intrasplenic giant mass was completely excised. The
diagnosis of myelolipoma was made based on morphological examination. To the best
of our knowledge, this is the third reported case of myelolipoma in the human
spleen.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1066896915617027 
PMID: 26590175  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Pathobiology. 2016;83(1):13-23. doi: 10.1159/000440865. Epub 2015 Nov 21.

Gaucher Disease: Clinical, Biological and Therapeutic Aspects.

Dandana A(1), Ben Khelifa S, Chahed H, Miled A, Ferchichi S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Farhat Hached Hospital, Sousse, Tunisia.

We present a brief review of Gaucher disease (GD), the most common lysosomal
storage disease. GD is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the
defective function of the catabolic enzyme β-glucocerebrosidase (GBA), leading to
an accumulation of its substrate, glucocerebroside. Clinical signs and symptoms
include neurological dysfunctions, bone infarcts and malformations,
hepatosplenomegaly and hypersplenism leading to anemia, neutropenia and
thrombocytopenia. Enzyme replacement therapy with recombinant GBA is the mainstay
of treatment for GD, which became the first successfully managed lipid storage
disease. Future treatments may include oral enzyme replacement and/or gene
therapy interventions.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000440865 
PMID: 26588331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Expert Rev Hematol. 2016 Jan;9(1):51-8. doi: 10.1586/17474086.2016.1112732. Epub 
2015 Nov 13.

Hematological manifestations and complications of Gaucher disease.

Linari S(1), Castaman G(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Heart and Vessels, Center for Bleeding Disorders , Careggi
University Hospital , Florence , Italy.

Gaucher disease is a multisystemic metabolic disorder due to a genetic deficiency
of the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase, which leads to the accumulation
within the lysosomes of macrophages of its natural substrate, glucosylceramide
and its deacylated product glucosylsphingosine. The most prevalent form of the
disease is the so-called non-neuronopathic form (type 1) characterized by anemia,
thrombocytopenia, enlargement of liver and/or spleen, skeletal abnormalities.
Etiology of anemia and thrombocytopenia may be multifactorial and not necessarily
predicted by the degree of splenomegaly. Bleeding diathesis may not always be
related to absolute platelet count but may be influenced by abnormal platelet
function or coagulation factor deficiencies. A significant increased risk of
severe hematological co-morbidities, including multiple myeloma and B-cell
lymphoma, has been reported. Accumulation of glucosylceramide and
glucosylsphingosyne in macrophages and the resulting chronic inflammation with
the secretion of cytokines leading to polyclonal and monoclonal B cell
proliferation up to multiple myeloma, as a continuum clonal expansion, is a key
pathophysiological mechanism. Enzyme replacement therapy has been shown to be
effective in reducing glucosylceramide storage burden and the deleterious effects
caused by its accumulation, including hematological manifestations.

DOI: 10.1586/17474086.2016.1112732 
PMID: 26565753  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


45. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Nov 7;21(41):11767-76. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i41.11767.

Colorectal cancer: Metastases to a single organ.

Vatandoust S(1), Price TJ(1), Karapetis CS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sina Vatandoust, Christos S Karapetis, Department of Medical Oncology,
Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, SA 5042, Australia.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common malignancy worldwide. In CRC patients,
metastases are the main cause of cancer-related mortality. In a group of
metastatic CRC patients, the metastases are limited to a single site (solitary
organ); the liver and lungs are the most commonly involved sites. When metastatic
disease is limited to the liver and/or lungs, the resectability of the metastatic
lesions will dictate the management approach and the outcome. Less commonly, the 
site of solitary organ CRC metastasis is the peritoneum. In these patients,
cytoreduction followed by hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy may improve
the outcome. Rarely, CRC involves other organs, such as the brain, bone, adrenals
and spleen, as the only site of metastatic disease. There are limited data to
guide clinical practice in these cases. Here, we have reviewed the disease
characteristics, management approaches and prognosis based on the metastatic
disease site in patients with CRC with metastases to a single organ.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i41.11767 
PMCID: PMC4631975
PMID: 26557001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2016 Jan;94(1):161-5. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.13-0505. Epub 2015
Nov 10.

Primary Giant Splenic Echinococcal Cyst Treated by Laparoscopy.

Arce MA(1), Limaylla H(1), Valcarcel M(1), Garcia HH(1), Santivañez SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Peruano de Parasitologia Clinica y Experimental (INPPACE), Lima,
Perú; Department of Surgery, Hospital Nacional Dos de Mayo, Lima, Perú;
Department of Microbiology, School of Sciences, Universidad Peruana Cayetano
Heredia, Lima, Perú; Center for Global Health, Tumbes, Universidad Peruana
Cayetano Heredia, Lima, Perú; Cysticercosis Unit, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias 
Neurologicas, Lima, Perú (2)Instituto Peruano de Parasitologia Clinica y
Experimental (INPPACE), Lima, Perú; Department of Surgery, Hospital Nacional Dos 
de Mayo, Lima, Perú; Department of Microbiology, School of Sciences, Universidad 
Peruana Cayetano Heredia, Lima, Perú; Center for Global Health, Tumbes,
Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia, Lima, Perú; Cysticercosis Unit, Instituto
Nacional de Ciencias Neurologicas, Lima, Perú ssantiva@jhsph.edu.

Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is a zoonosis caused by the larval stage of the dog
tapeworm Echinococcus granulosus. Liver and lungs are the most commonly affected 
organs whereas splenic infection is rarer and its primary involvement occurs in
less than 2% of abdominal CE. We report a case of primary giant splenic hydatid
cyst in a 75-year-old Peruvian woman that was laparoscopically removed without
any complications, perioperative prophylactic chemotherapy with albendazole 400
mg twice a day 5 days before, and 7 days after the surgical procedure was
administered, postoperative recovery was uneventful, and; at her 3-month
follow-up the patient remains asymptomatic and an abdominal computed tomography
scan demonstrated a cystic cavity of 15 cm diameter with no daughter vesicles,
neither other abdominal organ involvement. This case is in line with the existing
literature on laparoscopical treatment of splenic cystic hydatid disease,
suggesting that laparoscopical treatment is a safe and effective approach for
large splenic hydatid cysts to be preferred to open surgical techniques.

© The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.13-0505 
PMCID: PMC4710423
PMID: 26556833  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Vestn Rentgenol Radiol. 2015 Jul-Aug;(4):54-61.

[Magnetic resonance imaging of the liver and spleen in the diagnosis of storage
diseases].

[Article in Russian]

Shapieva ZM, Kucheruk OV, Sinitsyn VE, Mershina EA.

Storage diseases (thesaurismoses, storage reticuloses) are the common name of a
large group of hyperplastic non-leukemic diseases characterized by congenital or 
acquired metabolic disturbances and abnormal accumulation of metabolic products
in blood and/or cells of different organs and by hyperplasia of mononuclear
phagocyte elements in the liver, spleen, bone marrow, lymph nodes, and other
organs, which makes the diseases systemic. Among the imaging techniques for
diffuse liver diseases, ultrasonography and X-ray computed tomography are most
commonly used for their diagnosis and follow-up. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
has the highest sensitivity and specificity in diagnosing liver diseases. The
paper considers the current MRI procedures that are used to diagnose storage
diseases and to quantify found changes. For Gaucher's disease, the potentials of 
novel techniques, such as MR spectroscopy, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and 
chemical shift imaging (Dickson's method) for the estimation of revealed changes,
are described. For hemochromatosis, the contribution of T2 WI to the
quantification of iron overload in the liver parenchyma is depicted, which is an 
alternative invasive procedure in its determination. Incorporation of MRI into
the examination algorithm for patients with storage diseases will be able to
improve the detection of these rare diseases and to monitor the efficiency of
performed therapy.


PMID: 26552230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Immunology. 2016 Feb;147(2):141-51. doi: 10.1111/imm.12554. Epub 2015 Dec 10.

Ectopic lymphoid follicles: inducible centres for generating antigen-specific
immune responses within tissues.

Jones GW(1), Jones SA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infection and Immunity, The School of Medicine, Cardiff
University, Cardiff, UK.

Lymphoid neogenesis is traditionally viewed as a pre-programmed process that
promotes the formation of lymphoid organs during development. Here, the spatial
organization of T and B cells in lymph nodes and spleen into discrete structures 
regulates antigen-specific responses and adaptive immunity following immune
challenge. However, lymphoid neogenesis is also triggered by chronic or
persistent inflammation. Here, ectopic (or tertiary) lymphoid organs frequently
develop in inflamed tissues as a response to infection, auto-immunity,
transplantation, cancer or environmental irritants. Although these structures
affect local immune responses, the contribution of these lymphoid aggregates to
the underlining pathology are highly context dependent and can elicit either
protective or deleterious outcomes. Here we review the cellular and molecular
mechanisms responsible for ectopic lymphoid neogenesis and consider the relevance
of these structures in human disease.

© 2015 The Authors. Immunology Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imm.12554 
PMCID: PMC4717241
PMID: 26551738  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Radiol Clin North Am. 2015 Nov;53(6):1131-57. doi: 10.1016/j.rcl.2015.06.003.

Evaluating Patients with Left Upper Quadrant Pain.

Ecanow JS(1), Gore RM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, NorthShore University HealthSystem, 2650 Ridge
Avenue, Suite G507, Evanston, IL 60201, USA. (2)Department of Radiology,
NorthShore University HealthSystem, 2650 Ridge Avenue, Suite G507, Evanston, IL
60201, USA. Electronic address: RGore@northshore.org.

Imaging plays a major role in the evaluation of patients who present to the
emergency department with acute left upper quadrant (LUQ) pain. Multidetector
computed tomography is currently the primary modality used for imaging these
patients. The peritoneal reflections, subperitoneal compartment, and peritoneal
spaces of the LUQ are key anatomic features in understanding the imaging
appearance of acute diseases in this area. Diseases of the stomach, spleen,
pancreas, and splenic flexure are encountered in patients with acute LUQ pain.
Optimization of the imaging protocol is vital for accurate diagnosis and
characterization of these diseases in the acute setting.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rcl.2015.06.003 
PMID: 26526430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


50. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Oct 21;21(39):11199-204. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11199.

Case report of primary splenic angiosarcoma with hepatic metastases.

Chen F(1), Jin HF(1), Fan YH(1), Cai LJ(1), Zhang ZY(1), Lv B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fang Chen, Hai-Feng Jin, Yi-Hong Fan, Li-Jun Cai, Bin Lv, Department of
Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang Chinese Medical
University, Hangzhou 310006, Zhejiang Province, China.

Primary splenic angiosarcoma (PSA) is the most unusual type of malignancy with
early multifocal metastasis through hematogenous spread. PSA is generally
believed to originate from splenic sinusoidal vascular endothelium with a high
rate of metastasis and to have a poor prognosis. Its etiology and pathogenetic
mechanisms have not yet been clearly described. Thus far, only approximately 200 
cases have been reported. PSA has variable symptomatology with the potential to
present with life-threatening complications. The diagnosis of PSA is challenging;
and often late. PSA should be considered in the differential diagnosis of
patients with splenomegaly and anemia of unknown etiology. Surgical treatment
with splenectomy is considered the only curative intervention for potential
long-term disease-free survival. Early diagnosis and treatment are very
important. It is important that clinical doctors improve the understanding of
PSA. Herein, we report one rare case of PSA with hepatic metastases, along with a
review of the current literature.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11199 
PMCID: PMC4607917
PMID: 26494974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


51. World J Pediatr Congenit Heart Surg. 2015 Oct;6(4):616-29. doi:
10.1177/2150135115604470.

Heterotaxy Syndrome: Proceedings From the 10th International PCICS Meeting.

Teele SA(1), Jacobs JP(2), Border WL(3), Chanani NK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Critical Care, Department of Cardiology, Boston
Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA
sarah.teele@cardio.chboston.org. (2)Division of Cardiac Surgery, Department of
Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA Johns
Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute, All Children's Hospital, Saint Petersburg
and Tampa, FL, USA. (3)Sibley Heart Center Cardiology, Children's Healthcare of
Atlanta, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.

A session dedicated to heterotaxy syndrome was included in the program of the
Tenth International Conference of the Pediatric Cardiac Intensive Care Society in
Miami, Florida in December 2014. An invited panel of experts reviewed the
anatomic considerations, surgical considerations, noncardiac issues, and
long-term outcomes in this challenging group of patients. The presentations,
summarized in this article, reflect the current approach to this complex
multiorgan syndrome and highlight future areas of clinical interest and research.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/2150135115604470 
PMID: 26467876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nihon Shokakibyo Gakkai Zasshi. 2015 Oct;112(10):1858-67. doi:
10.11405/nisshoshi.112.1858.

[A case of epidermoid cyst in an intrapancreatic accessory spleen showing
cyst-in-cyst-like structure mimicking mucinous cystic neoplasm].

[Article in Japanese]

Hirata Y(1), Arisaka Y, Kutsumi H, Sakai A, Takenaka M, Shiomi H, Azuma T,
Matsumoto I, Hara S, Yazumi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine.

In 2010, a 39-year-old woman presented with a cystic lesion, 16 mm in diameter,
in the tail of the pancreas. Regular follow-ups were conducted to monitor this
lesion; its diameter was found to increase to 45 mm in 2013. Thus, the patient
was admitted to our hospital for further examination and treatment. Abdominal US,
abdominal contrast-enhanced CT, and MRI showed a cystic lesion of 45 mm in
diameter in the tail of the pancreas, which had internal septae and mural nodules
inside. EUS revealed a cyst-in-cyst-like structure, with a thickened cystic wall 
along the entire circumference. Thus, distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy were 
performed on the basis of a diagnosis of mucinous cystic neoplasm.
Histopathological examination of a resected specimen showed that the lesion
comprised a substantial component of red-brown tone, with adjacent cystic
components. The final diagnosis was an epidermoid cyst in an intrapancreatic
accessory spleen.

DOI: 10.11405/nisshoshi.112.1858 
PMID: 26440689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


53. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2015 Oct;205(4):720-5. doi: 10.2214/AJR.15.14637.

An Overview of Splenic Embolization.

Ahuja C(1), Farsad K(2), Chadha M(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Radiology, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, 
1501 Kings Hwy, Shreveport, LA 71130. (2)2 Department of Radiology, Oregon Health
& Sciences University, Portland, OR.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article is to define the role of splenic
embolization in trauma patients and in patients presenting for treatment of
thrombocytopenia and portal hypertension. This article reviews the indications,
technical considerations, outcomes, and complications of splenic artery
embolization.
CONCLUSION: Transcatheter splenic artery embolization has a major role in the
management of traumatic splenic injuries and as an adjunctive procedure in the
treatment of thrombocytopenia and portal hypertension.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.15.14637 
PMID: 26397320  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Ter Arkh. 2015;87(7):94-6.

[Isolated sacral injury in hairy cell leukemia: A case report and analysis of
literature data].

[Article in Russian]

Al'-RADI LS, Moiseeva TN, Polianskaia TIu, Kovrigina AM, Kostina IE, Khvastunova 
AN, Iakutik IA, Lugovskaia SA.

Hairy cell leukemia (HCL), a chronic B-cell lymphoproliferative disease with
special villous morphology and immunophenotypic markers of lymphoid cells, is
characterized by the involvement of bone marrow and spleen. The paper describes a
case of a 29-year-old female patient without abnormal clinical blood tests and
myelograms, with normal spleen sizes, in whom the only manifestation of HCL was
massive scrotal injury with a soft tissue component in the small pelvic cavity.


PMID: 26390731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Mol Genet Metab. 2016 Feb;117(2):95-103. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2015.09.002. Epub
2015 Sep 7.

Recommendations for the use of eliglustat in the treatment of adults with Gaucher
disease type 1 in the United States.

Balwani M(1), Burrow TA(2), Charrow J(3), Goker-Alpan O(4), Kaplan P(5), Kishnani
PS(6), Mistry P(7), Ruskin J(8), Weinreb N(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, One Gustave L. Levy Place, Box
1497, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
Electronic address: manisha.balwani@mssm.edu. (2)Cincinnati Children's Hospital
Medical Center, Division of Human Genetics, 3333 Burnet Avenue, MLC 4006,
Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA. Electronic address: thomas.burrow@cchmc.org.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Division of Genetics, Birth Defects and Metabolism, Ann and Robert H. Lurie
Children's Hospital of Chicago, 225 East Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. 
Electronic address: jcharrow@northwestern.edu. (4)Lysosomal Disorders Unit, O&O
Alpan, LLC, 11212 Waples Mill Road, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA. Electronic address:
ogokeralpan@oandoalpan.com. (5)Lysosomal Center, Division of Genetics, Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia, Civic Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
Electronic address: kaplan@email.chop.edu. (6)Duke University School of Medicine,
Department of Pediatrics, DUMC 103856, 595 Lasalle Street, GSRB 1, 4th Floor,
Room 4010, Durham, NC 27710, USA. Electronic address: kishn001@mc.duke.edu.
(7)Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven, CT 06520,
USA. Electronic address: pramod.mistry@yale.edu. (8)Massachusetts General
Hospital, Electrophysiology Lab/Arrhythmia Service, 55 Fruit Street, Boston, MA
02114-2696, USA. Electronic address: jruskin@mgh.harvard.edu. (9)University
Research Foundation for Lysosomal Storage Diseases, Inc., 7367 Wexford Terrace,
Boca Raton, FL 33433, USA. Electronic address: boneal@winning.com.

In Gaucher disease, deficient activity of acid β-glucosidase results in
accumulation of its substrates, glucosylceramide and glucosylsphingosine, within 
the lysosomes of cells primarily in the spleen, liver, bone marrow, and
occasionally the lung. The multisystem disease is predominantly characterized by 
hepatosplenomegaly, anemia, thrombocytopenia, and skeletal disease. Enzyme
replacement therapy with recombinant human acid β-glucosidase has been the
first-line therapy for Gaucher disease type 1 for more than two decades.
Eliglustat, a novel oral substrate reduction therapy, was recently approved in
the United States and the European Union as a first-line treatment for adults
with Gaucher disease type 1. Eliglustat inhibits glucosylceramide synthase,
thereby decreasing production of the substrate glucosylceramide and reducing its 
accumulation. Although existing recommendations for the care of patients with
Gaucher disease remain in effect, unique characteristics of eliglustat require
additional investigation and monitoring. A panel of physicians with expertise in 
Gaucher disease and experience with eliglustat in the clinical trials provide
guidance regarding the use of eliglustat, including considerations before
starting therapy and monitoring of patients on eliglustat therapy.

Copyright © 2015 Shire Development LLC. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2015.09.002 
PMID: 26387627  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Abdom Imaging. 2015 Oct;40(7):2796-813. doi: 10.1007/s00261-015-0523-8.

Hot spleen: hypervascular lesions of the spleen.

Bowerson M(1), Menias CO(2), Lee K(3), Fowler KJ(3), Luna A(4), Yano M(3),
Sandrasegaran K, Elsayes KM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington
University, 510 S. Kingshighway Blvd, St. Louis, MO, 63110, USA.
mbowerso@gmail.com. (2)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington
University, 510 S. Kingshighway Blvd, St. Louis, MO, 63110, USA. (4)Health Time
Group, Clinica Las Nieves, Carmelo Torres 2, 23007, Jaén, Spain. (5)Department of
Radiology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Anderson Cancer Center, University of Texas, Houston,
TX, USA.

Erratum in
    Abdom Imaging. 2015 Oct;40(8):3367. Sandrasegaran, Kuma [corrected to
Sandrasegaran, Kumar]; Elsayes, Khaled [corrected to Elsayes, Khaled M].

The differential diagnosis of splenic masses is broad and often hinges on the
enhancement characteristics of the lesions. Most radiologists are familiar with
the differential diagnosis of hypovascular lesions such as fungal infections,
sarcoidosis/granulomatous disease, infarctions, and cysts. However, to our
knowledge, there is no review article that presents the specific multimodality
imaging features of vascular splenic lesions as a group. Vascular splenic lesions
may be considered those that enhance more or similarly to the background splenic 
parenchyma. In this review, we illustrate the spectrum of imaging features of
both benign and malignant vascular splenic lesions. The benign lesions include
hemangiomas, hamartomas, and sclerosing angiomatoid nodular transformation of the
spleen. The malignant lesions are divided into primary and metastatic lesions,
ranging from lymphoma, angiosarcoma to pleomorphic sarcoma. While lymphoma and
metastases may commonly present as hypoenhancing lesions relative to the
background parenchyma, we are addressing them here as their appearance can be
varied and hence deserve consideration. Littoral Cell angiomas are discussed
separately, as they were originally considered benign, but recent studies have
shown that they can have malignant potential.

DOI: 10.1007/s00261-015-0523-8 
PMID: 26384825  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


57. J Pediatr Surg. 2015 Nov;50(11):1971-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2015.08.002. Epub
2015 Aug 8.

Observation versus prophylactic Ladd procedure for asymptomatic intestinal
rotational abnormalities in heterotaxy syndrome: A systematic review.

Landisch R(1), Abdel-Hafeez AH(2), Massoumi R(3), Christensen M(4), Shillingford 
A(5), Wagner AJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226.
Electronic address: rlandisc@mcw.edu. (2)Division of Pediatric Surgery, Medical
College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226. (3)Division of Pediatric Surgery,
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226. Electronic address:
rmassoumi@mcw.edu. (4)Division of Pediatric Surgery, Medical College of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226. Electronic address: MAChristensen@chw.org.
(5)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 
53226. Electronic address: ajshillingford@gmail.com. (6)Division of Pediatric
Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226. Electronic address:
AWagner@chw.org.

BACKGROUND: The management of intestinal rotational abnormalities (IRA) in
heterotaxy syndrome (HS) remains inconsistent. Because of the high incidence of
malrotation in HS, screening of asymptomatic patients is standard of care in some
institutions. The Ladd procedure is the treatment for malrotation, and has been
reported to have high complication rates in HS patients.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review of publications describing IRA in
pediatric HS patients from January 1993 to present. The incidence of volvulus on 
surgical exploration was determined. Perioperative and long-term outcomes were
analyzed to determine complication and mortality rates.
RESULTS: Eleven retrospective studies describing 649 HS patients were identified.
Of all patients with HS, 27% (176/649) underwent Ladd procedure. Only 1.2%
(8/649) of HS patients included had volvulus. Postoperative complications
occurred in 25 patients (14%), including a 10% incidence of small bowel
obstruction. Perioperative and overall mortality rates after Ladd procedure were 
3% and 21%, respectively. Six studies described mesenteric width, reporting 43%
to have narrow mesentery.
CONCLUSION: The Ladd procedure is not without significant morbidity and mortality
in heterotaxy patients. Further prospective studies should investigate predictors
of mesenteric width to spare the unnecessary morbidity of surgery in patients who
are at low risk for volvulus.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2015.08.002 
PMID: 26358665  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Yi Chuan. 2015 Jun;37(6):510-6. doi: 10.16288/j.yczz.14-459.

[Pathogenic mechanism and therapies for Gaucher's disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Linyu L(1), Sichen D(2), Jin Z(1), Duan M(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Metabolism and Molecular Medicine, Ministry of
Education, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China. (2)Research Center for Birth
Defects, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China. (3)The Key Laboratory of
Metabolism and Molecular Medicine, Ministry of Education, Fudan University,
Shanghai 200032, China; Research Center for Birth Defects, Fudan University,
Shanghai 200032, China.

Gaucher's disease (GD) also named glucocerebroside lipidosis, is the most common 
kind of 1ysosomal storage disorder. It results from an autosomal recessive
deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme acid β-glucosidase/ β-glucocerebrosidase
(GBA), which is responsible for hydrolysis of glucocerebroside/glucosylceramide
(GlcCer) into glucose and ceramide. Absent or reduced enzymatic activity of GBA
leads to multisystemic accumulation of GlcCer in mononuclear phagocyte system and
various tissues, such as brain, liver, spleen and so on, causing brain injury,
liver splenomegaly, bone damage, the reduction of blood cells and individual
growth retardation. GD type I could be treated by enzyme replacement therapy
(ERT), but GD types II and III have not effective treatment. In this review, we
summarize the recent progress on pathogenic mechanism and therapies in GD.

DOI: 10.16288/j.yczz.14-459 
PMID: 26351046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Cardiol Young. 2016 Jan;26(1):30-52. doi: 10.1017/S1047951115001389. Epub 2015
Sep 8.

CHD associated with syndromic diagnoses: peri-operative risk factors and early
outcomes.

Landis BJ(1), Cooper DS(1), Hinton RB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Heart Institute,Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center,Cincinnati,Ohio,United States of America.

CHD is frequently associated with a genetic syndrome. These syndromes often
present specific cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular co-morbidities that confer
significant peri-operative risks affecting multiple organ systems. Although
surgical outcomes have improved over time, these co-morbidities continue to
contribute substantially to poor peri-operative mortality and morbidity outcomes.
Peri-operative morbidity may have long-standing ramifications on neurodevelopment
and overall health. Recognising the cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular risks
associated with specific syndromic diagnoses will facilitate expectant
management, early detection of clinical problems, and improved outcomes--for
example, the development of syndrome-based protocols for peri-operative
evaluation and prophylactic actions may improve outcomes for the more frequently 
encountered syndromes such as 22q11 deletion syndrome.

DOI: 10.1017/S1047951115001389 
PMCID: PMC5125077
PMID: 26345374  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015 Aug 18;9:4639-47. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S77760. eCollection
2015.

Eliglustat tartrate for the treatment of adults with type 1 Gaucher disease.

Bennett LL(1), Turcotte K(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Union University, Jackson, TN, USA.

Erratum in
    Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015;9:5213.

The purpose of this article is to review eliglustat tartrate, a substrate
reduction therapy, for the treatment of Gaucher disease type 1 (GD1). GD is an
rare inborn error of metabolism caused by accumulation of lipid substrates such
as glucosylceramide within the monocyte-macrophage system that affects the body
by causing enlargement of the spleen and liver, destruction of bone, and
abnormalities of the lungs and blood, such as anemia, thrombocytopenia, and
leukopenia. GD is classified into three types: GD1, a chronic and
non-neuronopathic disease accounting for 95% of GD cases; and types 2 and 3 (GD2 
GD3) which are more progressive diseases with no approved drugs available at this
time. Treatment options for GD1 include enzyme replacement therapy and substrate 
reduction therapy. Eliglustat works by inhibiting UDP-glucosylceramide synthase, 
the first enzyme that catalyzes the biosynthesis of glycosphingolipids, thus
reducing the load of glucosylceramide influx into the lysosome. Eliglustat was
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration after three Phase I, two Phase
II, and two Phase III clinical trials. The dose of eliglustat is 84 mg twice a
day or once daily depending on the cytochrome P450 2D6 genotype of the patient.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S77760 
PMCID: PMC4554398
PMID: 26345314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Sep 7;(9):CD003425. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD003425.pub3.

Splenectomy versus conservative management for acute sequestration crises in
people with sickle cell disease.

Owusu-Ofori S(1), Remmington T.

Author information: 
(1)Transfusion Medicine Unit, Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital, P.O.Box 1934,
Kumasi, Ghana.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013;(5):CD003425.

BACKGROUND: Acute splenic sequestration crises are a complication of sickle cell 
disease, with high mortality rates and frequent recurrence in survivors of first 
attacks. Splenectomy and blood transfusion, with their consequences, are the
mainstay of long-term management used in different parts of the world. This is a 
2015 update of a Cochrane review first published in 2002, and previously updated 
in 2013.
OBJECTIVES: To assess whether splenectomy (total or partial), to prevent acute
splenic sequestration crises in people with sickle cell disease, improved
survival and decreased morbidity in people with sickle cell disease, as compared 
with regular blood transfusions.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, which comprises of references
identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearching
relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings.Additional trials 
were sought from the reference lists of the trials and reviews identified by the 
search strategy.Date of the most recent search: 10 June 2015.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials
comparing splenectomy (total or partial) to prevent recurrence of acute splenic
sequestration crises with no treatment or blood transfusions in people with
sickle cell disease.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: No trials of splenectomy for acute splenic
sequestration were found.
MAIN RESULTS: No trials of splenectomy for acute splenic sequestration were
found.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Splenectomy, if full, will prevent further sequestration
and if partial, may reduce the recurrence of acute splenic sequestration crises. 
However, there is a lack of evidence from trials showing that splenectomy
improves survival and decreases morbidity in people with sickle cell disease.
There is a need for a well-designed, adequately-powered, randomized controlled
trial to assess the benefits and risks of splenectomy compared to transfusion
programmes, as a means of improving survival and decreasing mortality from acute 
splenic sequestration in people with sickle cell disease.There are no trials
included in the review and we have not identified any relevant trials up to June 
2015. We will continue to run searches to identify any potentially relevant
trals; however, we do not plan to update other sections of the review until new
trials are published.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003425.pub3 
PMID: 26344060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Vet Microbiol. 2015 Oct 22;180(1-2):10-4. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2015.08.016. Epub
2015 Aug 28.

Antigenic properties of avian hepatitis E virus capsid protein.

Zhao Q(1), Syed SF(1), Zhou EM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preventive Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Northwest A&F University, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, China; Scientific Observing
and Experimental Station of Veterinary Pharmacology and Veterinary Biotechnology,
Ministry of Agriculture, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, China. (2)Department of
Preventive Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F
University, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, China; Scientific Observing and
Experimental Station of Veterinary Pharmacology and Veterinary Biotechnology,
Ministry of Agriculture, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, China. Electronic address:
zhouem@nwsuaf.edu.cn.

Avian hepatitis E virus (HEV) is the main causative agent of big liver and spleen
disease and hepatitis-splenomegaly syndrome in chickens, and is genetically and
antigenically related to mammalian HEVs. HEV capsid protein contains
immunodominant epitopes and induces a protective humoral immune response. A
better understanding of the antigenic composition of this protein is critically
important for the development of effective vaccine and sensitive and specific
serological assays. To date, six linear antigenic domains (I-VI) have been
characterized in avian HEV capsid protein and analyzed for their applications in 
the serological diagnosis and vaccine design. Domains I and V induce strong
immune response in chickens and are common to avian, human, and swine HEVs,
indicating that the shared epitopes hampering differential diagnosis of avian HEV
infection. Domains III and IV are not immunodominant and elicit a weak immune
response. Domain VI, located in the N-terminal region of the capsid protein, can 
also trigger an intense immune response, but the anti-domain VI antibodies are
transient. The protection analysis showed that the truncated capsid protein
containing the C-terminal 268 amino acid residues expressed by the bacterial
system can provide protective immunity against avian HEV infection in chickens.
However, the synthetic peptides incorporating the different linear antigenic
domains (I-VI) and epitopes are non-protective. The antigenic composition of
avian HEV capsid protein is altogether complex. To develop an effective vaccine
and accurate serological diagnostic methods, more conformational antigenic
domains or epitopes are to be characterized in detail.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2015.08.016 
PMID: 26340899  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2015 Jul 1;8(7):8516-20. eCollection 2015.

Littoral cell angioma of the spleen: report of three cases and literature review.

Du J(1), Shen Q(2), Yin H(2), Zhou X(2), Wu B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Jinling Hospital of Southern Medical University 305
Zhongshan East Road, Nanjing 210002, Jiangsu, China ; Department of Pathology,
South District of Anhui Provincial Hospital Hefei 230036, China. (2)Department of
Pathology, Jinling Hospital of Southern Medical University 305 Zhongshan East
Road, Nanjing 210002, Jiangsu, China.

Littoral cell angioma (LCA) is an extremely rare benign splenic tumor with
typical histomorphologic features, which is difficult to be distinguished
preoperatively from other benign or malignant splenic tumors. It is a unique
vascular tumor of the spleen, with abdominal pain or as an incidental finding
when undergoing physical examination. In this paper, we reported three cases of
LCA treated in our hospital. Their clinical symptoms, pathological features,
clinical treatment as well as the prognosis are discussed.


PMCID: PMC4555755
PMID: 26339427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


64. BMJ Case Rep. 2015 Sep 2;2015. pii: bcr2015211377. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2015-211377.

Primary pancreatic hydatid cyst: an unexpected differential diagnosis.

Hiremath B(1), Subramaniam N(1), Boggavarapu M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, M S Ramaiah Medical College and Hospital,
Bangalore, Karnataka, India.

Hydatid disease, caused by the cystic stage of Echinococcus granulosus, most
commonly involves the liver (59-75%) and lung (27%), and rarely involves the
kidney (3%), bone (1-4%) and brain (1-2%). Even rarer sites include the heart and
spleen, and skeletal muscle, with virtually no site being immune. The pancreas is
an exceedingly rare site for primary disease (without concomitant involvement of 
the liver or peritoneum), with less than 20 reported cases in the literature.
This case report describes a 48-year-old woman presenting with a solitary cystic 
lesion arising from the neck of the pancreas, which was ultimately determined to 
be a hydatid cyst on histopathological examination. It also discusses the
difficulties in preoperative and postoperative management and includes a review
of the literature.

2015 BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2015-211377 
PMID: 26336187  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Clin Dermatol. 2015 Sep-Oct;33(5):563-71. doi:
10.1016/j.clindermatol.2015.05.008. Epub 2015 Jun 1.

Systemic involvement in mycosis fungoides.

Burg G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic
address: g.burg@access.uzh.ch.

Mycosis fungoides (MF) represents almost 50% of all primary cutaneous lymphomas
and more than 70% of cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL). Arising from
preferentially skin-homing lymphocytes with genetic instability, MF evolves
through stages (IA-IVB), producing inconspicuous inflammatory features in the
beginning and finally resulting in a proliferation of cytomorphologic,
phenotypic, and genotypic abnormal tumor cells. Over the past 200 years, there
has been much confusion in the classification of lymphomas due to semantic
disagreements (MF, CTCL, parapsoriasis, lymphosarcoma, reticulum cell sarcoma,
and many other terms), lack of diagnostic standard criteria, and new molecular
diagnostic methods. Studies on extracutaneous involvement in early stages
(IA-IIA) are almost completely lacking. In advanced stages of MF (IIB-IVB),
discovery of extracutaneous involvement is dependent on the methods used
(physical examination, technology, molecular diagnostics, autopsy, and
laparoscopy) and reveals a wide range of results. Due to the
inflammation-simulating features in the beginning of the disease, early diagnosis
is very difficult to assess. Extracutaneous involvement has previously been
documented in more than 70% of autopsies. More recent studies give much lower
figures. Like all lymphomas, MF is a systemic disease from the very beginning,
with distinct homing preferences in tumor cells. Organs most commonly involved
during the lengthy course of the disease are, in descending frequency, lymph
node/peripheral blood, liver, spleen, lung, bone marrow, GI tract, pancreas, and 
kidney.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clindermatol.2015.05.008 
PMID: 26321404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2015 Sep;139(9):1173-80. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2014-0079-RS.

Hepatosplenic T-Cell Lymphoma: A Clinicopathologic Review With an Emphasis on
Diagnostic Differentiation From Other T-Cell/Natural Killer-Cell Neoplasms.

Shi Y, Wang E(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham,
North Carolina.

Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma is a rare, aggressive T-cell lymphoma,
characterized by hepatosplenic sinusoidal infiltration of monotonous,
medium-sized, nonactivated cytotoxic T cells, usually of γ/δ T-cell receptor
type. Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma occurs more frequently in immunocompromised
patients, especially in those receiving long-term immunosuppressive therapy.
Patients usually manifest hepatosplenomegaly without lymphadenopathy. The bone
marrow is also involved in two-thirds of cases and is often accompanied by
circulating lymphoma cells, which, along with anemia and thrombocytopenia, may
raise suspicion for acute leukemia. The differential diagnosis includes
aggressive natural killer-cell leukemia, T-large granular lymphocytic leukemia,
T-lymphoblastic leukemia, enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma type II, primary
cutaneous γ/δ T-cell lymphoma, other peripheral T-cell lymphomas, myelodysplastic
syndrome, and infectious mononucleosis. The diagnosis is usually established from
the combination of clinical findings, histologic features, and immunophenotype,
although cytogenetic/molecular studies are occasionally needed. Hepatosplenic
T-cell lymphoma exhibits a dismal clinical course with a poor response to
currently available therapies.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2014-0079-RS 
PMID: 26317456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Br J Haematol. 2015 Dec;171(5):683-94. doi: 10.1111/bjh.13660. Epub 2015 Aug 28.

A review of guidance on immunization in persons with defective or deficient
splenic function.

Kuchar E(1,)(2), Miśkiewicz K(1), Karlikowska M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatric Infectious Diseases, Wroclaw Medical University,
Wroclaw, Poland. (2)Department of Paediatrics with Observation Ward, 2nd Medical 
Faculty, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

The spleen acts as a blood filter and lymphopoietic organ. Asplenic and
hyposplenic individuals are more susceptible to serious infections caused by
encapsulated bacteria but they can be protected by antibiotic prophylaxis and
immunizations. Recent progress in vaccinology means prophylaxis is now successful
in the vast majority of serious infections with pneumococci, meningococci and
Haemophilus influenzae type b responsible for the majority of cases of
overwhelming sepsis in asplenic patients. Current guidelines are coherent.
Physicians treating patients with conditions associated with hyposplenism are
ethically obliged to immunize their patients using the vaccines currently
available to protect them from largely preventable, life-threatening infections.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.13660 
PMID: 26315210  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Aug;23(4):1212-5. doi:
10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2015.04.060.

[Treatment Progress of Immune Thrombocytopenia].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu B(1), Wei Y(1), Zhang Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, Lanzhou General Hospital of Lanzhou Military
Commond, Lanzhou 730050, Gansu Province, China. (2)Department of Hematology,
Lanzhou General Hospital of Lanzhou Military Commond, Lanzhou 730050, Gansu
Province, China. E-mail: zhangqxyk2006@163.com.

Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is caused by platelet autoantibodies and T-cell
dysregulation. Both platelets and their precursor megakaryocytes may be targeted 
leading to platelet destruction and insufficient production. Current treatments
for ITP, including corticosteroids, rituximab, splenectomy and TPO receptor
agonists can not reverse the disease process and can be limited by their side
effects including infection and thrombosis. New methods, such as anti-CD154
antibody, FcγRIIb and Syk (spleen tyrosine kinase) inhibitor, can target at
certain key steps in the disease process, showing the potential to limite
systemic side effects and to decrease the morbidity and mortality of ITP
patients. In this article, the recent therapeutic strategies, the new types of
drugs and the further study orientation (or the way of further studies) are
reviewed.


PMID: 26314476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Curr Pharm Des. 2015;21(28):4007-15.

Monocytes, Macrophages and Other Inflammatory Mediators of Abdominal Aortic
Aneurysm.

Potteaux S(1), Tedgui A.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UMR-S 970, Paris Cardiovascular Research Center (PARCC), 56 Rue
Leblanc, 75015 Paris, France. stephane.potteaux@inserm.fr.

Macrophages early invade the forming abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and greatly 
contribute to its pathogenesis. Recent findings have shown that Ly-6C(high) and
Ly-6C(low) monocytes are rapidly mobilized from the splenic reservoir in response
to angiotensin II infusion and sequentially infiltrate the abdominal aorta. The
first wave of Ly-6C(high) monocytes prevails in the aorta and promotes the
accumulation of inflammatory macrophages, which most likely cause irreversible
changes in the abdominal aorta. In this review, we discuss the current knowledge 
on the cellular mechanisms that initiate AAA in mice. We particularly focus on
the role of monocyte and macrophage subsets during the early steps of the
aneurysmal process.


PMID: 26306839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Front Horm Res. 2015;44:139-48. doi: 10.1159/000382143. Epub 2015 Aug 14.

Pancreatic Surgery.

Maurizi A(1), Partelli S, Falconi M.

Author information: 
(1)Pancreatic Surgery Unit, AOUI Ospedali Riuniti - Università Politecnica delle 
Marche, Ancona, Italy.

Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNETs) are rare and clinically demanding
diseases. They are clinically defined as functioning or nonfunctioning depending 
on the presence of a syndrome related to inappropriate hormone secretion.
Functioning pNETs are often small in size and localization may be difficult also 
due to their possible extraduodenal-pancreatic origin in the jejunum, stomach,
mesentery, spleen and ovaries. The improvement and the widespread use of
cross-sectional imaging techniques has significantly increased the detection of
small, nonfunctioning pNETs. The European Neuroendocrine Tumor Society (ENETS)
guidelines now suggest a 'wait and see' policy for these small, incidentally
discovered tumors, which are smaller than 2 cm. On the other hand, surgery still 
always represents the treatment of choice for pNETs >2 cm and/or for symptoms. A 
large proportion of patients with pNETs have locally advanced disease at
diagnosis. Radical surgery of pNETs includes both typical and atypical pancreatic
resections. At diagnosis, between 25 and 93% of patients with pNETs have
synchronous neuroendocrine tumor liver metastases. Radical resection of the
primary tumor, associated with complete, eventually multistep, resection of the
liver metastases, can be considered in selected cases. In recent years minimally 
invasive approaches, either laparoscopic or robotic, have played an increasing
role in the treatment of pNETs.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000382143 
PMID: 26303709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk. 2015 Jun;15 Suppl:S34-42. doi:
10.1016/j.clml.2015.02.034.

Janus Kinase Inhibitors and Stem Cell Transplantation in Myelofibrosis.

El Fakih R(1), Popat U(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson
Cancer Center, Houston, TX. Electronic address: riadfakih@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson
Cancer Center, Houston, TX.

Myelofibrosis (MF) is characterized by splenomegaly, blood count abnormalities,
particularly cytopenias, and a propensity for transformation to acute leukemia.
The current treatment approach is to ameliorate symptoms due to these
abnormalities. Treatment with Janus kinase 2 inhibitors reduces spleen size and
improves symptoms in patients with MF, but most of the patients eventually have
disease progression and stop responding. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation
remains the only curative option. However, its efficacy must be balanced against 
the risk of treatment-related death and long-term sequelae of transplant like
chronic graft versus host disease. The challenge is to integrate treatment with
Janus kinase inhibitors with allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clml.2015.02.034 
PMID: 26297276  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2015 Oct;93(4):761-6. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.15-0225. Epub 2015
Aug 17.

Patterns of Hepatosplenic Brucella Abscesses on Cross-Sectional Imaging: A Review
of Clinical and Imaging Features.

Heller T(1), Bélard S(2), Wallrauch C(2), Carretto E(2), Lissandrin R(2), Filice 
C(2), Brunetti E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Division of Internal Medicine, Center of
Tropical Medicine and Travel Medicine, Academic Medical Center, University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Medicine, Helios Klinik
Muenchen-Perlach, Munich, Germany; Department of Pediatric Pneumology and
Immunology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany; Clinical
Microbiology Laboratory, Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova, Reggio Emilia, Italy;
Department of Infectious Diseases, San Matteo Hospital Foundation, and Department
of Clinical, Surgical, Pediatric and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Pavia,
Pavia, Italy echnatom@web.de. (2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Division of
Internal Medicine, Center of Tropical Medicine and Travel Medicine, Academic
Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department
of Medicine, Helios Klinik Muenchen-Perlach, Munich, Germany; Department of
Pediatric Pneumology and Immunology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany; Clinical Microbiology Laboratory, Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova, Reggio 
Emilia, Italy; Department of Infectious Diseases, San Matteo Hospital Foundation,
and Department of Clinical, Surgical, Pediatric and Diagnostic Sciences,
University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.

While diffuse involvement of liver and spleen is frequently seen in brucellosis, 
suppurative abscesses caused by Brucella are less common but well described. With
the increased availability of cross-sectional imaging techniques, reports have
become more frequent. Four patients with hepatosplenic abscesses caused by
Brucella spp. are described and included in a review of 115 previously published 
cases. Clinical characteristics and patterns on ultrasound (US) and computed
tomography imaging were analyzed. Furthermore, the proportion of patients with
brucellosis affected by suppurative hepatosplenic lesions was estimated.
Hepatosplenic abscesses were seen in 1.2% of patients with brucellosis and were
mostly caused by Brucella melitensis. Imaging analysis revealed two main distinct
patterns. Solitary abscesses involving liver more frequently than spleen, and
showing characteristic central calcifications, characterize the first pattern.
Multiple smaller abscesses, frequent spleen involvement, and absence of
calcifications characterize the second pattern. Blood and aspirate cultures were 
frequently negative, however, the positivity rate increased over the past years. 
Indirect Coombs test was positive in 96%. Half of the patients were cured by
antibiotic treatment; case fatality in this series was 1.9%. Hepatosplenic
abscesses due to Brucella infections have characteristic imaging findings.
Clinicians should be aware of these and the proactive use of cross-sectional
imaging, particularly US, should be encouraged in endemic regions.

© The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.15-0225 
PMCID: PMC4596596
PMID: 26283749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2015 Oct;26(5):457-63. doi: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000223.

Role of splenic monocytes in atherosclerosis.

Potteaux S(1), Ait-Oufella H, Mallat Z.

Author information: 
(1)aINSERM UMR-S 970, Paris Cardiovascular Research Center (PARCC), Université
Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité bRéanimation médicale, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), Hôpital Saint-Antoine, Paris, France
cDepartment of Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review relates recent findings that highlight the role of
the spleen as an active donor of monocytes during inflammation, with a special
focus on atherosclerosis.
RECENT FINDINGS: The contribution of hypercholesterolemia and
monocytes/macrophages to atherosclerotic lesion formation is undisputable. The
origin of plaque macrophages is, however, still a subject of debate as to whether
they derive from local amplification of (resident) macrophages or from continuous
recruitment and differentiation of monocytes. Recently, the spleen has emerged as
an important reservoir of monocytes that contributes to lesion growth. The
regulation of monocyte mobilization from the splenic compartment has, therefore, 
raised a keen interest in understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms
involved in this process.
SUMMARY: Impaired regulation of cholesterol metabolism increases the
proliferation of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells in both the bone marrow 
and the spleen. Recent findings identified the implication of angiotensin II, red
pulp macrophages and B-lymphocytes as partners of monocyte expansion in, and
mobilization from the spleen. Future studies will help in understanding the
mechanisms of monocyte mobilization and its precise roles in atherosclerosis, and
whether modulation of the splenic components may become a promising future
direction in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000223 
PMID: 26270807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2015 Jun 1;8(6):6566-70. eCollection 2015.

Splenosis in gastric fundus mimicking gastrointestinal stromal tumor: a report of
two cases and review of the literature.

Li B(1), Huang Y(1), Chao B(2), Zhao Q(1), Hao J(1), Qin C(1), Xu H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to
Shandong University 324 Jingwuweiqi Road, Huai Yin District, Ji'nan, Shandong
250021, P. R. China. (2)Shandong Provincal Medical Imaging Research Institute 324
Jingwuweiqi Road, Huai Yin District, Ji'nan, Shandong 250021, P. R. China.

Splenosis refers to heterotopic autotransplantation and implantation of splenic
tissue following splenic trauma or surgery. Splenosis in gastric fundus is rare
and difficult to diagnose, since splenosis has similar manifestation with
gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) under routine endoscopy examination. In
this report, we present two quite rare case of splenosis. Both of their
pre-operative diagnose under endoscopic ultrasonography was considered as GIST.
Finally, one in the abdominal cavity, adhering closely to the gastric fundus,
measuring 20 mm × 15 mm, was resected by surgical operation, and one in the
gastric fundus, measuring 20 mm × 20 mm, was resected by endoscopic surgery. The 
precise diagnosis of splenosis was distinct by post-operative histopathologic
examination. In addition, we also made a mini review of previously published
articles, in order to provide indication to solve future doubts in diagnosing and
treating splenosis.


PMCID: PMC4525871
PMID: 26261537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Expert Rev Mol Med. 2015 Jan 27;16:e19. doi: 10.1017/erm.2014.22.

Genetic basis of human left-right asymmetry disorders.

Deng H(1), Xia H(1), Deng S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Experimental Medicine and Department of Neurology,the Third Xiangya
Hospital, Central South University,Changsha 410013,China.

Humans and other vertebrates exhibit left-right (LR) asymmetric arrangement of
the internal organs, and failure to establish normal LR asymmetry leads to
internal laterality disorders, including situs inversus and heterotaxy. Situs
inversus is complete mirror-imaged arrangement of the internal organs along LR
axis, whereas heterotaxy is abnormal arrangement of the internal
thoraco-abdominal organs across LR axis of the body, most of which are associated
with complex cardiovascular malformations. Both disorders are genetically
heterogeneous with reduced penetrance, presumably because of monogenic, polygenic
or multifactorial causes. Research in genetics of LR asymmetry disorders has been
extremely prolific over the past 17 years, and a series of loci and disease genes
involved in situs inversus and heterotaxy have been described. The review
highlights the classification, chromosomal abnormalities, pathogenic genes and
the possible mechanism of human LR asymmetry disorders.

DOI: 10.1017/erm.2014.22 
PMID: 26258520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Drug Dev Res. 2015 Aug;76(5):215-27. doi: 10.1002/ddr.21263. Epub 2015 Aug 9.

Small Molecules in the Treatment of Psoriasis.

Torres T(1,)(2), Filipe P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Centro Hospitalar do Porto, Portugal. (2)Instituto 
de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar, University of Porto, Portugal.
(3)Dermatology Research Unit, Instituto de Medicina Molecular, University of
Lisbon, Portugal.

Preclinical Research Psoriasis is an inflammatory systemic skin disease that
affects various parts of the body requiring long-term management due to its
chronic nature. Available treatment options include topical, systemic or
biological therapies, which have long-term limitations associated to toxicity,
tolerability and risk for adverse effects requiring its intermittent use and
close monitoring. Small molecules modulate proinflammatory cytokines, selectively
inhibit signaling pathways and showing potential to treat inflammatory diseases
in patients not responding to conventional treatments. Presently, small molecules
available are phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors or Janus kinase inhibitors. Other
small molecules under development for psoriasis include fumaric acid esters,
amygdalin analogs, protein kinase C inhibitors, mitogen-activated protein kinase 
inhibitors, spleen protein kinase inhibitors, other tyrosine kinase inhibitors,
sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor agonists, and A3 adenosine receptor agonists.
These new treatment options represent important advances in the development of
specific drugs to respond to the goals of treatment and improve patient quality
of life.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.21263 
PMID: 26255795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Int Immunol. 2015 Oct;27(10):471-7. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxv046. Epub 2015 Aug 6.

Regulatory B10 cell development and function.

Lykken JM(1), Candando KM(1), Tedder TF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710,
USA. (2)Department of Immunology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC
27710, USA thomas.tedder@duke.edu.

B cells are known to instigate and promulgate immune responses by producing
antibodies and presenting antigens to T cells. However, a rare but potent B-cell 
subset in both humans and mice is capable of inhibiting immune responses through 
the production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Regulatory B cells do not
express any unique combination of surface markers but instead represent a small
population of B cells that have acquired the unique ability to produce IL-10.
This numerically rare B-cell subset is therefore functionally referred to as 'B10
cells' to reflect both their molecular program and the fact that their
anti-inflammatory effects in models of autoimmunity, infection and cancer are
solely attributable to IL-10 production. As with most B cells, B10 cell
development and function appear to be predominantly, if not exclusively, driven
by antigen-receptor signals. Once generated, B10 cells respond to both innate and
adaptive immune signals, with a requirement for antigen-specific local
interactions with T cells to induce IL-10 production and to provide optimal
immune suppression in mouse models of autoimmune disease. B10 cells therefore
provide an antigen-specific mechanism for delivering IL-10 locally to sites of
immune activation and inflammation. The ability of B10 cells to regulate innate
and adaptive immune responses makes them an ideal therapeutic target for the
treatment of many immune-related disorders.

© The Japanese Society for Immunology. 2015. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxv046 
PMCID: PMC4817073
PMID: 26254185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Congenit Heart Dis. 2016 Jan-Feb;11(1):7-18. doi: 10.1111/chd.12288. Epub 2015
Jul 29.

Chronic Arrhythmias in the Setting of Heterotaxy: Differences between Right and
Left Isomerism.

Loomba RS(1), Willes RJ(1), Kovach JR(1), Anderson RH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Children's Hospital of Wisconsin/Medical College of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wis, USA. (2)Institute of Genetic Medicine, Newcastle
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom.

So-called heterotaxy affects lateralization of the thoracic and abdominal organs.
Congenital malformations may be present in one of several organ systems. Cardiac 
involvement includes both structural and conduction abnormalities. Data regarding
arrhythmias in heterotaxy come from case reports and small case series. We pooled
available data to further characterize arrhythmias in heterotaxy. A systematic
review of the literature for manuscripts describing arrhythmias in heterotaxy
patients was conducted. Databases including PubMed, EMBASE, and Ovid were
searched. Studies describing arrhythmias in patients with heterotaxy were
included if they were in English and presented characteristics of the
arrhythmias. Arrhythmia characteristics were abstracted and are presented as
pooled data. Freedom from arrhythmia by age was then analyzed using Kaplan-Meier 
analysis. A total of 19 studies with 121 patients were included in the pooled
analysis. Those with right isomerism were found to be more likely to have atrial 
flutter, atrial tachycardia, junctional tachycardia, and ventricular tachycardia.
Those with left isomerism were more likely to have atrioventricular block,
intraventricular conduction delay, sick sinus syndrome, and atrioventricular
nodal reentry tachycardia. Median age of onset for all arrhythmias was 4 years
with no difference by specific arrhythmia or isomerism. Those with right and left
isomerism are at risk for different arrhythmias but are likely to develop
arrhythmias at the same age. Those with left isomerism are more likely to require
pacemaker placement due to atrioventricular block. Understanding these
differences allows for focused surveillance of development of these arrhythmias.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/chd.12288 
PMID: 26219620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2015 Nov;72(21):4111-26. doi: 10.1007/s00018-015-1995-y. Epub 
2015 Jul 26.

Macrophage polarization in pathology.

Sica A(1,)(2), Erreni M(3), Allavena P(3), Porta C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Università del Piemonte Orientale
"Amedeo Avogadro", via Bovio 6, Novara, Italy. antonio.sica@humanitasresearch.it.
(2)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center, Via Manzoni 56, 20089, Milan, Rozzano,
Italy. antonio.sica@humanitasresearch.it. (3)Humanitas Clinical and Research
Center, Via Manzoni 56, 20089, Milan, Rozzano, Italy. (4)Department of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Università del Piemonte Orientale "Amedeo Avogadro", via
Bovio 6, Novara, Italy.

Macrophages are cells of the innate immunity constituting the mononuclear
phagocyte system and endowed with remarkable different roles essential for
defense mechanisms, development of tissues, and homeostasis. They derive from
hematopoietic precursors and since the early steps of fetal life populate
peripheral tissues, a process continuing throughout adult life. Although present 
essentially in every organ/tissue, macrophages are more abundant in the
gastro-intestinal tract, liver, spleen, upper airways, and brain. They have
phagocytic and bactericidal activity and produce inflammatory cytokines that are 
important to drive adaptive immune responses. Macrophage functions are settled in
response to microenvironmental signals, which drive the acquisition of polarized 
programs, whose extremes are simplified in the M1 and M2 dichotomy. Functional
skewing of monocyte/macrophage polarization occurs in physiological conditions
(e.g., ontogenesis and pregnancy), as well as in pathology (allergic and chronic 
inflammation, tissue repair, infection, and cancer) and is now considered a key
determinant of disease development and/or regression. Here, we will review
evidence supporting a dynamic skewing of macrophage functions in disease, which
may provide a basis for macrophage-centered therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-015-1995-y 
PMID: 26210152  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Curr HIV/AIDS Rep. 2015 Sep;12(3):353-61. doi: 10.1007/s11904-015-0274-8.

Extrahepatic manifestations of hepatitis C infection: navigating CHASM.

Sherman AC(1), Sherman KE.

Author information: 
(1)Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.

This article describes the importance of extrahepatic systemic manifestations of 
chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. While most HCV literature focuses on
liver injury and fibrosis progression, a spectrum of systemic disease processes, 
collectively called C hepatitis-associated systemic manifestations (CHASMs), are 
present in a high proportion of infected persons. These include thyroid disease
(Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Graves disease, and thyroid cancer), cardiovascular
disease (atherosclerosis, carotid artery disease, and coronary artery disease),
renal disease (MPGN and glomerulosclerosis), eye disease (Mooren's ulcers and
sicca syndrome), skin disease (PCT, vasculitis, and lichen planus), lymphomas
(NHL and splenic T-cell), and diabetes. Mechanistic understanding of how HCV
leads to CHASM processes could lead to development of new interventions. The role
of early HCV treatment and cure may result in preventive strategies for a variety
of complex disease states. Key Points • Systemic extrahepatic complications of
HCV comprise a spectrum of disease states in many organs and systems.• Effective 
treatment of HCV may reduce or eliminate some but not all of these systemic
complications.• Further research into early treatment intervention as a
prevention strategy for systemic disease is warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s11904-015-0274-8 
PMCID: PMC4554601
PMID: 26208812  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Diagn Interv Imaging. 2015 Jul-Aug;96(7-8):707-15. doi:
10.1016/j.diii.2015.06.004. Epub 2015 Jul 20.

Polytraumatism and solid organ bleeding syndrome: The role of imaging.

Thony F(1), Rodière M(2), Frandon J(2), Vendrell A(2), Jankowski A(2), Ghelfi
J(2), Sengel C(2), Arvieux C(3), Bouzat P(4), Ferretti G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Radiology and Medical Imaging University Clinic, Grenoble University
Hospitals, Grenoble, France. Electronic address: fthony@chu-grenoble.fr.
(2)Radiology and Medical Imaging University Clinic, Grenoble University
Hospitals, Grenoble, France. (3)Gastrointestinal and Emergency Surgery University
Clinic, Grenoble University Hospitals, Grenoble, France. (4)Anesthesia Intensive 
Care Unit, Grenoble University Hospitals, Grenoble, France.

In multiple injuries, features of bleeding from solid organs mostly involve the
liver, spleen and kidneys and may be treated by embolization. The indications and
techniques for embolization vary between organs and depend on the pathophysiology
of the injuries, type of vascularization (anastomotic or terminal) and type of
embolization (curative or preventative). Interventional radiologists should have 
a full understanding of these indications and techniques and management
algorithms should be produced within each facility in order to define the
respective place of the different treatment options.

Copyright © 2015 Éditions françaises de radiologie. Published by Elsevier Masson 
SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diii.2015.06.004 
PMID: 26206744  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2016;16(6):430-54.

Progress in Small Molecule Therapeutics for the Treatment of Retinoblastoma.

Pritchard EM, Dyer MA(1), Guy RK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St Jude Children's Research
Hospital, 262 Danny Thomas Place, Memphis, TN 38105, USA.
Michael.dyer@stjude.org. (2)Department of Chemical Biology and Therapeutics, St
Jude Children's Research Hospital, 262 Danny Thomas Place, Memphis, TN 38105,
USA. Kip.Guy@stjude.org.

While mortality is low for intraocular retinoblastoma patients in the developed
world who receive aggressive multimodal therapy, partial or full loss of vision
occurs in approximately 50% of patients with advanced bilateral retinoblastoma.
Therapies that preserve vision and reduce late effects are needed. Because
clinical trials for retinoblastoma are difficult due to the young age of the
patient population and relative rarity of the disease, robust preclinical testing
of new therapies is critical. The last decade has seen advances towards
identifying new therapies including the development of animal models of
retinoblastoma for preclinical testing, progress in local drug delivery to reach 
intraocular targets, and improved understanding of the underlying biological
mechanisms that give rise to retinoblastoma. This review discusses advances in
these areas, with a focus on discovery and development of small molecules for the
treatment of retinoblastoma, including novel targeted therapeutics such as
inhibitors of the MDMX-p53 interaction (nutlin-3a), histone deacetylase (HDAC)
inhibitors, and spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) inhibitors.


PMID: 26202204  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Diagn Pathol. 2015 Jul 11;10:95. doi: 10.1186/s13000-015-0312-2.

Multifocal sclerosing angiomatoid nodular transformation of the spleen: a case
report and review of literature.

Cao Z(1,)(2), Wang Q(2), Li J(2), Xu J(2), Li J(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Shandong Provincial
Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University, Jinan, P.R. China; Shandong
Provincial Key Laboratory of Otology, NO 4, Duanxing Road (West), HuaiYin
District, Jinan, P.R. China. (2)Department of Pathology, Shandong Provincial
Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University, Jinan City, Shandong Prov, China.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Shandong Provincial
Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University, Jinan, P.R. China; Shandong
Provincial Key Laboratory of Otology, NO 4, Duanxing Road (West), HuaiYin
District, Jinan, P.R. China. lijianfeng@hotmail.com. (4)Department of Pathology, 
Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University, Jinan City,
Shandong Prov, China. lijianfeng@hotmail.com.

Sclerosing angiomatoid nodular transformation (SANT) is a relatively new entity
in the spleen, which usually presents in the form of single nodule. Only 5
multifocal SANT cases have been reported in English literature. The present case 
is the first report of a 38-years-old male patient with SANT in the form of
multiple nodules, who has been cured via laparoscope. In comparison to solitary
SANT, multifocal SANT occurs more likely in males than females and association
with malignant neoplasm has not been described yet. Multifocal SANT as well as
solitary SANT show some relationships with IgG4-related sclerosing disease.

DOI: 10.1186/s13000-015-0312-2 
PMCID: PMC4498527
PMID: 26159169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Curr Opin Oncol. 2015 Sep;27(5):371-6. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000214.

New insights in the management of patients with hairy cell leukemia.

Cornet E(1), Damaj G, Troussard X.

Author information: 
(1)aLaboratoire Hématologie bService Hématologie Clinique, CHU Côte de Nacre,
Caen, France.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Although hairy cell leukemia (HCL) was identified in 1958 by
Bouroncle and colleagues, HCL remains in 2015 a mysterious disease. Accurate
diagnosis of HCL relies on the recognition of hairy cells by morphology and flow 
cytometry in blood and/or bone marrow. However, there are cases difficult to
diagnose, particularly in variants of HCL. Furthermore, some diseases such as
splenic diffuse red pulp small B-cell lymphoma are very close to HCL and may be
misdiagnosed. Major advances in the management of patients who have HCL have been
made following the use of purine nucleoside analogs. However, new treatment
options can be available in relapsed/refractory HCL: monoclonal antibody therapy,
BRAF inhibitors, or immunotoxins.
RECENT FINDINGS: The presence of the BRAFV600E mutation was recently identified
in most cases of HCL and its absence in variants of HCL and in other B-cell
chronic lymphoproliferative disorders. The precise cellular origin of HCL remains
elusive but BRAF mutations were detected in hematopoietic stem cells of patients 
with HCL. Assessment for minimal residual disease is important in clinical
trials. Minimal residual disease detection can clearly predict inferior long-term
outcomes or early relapses in patients with HCL. Recent reports have shown that
inhibition of BRAF kinase by drugs such as vemurafenib is effective in
relapsed/refractory HCL. Immunotoxins offer new opportunities even in patients
without BRAF mutations.
SUMMARY: All these findings have major implications for diagnosis, monitoring,
and treatment of HCL and variant forms of HCL.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000214 
PMID: 26154707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Transpl Infect Dis. 2015 Oct;17(5):723-7. doi: 10.1111/tid.12418. Epub 2015 Jul
31.

Ocular bartonellosis in transplant recipients: two case reports and review of the
literature.

Lee RA(1), Ray M(1), Kasuga DT(2), Kumar V(3), Witherspoon CD(2), Baddley
JW(1,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, University of Alabama
at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA. (3)Division of
Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham,
Birmingham, Alabama, USA. (4)Birmingham Veterans Affairs Medical Center,
Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

Cat scratch disease is caused by Bartonella henselae and usually manifests as
localized lymphadenopathy and fever in immunocompetent patients.
Immunocompromised patients are at risk for developing disseminated disease
affecting the liver, spleen, eyes, central nervous system, and other organs.
Bartonellosis is infrequently reported in solid organ transplant recipients, and 
published case reports usually discuss disseminated infection. Localized ocular
disease with B. henselae, while well documented in immunocompetent hosts, is
uncommon in immunocompromised patients. Herein, we present 2 cases of ocular
bartonellosis in renal transplant patients, 1 with disseminated infection, and 1 
without.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tid.12418 
PMID: 26146758  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Med Case Rep. 2015 Jul 4;9:154. doi: 10.1186/s13256-015-0627-3.

Multiple splenic hamartomas and familial adenomatous polyposis: a case report and
review of the literature.

Carlomagno N(1), Duraturo F(2), Candida M(3), De Rosa M(4), Varone V(5), Ciancia 
G(6), Calogero A(7), Santangelo ML(8).

Author information: 
(1)General Surgery Unit - Advanced Biomedical Science Department, University
Federico II of Naples, Via S. Pansini 5, 80131, Naples, Italy.
nicola.anita@tiscali.it. (2)Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology
Department, University Federico II of Naples, Naples, Italy.
duraturo@dbbm.unina.it. (3)General Surgery Unit - Advanced Biomedical Science
Department, University Federico II of Naples, Via S. Pansini 5, 80131, Naples,
Italy. mariacandida84@libero.it. (4)Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology 
Department, University Federico II of Naples, Naples, Italy.
marina.derosa@unina.it. (5)Advanced Biomedical Science Department, University
Federico II of Naples, Naples, Italy. valeriavarone@gmail.com. (6)Advanced
Biomedical Science Department, University Federico II of Naples, Naples, Italy.
giuseppeciancia@gmail.com. (7)General Surgery Unit - Advanced Biomedical Science 
Department, University Federico II of Naples, Via S. Pansini 5, 80131, Naples,
Italy. armcalo@libero.it. (8)General Surgery Unit - Advanced Biomedical Science
Department, University Federico II of Naples, Via S. Pansini 5, 80131, Naples,
Italy. misantan@unina.it.

INTRODUCTION: Splenoma or splenic hamartoma is a rare primary splenic tumor most 
often discovered radiologically and incidentally. Splenic hamartomas have a
strong association with solid and hematological malignancies and, in rare cases, 
with tuberous sclerosis, but to the best of our knowledge no reports of splenic
hamartomas associated with familial adenomatous polyposis have been documented,
although it is recognized that familial adenomatous polyposis presents a variety 
of extracolonic manifestations.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report on a very rare case of multiple splenic hamartomas
in a 46-year-old white woman who had previously undergone surgery for restorative
proctocolectomy for familial adenomatous polyposis. A computed tomography scan of
her spleen revealed multiple small lesions which measured less than 1cm in
diameter. A splenectomy was performed and a histologic examination of the
splenectomy specimen revealed the presence of multiple hamartomas.
CONCLUSION: Incidence, differential diagnosis, diagnostic procedures, pathologic 
findings and treatment of splenic hamartomas are discussed here and hamartomas
are considered in a differential diagnosis of splenic tumors. A splenectomy is
indicated in cases where malignancy cannot be excluded and in cases of associated
hematologic disorders. To the best of our knowledge our patient is the first
reported case to have splenic hamartomas identified in a familial adenomatous
polyposis-affected patient with mutation in exon 15 of the APC gene. At this time
it is not possible to correlate with certainty our multiple splenic hamartomas
and familial adenomatous polyposis case as a clinical manifestation of the
mutation of APC gene; however, we believe that this case report could be
important for further observation of similar cases in the future.

DOI: 10.1186/s13256-015-0627-3 
PMCID: PMC4507323
PMID: 26141168  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


87. BMJ Case Rep. 2015 Jul 2;2015. pii: bcr2014206196. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2014-206196.

An adolescent with hereditary spherocytosis who presented with splenic
infarction.

Jones L(1), Refai Z(1), Linney M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Western Sussex Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust,
Chichester, UK.

A 16-year-old male patient with known hereditary spherocytosis presented with a
4-day history of chest pain and lethargy. On admission, he had a low-grade fever 
and was grossly anaemic; examination revealed splenomegaly. An ultrasound scan
confirmed splenomegaly with areas of splenic infarction. Subsequent tests
suggested possible Epstein-Barr virus infection. The patient recovered well and
had a functional spleen on discharge. This case report presents an unusual
complication of isolated hereditary spherocytosis.

2015 BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2014-206196 
PMID: 26139647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Chin J Integr Med. 2016 Jan;22(1):67-72. doi: 10.1007/s11655-015-2105-6. Epub
2015 Jun 24.

Traditional Chinese medical comprehensive therapy for cancer-related fatigue.

Yang L(1), Li TT(1), Chu YT(1), Chen K(1), Tian SD(1), Chen XY(2), Yang GW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, 100700, 
China. (2)Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing,
100700, China. chenxinyi0729@126.com. (3)Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Beijing, 100010, China.

Cancer-related fatigue (CRF) is a common and one of the most severe symptom in
the period of onset, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation process of cancer.
But there are no confirmed measures to relieve this problem at present.
Traditional Chinese medical comprehensive therapy has its advantages in dealing
with this condition. Based on the research status of CRF, the following problems 
have been analyzed and solved: the term of CRF has been defined and recommended, 
and the definition has been made clear; the disease mechanism is proposed, i.e.
healthy qi has been impaired in the long-term disease duration, in the process of
surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and biology disturbing; it is clear that the 
clinical manifestations are related to six Chinese medicine patterns: decreased
functioning of the Pi (Spleen) and Wei (Stomach), deficiency of the Pi with
dampness retention, deficiency of the Xin (Heart) and Pi, disharmony between the 
Gan (Liver) and Pi, deficiency of the Pi and Shen (Kidney), and deficiency of the
Fei (Lung) and Shen. Based on its severity, the mild patients are advised to have
non-drug psychological intervention and sleep treatment in cooperation with
appropriate exercise; diet therapy are recommended to moderate patients together 
with sleep treatment and acupuncture, severe patients are recommended to have
herbal treatment based on pattern differentiation together with physiological
sleep therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11655-015-2105-6 
PMID: 26108523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2015;159:A8880.

[Abdominal splenosis].

[Article in Dutch]

Claassen B(1), Barneveld PC, Jager G, Rutten MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Jeroen Bosch Ziekenhuis, afd. Radiologie/Nucleaire Geneeskunde,
's-Hertogenbosch.

Splenosis is a common benign finding that occurs after splenic trauma or after
splenectomy. It is auto-transplantation of splenic tissue and can be seen
intra-abdominally, intra-thoracically and even subcutaneously. Splenosis is
usually found incidentally at laparoscopy, laparotomy or on radiological
examination and is mostly asymptomatic. Treatment is only required if a patient
complains of abdominal pain, obstruction or bleeding. On radiological examination
splenosis can mimic a metastatic malignant disease. For this reason it is
important to recognise splenosis and know the patient's medical history
concerning splenic trauma or splenectomy, thus avoiding diagnostic laparoscopy or
ultrasound guided biopsy. This paper presents two patients with splenosis.
Additionally, we describe how to diagnose this entity by scintigraphy with (99m) 
Technetium-labelled heat-denatured erythrocytes.


PMID: 26104005  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Am J Hematol. 2015 Aug;90(8):739-45. doi: 10.1002/ajh.24094.

Mantle cell lymphoma: 2015 update on diagnosis, risk-stratification, and clinical
management.

Vose JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha,
Nebraska.

DISEASE OVERVIEW: Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a non-Hodgkin lymphoma
characterized by involvement of the lymph nodes, spleen, blood and bone marrow
with a short remission duration to standard therapies and a median overall
survival (OS) of 4-5 years.
DIAGNOSIS: Diagnosis is based on lymph node, bone marrow, or tissue morphology of
centrocytic lymphocytes, small cell type, or blastoid variant cells. A
chromosomal translocation t (11:14) is the molecular hallmark of MCL, resulting
in the overexpression of cyclin D1. Cyclin D1 is detected by immunohistochemistry
in 98% of cases. The absence of SOX-11 or a low Ki-67 may correlate with a more
indolent form of MCL. The differential diagnosis of MCL includes small
lymphocytic lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma.
RISK STRATIFICATION: The MCL International Prognostic Index (MIPI) is the
prognostic model most often used and incorporates ECOG performance status, age,
leukocyte count, and lactic dehydrogenase. A modification of the MIPI also adds
the Ki-67 proliferative index if available. The median OS for the low-risk group 
was not reached (5-year OS of 60%). The median OS for the intermediate risk group
was 51 months and 29 months for the high risk group.
RISK-ADAPTED THERAPY: For selected indolent, low MIPI MCL patients, initial
observation may be appropriate therapy. For younger patients with intermediate or
high risk MIPI MCL, aggressive therapy with a cytotoxic regimen ± autologous stem
cell transplantation should be considered. For older MCL patients with
intermediate or high risk MIPI, combination chemotherapy with R-CHOP,
R-Bendamustine, or a clinical trial should be considered. In addition, rituximab 
maintenance therapy may prolong the progression-free survival. At the time of
relapse, agents directed at activated pathways in MCL cells such as bortezomib
(NFkB inhibitor), lenalidamide (anti-angiogenesis) and Ibruitinib (Bruton's
Tyrosine Kinase [BTK] inhibitor) have demonstrated excellent clinical activity in
MCL patients. Autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation can also be
considered in young patients. Clinical trials with novel agents are always a
consideration for MCL patients.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.24094 
PMID: 26103436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Cardiol Young. 2015 Aug;25(6):1037-43. doi: 10.1017/S1047951115001122. Epub 2015 
Jun 19.

Isomerism or heterotaxy: which term leads to better understanding?

Loomba RS(1), Hlavacek AM(2), Spicer DE(3), Anderson RH(2).

Author information: 
(1)1Division of Cardiology,Children's Hospital of
Wisconsin,Milwaukee,Wisconsin,United States of America. (2)2Division of Pediatric
Cardiology,Medical University of South Carolina,Charleston,South Carolina,United 
States of America. (3)3Division of Pediatric Cardiology,University of
Florida,Gainesville,Florida,United States of America.

Use of correct nomenclature is important in all aspects of medicine. Many of the 
controversies that have bedeviled paediatric cardiology have devolved from the
inappropriate use of words to describe the lesions to be found when the heart is 
congenitally abnormal. A continuing area of disagreement is the situation
currently described by many as representing "heterotaxy". When used literally,
this word means any departure from the normal. Thus, all congenitally malformed
hearts represent examples of heterotaxy. By convention, nonetheless, the term is 
used to describe the arrangement in which the bodily organs, including parts of
the heart, are not in their usual or in their mirror-imaged patterns. The
arrangements, therefore, represent the presence of the organs on the right and
left sides of the body being mirror imaged, in other words isomeric; however, not
all the organs are uniformly isomeric. In this review, we show that, when
assessed on the basis of the morphology of the atrial appendages, specifically
the extent of the pectinate muscles relative to the atrioventricular junctions,
isomerism is an unequivocal finding within the heart. Only the atrial appendages,
however, are truly isomeric. The potential problem of disharmony between the
various systems of organs is resolved simply by accounting specifically for each 
of the systems. On these bases, we suggest that the isomeric arrangements can now
readily be diagnosed in the clinical setting, and differentiated into their right
and left isomeric variants. We propose that such distinctions will provide the
key for establishing the genetic cues responsible for the formation of the
isomeric as opposed to the lateralised arrangements.

DOI: 10.1017/S1047951115001122 
PMID: 26088959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Pak Med Assoc. 2015 Jun;65(6):669-71.

Haemosuccus pancreaticus, an uncommon cause of upper gastro intestinal bleeding: 
Case report and review of the literature.

Shah AA(1); Sultan-E-Rome, Charon JP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Crosshouse Hospital,
Kilmarnock, UK. (2)Department of Radiology, Ayr Hospital, Ayr, UK.

Haemosuccus Pancreaticus is defined as upper gastro intestinal (GI) bleeding from
the ampula of vater via the pancreatic duct. It is most commonly associated with 
pancreatic inflammation, erosion of the pancrease by aneurysm or pseudo-aneurysm 
of the splenic artery. We report a 69 year old man with previous history of acute
pancreatitis who was admitted with recurrent haematemesis. Initial upper GI
endocopy was normal, while admitted, he collapse with abdominal pain and
hypotension. He was resuscitated with blood and intravenous fluid. Repeat upper
GI endocopy showed fresh blood in the duodenum, but no active bleeding site was
demonstrated. An urgent coeliac axis CT angiogram was done which showed an
splenic artery pseudo-aneurysm, which was successfully embolized. Patient is well
9 months after the procedure. This case highlights the importance of considering 
coeliac axis CT angiogram as part of investigation for obscure GI bleeding.


PMID: 26060169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2015 Jun;29(3):445-53. doi:
10.1016/j.hoc.2015.01.001. Epub 2015 Mar 12.

Warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia.

Naik R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, 1830 East Monument Street, Baltimore, MD 21230, USA.
Electronic address: rakhi@jhmi.edu.

Warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) is defined as the destruction of
circulating red blood cells (RBCs) in the setting of anti-RBC autoantibodies that
optimally react at 37°C. The pathophysiology of disease involves phagocytosis of 
autoantibody-coated RBCs in the spleen and complement-mediated hemolysis. Thus
far, treatment is aimed at decreasing autoantibody production with
immunosuppression or reducing phagocytosis of affected cells in the spleen. The
role of complement inhibitors in warm AIHA has not been explored. This article
addresses the diagnosis, etiology, and treatment of warm AIHA and highlights the 
role of complement in disease pathology.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2015.01.001 
PMID: 26043384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Cell Death Differ. 2015 Aug;22(8):1250-9. doi: 10.1038/cdd.2015.67. Epub 2015 May
29.

Molecular mechanisms of Ebola virus pathogenesis: focus on cell death.

Falasca L(1), Agrati C(1), Petrosillo N(1), Di Caro A(1), Capobianchi MR(1),
Ippolito G(1), Piacentini M(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Infectious Diseases, Lazzaro Spallanzani, Rome, Italy. 
(2)1] National Institute for Infectious Diseases, Lazzaro Spallanzani, Rome,
Italy [2] Department of Biology, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.

Ebola virus (EBOV) belongs to the Filoviridae family and is responsible for a
severe disease characterized by the sudden onset of fever and malaise accompanied
by other non-specific signs and symptoms; in 30-50% of cases hemorrhagic symptoms
are present. Multiorgan dysfunction occurs in severe forms with a mortality up to
90%. The EBOV first attacks macrophages and dendritic immune cells. The innate
immune reaction is characterized by a cytokine storm, with secretion of numerous 
pro-inflammatory cytokines, which induces a huge number of contradictory signals 
and hurts the immune cells, as well as other tissues. Other highly pathogenic
viruses also trigger cytokine storms, but Filoviruses are thought to be
particularly lethal because they affect a wide array of tissues. In addition to
the immune system, EBOV attacks the spleen and kidneys, where it kills cells that
help the body to regulate its fluid and chemical balance and that make proteins
that help the blood to clot. In addition, EBOV causes liver, lungs and kidneys to
shut down their functions and the blood vessels to leak fluid into surrounding
tissues. In this review, we analyze the molecular mechanisms at the basis of
Ebola pathogenesis with a particular focus on the cell death pathways induced by 
the virus. We also discuss how the treatment of the infection can benefit from
the recent experience of blocking/modulating cell death in human degenerative
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/cdd.2015.67 
PMCID: PMC4495366
PMID: 26024394  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Saudi J Gastroenterol. 2015 May-Jun;21(3):129-38. doi: 10.4103/1319-3767.157550.

Extrahepatic portal vein obstruction and portal vein thrombosis in special
situations: Need for a new classification.

Wani ZA, Bhat RA(1), Bhadoria AS, Maiwall R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences,
Srinagar, India.

Extrahepatic portal vein obstruction is a vascular disorder of liver, which
results in obstruction and cavernomatous transformation of portal vein with or
without the involvement of intrahepatic portal vein, splenic vein, or superior
mesenteric vein. Portal vein obstruction due to chronic liver disease, neoplasm, 
or postsurgery is a separate entity and is not the same as extrahepatic portal
vein obstruction. Patients with extrahepatic portal vein obstruction are
generally young and belong mostly to Asian countries. It is therefore very
important to define portal vein thrombosis as acute or chronic from management
point of view. Portal vein thrombosis in certain situations such as liver
transplant and postsurgical/liver transplant period is an evolving area and needs
extensive research. There is a need for a new classification, which includes all 
areas of the entity. In the current review, the most recent literature of
extrahepatic portal vein obstruction is reviewed and summarized.

DOI: 10.4103/1319-3767.157550 
PMCID: PMC4455142
PMID: 26021771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Sep;27(9):992-1001. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000393.

Liver and spleen stiffness and other noninvasive methods to assess portal
hypertension in cirrhotic patients: a review of the literature.

Colecchia A(1), Marasco G, Taddia M, Montrone L, Eusebi LH, Mandolesi D,
Schiumerini R, Di Biase AR, Festi D.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Gastrointestinal Diseases and Internal Medicine, University of 
Bologna, Bologna bDepartment of Pediatrics, University of Modena, Modena, Italy.

Portal hypertension (PH) is one of the most important causes of morbidity and
mortality in patients with chronic liver disease. PH measurement is crucial to
stage and predict the clinical outcome of liver cirrhosis. Measurement of hepatic
vein pressure gradient is considered the gold standard for assessment of the
degree of PH; however, it is an invasive method and has not been used widely.
Thus, noninvasive methods have been proposed recently. We critically evaluated
serum markers, abdominal ultrasonography, and particularly liver and spleen
stiffness measurement, which represent the more promising methods to stage PH
degree and to assess the presence/absence of esophageal varices (EV). A
literature search was carried out on MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, and Scopus 
for articles and abstracts. The search terms used included 'liver cirrhosis',
'portal hypertension', 'liver stiffness', 'spleen stiffness', 'ultrasonography', 
and 'portal hypertension serum biomarker'. The articles cited were selected on
the basis of their relevance to the objective of the review. The results of
available studies indicate that individually, these methods have a mild accuracy 
in predicting the presence of EV, and thus they cannot substitute endoscopy to
predict EV. When these tests were used in combination, their accuracy increased. 
In addition to the PH staging, several serum markers and spleen stiffness
measurement can predict the clinical outcome of liver cirrhosis with a good
accuracy, comparable to that of hepatic vein pressure gradient. In the future,
noninvasive methods could be used to select patients requiring further
investigations to identify the best tailored clinical management.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000393 
PMID: 26020376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Pan Afr Med J. 2015 Jan 7;20:18. doi: 10.11604/pamj.2015.20.18.4112. eCollection 
2015.

Gaucher's disease: report of 11 cases with review of literature.

Essabar L(1), Meskini T(1), Lamalmi N(2), Ettair S(1), Erreimi N(1), Mouane N(1).

Author information: 
(1)FMPR, University Mohammed V Souissi, Department of Pediatric Hepatology
Gastroenterology and Nutrition - P III, Rabat Children's Hospital, Morocco.
(2)FMPR, University Mohammed V Souissi, Department of Anatomo-Pathology, Rabat
Children's Hospital.

Gaucher's disease (GD) is a lysosomal storage disorder due to glucocerebrosidase 
deficiency; it's one of the rare genetic diseases for which therapy is now
available. The purpose of this work is to study the epidemiological features of
the disease and to highlight the diagnostic difficulties. We performed an 11-year
retrospective study of 11 patients with GD followed-up in the department of
paediatric hepatology gastroenterology and nutrition of Rabat children's
Hospital. We observed 11 patients with GD: 6 males and 5 females. Age at onset
ranged from 3 months to 10 years with an average of 3.41 years. Mean age at
diagnosis was 4 years (range 3 months-14 years). Parental consanguinity was noted
in 85% cases. According to the clinical presentation, we classified our patients 
into: 9 cases of type 1 (81%) and two cases of type 2 (19%), none of the patients
presented GD type 3. GD type 1: The age at diagnosis ranged from 2 years to 14
year with an average of 6 years. Main symptoms were: splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, 
pallor, haemorrhagic appearance (40%), bone pain (40%). The diagnosis was based
on histology showing the Gaucher's cells in various tissues (100%). Enzymatic
activity dosage confirmed the diagnosis of GD for 4 patients (44.5%). The
treatment was always symptomatic (analgesics, transfusion). A splenectomy was
performed in one case presenting with multiple splenic abscesses and high
transfusion requirements. None of the patients received a specific treatment
(substitutive enzymotherapy). The follow-up period ranged from 3 months to 6
years with an average follow-up of 4 years. We noticed stability in 4 cases, 2
worsening cases with bone and spleen complications. Three patients were lost to
follow-up. GD type 2: we observed two cases of GD type 2 diagnosed at 3 and 18
months. The visceral symptoms were serious and the neurological features included
seizures, hypertony, squint, physical developmental milestones delay. Both of
them died. Gaucher's disease is not exceptional in Morocco. Type 1 is the most
common type. We noted through this study some diagnostic difficulties as the
diagnosis was delayed and the enzymatic dosage was performed in only 42% of the
cases as well as therapeutic difficulty with no prescription of the specific
treatment given the high cost of the enzyme.

DOI: 10.11604/pamj.2015.20.18.4112 
PMCID: PMC4431408
PMID: 25995815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J Biomed Nanotechnol. 2014 Sep;10(9):1732-50.

Red blood cells as carriers of iron oxide-based contrast agents for diagnostic
applications.

Antonelli A, Magnani M.

New biomedical strategies are being developed to improve disease detection,
therapeutic monitoring, and treatment efficacy in several contexts for example in
anti-angiogenic chemotherapy, and prevention of cardiovascular disorders. The use
of contrast agents to improve the sensitivity and resolution of diagnostic
imaging modalities, detect lesions or organs, and evaluate organ function was
immediately recognized. In the last years, superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO)
nanoparticles have been clinically used as MRI contrast agents for the diagnosis 
of liver diseases, due to their ability to shorten T2* relaxation times. After
the intravenous administration, SPIO nanoparticles are rapidly eliminated from
the bloodstream since they are selectively taken up by the Kupffer cells in the
liver, spleen, and bone marrow thus improving the clinical tumor detection in
these tissues. However, for the investigation of vascular system including
functional cardiac diagnosis, angiography and cardiac wall motion assessment,
contrast agents with long blood circulation time would be necessary. In fact,
imaging applications for long-term monitoring require the repeated administration
of SPIO bolus injections, which complicates quantitative comparisons due to the
temporal variations in concentration. In this context, researchers have developed
several SPIO delivery systems based on red blood cells (RBCs) used as carriers to
increase the blood circulation time of contrast agents. Encapsulation of SPIOs
into RBCs appears the most attractive strategy to obtain magnetic RBC-constructs 
suitable for MRI and MPI analyses of blood vascular system.


PMID: 25992439  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 May 8;(5):CD001916. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD001916.pub3.

Psychological therapies for sickle cell disease and pain.

Anie KA(1), Green J.

Author information: 
(1)Haematology and Sickle Cell Centre, London North West Healthcare NHS Trust,
Central Middlesex Hospital, Acton Lane, London, UK, NW10 7NS.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;(2):CD001916.

BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease comprises a group of genetic blood disorders. It 
occurs when the sickle haemoglobin gene is inherited from both parents. The
effects of the condition are: varying degrees of anaemia which, if severe, can
reduce mobility; a tendency for small blood capillaries to become blocked causing
pain in muscle and bone commonly known as 'crises'; damage to major organs such
as the spleen, liver, kidneys, and lungs; and increased vulnerability to severe
infections. There are both medical and non-medical complications, and treatment
is usually symptomatic and palliative in nature. Psychological interventions for 
individuals with sickle cell disease might complement current medical treatment, 
and studies of their efficacy have yielded encouraging results. This is an update
of a previously published Cochrane Review.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the evidence that psychological interventions improve the 
ability of people with sickle cell disease to cope with their condition.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, which comprises references identified 
from comprehensive electronic database searches and the Internet, handsearches of
relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings.Date of the most
recent search of the Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register: 17 February
2015.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials
comparing psychological interventions with no (psychological) intervention in
people with sickle cell disease.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Both authors independently extracted data and
assessed the risk of bias of the included studies.
MAIN RESULTS: Twelve studies were identified in the searches and seven of these
were eligible for inclusion in the review. Five studies, involving 260
participants, provided data for analysis. One study showed that cognitive
behaviour therapy significantly reduced the affective component of pain (feelings
about pain), mean difference -0.99 (95% confidence interval -1.62 to -0.36), but 
not the sensory component (pain intensity), mean difference 0.00 (95% confidence 
interval -9.39 to 9.39). One study of family psycho-education was not associated 
with a reduction in depression. Another study evaluating cognitive behavioural
therapy had inconclusive results for the assessment of coping strategies, and
showed no difference between groups assessed on health service utilisation. In
addition, family home-based cognitive behavioural therapy did not show any
difference compared to disease education. One study of patient education on
health beliefs showed a significant improvement in attitudes towards health
workers, mean difference -4.39 (95% CI -6.45 to -2.33) and medication, mean
difference -1.74 (95% CI -2.98 to -0.50). Nonetheless, these results may not
apply across all ages, severity of sickle cell disease, types of pain (acute or
chronic), or setting.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Evidence for the efficacy of psychological therapies in
sickle cell disease is currently limited. This systematic review has clearly
identified the need for well-designed, adequately-powered, multicentre randomised
controlled trials assessing the effectiveness of specific interventions in sickle
cell disease.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001916.pub3 
PMID: 25966336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Int Immunol. 2015 Oct;27(10):487-93. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxv027. Epub 2015 May 8.

Signals controlling the development and activity of regulatory B-lineage cells.

Baba Y(1), Matsumoto M(2), Kurosaki T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Lymphocyte Differentiation, WPI Immunology Frontier Research
Center (IFReC), Osaka University, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan Laboratory for
Lymphocyte Differentiation, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences (IMS), 
Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan babay@ifrec.osaka-u.ac.jp. (2)Laboratory for
Lymphocyte Differentiation, WPI Immunology Frontier Research Center (IFReC),
Osaka University, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan Laboratory for Lymphocyte
Differentiation, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences (IMS), Yokohama,
Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan.

The fundamental concepts surrounding B cells with inhibitory function (regulatory
B cells) are now being established. In the context of autoimmune and inflammatory
animal models, B cells play an immunomodulatory role via IL-10 production and
contribute to limitation of the pathogenesis. Recent studies have notably
identified the human counterparts of these cells, which have been suggested to be
relevant to the pathophysiology of disease. Clear criteria to identify these cell
subsets and the key molecular mechanisms underlying their physiological features 
are required for understanding the big picture of regulatory B cells.
Plasmablasts have recently been identified as a major IL-10-producing regulatory 
B-cell subset and Ca(2+) signaling has furthermore been found to contribute to
B-cell IL-10 expression. In this review, the signaling components controlling
IL-10-dependent B-cell regulatory function and the development of
IL-10-competent/-producing B cells and plasmablasts are discussed.

© The Japanese Society for Immunology. 2015. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxv027 
PMID: 25957265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Biol Cell. 2015 Sep;107(9):306-18. doi: 10.1111/boc.201400094. Epub 2015 Jun 11.

Left-right asymmetry in the light of TOR: An update on what we know so far.

Casar Tena T(1), Burkhalter MD(2), Philipp M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Ulm University, Ulm, 89081, 
Germany. (2)Leibniz Institute for Age Research Fritz Lippmann Institute, Jena,
07745, Germany.

The internal left-right (LR) asymmetry is a characteristic that exists throughout
the animal kingdom from roundworms over flies and fish to mammals. Cilia, which
are antenna-like structures protruding into the extracellular space, are involved
in establishing LR asymmetry during early development. Humans who suffer from
dysfunctional cilia often develop conditions such as heterotaxy, where internal
organs appear to be placed randomly. As a consequence to this failure in
asymmetry development, serious complications such as congenital heart defects
(CHD) occur. The mammalian (or mechanistic) target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway
has recently emerged as an important regulator regarding symmetry breaking. The
mTOR pathway governs fundamental processes such as protein translation or
metabolism. Its activity can be transduced by two complexes, which are called
TORC1 and TORC2, respectively. So far, only TORC1 has been implicated with
asymmetry development and appears to require very precise regulation. A number of
recent papers provided evidence that dysregulated TORC1 results in alterations of
motile cilia and asymmetry defects. In here, we give an update on what we know so
far of mTORC1 in LR asymmetry development.

© 2015 The Authors. Biology of the Cell published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on
behalf of Société Française des Microscopies and Société de Biologie Cellulaire
de France.

DOI: 10.1111/boc.201400094 
PMCID: PMC4744706
PMID: 25943139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Comp Med. 2015 Apr;65(2):96-113.

Practical murine hematopathology: a comparative review and implications for
research.

O'Connell KE(1), Mikkola AM(2), Stepanek AM(3), Vernet A(4), Hall CD(2), Sun
CC(5), Yildirim E(6), Staropoli JF(7), Lee JT(8), Brown DE(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Pathology, New England Primate Research Center,
Harvard Medical School, Southboro, Massachusetts, USA. (2)Center for Comparative 
Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. (3)Center
for Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA; Public Health and Professional Degree Program, Tufts University School of
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. (4)Center for Comparative Medicine,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA; Wyss Institute for
Biologically Inspired Engineering, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts,
USA. (5)Program in Anemia Signaling Research, Nephrology Division, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA; Program in Membrane Biology, Center
for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts,
Cellular and Translational Immunology, EMD Serono Research and Development
Institute, Billerica, Massachusetts, USA. (6)Department of Molecular Biology,
Center for Human Genetic Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA; Department of Cell Biology, Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, North Carolina, USA. (7)Molecular Neurogenetics Unit, Center for Human
Genetic Research, Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA; Biogen Idec, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, USA. (8)Department of Molecular Biology, Center for Human Genetic 
Research, Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Department of 
Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. (9)Center for
Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA;
Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA. dbrown31@mgh.harvard.edu.

Hematologic parameters are important markers of disease in human and veterinary
medicine. Biomedical research has benefited from mouse models that recapitulate
such disease, thus expanding knowledge of pathogenetic mechanisms and
investigative therapies that translate across species. Mice in health have many
notable hematologic differences from humans and other veterinary species,
including smaller erythrocytes, higher percentage of circulating reticulocytes or
polychromasia, lower peripheral blood neutrophil and higher peripheral blood and 
bone marrow lymphocyte percentages, variable leukocyte morphologies, physiologic 
splenic hematopoiesis and iron storage, and more numerous and shorter-lived
erythrocytes and platelets. For accurate and complete hematologic analyses of
disease and response to investigative therapeutic interventions, these
differences and the unique features of murine hematopathology must be understood.
Here we review murine hematology and hematopathology for practical application to
translational investigation.


PMCID: PMC4408895
PMID: 25926395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2015 Apr;19(7):1219-26.

Gaucher disease: a lysosomal neurodegenerative disorder.

Huang WJ(1), Zhang X, Chen WW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, China.
85252095@qq.com.

Gaucher disease is a multisystemic disorder that affects men and woman in equal
numbers and occurs in all ethnic groups at any age with racial variations and an 
estimated worldwide incidence of 1/75,000. It is caused by a genetic deficient
activity of the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase due to mutations in the
β-glucocerebrosidase gene, and resulting in lack of glucocerebroside degradation.
The subsequent accumulation of glucocerebroside in lysosomes of tissue
macrophages primarily in the liver, bone marrow and spleen, causes damage in
haematological, skeletal and nervous systems. The clinical manifestations show a 
high degree of variability with symptoms that varies according to organs
involved. In many cases, these disorders do not correlate with mutations in the
β-glucocerebrosidase gene. Although several mutations have been identified as
responsible for the deficient activity of glucocerebrosidase, mechanisms by which
this enzymatic defect leads to Gaucher disease remain poorly understood. Recent
reports indicate the implication of complex mechanisms, including enzyme
deficiency, substrate accumulation, unfolded protein response, and macrophage
activation. Further elucidating these mechanisms will advance understanding of
Gaucher disease and related disorders.


PMID: 25912581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


104. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2015 Apr 21;65(15):1583-91. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2015.02.034.

Imaging systemic inflammatory networks in ischemic heart disease.

Nahrendorf M(1), Frantz S(2), Swirski FK(3), Mulder WJ(4), Randolph G(5), Ertl
G(6), Ntziachristos V(7), Piek JJ(8), Stroes ES(9), Schwaiger M(10), Mann DL(11),
Fayad ZA(12).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic address: mnahrendorf@partners.org.
(2)Comprehensive Heart Failure Center, Universitätsklinikum Würzburg, Würzburg,
Germany; Universitätsklinik und Poliklinik für Innere Medizin III,
Universitätsklinikum Halle, Halle (Saale), Germany. (3)Center for Systems
Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts. (4)Translational and Molecular Imaging Institute, Department of
Radiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York;
Department of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Center, University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. (5)Department of Pathology and Immunology,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri. (6)Comprehensive
Heart Failure Center, Universitätsklinikum Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany;
Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik I, Universitätsklinikum Würzburg, Würzburg,
Germany. (7)Institute for Biological and Medical Imaging, Technische Universität 
München and Helmholtz Zentrum München, Neuherberg, Germany. (8)Department of
Cardiology, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the
Netherlands. (9)Department of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Center,
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. (10)Department of Nuclear
Medicine, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische Universität München, Munich,
Germany. (11)Center for Cardiovascular Research, Division of Cardiology,
Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri. (12)Translational and Molecular Imaging Institute, Department of
Radiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.

While acute myocardial infarction mortality declines, patients continue to face
reinfarction and/or heart failure. The immune system, which intimately interacts 
with healthy and diseased tissues through resident and recruited leukocytes, is a
central interface for a global host response to ischemia. Pathways that enhance
the systemic leukocyte supply may be potential therapeutic targets.
Pre-clinically, imaging helps to identify immunity's decision nodes, which may
serve as such targets. In translating the rapidly-expanding pre-clinical data on 
immune activity, the difficulty of obtaining multiple clinical tissue samples
from involved organs is an obstacle that whole-body imaging can help overcome. In
patients, molecular and cellular imaging can be integrated with blood-based
diagnostics to assess the translatability of discoveries, including the
activation of hematopoietic tissues after myocardial infarction, and serve as an 
endpoint in clinical trials. In this review, we discuss these concepts while
focusing on imaging immune activity in organs involved in ischemic heart disease.

Copyright © 2015 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2015.02.034 
PMCID: PMC4401833
PMID: 25881940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Br J Hosp Med (Lond). 2015 Apr;76(4):204-6, 227--9. doi:
10.12968/hmed.2015.76.4.204.

Splenic injury: diagnosis and management.

Williamson J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Specialty Registrar in the Department of Surgery, Bristol Royal Infirmary,
Bristol BS2 8HW.

Better understanding of the dual functionality of the spleen has led to a
conservative approach to splenic trauma. With accurate assessment and vigilant
clinical examination up to two thirds of splenic injuries can be managed
expectantly; when surgery is unavoidable, splenic preserving techniques may be
used to maintain function.

DOI: 10.12968/hmed.2015.76.4.204 
PMID: 25853350  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2015 Jul;34(7):1271-80. doi:
10.1007/s10096-015-2360-7. Epub 2015 Apr 1.

Capnocytophaga canimorsus: an emerging cause of sepsis, meningitis, and
post-splenectomy infection after dog bites.

Butler T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Ross University School of Medicine,
Portsmouth, Dominica, West Indies, tbutler@rossu.edu.

Newly named in 1989, Capnocytophaga canimorsus is a bacterial pathogen found in
the saliva of healthy dogs and cats, and is transmitted to humans principally by 
dog bites. This review compiled all laboratory-confirmed cases, animal sources,
and virulence attributes to describe its epidemiology, clinical features, and
pathogenesis. An estimated 484 patients with a median age of 55 years were
reported, two-thirds of which were male. The case-fatality rate was about 26%.
Its clinical presentations included severe sepsis and fatal septic shock,
gangrene of the digits or extremities, high-grade bacteremia, meningitis,
endocarditis, and eye infections. Predispositions were prior splenectomy in 59
patients and alcoholism in 58 patients. Dog bites before illness occurred in 60%;
additionally, in 27%, there were scratches, licking, or other contact with dogs
or cats. Patients with meningitis showed more advanced ages, higher male
preponderance, lower mortality, and longer incubation periods after dog bites
than patients with sepsis (p < 0.05). Patients with prior splenectomy presented
more frequently with high-grade bacteremia than patients with intact spleens
(p < 0.05). The organism possesses virulence attributes of catalase and sialidase
production, gliding motility, cytotoxin production, and resistance to killing by 
serum complement due to its unique lipopolysaccharide. Penicillin is the drug of 
choice, but some practitioners prefer third-generation cephalosporins or
beta-lactamase inhibitor combinations. C. canimorsus has emerged as a leading
cause of sepsis, particularly post-splenectomy sepsis, and meningitis after dog
bites.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-015-2360-7 
PMID: 25828064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Ginecol Obstet Mex. 2014 Nov;82(11):769-77.

[Prenatal diagnosis of fetal heterotaxy syndromes: report of two cases and review
of the literature].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez-Ceccopieri DA, Barrios-Prieto E, González -Gallo L, Panduro-Barón GG,
Fajardo-Dueñas S.

We describe the prenatal sonographic findings in two cases of fetal heterotaxy
syndrome evaluated at the Maternal Fetal Medicine Unit of a tertiary hospital
over a period of one year and present a review of the literature on the subject.


PMID: 25826959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Am Fam Physician. 2015 Mar 15;91(6):372-6.

Common questions about infectious mononucleosis.

Womack J(1), Jimenez M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rutgers University, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, NJ,
USA.

Epstein-Barr is a ubiquitous virus that infects 95% of the world population at
some point in life. Although Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infections are often
asymptomatic, some patients present with the clinical syndrome of infectious
mononucleosis (IM). The syndrome most commonly occurs between 15 and 24 years of 
age. It should be suspected in patients presenting with sore throat, fever,
tonsillar enlargement, fatigue, lymphadenopathy, pharyngeal inflammation, and
palatal petechiae. A heterophile antibody test is the best initial test for
diagnosis of EBV infection, with 71% to 90% accuracy for diagnosing IM. However, 
the test has a 25% false-negative rate in the first week of illness. IM is
unlikely if the lymphocyte count is less than 4,000 mm3. The presence of
EBV-specific immunoglobulin M antibodies confirms infection, but the test is more
costly and results take longer than the heterophile antibody test. Symptomatic
relief is the mainstay of treatment. Glucocorticoids and antivirals do not reduce
the length or severity of illness. Splenic rupture is an uncommon complication of
IM. Because physical activity within the first three weeks of illness may
increase the risk of splenic rupture, athletic participation is not recommended
during this time. Children are at the highest risk of airway obstruction, which
is the most common cause of hospitalization from IM. Patients with
immunosuppression are more likely to have fulminant EBV infection.


PMID: 25822555  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Singapore Med J. 2015 Mar;56(3):133-44.

Imaging of the spleen: what the clinician needs to know.

Vancauwenberghe T(1), Snoeckx A, Vanbeckevoort D, Dymarkowski S, Vanhoenacker FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Leuven University Hospital, Herestraat 49, 3000
Leuven, Belgium. thomas.vancauwenberghe@uzleuven.be.

The spleen is considered 'the forgotten organ' among radiologists and clinicians,
although it is well visualised on abdominal computed tomography and magnetic
resonance imaging. Moreover, the spleen is commonly involved in a wide range of
pathologic disorders. These include congenital anomalies, infectious and
inflammatory diseases, vascular disorders, benign and malignant tumours, and
systemic disorders. In this review, we focus on the key imaging findings of the
normal spleen, its variants, as well as relevant congenital and acquired
abnormalities. It is of utmost importance to recognise and correctly interpret
the variable spectrum of abnormalities that may involve the spleen, in order to
avoid unnecessary invasive procedures and to guide adequate treatment.


PMCID: PMC4371192
PMID: 25820845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Mar 27;(3):CD010324. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD010324.pub2.

Enzyme replacement and substrate reduction therapy for Gaucher disease.

Shemesh E(1), Deroma L, Bembi B, Deegan P, Hollak C, Weinreb NJ, Cox TM.

Author information: 
(1)Israel Defense Forces Medical Corps, Haifa, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Gaucher disease, a rare disorder, is caused by inherited deficiency
of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase. It is unique among the ultra-orphan disorders
in that four treatments are currently approved by various regulatory authorities 
for use in routine clinical practice. Hitherto, because of the relatively few
people affected worldwide, many of whom started therapy during a prolonged period
when there were essentially no alternatives to imiglucerase, these treatments
have not been systematically evaluated in studies such as randomized controlled
trials now considered necessary to generate the highest level of clinical
evidence.
OBJECTIVES: To summarize all available randomized controlled study data on the
efficacy and safety of enzyme replacement therapies and substrate reduction
therapy for treating Gaucher disease.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Group's Inborn Errors of Metabolism Trials Register. Additional searches were
conducted on ClinicalTrials.gov for any ongoing studies with potential interim
results, and through PubMed. We also searched the reference lists of relevant
articles and reviews.Date of last search: 07 August 2014.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomized and quasi-randomized controlled studies
(including open-label studies and cross-over studies) assessing enzyme
replacement therapy or substrate reduction therapy, or both, in all types of
Gaucher disease were included.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed the risk of bias
in the included studies, and extracted relevant data.
MAIN RESULTS: Of the 488 studies retrieved by the electronic searches, eight met 
the inclusion criteria and were analysed (300 participants). Response parameters 
were restricted to haemoglobin concentration, platelet count, spleen and liver
volume and serum biomarkers (chitotriosidase and CCL18). Only one publication
reported a 'low risk of bias' score in all parameters assessed, and all studies
included were randomized.Four studies reported the responses to enzyme
replacement therapy of previously untreated individuals with type 1 Gaucher
disease. Two studies investigated maintenance enzyme replacement therapy in
people with stable type 1 Gaucher disease previously treated for at least two
years. One study compared substrate reduction therapy, enzyme replacement therapy
and a combination thereof as maintenance therapy in people with type 1 Gaucher
disease previously treated with enzyme replacement therapy. One study examined
substrate reduction therapy in people with chronic neuronopathic (type 3) Gaucher
disease who continued to receive enzyme replacement therapy.Treatment-naïve
participants had similar increases in haemoglobin when comparing those receiving 
imiglucerase or alglucerase at 60 units/kg, imiglucerase or velaglucerase alfa at
60 U/kg, taliglucerase alfa at 30 units/kg or 60 units/kg, and velaglucerase alfa
at 45 units/g or 60 units/kg. For platelet count response in participants with
intact spleens, a benefit for imiglucerase over velaglucerase alfa at 60 units/kg
was observed, mean difference -79.87 (95% confidence interval -137.57 to -22.17).
There were no other significant differences in platelet count response when
comparing different doses of velaglucerase alfa and of taliglucerase alfa, and
when comparing imiglucerase to alglucerase. Spleen and liver volume reductions
were not significantly different in any enzyme replacement therapy product or
dose comparison study. Although a dose effect on serum biomarkers was not seen
after nine months, a significantly greater reduction with higher dose was
reported after 12 months in the velaglucerase study, mean difference 16.70 (95%
confidence intervaI 1.51 to 31.89). In the two enzyme replacement therapy
maintenance studies comparing infusions every two weeks and every four weeks,
there were no significant differences in haemoglobin concentration, platelet
count, and spleen and liver volumes over a 6 to 12 month period when participants
were treated with the same cumulative dose.A total of 25 serious adverse events
were reported, nearly all deemed unrelated to treatment.There are, as yet, no
randomized trials of substrate reduction therapy in treatment-naïve patients that
can be evaluated. Miglustat monotherapy appeared as effective as continued enzyme
replacement therapy for maintenance of hematological, organ and biomarker
responses in people with type 1 Gaucher disease previously treated with
imiglucerase for at least two years. In those with neuronopathic Gaucher disease,
no significant improvements in haemoglobin concentration, platelet count or organ
volumes occurred when enzyme replacement therapy was augmented with miglustat.One
randomized controlled study assessing substrate reduction therapy was published
immediately prior to producing the final version of this review, and this, along 
with a further ongoing study (expected to be published in the near future), will 
be assessed for eligibility in a future update of the review.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The results reflect the limitations of analysing evidence
restricted to prospective randomized controlled trials, especially when dealing
with chronic rare diseases. This analysis suggests that, during the first year of
treatment, different recombinant glucocerebrosidases are bio-similar and
non-inferior in safety and efficacy for surrogate biological response parameters.
Enzyme replacement therapy given at 30 to 45 units/kg body weight every two to
four weeks was generally as effective as the 60 unit/kg dose for the assessed
clinical outcomes. The analysis emphasise the need to determine whether it is
realistic to carry out multi-decade prospective clinical trials for rare diseases
such as type 1 Gaucher disease. With large treatment effects on the classical
manifestations of the disorder, therapeutic investigations in Gaucher disease
mandate innovative trial designs and methodology to secure decisive data
concerning long-term efficacy and safety - with the realization that knowledge
about disease-modifying actions that are sustained are of crucial importance to
people with this chronic condition.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010324.pub2 
PMID: 25812601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Clin Anat. 2015 May;28(4):477-86. doi: 10.1002/ca.22517. Epub 2015 Mar 17.

The importance of being isomeric.

Anderson RH(1), Brown NA, Meno C, Spicer DE.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne,
United Kingdom.

In the normal individual, the parietal components of the body are mirror-imaged
and appropriately described as isomeric. The thoraco-abdominal organs, in
contrast, are lateralized. However, in "visceral heterotaxy," the
thoraco-abdominal organs also show some degree of isomerism, best seen in the
arrangement of the bronchial tree. Whether isomerism can be found within the
heart remains controversial. One of two recent publications in this journal
emphasized the crucial features of bronchial isomerism; the other, in contrast,
confused the situation of isomerism within the heart. In this review, we show how
the topic of cardiac isomerism is clarified by concentrating on the anatomical
features of the cardiac components and determining how best they can be
described. Appropriate manipulation of developing mice produces unequivocal
evidence of isomerism of the atrial appendages, but with no evidence of
ventricular isomerism. In hearts from patients with so-called "heterotaxy," only 
the atrial appendages, distinguished on the basis of the pectinate muscles lining
their walls, are uniformly isomeric, permitting the syndrome to be differentiated
into the subsets of left as opposed to right atrial appendage isomerism. Thus,
controversies are defused by simply describing the isomerism of the atrial
appendages rather than "atrial isomerism," recognizing the frequency of abnormal 
venoatrial connections in these settings. Any suggestion of ambiguity is removed 
by the equally simple expedient of describing all the variable cardiac features, 
describing the arrangements of the thoracic and abdominal organs separately
should there be discordances.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ca.22517 
PMID: 25782978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2015 Jan 1;8(1):1031-5. eCollection 2015.

Intrahepatic splenosis mimicking liver cancer: report of a case and review of
literature.

Liu C(1), Liu J(1), Wang F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Jinling Hospital, School of
Medicine, Southern Medical University Nanjing 210002, Jiangsu, China.

Intrahepatic splenosis is a rare situation occurred after traumatic splenic
rupture or splenectomy. We report a 33 year old man with multiple isolated liver 
masses indistinguishable from primary and metastatic liver tumor by standard
evaluation. The man underwent a splenectomy due to trauma at the age of three so 
that the hepatic splenosis was suspected. The final fine-needle biopsy
pathological examination proved the diagnosis of intrahepatic splenosis. The
importance of suspicion for this diagnosis should be highlighted when tumor-like 
lesions disclosed on imaging occurs in a patient with a splenic injury in the
past. (99m)Tc labelled heat-denatured erythrocyte scintigraphy can be helpful to 
the diagnosis since it may avoid the performance of biopsies or surgical
resections.


PMCID: PMC4348831
PMID: 25755814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Magn Reson Med Sci. 2015;14(4):347-54. doi: 10.2463/mrms.2014-0052. Epub 2015 Feb
12.

Inflammatory Pseudotumor-like Follicular Dendritic Cell Tumor of the Spleen: Case
Report and Review of the Literature.

Kitamura Y(1), Takayama Y, Nishie A, Asayama Y, Ushijima Y, Fujita N, Morita K,
Baba S, Kubo Y, Shirabe K, Honda H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Radiology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University.

A 74-year-old woman underwent contrast-enhanced (CE) computed tomography (CT)
that revealed an enlarging splenic lesion. This splenic tumor was suspected as
metastasis because the patient had been diagnosed with right breast cancer with
lung and right axillary lymph node metastases 4 years earlier and had undergone
surgery and hormone therapy at another hospital. T2-weighted imaging of magnetic 
resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated the tumor with slightly high intensity with a
rim of low intensity at the margin. On dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE)-MR imaging
after intravenous administration of gadolinium diethylenetriamine pentaacetic
acid, delayed enhancement was observed in the center and margin of the tumor. On 
positron emission tomography with 2-deoxy-2-[18F] fluoro-D-glucose (FDG)
integrated with CT, the tumor showed high FDG uptake. Splenic metastasis was
considered based on the imaging findings, lack of inflammation on laboratory
data, and clinical course, so she underwent splenectomy. Histopathologically, the
tumor was encapsulated by a fibrous structure, which was depicted as the rim at
the tumor margin on T2-weighted imaging and DCE-MR imaging. Immunohistochemical
study allowed the diagnosis of inflammatory pseudotumor (IPT)-like follicular
dendritic cell tumor (FDCT). FDCT is a primary neoplasm of lymph nodes that shows
features of follicular dendritic cell differentiation, and it is rare at the
spleen. Differential diagnosis is difficult between IPT-like FDCT and similar
splenic tumors, such as IPT, splenic metastases, hamartoma and hemangioma.
However, in addition to the enhancement pattern within a tumor on DCE-MR imaging,
detection of the capsular-like rim on MR imaging might aid the diagnosis of
splenic IPT-like FDCT.

DOI: 10.2463/mrms.2014-0052 
PMID: 25740238  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2014 Nov;41(12):1657-9.

[A case report of a splenic abscess due to colon cancer in splenic flexure
infiltrating into spleen].

[Article in Japanese]

Oneda Y(1), Kagawa Y, Sakisaka H, Kato T, Mukai Y, Sato Y, Morimoto Y, Kusama H, 
Hashimoto T, Matsushita K, Kawashima H, Kimura K, Katsura Y, Nitta K, Okishiro M,
Takeno A, Nakahira S, Taniguchi H, Egawa C, Takeda Y, Tamura S.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Kansai Rosai Hospital.

An 80-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with fever and dizziness. He was 
diagnosed with splenic abscess and invasion of descending colon cancer by
enhanced abdominal computed tomography. A type 2 colon cancer was also observed
in the descending colon by colonoscopy. There was no distant metastasis.
Therefore, he underwent left hemicolectomy with splenectomy. A histological
diagnosis of mucinous adenocarcinoma was made. The pathological findings were
pT4b, pN1, cM0, fStage IIIa. The patient was discharged on the ninth
post-operative day without any complications. We herein report a rare case of
splenic abscess due to invasion of colon cancer and review 8 previous case
reports. An en block resection including lymph node resection is recommended in
such cases for curative resection.


PMID: 25731286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Clin Imaging. 2015 May-Jun;39(3):525-8. doi: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2014.12.021. Epub
2015 Jan 7.

Multimodality imaging of Epstein-Barr virus-associated inflammatory
pseudotumor-like follicular dendritic cell tumor of the spleen: case report and
literature review.

Bui PL(1), Vicens RA(2), Westin JR(3), Jensen CT(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor
Plaza, Houston, TX 77030. Electronic address: pbui588@gmail.com. (2)Department of
Diagnostic Radiology, Unit 1473, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030-4009. Electronic address:
RVicens@mdanderson.org. (3)Department of Lymphoma/Myeloma, Unit 0429, The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX
77030-4009. (4)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Unit 1473, The University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030-4009.
Electronic address: cjensen@mdanderson.org.

Inflammatory pseudotumors (IPTs) are rare tumors of unknown etiology; however,
there is a strong association with the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). EBV-positive
IPTs are typically found in the liver and spleen. While many EBV-positive splenic
IPTs contain follicular dendritic cell (FDC) proliferations, they are not
aggressive such as with conventional FDC tumors. EBV-positive splenic IPTs have
been reported with low malignant potential. We present a case with multimodality 
imaging of an EBV-positive IPT-like tumor with FDC features.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2014.12.021 
PMID: 25725946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Circ Res. 2015 Feb 27;116(5):884-94. doi: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.116.303550.

Lifestyle effects on hematopoiesis and atherosclerosis.

Nahrendorf M(1), Swirski FK(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Center for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston. mnahrendorf@mgh.harvard.edu fswirski@mgh.harvard.edu.

Diet, exercise, stress, and sleep are receiving attention as environmental
modifiers of chronic inflammatory diseases, including atherosclerosis, the
culprit condition of myocardial infarction and stroke. Accumulating data indicate
that psychosocial stress and a high-fat, high-cholesterol diet aggravate
cardiovascular disease, whereas regular physical activity and healthy sleeping
habits help prevent it. Here, we raise the possibility that
inflammation-associated leukocyte production plays a causal role in lifestyle
effects on atherosclerosis progression. Specifically, we explore whether and how 
potent real-life disease modifiers influence hematopoiesis' molecular and
cellular machinery. Lifestyle, we hypothesize, may rearrange hematopoietic
topography, diverting production from the bone marrow to the periphery, thus
propagating a quantitative and qualitative drift of the macrophage supply chain. 
These changes may involve progenitor-extrinsic and intrinsic communication nodes 
that connect organ systems along neuroimmune and immunometabolic axes, ultimately
leading to an altered number and phenotype of lesional macrophages. We propose
that, in conjunction with improved public health policy, future therapeutics
could aim to modulate the quantitative and qualitative output, as well as the
location, of the hematopoietic tree to decrease the risk of atherosclerosis
complications.

© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.116.303550 
PMCID: PMC4347940
PMID: 25722442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2014 Dec 5;2014(1):125-34. doi:
10.1182/asheducation-2014.1.125. Epub 2014 Nov 18.

BCR pathway inhibition as therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia and
lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma.

Wiestner A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL) are
malignancies of mature B cells. In LPL, mutations of the adaptor protein MYD88
(L265P) in the Toll-like receptor pathway have been recognized recently as being 
a hallmark of the disease and indicate a dependence of the tumor on this pathway.
In CLL, functional studies have implicated BCR activation in the tissue
microenvironment as a pivotal pathway in the pathogenesis. Bruton's tyrosine
kinase (BTK) and the PI3Kδ isoform are essential for BCR signaling and also seem 
to be required for signal transduction in LPL cells, even if the role of BCR
signaling in this disease remains less well defined. Ibrutinib, a covalent
inhibitor of BTK approved by the Food and Drug Administration as a second-line
treatment for CLL, and idelalisib, a selective inhibitor of PI3Kδ, achieve
excellent clinical responses in both diseases irrespective of classic markers
indicating high-risk disease. Several additional inhibitors targeting BTK and
PI3Kδ, as well as the spleen tyrosine kinase, have entered clinical trials. This 
review discusses the biologic basis for kinase inhibitors as targeted therapy for
CLL and LPL and summarizes the clinical experience with these agents.

© 2014 by The American Society of Hematology. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2014.1.125 
PMID: 25696845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Cancer. 2015 Jun 15;121(12):1917-26. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29130. Epub 2015 Feb 17.

New oral small molecules in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Lamanna N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Leukemia Service, Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, 
New York, New York.

There has been a dramatic change in therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia
(CLL) over the last 20 years. In 1990, available therapy produced complete
responses in <5% of treated patients. This is in marked contrast to modern
regimens, which are reported to reliably produce complete responses in
approximately 40% to 50% of patients. This remarkable improvement has been
attributable to combination chemoimmunotherapy agents that have contributed to
the backbone of therapy for patients with CLL. However, the disease is still
incurable and these modern treatment regimens have been somewhat limited to the
treatment of younger, physically "fit" patients with CLL due to their increased
toxicity, including enhanced myelosuppression and immunosuppression. In addition,
because patients receive multiple therapies during the course of their lifetime, 
the mounting toxicities as well as decreased efficacy often limit the repeated
use of these more aggressive combination therapies. Fortunately, over the past 5 
years, there has been an explosion of new active agents that have demonstrated
remarkable activity in patients with recurrent/refractory disease as well as
those who harbor poor cytogenetic abnormalities. The current review focuses on
some of the novel small molecules that have either been approved or are at the
forefront of clinical development in the treatment of patients with CLL.

© 2015 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29130 
PMID: 25690403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


119. J Gen Virol. 2015 Jul;96(Pt 7):1521-32. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.000086. Epub 2015 Feb 
9.

Tropism of human pegivirus (formerly known as GB virus C/hepatitis G virus) and
host immunomodulation: insights into a highly successful viral infection.

Chivero ET(1), Stapleton JT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medicine Service, Iowa City Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Interdisciplinary
Program in Molecular and Cellular Biology, Departments of Internal Medicine and
Microbiology, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.

Human pegivirus (HPgV; originally called GB virus C/hepatitis G virus) is an RNA 
virus within the genus Pegivirus of the family Flaviviridae that commonly causes 
persistent infection. Worldwide, ~750 million people are actively infected
(viraemic) and an estimated 0.75-1.5 billion people have evidence of prior HPgV
infection. No causal association between HPgV and disease has been identified;
however, several studies described a beneficial relationship between persistent
HPgV infection and survival in individuals infected with human immunodeficiency
virus. The beneficial effect appeared to be related to a reduction in host immune
activation. HPgV replicates well in vivo (mean plasma viral loads typically
>1×107 genome copies ml-1); however, the virus grows poorly in vitro and systems 
to study this virus are limited. Consequently, mechanisms of viral persistence
and host immune modulation remain poorly characterized, and the primary
permissive cell type(s) has not yet been identified. HPgV RNA is found in liver, 
spleen, bone marrow and PBMCs, including T- and B-lymphocytes, NK-cells, and
monocytes, although the mechanism of cell-to-cell transmission is unclear. HPgV
RNA is also present in serum microvesicles with properties of exosomes. These
microvesicles are able to transmit viral RNA to PBMCs in vitro, resulting in
productive infection. This review summarizes existing data on HPgV cellular
tropism and the effect of HPgV on immune activation in various PBMCs, and
discusses how this may influence viral persistence. We conclude that an increased
understanding of HPgV replication and immune modulation may provide insights into
persistent RNA viral infection of humans.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.000086 
PMID: 25667328  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2015 Feb;139(2):278-82. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2013-0656-RS.

Splenic lymphangioma.

Ioannidis I(1), Kahn AG.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Pathology, University of South Alabama, Mobile.

Splenic lymphangioma is a rare malformation of the splenic lymphatic channels,
mostly seen in children. It is characterized by the presence of cysts, resulting 
from increases in the size and number of thin-walled lymphatic vessels that are
abnormally interconnected and dilated. The condition may be restricted to the
spleen, but in most cases it involves multiple organs (systemic
lymphangiomatosis). The clinical picture is variable; small lesions are often
incidentally detected through imaging studies, while larger lesions can result in
compression of organs, causing pain or rupture even after minor trauma.
Therefore, splenic lymphangiomas should be considered in the differential
diagnosis of splenomegaly or left upper quadrant pain even among adults and
should be immediately treated with splenectomy; delay in the therapeutic
intervention can lead to life-threatening complications.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2013-0656-RS 
PMID: 25611113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Acta Med Iran. 2015;53(1):74-7.

Concomitant splenic and hepatic hydatidosis: report of two cases and review of
the literature.

Jabbari Nooghabi A(1), Raoufian K(2), Motie MR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Surgical Oncology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran. jabari_azadeh2000@yahoo.com. (2)Surgical Oncology Research Center,
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Raoufiank1@mums.ac.ir.
(3)Surgical Oncology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran. motiem@mums.ac.ir.

Hydatid disease has a worldwide spreading. The most common site of the disease is
the liver, lungs, kidney, bones, and brain. Splenic hydatid disease has been
reported to constitute 2% to 6% of patients with abdominal hydatid disease.
Because of the rarity of splenic hydatid disease, the probable concomitance of
the liver and splenic hydatid cysts should be taken into consideration by
clinicians, especially in nonendemic areas. In this report, we present two
patients with concomitant splenic and liver hydatid cysts that underwent
splenectomy and cystostomy-capitonage.


PMID: 25597610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Radiographics. 2015 Jan-Feb;35(1):71-86. doi: 10.1148/rg.351130008.

Hematologic malignancies of the liver: spectrum of disease.

Tomasian A(1), Sandrasegaran K, Elsayes KM, Shanbhogue A, Shaaban A, Menias CO.

Author information: 
(1)From the Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, 510 S Kingshighway Blvd, St Louis, MO 63110 (A.T., C.O.M.); Department 
of Radiology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Ind (K.S.);
Department of Radiology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, 
Tex (K.M.E.); Department of Radiology, University of Texas Health Science Center 
at San Antonio, San Antonio, Tex (A. Shanbhogue); and Department of Radiology,
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah (A. Shaaban).

Comment in
    Radiographics. 2015 Nov-Dec;35(7):2149-50.

The incidence of hematologic malignancies and their extranodal manifestations is 
continuously increasing. Previously unsuspected hepatic involvement in
hematologic malignancies such as Hodgkin disease and non-Hodgkin lymphoma,
posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder, myeloid sarcoma (chloroma), multiple
myeloma, Castleman disease, and lymphohistiocytosis may be seen by radiologists. 
Although the imaging features of more common hepatic diseases such as
hepatocellular carcinoma, metastases, and infection may overlap with those of
hepatic hematologic malignancies, combining the imaging features with clinical
manifestations and laboratory findings can facilitate correct diagnosis. Clinical
features that suggest a hematologic neoplasm as the cause of liver lesions
include a young patient (<40 years of age), no known history of cancer, abnormal 
bone marrow biopsy results, fever of unknown origin, and night sweats. Imaging
features that suggest hematologic malignancy include hepatosplenomegaly or
splenic lesions, vascular encasement by a tumor without occlusion or thrombosis, 
an infiltrating mass at the hepatic hilum with no biliary obstruction, and
widespread adenopathy above and below the diaphragm. Familiarity with the imaging
features of hepatic hematologic malignancies permits correct provisional
diagnosis and may influence therapeutic management. For example, when biopsy is
performed, core biopsy may be needed in addition to fine-needle aspiration so
that the tissue architecture of the neoplasm can be discerned. The predominant
treatment of hematologic malignancies is chemotherapy or radiation therapy rather
than surgery. Online supplemental material is available for this article.

RSNA, 2015

DOI: 10.1148/rg.351130008 
PMID: 25590389  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


123. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:961345. doi: 10.1155/2014/961345. Epub 2014 Nov
3.

Clinical application of partial splenic embolization.

Guan YS(1), Hu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu
610041, China ; State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, Sichuan University, Chengdu
610041, China.

Partial splenic embolization (PSE) is one of the intra-arterial therapeutic
approaches of diseases. With the development of interventional radiology, the
applications of PSE in clinical practice are greatly extended, while various
materials are developed for embolization use. Common indications of PSE include
hypersplenism with portal hypertension, hereditary spherocytosis, thalassemia,
autoimmune hemolytic anemia, splenic trauma, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura,
splenic hemangioma, and liver cancer. It is also performed to exclude splenic
artery aneurysms from the parent vessel lumen and prevent aneurysm rupture, to
treat splenic artery steal syndrome and improve liver perfusion in liver
transplant recipients, and to administer targeted treatment to areas of
neoplastic disease in the splenic parenchyma. Indicators of the therapeutic
effect evaluation of PSE comprise blood routine test, changes in hemodynamics and
in splenic volume. Major complications of PSE include the pulmonary
complications, severe infection, damages of renal and liver function, and portal 
vein thrombosis. The limitations of PSE exist mainly in the difficulties in
selecting the arteries to embolize and in evaluating the embolized volume.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/961345 
PMCID: PMC4235844
PMID: 25538966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


124. AAPS J. 2015 Mar;17(2):323-38. doi: 10.1208/s12248-014-9708-2. Epub 2014 Dec 23.

Harnessing biomaterials to engineer the lymph node microenvironment for immunity 
or tolerance.

Andorko JI(1), Hess KL, Jewell CM.

Author information: 
(1)Fischell Department of Bioengineering, University of Maryland, 2212 Jeong H.
Kim Engineering Building, College Park, Maryland, 20742, USA.

Nanoparticles, microparticles, and other biomaterials are advantageous in
vaccination because these materials provide opportunities to modulate specific
characteristics of immune responses. This idea of "tuning" immune responses has
recently been used to combat infectious diseases and cancer, and to induce
tolerance during organ transplants or autoimmune disease. Lymph nodes and other
secondary lymphoid organs such as the spleen play crucial roles in determining if
and how these responses develop following vaccination or immunotherapy. Thus, by 
manipulating the local microenvironments within these immunological command
centers, the nature of systemic immune response can be controlled. This review
provides recent examples that harness the interactions between biomaterials and
lymph nodes or other secondary lymphoid organs to generate immunity or promote
tolerance. These strategies draw on mechanical properties, surface chemistry,
stability, and targeting to alter the interactions of cells, signals, and vaccine
components in lymph nodes. While there are still many unanswered questions
surrounding how best to design biomaterial-based vaccines to promote specific
structures or functions in lymph nodes, features such as controlled release and
targeting will help pave the way for the next generation of vaccines and
immunotherapies that generate immune responses tuned for specific applications.

DOI: 10.1208/s12248-014-9708-2 
PMCID: PMC4365095
PMID: 25533221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Zentralbl Chir. 2014 Dec;139(6):592-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1383373. Epub 2014 Dec
22.

[Strategies for paediatric spleen and liver injuries].

[Article in German]

Zundel S(1), Lieber J(1), Tsiflikas I(2), Henk AK(3), Schmittenbecher P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Kinderchirurgie und Kinderurologie, Universitätsklinikum Tübingen,
Deutschland. (2)Diagnostische und Interventionelle Radiologie,
Universitätsklinikum Tübingen, Deutschland. (3)Kinderchirurgische Klinik,
Städtisches Klinikum Karlsruhe, Deutschland.

Traumatic injuries of the spleen and liver are typically caused by age-related
falls or sports and traffic accidents. Today, the non-operative management for
isolated injuries is established and evidence-based guidelines are available. The
intact abdominal wall and the limited space within the peritoneum produce a
compression which is the pathophysiological explanation for the limitation of the
haemorrhage. Precondition for the non-operative therapy is the radiology-based
classification of the injury (organ injury scale) and a haemodynamically stable
patient. Haemodynamic stability is, if necessary maintained with blood
transfusion, volume substitutes and the administration of catecholamines. In
cases of hilar vascular injury and devascularisation or haemodynamic instability 
of the patient, despite utilisation of the measures mentioned above, urgent
operative therapy needs to be performed. Organ sparing surgery is the therapy of 
choice for both liver and spleen. The spleen is required for the development of a
competent immune system in the growing organism. Liver injuries can be further
complicated by injury to the bile system, which might require operative
reconstruction. If a patient suffers from multiple injuries and spleen or liver
are involved, the decision on the management needs to be taken individually, no
guidelines exist but the rate for operative therapy increases. Independent of the
dimensions of injury, an experienced paediatric surgeon with his
multidisciplinary team, considering the anatomic and age specific characteristics
of a child, achieves the best therapeutic results.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1383373 
PMID: 25531632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Leuk Lymphoma. 2014 Dec;55(12):2706-11. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2014.985159.

Is there a role for JAK inhibitors in BCR-ABL1-negative myeloproliferative
neoplasms other than myelofibrosis?

Pardanani A(1), Tefferi A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic , Rochester, MN , USA.

Current data suggest that constitutively active JAK-STAT signaling plays a
central role in the pathogenesis of BCR-ABL1-negative myeloproliferative
neoplasms (MPNs), regardless of the specific underlying molecular abnormality.
This observation provides strong rationale for use of JAK inhibitors for MPN
treatment, and these drugs were first tested in myelofibrosis (MF) patients.
Ruxolitinib, a JAK-1/2 inhibitor, is effective at controlling splenomegaly and
constitutional symptoms, but has limited benefit in reversing bone marrow
fibrosis or inducing complete or partial remissions. Ruxolitinib is currently in 
Phase 3 testing for treatment of hydroxyurea resistant/intolerant polycythemia
vera (PV). Preliminary data reveals response rates of 60% for hematocrit control 
and 38% for spleen volume reduction per protocol-defined criteria, in addition to
improving disease-related symptoms. These endpoints however have limited value as
surrogates for long-term clinically relevant outcomes such as
freedom-from-cardiovascular/thrombohemorrhagic events or time-to-hematological
transformation, and the early crossover design of the aforementioned trial
introduces limitations in terms of analysis of these latter endpoints. In
contrast, other recent trials in PV have demonstrated the feasibility of using
long-term clinically relevant outcomes as a primary endpoint. We also discuss the
role of JAK inhibitors for treatment of CSF3RT618I-mutated chronic neutrophilic
leukemia and hematologic malignancies with rearranged JAK2 gene.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2014.985159 
PMID: 25520049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Br J Radiol. 2015 Feb;88(1046):20140653. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20140653. Epub 2014 Dec
16.

Multimodality imaging of obliterative portal venopathy: what every radiologist
should know.

Arora A(1), Sarin SK.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Radiology, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi,
India.

Obliterative portal venopathy (OPV) is an important cause of non-cirrhotic portal
hypertension, which is often erroneously misdiagnosed as cryptogenic cirrhosis.
It has a worldwide distribution with majority of cases hailing from the Asian
subcontinent. However, recently the disease has gained global attention
particularly because of its association with human immunodeficiency virus
infection and use of antiretroviral drug therapy (didanosine). As the name
suggests, the disorder is characterized by sclerosis and obliteration of the
intrahepatic portal vein branches (with attendant periportal fibrosis) leading to
portal hypertension amid intriguingly little liver dysfunction. It primarily
affects young adults who present with clinically significant portal hypertension 
in the form of episodes of variceal bleed; however, contrasting liver cirrhosis, 
the liver function and liver structure remain normal or near normal until late in
the disease process. Radiological findings during advanced disease are often
indistinguishable from cirrhosis often warranting a liver biopsy. Nevertheless,
recent studies have suggested that certain imaging manifestations, if present,
can help us to prospectively suggest the possibility of OPV. At imaging, OPV is
characterized by a wide range of intrahepatic and/or extrahepatic portal venous
abnormalities with attendant changes in liver and splenic volume and stiffness.
We shall, through this pictorial review, appraise the literature and illustrate
the germane radiological manifestations of OPV that can be seen using different
imaging modalities including ultrasonography, CT, MRI, elastography and hepatic
haemodynamic studies.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20140653 
PMCID: PMC4614245
PMID: 25514699  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Diagn Interv Radiol. 2015 Mar-Apr;21(2):111-7. doi: 10.5152/dir.2014.14210.

Abdominal sarcoidosis: cross-sectional imaging findings.

Gezer NS(1), Başara I, Altay C, Harman M, Rocher L, Karabulut N, Seçil M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, Dokuz Eylul University, Izmir,
Turkey. drsinemgezer@gmail.com.

Sarcoidosis is a multisystem inflammatory disease of unknown etiology. The lungs 
and the lymphoid system are the most commonly involved organs. Extrapulmonary
involvement is reported in 30% of patients, and the abdomen is the most common
extrapulmonary site with a frequency of 50%-70%. Although intra-abdominal
sarcoidosis is usually asymptomatic, its presence may affect the prognosis and
treatment options. The lesions are less characteristic and may mimick neoplastic 
or infectious diseases such as lymphoma, diffuse metastasis, and granulomatous
inflammation. The liver and spleen are the most common abdominal sites of
involvement. Sarcoidosis of the gastrointestinal system, pancreas, and kidneys
are extremely rare. Adenopathy which is most commonly found in the porta hepatis,
exudative ascites, and multiple granulomatous nodules studding the peritoneum are
the reported manifestations of abdominal sarcoidosis. Since abdominal sarcoidosis
is less common and long-standing, unrecognized disease can result in significant 
morbidity and mortality. Imaging contributes to diagnosis and management of
intra-abdominal sarcoidosis. In this report we reviewed the cross-sectional
imaging findings of hepatobiliary, gastrointestinal, and genitourinary
sarcoidosis.

DOI: 10.5152/dir.2014.14210 
PMCID: PMC4463323
PMID: 25512071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Biol. 2014 Dec 11;7(4):a016378. doi:
10.1101/cshperspect.a016378.

Sinusoidal immunity: macrophages at the lymphohematopoietic interface.

Gordon S(1), Plüddemann A(2), Mukhopadhyay S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RE,
United Kingdom. (2)Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of
Oxford, Oxford OX2 6GG, United Kingdom. (3)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, 
University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RE, United Kingdom Wellcome Trust Sanger
Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SA, United Kingdom.

Macrophages are widely distributed throughout the body, performing vital
homeostatic and defense functions after local and systemic perturbation within
tissues. In concert with closely related dendritic cells and other myeloid and
lymphoid cells, which mediate the innate and adaptive immune response,
macrophages determine the outcome of the inflammatory and repair processes that
accompany sterile and infectious injury and microbial invasion. This article will
describe and compare the role of specialized macrophage populations at two
critical interfaces between the resident host lymphohematopoietic system and
circulating blood and lymph, the carriers of cells, humoral components,
microorganisms, and their products. Sinusoidal macrophages in the marginal zone
of the spleen and subcapsular sinus and medulla of secondary lymph nodes
contribute to the innate and adaptive responses of the host in health and
disease. Although historically recognized as major constituents of the
reticuloendothelial system, it has only recently become apparent that these
specialized macrophages in close proximity to B and T lymphocytes play an
indispensable role in recognition and responses to exogenous and endogenous
ligands, thus shaping the nature and quality of immunity and inflammation. We
review current understanding of these macrophages and identify gaps in our
knowledge for further investigation.

Copyright © 2015 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a016378 
PMID: 25502514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Genet Mol Res. 2014 Nov 27;13(4):9960-3. doi: 10.4238/2014.November.27.25.

Case report: visceral leishmaniasis diagnosed by biopsy of an axillary lymph
node: case report and literature review.

Liu ZZ(1), Lv XJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Infectious Diseases, West China Hospital of Sichuan University,
Chengdu, China. (2)Center of Infectious Diseases, West China Hospital of Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, China xiaojulv@126.com.

A 56-year-old man presented with fevers up to 40°C and acute pain in the left
upper quadrant. Full blood count was normal and biochemical tests revealed
increased serum globulin. Abdominal ultrasound revealed hepatomegaly and
splenomegaly with multiple enlarged lymph nodes in the neck, axilla, and inguinal
regions. The bone marrow smear was negative. Splenectomy was performed and the
pathology revealed splenic ischemic infarcts. Biopsy of one of the axillary lymph
nodes revealed macrophages filled with leishmanias. The patient tested positive
by the rk39 dipstick test. He was treated with sodium stibogluconate and showed
full recovery.

DOI: 10.4238/2014.November.27.25 
PMID: 25501207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Prion. 2014;8(4):286-95. doi: 10.4161/pri.29237. Epub 2014 Nov 1.

Variant CJD. 18 years of research and surveillance.

Diack AB(1), Head MW, McCutcheon S, Boyle A, Knight R, Ironside JW, Manson JC,
Will RG.

Author information: 
(1)a The Roslin Institute and R(D)SVS ; University of Edinburgh; Easter Bush ;
Midlothian , Scotland , UK.

It is now 18 years since the first identification of a case of vCJD in the UK.
Since that time, there has been much speculation over how vCJD might impact human
health. To date there have been 177 case reports in the UK and a further 51 cases
worldwide in 11 different countries. Since establishing that BSE and vCJD are of 
the same strain of agent, we have also shown that there is broad similarity
between UK and non-UK vCJD cases on first passage to mice. Transgenic mouse
studies have indicated that all codon 129 genotypes are susceptible to vCJD and
that genotype may influence whether disease appears in a clinical or asymptomatic
form, supported by the appearance of the first case of potential asymptomatic
vCJD infection in a PRNP 129MV patient. Following evidence of blood transfusion
as a route of transmission, we have ascertained that all blood components and
leucoreduced blood in a sheep model of vCJD have the ability to transmit disease.
Importantly, we recently established that a PRNP 129MV patient blood recipient
with an asymptomatic infection and limited PrP(Sc) deposition in the spleen could
readily transmit disease into mice, demonstrating the potential for peripheral
infection in the absence of clinical disease. This, along with the recent
appendix survey which identified 16 positive appendices in a study of 32,441
cases, underlines the importance of continued CJD surveillance and maintaining
control measures already in place to protect human health.

DOI: 10.4161/pri.29237 
PMCID: PMC4601215
PMID: 25495404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


132. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Dec 7;20(45):16811-9. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i45.16811.

Noninvasive assessment of portal hypertension in cirrhosis: liver stiffness and
beyond.

Stefanescu H(1), Procopet B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Horia Stefanescu, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of
Bologna, 40126 Bologna, Italy.

Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) is a good, but still limited tool to
noninvasively assess complications and prognosis in patients with advanced liver 
disease. This review aims to consider the role of LSM for the diagnosis of portal
hypertension-related complications and for assessment of prognosis in cirrhotic
patients, and to highlight the drawbacks as well as some alternatives for
improving the performance. Hence, this field is far from being closed, and
deserves more attention. There is still a place for more carefully designed
studies to find new, innovative and reliable approaches.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i45.16811 
PMCID: PMC4258551
PMID: 25492995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Abdom Imaging. 2015 Apr;40(4):745-59. doi: 10.1007/s00261-014-0315-6.

Magnetic resonance elastography of abdomen.

Venkatesh SK(1), Ehman RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN,
55905, USA, venkatesh.sudhakar@mayo.edu.

Many diseases cause substantial changes in the mechanical properties of tissue,
and this provides motivation for developing methods to noninvasively assess the
stiffness of tissue using imaging technology. Magnetic resonance elastography
(MRE) has emerged as a versatile MRI-based technique, based on direct
visualization of propagating shear waves in the tissues. The most established
clinical application of MRE in the abdomen is in chronic liver disease. MRE is
currently regarded as the most accurate noninvasive technique for detection and
staging of liver fibrosis. Increasing experience and ongoing research is leading 
to exploration of applications in other abdominal organs. In this review article,
the current use of MRE in liver disease and the potential future applications of 
this technology in other parts of the abdomen are surveyed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00261-014-0315-6 
PMCID: PMC4576915
PMID: 25488346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


134. World J Surg Oncol. 2014 Dec 9;12:379. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-12-379.

Pediatric primary splenic angiosarcoma: an aggressive multidisciplinary approach 
to the oncologic management of a rare malignancy.

Serrano OK(1), Knapp E, Huang K, Baran G, Statter M, McClain D, Gill J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Surgery, Department of Surgery, Children's Hospital at
Montefiore Medical Center, 3415 Bainbridge Avenue, New York, NY 10467, USA.
oserrano@montefiore.org.

Primary splenic angiosarcoma is an extremely rare and aggressive neoplasm of the 
vasculature. Uniformly, primary splenic angiosarcoma is a fatal disease despite
early diagnosis and treatment. Only patients with localized disease amenable to
surgical resection achieve long-term, disease-free survival. We present a review 
of the literature and report a case of a 3-year-old girl with metastatic primary 
splenic angiosarcoma who was offered aggressive surgical and medical treatment
with curative intent despite her advanced presentation.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-12-379 
PMCID: PMC4295483
PMID: 25487642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Int J Surg. 2014 Dec;12(12):1314-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2014.11.005. Epub 2014
Nov 7.

Overwhelming post splenectomy infection syndrome - review study.

Sinwar PD(1).

Author information: 
(1)New PG Hostel Room No 28, Sardar Patel Medical College Bikaner, Rajasthan
334003, India. Electronic address: prabhusinwar@gmail.com.

The spleen has an abundance of lymphoid tissue, including splenic macrophages
that attack encapsulated organisms. Overwhelming post-splenectomy infection
(OPSI) is a serious disease that can progress from a mild flu-like illness to
fulminant sepsis in a short time period. However, recognition and clinical
management of OPSI is not well established. Patients who are asplenic or
hyposplenic are at an increased risk for infection and death from encapsulated
organisms and other dangerous pathogens. Although relatively rare, it has a high 
mortality rate with delayed or inadequate treatment, and therefore it is
important for Emergency Physicians to be familiar with it. Durations between
Splenectomy and onset of OPSI ranged from less than 1 wk to more than 20 years.
Although the mortality rate from OPSI has been reduced by appropriate vaccination
and education. The precise pathogenesis and a suitable therapeutic strategy
remain to be elucidated. Overwhelming postsplenectomy infection (OPSI) is a
serious fulminant process that carries a high mortality rate.

Copyright © 2014 Surgical Associates Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2014.11.005 
PMID: 25463041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Nihon Saikingaku Zasshi. 2014;69(4):577-88.

[Virulence determinant of Chromobacterium violaceum].

[Article in Japanese]

Miki T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, School of Pharmacy, Kitasato University.

Chromobacterium violaceum is a Gram-negative bacterium that infects humans and
animals with fatal sepsis. The infection with C. violaceum is rare in case of
those who are healthy, but once established, C. violaceum causes sever disease
accompanied by abscess formation in the lungs, liver and spleen. Furthermore, C. 
violaceum is resistant to a broad range of antibiotics, which in some cases
renders the antimicrobial therapy for this infection difficult. Thus, the
infection with C. violaceum displays high mortality rates unless initial proper
antimicrobial therapy. In contrast, the infection mechanism had completely
remained unknown. To this end, we have tried to identify virulence
factors-associated with C. violaceum infection. Two distinct type III secretion
systems (TTSSs) were thought to be one of the most important virulence factors,
which are encoded by Chromobacterium pathogenicity island 1/1a and 2 (Cpi-1/-1a
and -2) respectively. Our results have shown that Cpi-1/-1a-encoded TTSS, but not
Cpi-2, is indispensable for the virulence in a mouse infection model. C.
violaceum caused fulminant hepatitis in a Cpi-1/-1a-encoded TTSS-dependent
manner. We next have identified 16 novel effectors secreted from
Cpi-1/-1a-encoded TTS machinery. From these effectors, we found that CopE
(Chromobacterium outer protein E) has similarities to a guanine nucleotide
exchange factor (GEF) for Rho GTPases. CopE acts as GEF for Rac1 and Cdc42,
leading to induction of actin cytoskeletal rearrangement. Interestingly, C.
violaceum invades cultured human epithelial cells in a CopE-dependent manner.
Finally, an inactivation of CopE by disruption of copE gene or amino acid point
mutation leading to loss of GEF activity attenuates significantly the mouse
virulence of C. violaceum. These results suggest that Cpi-1/-1a-encoded TTSS is a
major virulence determinant for C. violaceum infection, and that CopE contributes
to the virulence in part of this pathogen.


PMID: 25447983  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2015 Jan;38(1):187-99. doi: 10.1007/s10545-014-9794-4. Epub 
2014 Nov 26.

Complex lipid trafficking in Niemann-Pick disease type C.

Vanier MT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale U820, Université
Lyon-1 EA4611, Faculté de Médecine Lyon-Est, 7 Rue G. Paradin, 69008, Lyon,
France, marie-t.vanier@inserm.fr.

Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is an atypical lysosomal storage disease
resulting from mutations in one of two genes, either NPC1 or NPC2. Although a
neurovisceral disorder, it is above all a neurodegenerative disease in the vast
majority of patients. Not an enzyme deficiency, it is currently conceived as a
lipid trafficking disorder. Impaired egress of cholesterol from the late
endosomal/lysosomal (LE/L) compartment is a specific and key element of the
pathogenesis, but other lipids, more specially sphingolipids, are also involved, 
and there are indications for further abnormalities. The full function of the
NPC1 and NPC2 proteins is still unclear. This review provides a reappraisal of
lipid storage and lysosomal enzymes activities in tissues/cells from NPC patients
and animal models. It summarizes the current knowledge on the NPC1 and NPC2
proteins and their function in transport of cholesterol within the late
endosomal-lysosomal compartment, with emphasis on differences between systemic
organs and the brain; it also discusses regulation by membrane lipids of the
NPC2-mediated cholesterol trafficking, interplay between cholesterol and
sphingomyelin, the metabolic origin of glycosphingolipids stored in brain, and
the putative role of free sphingoid bases in pathogenesis. Brief mention is
finally made of diseases affecting other genes that were very recently shown to
impact the "NPC pathway".

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-014-9794-4 
PMID: 25425283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Infect Dis. 2014 Dec 15;210 Suppl 3:S660-6. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiu536.

Nonhuman primate models for cell-associated simian immunodeficiency virus
transmission: the need to better understand the complexity of HIV mucosal
transmission.

Bernard-Stoecklin S(1), Gommet C(1), Cavarelli M(2), Le Grand R(1).

Author information: 
(1)CEA, Division of Immunovirology, IDMIT Center, iMETI/DSV, Fontenay-aux-Roses
UMR-E1, Université Paris-Sud 11, Orsay, France. (2)CEA, Division of
Immunovirology, IDMIT Center, iMETI/DSV, Fontenay-aux-Roses UMR-E1, Université
Paris-Sud 11, Orsay, France DIBIT, Hospedale San Raffaele, Milano, Italy.

Nonhuman primates are extensively used to assess strategies to prevent infection 
from sexual exposure to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and to study
mechanisms of mucosal transmission. However, although semen represents one of the
most important vehicles for the virus, the vast majority of preclinical challenge
studies have used cell-free simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) or simian/human
immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) viral particles inoculated as diluted culture
supernatants. Semen is a complex body fluid containing many factors that may
facilitate or decrease HIV infectiousness. The virus in semen is present in
different forms: as free virus particles or as cell-associated virus (ie, within 
infected leukocytes). Although cell-to-cell transmission of HIV is highly
efficient, the role of cell-associated virus in semen has been surprisingly
poorly investigated in nonhuman primate models. Mucosal exposure of macaques to
cell-associated SIV by using infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells or
spleen cells has been shown to be an efficient means of infection; however, it
has yet to be shown that SIV- or SHIV-infected seminal leukocytes can transmit
infection in vivo. Improvement of animal models to better recapitulate the
complex microenvironment at portals of HIV entry is needed for testing candidate 
antiretrovirals, microbicides, and vaccines.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiu536 
PMID: 25414421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Future Med Chem. 2014;6(16):1811-27. doi: 10.4155/fmc.14.126.

Small-molecule inhibitors of spleen tyrosine kinase as therapeutic agents for
immune disorders: will promise meet expectations?

Lucas MC(1), Tan SL.

Author information: 
(1)Cubist Pharmaceuticals, 65 Hayden Avenue, Lexington, MA 02421, USA.

Following on the heels of the US FDA approval of tofacitinib (Xeljanz, Pfizer,
USA), an inhibitor of the JAK family members, and ibrutinib (Imbruvica, Janssen, 
Belgium), an inhibitor of BTK, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and
chronic lymphocytic leukemia, respectively, there is now renewed interest in the 
biopharmaceutical industry in the development of orally active small-molecule
agents targeting key protein kinases implicated in immune regulation. One such
'immunokinase' target is SYK, a non-receptor tyrosine protein kinase critical for
transducing intracellular signaling cascades for various immune recognition
receptors, such as the B-cell receptor and the Fc receptor. Here, we review and
discuss the progress and challenges in the development of small-molecule
inhibitors of SYK and their potential as a new class of disease-modifying
immunosuppressive agents for certain inflammatory and autoimmune disorders.

DOI: 10.4155/fmc.14.126 
PMID: 25407369  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Medicine (Baltimore). 2014 Oct;93(17):267-79. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000089.

Hepatosplenic cat scratch disease in immunocompetent adults: report of 3 cases
and review of the literature.

García JC(1), Núñez MJ, Castro B, Fernández JM, López A, Portillo A, Oteo JA.

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Medicina Interna (JCG, MJN), Complejo Hospitalario Universitario
de Pontevedra, Pontevedra, Galicia; Servicio de Medicina Interna (BC, JMF),
Hospital Comarcal del Salnés, Vilagarcía de Arousa, Pontevedra, Galicia; Servicio
de Medicina Interna (AL), Complejo Hospitalario Universitario de Ourense,
Ourense, Galicia; Departamento de Enfermedades Infecciosas (AP, JAO), Hospital
San Pedro-CIBIR, Logroño, La Rioja, Spain.

Erratum in
    Medicine (Baltimore). 2014 Dec;93(28):1. López, Asunción [Added].

Cat-scratch disease (CSD) is the most frequent presentation of Bartonella
henselae infection. It has a worldwide distribution and is associated with a
previous history of scratch or bite from a cat or dog. CSD affects children and
teenagers more often (80%) than adults, and it usually has a self-limiting
clinical course. Atypical clinical course or systemic symptoms are described in
5%-20% of patients. Among them, hepatosplenic (HS) forms (abscess) have been
described. The majority of published cases have affected children or
immunosuppressed patients. Few cases of HS forms of CSD in immunocompetent adult 
hosts have been reported, and data about the management of this condition are
scarce. Herein, we present 3 new cases of HS forms of CSD in immunocompetent
adults and review 33 other cases retrieved from the literature. We propose an
approach to clinical diagnosis and treatment with oral azithromycin.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000089 
PMCID: PMC4602414
PMID: 25398062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


141. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 7;20(41):15387-97. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i41.15387.

Effect of spleen operation on antiviral treatment in hepatitis C virus-related
cirrhotic patients.

Feng B(1), Zhang W(1), Luo BF(1), Song GJ(1), Wang J(1), Jin Q(1), Qin H(1), Wei 
L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bo Feng, Wei Zhang, Bi-Fen Luo, Guang-Jun Song, Jian Wang, Qian Jin, Hong Qin,
Lai Wei, Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Hepatology
Institute, Beijing Key Laboratory of Hepatitis C and Immunotherapy for Liver
Diseases, Beijing 100044, China.

AIM: To investigate the impact of spleen operation (SO) on interferon-α
(IFN-α)-based antiviral treatment in patients with hepatitis C virus
(HCV)-related cirrhosis.
METHODS: Studies were systematically identified by searching electronic databases
including MEDLINE, Cochrane Library, Elsevier, and Embase up to September 30,
2013, and relevant clinical studies were reviewed. Sustained virological response
(SVR) rate and adherence to therapy were taken as the endpoints of interest.
RESULTS: A total of 603 patients from 16 studies were included in the systematic 
review. Of 372 patients who underwent SO followed by antiviral treatment, the
total SVR rate was 39.5%. SVR was associated with HCV genotypes 2/3 (OR = 10.84; 
95%CI: 5.47-21.47; P < 0.00001). IFN-α dose needed to be reduced in 29.4%, and
IFN-α-based therapy was discontinued in 11.5% of patients. Analysis of controlled
studies showed that SVRs were achieved in 34.1% of patients with SO and 31.1% of 
patients without SO. SO had no effect on the SVR rate in cirrhotic patients with 
genotype 1 HCV infection (OR = 1.28; 95%CI: 0.51-3.22; P = 0.60), but improved
the SVR rate in patients with genotypes 2/3 infection, though the difference was 
not significant (OR = 0.36; 95%CI: 0.13-1.02; P = 0.05).
CONCLUSION: SO combined with IFN-α-based antiviral therapy may be suitable in
cirrhotic patients with genotypes 2/3 HCV infection, but not in those with
genotype 1 infection.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i41.15387 
PMCID: PMC4223274
PMID: 25386089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


142. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 28;20(40):14568-80. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14568.

Non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B.

Branchi F(1), Conti CB(1), Baccarin A(1), Lampertico P(1), Conte D(1), Fraquelli 
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Federica Branchi, Clara Benedetta Conti, Alessandra Baccarin, Dario Conte,
Mirella Fraquelli, Second Division of Gastroenterology, IRCCS Fondazione Cà
Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Università degli Studi di Milano, 20122
Milan, Italy.

The goal of this review is to provide a comprehensive picture of the role,
clinical applications and future perspectives of the most widely used
non-invasive techniques for the evaluation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. 
During the past decade many non-invasive methods have been developed to reduce
the need for liver biopsy in staging fibrosis and to overcome whenever possible
its limitations, mainly: invasiveness, costs, low reproducibility, poor
acceptance by patients. Elastographic techniques conceived to assess liver
stiffness, in particular transient elastography, and the most commonly used
biological markers will be assessed against their respective role and limitations
in staging hepatic fibrosis. Recent evidence highlights that both liver stiffness
and some bio-chemical markers correlate with survival and major clinical
end-points such as liver decompensation, development of hepatocellular carcinoma 
and portal hypertension. Thus the non-invasive techniques here discussed can play
a major role in the management of patients with chronic HBV-related hepatitis.
Given their prognostic value, transient elastography and some bio-chemical
markers can be used to better categorize patients with advanced fibrosis and
cirrhosis and assign them to different classes of risk for clinically relevant
outcomes. Very recent data indicates that the combined measurements of liver and 
spleen stiffness enable the reliable prediction of portal hypertension and
esophageal varices development.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14568 
PMCID: PMC4209524
PMID: 25356021  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Pharmacotherapy. 2014 Dec;34(12):1298-316. doi: 10.1002/phar.1509. Epub 2014 Oct 
30.

Ibrutinib, obinutuzumab, idelalisib, and beyond: review of novel and evolving
therapies for chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Chung C(1), Lee R.

Author information: 
(1)Lyndon B. Johnson General Hospital, Harris Health System, Houston, Texas.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a neoplasm resulting from the progressive
accumulation of functionally incompetent monoclonal B lymphocytes in the blood,
bone marrow, lymph nodes, and spleen. It is the most common leukemia in Western
countries and typically occurs in elderly patients. Initial treatment of CLL
often includes a first-generation anti-CD20 antibody (rituximab) with
chemotherapy and is the current standard of treatment for "younger" old adults (<
70 yrs of age) or older, clinically fit patients. However, because disease
progression and drug resistance are inevitable, patients typically die from their
disease or treatment-related complications. Improved understanding of the B-cell 
receptor signaling pathway, which is essential for normal B-cell growth and
tumorigenesis, has led to the development of targeted therapies, with improved
short-term clinical outcomes. Ibrutinib, obinutuzumab, and idelalisib, three
novel agents recently approved by the U.S. Food and Administration for CLL, all
have the potential to change the treatment paradigm. In this article, we describe
the pathogenesis of CLL and some of its prognostic factors. Emphasis is on the
pharmacology, dosing, clinical efficacy, safety, and place of therapy of
ibrutinib, obinutuzumab, and idelalisib. Investigational agents that target
different parts of the CLL pathogenic pathway are also described.

© 2014 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/phar.1509 
PMID: 25355689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Pediatr Endocrinol Rev. 2014 Sep;12 Suppl 1:107-13.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type II, Hunter's syndrome.

Tylki-Szymańska A.

Hunter syndrome is caused by deficiency of the lysososmal enzyme
iduronate-2-sulphatase that cleaves O-linked sulphate moieties from dermatan
sulphate and heparan sulphate and leads to accumulation of GAGs. The disease is a
X-linked condition affecting males and rarely females, clinically divided into
severe (2/3) and attenuated types. Children with severe form, diagnosed at 12-36 
months, have coarse facial feature, short stature, joint stiffness, short neck,
broad chest, large head circumference, watery diarrhea, skeletal changes,
progressive and profound mental retardation, retinal degeneration' hearing loss, 
cardiomyopathy, valvular involvement, with progressive thickening and stiffening 
of the valve leaflets leading to mitral and aortic regurgitation and stenosis .
Recurrent and prolonged rhinitis with persistent nasal discharge are the first
symptoms of airway disease that manifests itself as noisy breathing and later
sleep apnea. Some patients develop ivory-colored skin lesions on the upper back
and sides of the upper arms, pathogenomic of Hunter syndrome. The scalp hair
becomes coarse, straight and bristly. Inguinal and umbilical hernias occur caused
by the disturbed structure of connective tissue and increased liver and spleen
volume. Patients with attenuated form have normal intelligence and a milder
phenotype. Physical features diagnosed later are similar but less pronounced but 
progress to severe disease. Sceening is by quantitative assessment of urinary
GAGs excretion. Qualitative assessment of GAG by electrophoresis can distinguish 
the type of mucopolysaccharidosis. Definitive diagnosis is based on enzyme
activity assay in leukocytes, fibroblasts or plasma. Molecular testing is
recommended mainly for genetic counseling and carrier detection. Limited
experience of Haematopoietic stem cell therapy in MPS II showed progressive
neurodegeneration. Recombinant 125 Idursulfase, is indicated for long-term
treatment. The response appears to depend on the severity of the disease and the 
age treatment is started, Improvements in a composite endpoint comprising: change
in walking distance percentage of predicted forced vital capacity (%FVC)
,decrease in liver and spleen volume and urinary GAG levels were encouraging.
Current research is focused on pharmacological chaperones, gene therapy and
substrate reduction therapy and therapies that, unlike Idursulfase, do cross the 
blood-brain barrier.


PMID: 25345092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Pediatr Endocrinol Rev. 2014 Sep;12 Suppl 1:72-81.

Gaucher disease: the metabolic defect, pathophysiology, phenotypes and natural
history.

Baris HN, Cohen IJ, Mistry PK.

Gaucher disease (GD), a prototype lysosomal storage disorder, results from
inherited deficiency of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase due to biallelic mutations
in GBA. The result is widespread accumulation of macrophages engorged with
predominantly lysosomal glucocerebroside. A complex multisystem phenotype arises 
involving the liver, spleen, bone marrow and occasionally the lungs in type 1
Gaucher disease; in neuronopathic fulminant type 2 and chronic type 3 disease
there is in addition progressive neurodegenerative disease. Manifestations of
Gaucher disease type 1 (GD1) include hepatosplenomegaly, cytopenia, a complex
pattern of bone involvement with avascular osteonecrosis (AVN), osteoporosis,
fractures and lytic lesions. Enzyme replacement therapy became the standard of
care in 1991, and this has transformed the natural history of GD1. This article
reviews the clinical phenotypes of GD, diagnosis, pathophysiology and its natural
history. A subsequent chapter discusses the treatment options.


PMCID: PMC4520262
PMID: 25345088  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Clin Infect Dis. 2015 Feb 15;60(4):612-26. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciu832. Epub 2014 Oct
23.

The interaction between sickle cell disease and HIV infection: a systematic
review.

Owusu ED(1), Visser BJ(2), Nagel IM(3), Mens PF(4), Grobusch MP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, School of Allied Health Sciences,
College of Health Sciences, University of Ghana, Accra Center of Tropical
Medicine and Travel Medicine, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam
KIT Biomedical Research, Department of Parasitology, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
(2)Center of Tropical Medicine and Travel Medicine, Academic Medical Center,
University of Amsterdam Centre de Recherches Médicales de Lambaréné, Albert
Schweitzer Hôpital, Lambaréné, Gabon Institute of Tropical Medicine, University
of Tübingen, Germany. (3)Medical Library, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (4)Center of Tropical Medicine and Travel Medicine,
Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam KIT Biomedical Research,
Department of Parasitology, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and sickle cell disease (SCD) are regarded as 
endemic in overlapping geographic areas; however, for most countries only scarce 
data on the interaction between HIV and SCD and disease burden exist. HIV
prevalence in SCD patients varies between 0% and 11.5% in published studies. SCD 
has been suggested to reduce disease progression of HIV into AIDS. Various
interactions of antiretroviral therapy with SCD exist. Both SCD and HIV act as
common risk factors for stroke, avascular necrosis, severe splenic dysfunction,
pulmonary arterial hypertension, and sepsis, which may result in synergistic
increase in risk of developing these diseases. No treatment guidelines regarding 
SCD with HIV coinfection were identified. Available evidence is mainly based on
small clinical studies, thus making strong recommendations difficult. An
increased effort to elucidate the precise interactions is warranted to better
understand both diseases and effect more adequate treatment approaches,
especially in view of their geographical coprevalence.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciu832 
PMID: 25344542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Nephron Clin Pract. 2014;127(1-4):153-7. doi: 10.1159/000363255. Epub 2014 Sep
24.

The spleen: the forgotten organ in acute kidney injury of critical illness.

Gigliotti JC(1), Okusa MD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology, Center for Immunity, Inflammation and Regenerative
Medicine, University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, Va., USA.

Acute kidney injury (AKI) is an increasing medical burden and is independently
associated with mortality. AKI is a common comorbidity in the intensive care unit
(ICU), with sepsis-associated AKI seen in almost a quarter of all ICU patients.
Due to the high mortality seen in these patients, improved therapeutic options
are needed. Data from experimental studies in animals support observations in
humans that the host immune response to sepsis and trauma contributes to
multiorgan failure and the high morbidity and mortality seen in critically ill
patients. The spleen, a major component of the reticuloendothelial system,
appears to be a key player in the 'cytokine storm' that develops after infection 
and trauma, and the resultant systemic inflammation is regulated by the autonomic
nervous system. Over the past decade, evidence has suggested that controlling the
splenic cytokine response improves tissue function and mortality in sepsis and
other inflammatory-mediated diseases. One pathway that controls the response of
the spleen to sepsis and trauma is the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway, and
it may provide a key target for therapeutic intervention. Here, we review this
concept and highlight the potential use of ultrasound to stimulate the
cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway and reduce systemic inflammation and
disease severity.

2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000363255 
PMCID: PMC5048741
PMID: 25343841  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Zhonghua Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Oct;35(10):914-7. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-2727.2014.10.009.

[Primary bone marrow diffuse large B cell lymphoma: three case reports and
literature review].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu H(1), Yi S(1), Liu E(1), Li Z(1), Zhang H(1), Ru K(1), Zou D(1), Qiu L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital, CAMS & PUMC, Tianjin
300020, China.

OBJECTIVE: To report the diagnosis, differential diagnosis and treatment of three
rare cases of primary bone marrow diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), and to
improve the recognition of this disease.
METHODS: The clinical characteristics, therapeutic course and the outcome of
these patients were reviewed. Meanwhile, a series of examinations including
morphology, flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry and molecular biology of bone
marrow samples were also performed.
RESULTS: These three patients who were old at the onset age (56, 60 and 70 years 
old), primarily revealed as abnormal blood count and experienced an aggressive
course of disease. Physical and imaging examination showed no enlargement of
lymph node, liver and spleen, the patients were finally diagnosed as primary bone
marrow DLBCL by bone marrow morphology, flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry
analyses. They were treated with rituximab combined chemotherapy, which achieved 
a complete response, but still need longer follow-up to further evaluate their
survival.
CONCLUSION: Primary bone marrow DLBCL was encountered rarely in clinical
practice, and this is the first report in China. Further investigation of
pathogenesis and therapeutic strategies of this rare disease was warranted.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-2727.2014.10.009 
PMID: 25339329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


149. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 14;20(38):13899-903. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i38.13899.

Epithelial cysts of the spleen: a minireview.

Ingle SB(1), Hinge Ingle CR(1), Patrike S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sachin B Ingle, Swapna Patrike, Department of Pathology, MIMSR Medical
College, Latur, Maharashtra 4132512, India.

Primary splenic epithelial cyst is an unusual event in everyday surgical practice
with about 800 cases reported until date in the English literature. Splenic cysts
may be parasitic or non-parasitic in origin. Nonparasitic cysts are either
primary or secondary. Primary cysts are also called true, congenital, epidermoid 
or epithelial cysts. Primary splenic cysts account for 10% of all benign
non-parasitic splenic cysts and are the most frequent type of splenic cysts in
children. Usually, splenic cysts are asymptomatic and can be found incidentally
during imaging techniques or on laparotomy. The symptoms are related to the size 
of cysts. When they assume large sizes, they may present with fullness in the
left abdomen, local or referred pain, symptoms due to compression of adjacent
structures (like nausea, vomiting, flatulence, diarrhoea) or rarely
thrombocytopenia, and occasionally complications such as infection, rupture
and/or haemorrhage. The preoperative diagnosis of primary splenic cysts can be
ascertained by ultrasonography (USG), computed tomography or magnetic resonance
imaging, although the wide use of USG today has led to an increase in the
incidence of splenic cysts by 1%. However, careful histopathological evaluation
along with immunostaining for presence of epithelial lining is mandatory to
arrive at the diagnosis. The treatment has changed drastically from total
splenectomy in the past to splenic preservation methods recently.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i38.13899 
PMCID: PMC4194571
PMID: 25320525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Immunol Rev. 2014 Nov;262(1):167-78. doi: 10.1111/imr.12219.

Regulation and consequences of monocytosis.

Dutta P(1), Nahrendorf M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA, USA.

Monocytes are part of the vertebrate innate immune system. Blood monocytes are
produced by bone marrow and splenic progenitors that derive from hematopoietic
stem cells (HSCs). In cardiovascular disease, such as atherosclerosis and
myocardial infarction, HSCs proliferate at higher levels that in turn increase
production of hematopoietic cells, including monocytes. Once produced in
hematopoietic niches, monocytes intravasate blood vessels, circulate, and migrate
to sites of inflammation. Monocyte recruitment to atherosclerotic plaque and the 
ischemic heart depends on various chemokines, such as CCL2, CX3 CL1, and CCL5.
Once in tissue, monocytes can differentiate into macrophages and dendritic cells.
Macrophages are end effector cells that regulate the steady state and tissue
healing, but they can also promote disease. At sites of inflammation, monocytes
and macrophages produce inflammatory cytokines, which can exacerbate disease
progression. Macrophages can also phagocytose tissue debris and produce
pro-healing cytokines. Additionally, macrophages are antigen-presenting cells and
can prime T cells. The tissue environment, including cytokines and types of
inflammation, instructs macrophage specialization. Understanding monocytosis and 
its consequences in disease will reveal new therapeutic opportunities without
compromising steady state functions.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imr.12219 
PMCID: PMC4203415
PMID: 25319334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Liver Int. 2015 May;35(5):1492-8. doi: 10.1111/liv.12702. Epub 2014 Nov 7.

Big spleens and hypersplenism: fix it or forget it?

Boyer TD(1), Habib S.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Institute and Department of Medicine, University of Arizona
College of Medicine, Tucson, AZ, USA.

Hypersplenism is a common manifestation of portal hypertension in the cirrhotic. 
More than half of cirrhotics will have low platelet counts, but neutropenia is
much less common. Despite being common in the cirrhotic population, the presence 
of hypersplenism is of little clinical consequence. The presence of hypersplenism
suggests more advanced liver disease and an increase in risk of complications,
but there is no data showing that correcting the hypersplenism improves patient
survival. In most series, the most common indications for treating the
hypersplenism is to increase platelet and white blood cell counts to allow for
use of drugs that suppress the bone marrow such as interferon alpha and
chemotherapeutic agents. There are several approaches used to treat
hypersplenism. Portosystemic shunts are of questionable benefit. Splenectomy,
either open or laparoscopically, is the most effective but is associated with a
significant risk of portal vein thrombosis. Partial splenic artery embolization
and radiofrequency ablation are effective methods for treating hypersplenism, but
counts tend to fall back to baseline long-term. Pharmacological agents are also
effective in increasing platelet counts. Development of direct acting antivirals 
against hepatitis C will eliminate the most common indication for treatment. We
lack controlled trials designed to determine if treating the hypersplenism has
benefits other than raising the platelet and white blood cell counts. In the
absence of such studies, hypersplenism in most patients should be considered a
laboratory abnormality and not treated, in other words forget it.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12702 
PMID: 25312770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Int J Surg. 2014 Nov;12(11):1228-34. doi: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2014.09.012. Epub 2014
Oct 12.

Splenic Artery Syndrome after orthotopic liver transplantation: a review.

Pinto S(1), Reddy SN(2), Horrow MM(3), Ortiz J(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Illinois Chicago, Metropolitan Group Hospitals, Department of
Surgery, 836 W. Wellington Ave, Room 4807, Chicago, IL 60657, USA. (2)Einstein
Medical Center, Department of Radiology, 5501 Old York Road, Philadelphia, PA
19141, USA. Electronic address: reddyshi@einstein.edu. (3)Einstein Medical
Center, Department of Radiology, 5501 Old York Road, Philadelphia, PA 19141, USA.
(4)University of Toledo, Department of Surgery and Transplant, 2801 W B Bancroft 
St., Toledo, OH 43606, USA.

Splenic Artery Syndrome (SAS) has emerged as a controversial cause for graft
ischemia in orthotopic liver transplant (OLTx) recipients. A complex combination 
of factors including hepatic artery hypoperfusion and portal hyperperfusion can
result in SAS. Clinical and laboratory findings suggest graft ischemia but are
generally non-specific. Conventional angiography findings of hepatic artery
hypoperfusion with early and rapid filling of the splenic artery are suggestive
of the diagnosis in the appropriate clinical setting. Treatment involves proximal
splenic artery embolization, surgical splenic artery ligation, or in extreme
cases, splenectomy. Most patients with SAS improve clinically following
treatment. However, no randomized control trials are available to compare
treatment options. Identification of at risk patients with pre-operative CT scans
and intra-operative ultrasound has been proposed by some and may allow for
prophylactic treatment of SAS.

Copyright © 2014 Surgical Associates Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2014.09.012 
PMID: 25311773  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2014 Oct;138(10):1295-301. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2014-0291-CC.

Diagnosis of splenic B-cell lymphomas in the bone marrow: a review of
histopathologic, immunophenotypic, and genetic findings.

Behdad A(1), Bailey NG.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Pathology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann
Arbor.

Splenic B-cell lymphomas are a heterogeneous group of diseases comprising several
entities that exhibit overlapping features. Diagnosis of these lymphomas has been
reliant on the histopathologic examination of the spleen. However, with advances 
in diagnostic modalities and therapy, splenectomy is not commonly performed, and 
diagnosis and subclassification must be rendered based on the blood and bone
marrow findings. In this brief review, we summarize the morphologic,
immunophenotypic, and genetic findings of splenic B-cell lymphomas in the blood
and bone marrow.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2014-0291-CC 
PMID: 25268192  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2014 Sep 30;9:131. doi: 10.1186/s13023-014-0131-7.

Identification and key management of non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia
patients: not a rare but potentially under-recognised condition.

Viprakasit V(1), Tyan P, Rodmai S, Taher AT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Thalassemia Center, Faculty of Medicine, Siriraj 
Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand. vip.vip@mahidol.ac.th.

Patients with non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia (NTDT) have a genetic defect
or combination of defects that affect haemoglobin synthesis, but which is not
severe enough to require regular blood transfusions. The carrier frequency of
NTDT is high (up to 80% in some parts of the world) but the prevalence of
symptomatic patients varies with geography and is estimated to be from 1 in
100,000 to 1 in 100. NTDT has a variable presentation that may include mild to
severe anaemia, enlarged spleen and/or liver, skeletal deformities, growth
retardation, elevated serum ferritin and iron overload. The contributing factors 
to disease progression are ineffective erythropoiesis and increased haemolysis,
which lead to chronic anaemia. The body's attempts to correct the anaemia result 
in constantly activated erythropoiesis, leading to marrow expansion and
extramedullary haematopoiesis. Diagnosis of NTDT is largely clinical but can be
confirmed by genetic sequencing. NTDT must be differentiated from other anaemias 
including sideroblastic anaemia, paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria, congenital
dyserythropoietic anaemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and iron-deficiency anaemia.
Management of NTDT is based on managing symptoms, and includes blood
transfusions, hydroxyurea treatment, iron chelation and sometimes splenectomy.
Prognosis for well managed patients is good, with most patients living a normal
life. Since NTDT is mainly prevalent in sub-tropical regions, patients who
present in other parts of the world, in particular the Northern hemisphere, might
not been correctly recognised and it can be considered a 'rare' condition. It is 
particularly important to identify and diagnose patients early, thereby
preventing complications.

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-014-0131-7 
PMCID: PMC4193991
PMID: 25265971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Ann Ital Chir. 2014 Jul-Aug;85(4):377-84.

Acute obstructive jaundice: a possible clinical manifestation of IPMT. Case
report and review of the literature.

Gargaglia E, Totti V, Ligabue G, Gelmini R.

INTRODUCTION: Pancreatic masses causing acute obstructive jaundice still pose
diagnostic difficulties and their characterization can often be complex as there 
is significant overlap in their imaging features.
CASE REPORT: We describe a case of Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Tumor (IPMT)
presenting with acute obstructive jaundice in a patient with history of recurrent
mild pancreatitis. Clinical evaluation, abdominal ultrasonography (US) and
CT-scan posed suspicion of adenocarcinoma with cystic degeneration of the
pancreatic head or mucinous cystadenocarcinoma; magnetic resonance (MR) with
magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) demonstrated the communication
of the mass with the main pancreatic duct, posing differential diagnosis between 
main-duct-IPMT and mucinous cystadenocarcinoma. Endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) demonstrated the presence of a mucus-secreting
lesion inside duodenum and duodenal biopsies showed no evidence of neoplastic
cells.
RESULTS: The patient underwent spleen preserving total pancreatectomy that led to
histological diagnosis of intraductal papillary mucinous with carcinoma in situ.
DISCUSSION: The international guidelines for management of IPMT, reported in 2006
and revised in 2012, establish that the resectability and the absence of an
invasive carcinoma are the most important prognostic factors in IPMT. Therefore
an early diagnosis and a radical resection are crucial to improve the patient
survival and reduce the recurrence rate.
CONCLUSION: When an IPMT is suspected, the imaging modalities are essential to
pose the diagnosis, maximise the chance to select the right surgical candidate
and to perform the best treatment for each patient.


PMID: 25263694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Cir Cir. 2014 Sep-Oct;82(5):556-62.

[Isolated splenic metastases from cervical cancer: a rare entity].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Villalón-López JS(1), Souto-del Bosque R(2), Montañez-Lugo JI(3), Chávez-González
B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Oncología quirúgica, Unidad Médica de Alta Especialidad 48, Instituto Mexicano
del Seguro Social (IMSS), León, Guanajuato, Mexico. jsvillalon@yahoo.com.
(2)Radioterapia, Unidad Médica de Alta Especialidad 1, Instituto Mexicano del
Seguro Social (IMSS), León, Guanajuato, Mexico. (3)Oncología Médica, Unidad
Médica de Alta Especialidad 1, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS), León,
Guanajuato, Mexico. (4)Patología, Unidad Médica de Alta Especialidad 1, Instituto
Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS), León, Guanajuato, Mexico.

BACKGROUND: Splenic metastases from solid tumors are a rare event with an
incidence of only 2.9% to 9%. Splenic metastases from cervical cancer are a rare 
entity. Only a few cases have been reported of isolated spleen metastases from
cervical cancer.
CLINICAL CASE: We present the case of a 76-year-old woman with moderately
differentiated endocervical adenocarcinoma stromal and endocervical invasion.
Clinical stage was Ib1 and Ca-125 values of 150 U. She was managed with
hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy. She received pelvic radiotherapy (45 Gy)
followed 24 Gy of brachytherapy. Two years later she presented with abdominal
pain. Abdominal computed tomography showed two splenic parenchymal lesions
without disease in the remainder of the abdominal cavity and chest with a Ca-125 
of 2,733 U. The patient is submitted to splenectomy. Histopathology demonstrates 
splenic metastases of well-differentiated adenocarcinoma from the endocervix.
Immunohistochemical stain showed positivity from carcinoembryonic antigen;
estrogen and progesterone receptors are negative. Ca-125 level 8 weeks after
surgery was 16 U/ml. The patient received six cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy
with paclitaxel and cisplatin. At 12 months follow-up the patient is alive and
without evidence of tumor activity.
CONCLUSIONS: The spleen is an uncommon site of metastasis. Splenectomy is
considered the appropriate treatment in order to avoid complications such as
splenic rupture and splenic vein thrombosis as well as to improve pain control
from splenomegaly. Twelve months after surgery our patient is alive and without
evidence of tumor activity.

Publisher: Antecedentes: las metástasis al bazo por tumores sólidos son
excepcionales, su incidencia es apenas de 2.9 a 9%. Las metástasis esplénicas por
cáncer cervicouterino son infrecuentes, solo se han reportado algunos casos. Caso
clínico: paciente femenina de 76 años de edad, con adenocarcinoma de endocervix
moderadamente diferenciado; con invasión al estroma cervical y al canal
endocervical, etapa clínica Ib1; el Ca-125 de 150 U. Se trató con histerectomía y
linfadenectomía pélvica. Recibió radioterapia pélvica 45 Gy, seguida de
braquiterapia 24 Gy. Dos años después tuvo dolor abdominal y, en una tomografía, 
se encontraron dos lesiones parenquimatosas esplénicas sin existir enfermedad en 
el resto de la cavidad abdominal y el tórax, tiene elevación del Ca-125 de 2,733 
U. Se le realizó esplenectomía; el reporte histopatológico demostró metástasis
esplénicas de adenocarcinoma bien diferenciado del endocervix. El estudio de
inmunohistoquímica mostró positividad al antígeno carcinoembrionario, los
receptores de estrógeno y progesterona resultaron negativos. El Ca-125 de 16 U/mL
a ocho semanas de la cirugía. Recibió tratamiento adyuvante, seis ciclos con
paclitaxel y cisplatino. A 12 meses de seguimiento la paciente está viva y sin
actividad tumoral. Conclusiones: el bazo es un sitio poco común de metástasis. La
esplenectomía se ha considerado el tratamiento apropiado para evitar
complicaciones como: ruptura esplénica, trombosis de la vena esplénica y
disminución del dolor originado por la esplenomegalia. Doce meses después de la
cirugía la paciente está viva y sin evidencia de actividad tumoral.

PMID: 25259436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Drugs. 2014 Oct;74(15):1829-36. doi: 10.1007/s40265-014-0296-3.

Eliglustat: first global approval.

Poole RM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay 0754, Auckland, New Zealand,
dru@adis.com.

Eliglustat [Cerdelga™ (US, EU)], a small-molecule oral glucosylceramide analogue 
that inhibits the enzyme glucosylceramide synthase has been developed by Genzyme 
Corporation (a subsidiary of Sanofi) for the treatment of Gaucher disease type 1 
in adults. Inhibition of this enzyme reduces the accumulation of the lipid
glucosylceramide in the liver, spleen, bone marrow and other organs. Eliglustat
received its first global approval in this indication in the US, for use in
treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced adult patients. It is also under
regulatory review in the EU and Japan. This article summarizes the milestones in 
the development of eliglustat leading to this first approval for Gaucher disease 
type 1.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-014-0296-3 
PMID: 25239269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Am J Dermatopathol. 2015 Jan;37(1):e1-4. doi: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000000055.

Rare presentation of secondary cutaneous involvement by splenic marginal zone
lymphoma: report of a case and review of the literature.

Cohen JM(1), Nazarian RM, Ferry JA, Takvorian RW, Carter JB.

Author information: 
(1)*Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Departments of †Pathology, ‡Medicine,
Division of Hematology-Oncology, and §Dermatology, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

Cutaneous lymphomas encompass a broad spectrum of malignancies, including both
primary and secondary cutaneous lymphomas. Determining the exact subtype of
cutaneous lymphoma offers prognostic importance and directs therapeutic
decisions. We describe the case of a 67-year-old woman with cutaneous involvement
of splenic marginal zone lymphoma successfully treated with rituximab and
bendamustine. We discuss the diagnostic work-up, including the histopathologic
findings and treatment of this disease.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000000055 
PMID: 25238446  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Can J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Nov;28(10):558-64. Epub 2014 Sep 15.

Management of thrombocytopenia in advanced liver disease.

Gangireddy VG, Kanneganti PC, Sridhar S, Talla S, Coleman T.

Thrombocytopenia (defined as a platelet count <150×10(9)) is a well-known
complication in patients with liver cirrhosis and has been observed in 76% to 85%
of patients. Significant thrombocytopenia (platelet count <50×10(9) to 75×10(9)) 
occurs in approximately 13% of patients with cirrhosis. Thrombocytopenia can
negatively impact the care of patients with severe liver disease by potentially
interfering with diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Multiple factors can
contribute to the development of thrombocytopenia including splenic platelet
sequestration, immunological processes, bone marrow suppression by chronic viral 
infection, and reduced levels or activity of the hematopoietic growth factor
thrombopoietin. The present review focuses on the etiologies and management
options for severe thrombocytopenia in the setting of advanced liver disease.


PMCID: PMC4234356
PMID: 25222481  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Eur J Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 15;747:200-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.08.031. Epub
2014 Sep 16.

Small-molecule inhibitors for autoimmune arthritis: success, failure and the
future.

Ho LJ(1), Lai JH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cellular and System Medicine, National Health Research Institute,
Zhunan, Taiwan, ROC. (2)Graduate Institute of Medical Science, National Defense
Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC; Division of Allergy, Immunology and
Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital,
Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address:
laiandho@gmail.com.

Treatment of patients with aggressive autoimmune arthritis, such as rheumatoid
arthritis (RA), is a considerable challenge for physicians, particularly
rheumatologists. Because of the nature of autoimmune arthritis, effective and
complete suppression of disease activity has been the primary therapeutic goal.
Although currently available disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) can
successfully control the disease progression in a large proportion of patients,
the benefit/risk ratio is not very much satisfied. The introduction of biologic
agents such as anti-tumor necrosis factor-α, anti-interleukin-6, and anti-CD20
brings significant help to those patients with an inadequate response to
treatment with DMARDs. In considering the limitation of currently available
DMARDs and biologics, the development of new DMARDs, small-molecule inhibitors
(SMIs), has recently emerged. In the past few years, a great volume of knowledge 
has been revealed from the experience of examining the usefulness of several SMIs
for therapeutics of autoimmune arthritis. This paper addresses the up-to-date
knowledge regarding autoimmune arthritis, therapeutics, findings from recently
developed SMIs and the benefits and drawbacks of the development of SMIs. In
addition, perspectives on the future development of SMIs for autoimmune arthritis
will be described and discussed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.08.031 
PMID: 25220243  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:926203. doi: 10.1155/2014/926203. Epub 2014 Aug 18.

Hepatosplenic sarcoidosis: contrast-enhanced ultrasound findings and implications
for clinical practice.

Tana C(1), Dietrich CF(2), Schiavone C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Internistic Ultrasound, Department of Medicine and Science of Aging,
"G. d'Annunzio" University, Via dei Vestini 29, 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(2)Medizinische Klinik 2, Caritas-Krankenhaus, Uhlandstraße 7, 97980 Bad
Mergentheim, Germany.

Sarcoidosis is a complex granulomatous disease that affects virtually every organ
and tissue, with a prevalence that varies significantly among the sites involved.
The role of conventional imaging, such as computed tomography and magnetic
resonance imaging, in the assessment of hepatosplenic sarcoidosis is well
established by revealing organ enlargement, multiple discrete nodules, and
lymphadenopathy. In this review, we aim to describe contrast-enhanced ultrasound 
(CEUS) findings in liver and spleen involvement by sarcoidosis, reporting
evidence from the literature and cases from our experience, after a brief update 
on safety profile, cost-effectiveness, and clinical indications of this novel
technique. Furthermore, we highlight potential advantages of CEUS in assessing
hepatosplenic sarcoidosis that may be useful in the clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/926203 
PMCID: PMC4151864
PMID: 25215299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Diagn Pathol. 2014 Sep 3;9:169. doi: 10.1186/s13000-014-0169-9.

Primary spleen extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma, nasal type, with bone marrow
involvement and CD30 positive expression: a case report and literature review.

Cao Q, Huang Y, Ye Z, Liu N, Li S, Peng T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen
University, 58, Zhongshan Road II, Guangzhou 510080, China.
pengtsh@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

AIMS: Primay spleen NK/T cell lymphoma is very rare. We report a case of
39-years-old male of primary splenic NK/T cell lymphoma with bone marrow
involvement and CD30 positive expression.
CASE DESCRIPTION: The patient had high fever for 2 months, and CT scan revealed a
diffuse splenomegaly without hepatomegaly. The diagnosis was established by
splenectomy specimen and bone marrow biopsy. Normal spleen structure was
destroyed by the diffusely infiltrated neoplastic cells, and one of the splenic
hilar lymph nodes was involved. The lymphomatous cells were mainly medium-sized, 
mixed with small and large cells with pleomorphic nuclei and conspicuous
nucleoli. Angiocentric growth pattern was present, with mitotic figures and
apoptotic bodies easily being found. These neoplastic cells demonstrated a
typical immunophenotype of CD2, CD3ε, CD7, CD4, CD56, TIA-1, Granzyme B, CD30
positive, and CD5, CD8, CD20, CD79a negative. The Epstein-Barr virus encoded RNAs
(EBERs) genomes were also found in tumor cells by in situ hybridization, while no
clonal rearrangement of the T cell receptor-γ genes (TCRG) was found. Biopsy of
bone marrow revealed scattered atypical cells presented with a predominantly
intrasinusoidal distribution. A diagnosis as primary spleen NK/T cell lymphoma,
nasal type (ENKTL) with CD30 expression and bone marrow involvement was finally
made. The patient received chemotherapy and was still alive 6 months after
splenectomy.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Primary spleen ENKTL is very rare, it should be made with 
the combination of clinical feature, PET-CT image, and pathological
characteristics, and should be distinguished from other lymphomas or leukemia
involved in spleen.
VIRTUAL SLIDES: The virtual slide(s) for this article can be found here:
http://www.diagnosticpathology.diagnomx.eu/vs/13000_2014_169.

DOI: 10.1186/s13000-014-0169-9 
PMCID: PMC4167522
PMID: 25183396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


163. G Chir. 2014 Jul-Aug;35(7-8):181-4.

Isolated splenic metastasis of ovaric cancer. Case report and literature review.

Resta G, Vedana L, Marino S, Scagliarini L, Bandi M, Anania G.

Splenic metastasis is extremely rare and are usually found in conjunction with
metastasis of other organs. In addition, late recurrence even after 10 years of
operation is very unusual. The most common sources of splenic metastasis are
lung, colonrectal, melanoma, breast and ovarian carcinoma. We present a case of
67 year old woman who was admitted to our department with a solitary splenic
metastases after hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for ovaric
carcinoma 10 years ago. In conclusion, solitary splenic metastasis are very rare 
and the incidence of the reported cases in the medical literature is increasing. 
The treatment of choice is laparoscopic splenectomy that must be followed by
chemotherapy in order to prevent the development of other possible
micrometastases.


PMCID: PMC4321525
PMID: 25174293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Radiol Clin North Am. 2014 Sep;52(5):1087-99. doi: 10.1016/j.rcl.2014.05.012.
Epub 2014 Jul 5.

Complications of optical colonoscopy: CT findings.

Daly B(1), Lu M(2), Pickhardt PJ(3), Menias CO(4), Abbas MA(5), Katz DS(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
22 South Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. Electronic address:
bdaly@umm.edu. (2)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, University of Maryland
School of Medicine, 22 South Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine & Public
Health, 600 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53792, USA. (4)Department of Radiology, 
Mayo Clinic, 13400 East Shea Boulevard, Scottsdale, AZ 85259, USA. (5)Digestive
Disease Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Al Maryah Island, Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates. (6)Department of Radiology, Winthrop-University Hospital, 259 First
Street, Mineola, NY 11501, USA.

The development of colorectal cancer screening programs in many countries has led
to increasingly large numbers of patients undergoing optical colonoscopy.
Although acute complications from screening optical colonoscopy are uncommon,
they may occur in up to 5% or more of patients where biopsies or therapeutic
procedures are performed. Abdominal radiographs are of value only for the
detection of intraperitoneal perforation. There is a wide spectrum of other
important associated complications. Such complications are most reliably
identified using abdominal and pelvic CT, which also can guide appropriate
conservative, interventional, or surgical management.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rcl.2014.05.012 
PMID: 25173660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Blood. 2014 Oct 16;124(16):2487-97. doi: 10.1182/blood-2014-03-300319. Epub 2014 
Aug 27.

Bedside to bench in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia: insights into
leukemogenesis from a rare pediatric leukemia.

Chang TY(1), Dvorak CC(1), Loh ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Benioff Children's Hospital, and the Helen Diller
Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA.

Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is a typically aggressive myeloid
neoplasm of childhood that is clinically characterized by overproduction of
monocytic cells that can infiltrate organs, including the spleen, liver,
gastrointestinal tract, and lung. JMML is categorized as an overlap
myelodysplastic syndrome/myeloproliferative neoplasm (MDS/MPN) by the World
Health Organization and also shares some clinical and molecular features with
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, a similar disease in adults. Although the
current standard of care for patients with JMML relies on allogeneic
hematopoietic stem cell transplant, relapse is the most frequent cause of
treatment failure. Tremendous progress has been made in defining the genomic
landscape of JMML. Insights from cancer predisposition syndromes have led to the 
discovery of nearly 90% of driver mutations in JMML, all of which thus far
converge on the Ras signaling pathway. This has improved our ability to
accurately diagnose patients, develop molecular markers to measure disease
burden, and choose therapeutic agents to test in clinical trials. This review
emphasizes recent advances in the field, including mapping of the genomic and
epigenome landscape, insights from new and existing disease models, targeted
therapeutics, and future directions.

© 2014 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2014-03-300319 
PMID: 25163700  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Malar J. 2014 Aug 26;13:335. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-13-335.

Plasmodium falciparum malaria and invasive bacterial co-infection in young
African children: the dysfunctional spleen hypothesis.

Gómez-Pérez GP(1), van Bruggen R, Grobusch MP, Dobaño C.

Author information: 
(1)Barcelona Centre for International Health Research (CRESIB, Hospital
Clínic-Universitat de Barcelona), Barcelona 08036, Spain.
patricia.gomez@cresib.cat.

Children with recent or acute malaria episodes are at increased risk of invasive 
bacterial infections (IBI). However, the exact nature of the malaria-IBI
association is still unclear. Young children have an age-related spleen
immunologic immaturity, mainly due to the still ongoing development of the
marginal zone (MZ) B cell subset. By mounting a rapid antibody response against
encapsulated bacteria, these cells are critical for the defence against highly
pathogenic microorganisms that do not elicit classical T cell-dependent
responses. There is increasing evidence that the anatomy of the spleen becomes
disorganized during malaria infection, with complete dissolution of the MZ and
apoptosis of MZ B cells. Correspondingly, a reduction in the frequency of the
peripheral equivalent of the MZ B cells has been found in malaria endemic areas. 
A remarkable similarity exists in IBI susceptibility between African children
with malaria and hyposplenic or splenectomized patients. However, studies
specifically assessing the immune function of the spleen in controlling bacterial
infections in young children with malaria are scarce.Here, it is hypothesized
that Plasmodium falciparum malaria infection constitutes a detrimental factor in 
the still immature spleen function of young children, resulting in a factually
hyposplenic state during malaria episodes, putting children with malaria at a
high risk to develop life-threatening bacterial infections. Studies to confirm or
reject this hypothesis are greatly needed, as well as the development of
affordable and feasible tools to assess the immune spleen function against
encapsulated bacteria in children with malaria.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-13-335 
PMCID: PMC4161853
PMID: 25158979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2014 Dec;9(4):350-9. doi: 10.1007/s11899-014-0229-y.

Ruxolitinib: long-term management of patients with myelofibrosis and future
directions in the treatment of myeloproliferative neoplasms.

Yacoub A(1), Odenike O, Verstovsek S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, University of Kansas Medical Center,
3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA.

Considerable clinical experience regarding the long-term efficacy and safety of
ruxolitinib has been gathered since the drug was approved in the USA for patients
with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis (MF) in November 2011. Findings from
the pivotal phase 3 COMFORT studies showed that ruxolitinib-associated reductions
in MF-related splenomegaly and symptom burden occur rapidly and in the majority
of patients. Two- and 3-year follow-up data further suggest that the benefits of 
ruxolitinib are durable and associated with a survival advantage compared with
conventional therapies. However, careful management of treatment-related
thrombocytopenia and anemia with dose modifications and supportive care is
critical to allow chronic therapy. Based on preliminary evidence, ruxolitinib
also allows spleen size and symptom reduction before allogeneic stem cell
transplantation without negative effect on engraftment or outcomes. In recent
studies, ruxolitinib provided effective management of hematologic parameters and 
symptoms in patients with polycythemia vera refractory to or intolerant of
hydroxyurea.

DOI: 10.1007/s11899-014-0229-y 
PMCID: PMC4223534
PMID: 25145552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Eur J Immunol. 2014 Oct;44(10):2847-53. doi: 10.1002/eji.201344407. Epub 2014 Aug
25.

Cytosolic DNA sensing via the stimulator of interferon genes adaptor: Yin and
Yang of immune responses to DNA.

Lemos H(1), Huang L, McGaha TL, Mellor AL.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer immunology, Inflammation and Tolerance Program, Cancer Center, Georgia 
Regents University, Augusta, GA, USA.

DNA is immunogenic and many cells express cytosolic DNA sensors that activate the
stimulator of interferon genes (STING) adaptor to trigger interferon type I
(IFN-β) release, a potent immune activator. DNA sensing to induce IFN-β triggers 
host immunity to pathogens but constitutive DNA sensing can induce sustained
IFN-β release that incites autoimmunity. Here, we focus on cytosolic DNA sensing 
via the STING/IFN-β pathway that regulates immune responses. Recent studies
reveal that cytosolic DNA sensing via the STING/IFN-β pathway induces indoleamine
2,3 dioxygenase (IDO), which catabolizes tryptophan to suppress effector and
helper T-cell responses and activate Foxp3-lineage CD4(+) regulatory T (Treg)
cells. During homeostasis, and in some inflammatory settings, specialized innate 
immune cells in the spleen and lymph nodes may ingest and sense cytosolic DNA to 
reinforce tolerance that prevents autoimmunity. However, malignancies and
pathogens may exploit DNA-induced regulatory responses to suppress natural and
vaccine-induced immunity to malignant and infected cells. In this review, we
discuss the biologic significance of regulatory responses to DNA and novel
approaches to exploit DNA-induced immune responses for therapeutic benefit. The
ability of DNA to drive tolerogenic or immunogenic responses highlights the need 
to evaluate immune responses to DNA in physiologic settings relevant to disease
progression or therapy.

© 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.201344407 
PMCID: PMC4197080
PMID: 25143264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Lupus. 2014 Nov;23(13):1426-9. doi: 10.1177/0961203314546018. Epub 2014 Aug 8.

Fulminant systemic vasculitis in systemic lupus erythematosus. Case report and
review of the literature.

Medina G(1), González-Pérez D(2), Vázquez-Juárez C(3), Sánchez-Uribe M(4),
Saavedra MA(5), Jara LJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Unit, Hospital de Especialidades Centro Médico La Raza IMSS,
Mexico City, Mexico Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Rheumatology Department, Hospital de Especialidades Centro Médico La Raza
IMSS, Mexico City, Mexico. (3)Direction of Education and Research, Hospital de
Especialidades Centro Médico La Raza IMSS, Mexico City, Mexico. (4)Pathology
Department, Hospital de Especialidades Centro Médico La Raza IMSS, Mexico City,
Mexico. (5)Rheumatology Department, Hospital de Especialidades Centro Médico La
Raza IMSS, Mexico City, Mexico Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico
City, Mexico. (6)Direction of Education and Research, Hospital de Especialidades 
Centro Médico La Raza IMSS, Mexico City, Mexico Universidad Nacional Autónoma de 
México, Mexico City, Mexico luis_jara_quezada@hotmail.com.

Vasculitis in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) has a broad spectrum of clinical
manifestations from cutaneous to visceral involvement and its prognosis ranges
from mild to life-threatening. We report the case of a previously healthy
17-year-old woman with eight months' history of arthralgias and myalgias.
Subsequently, she developed facial and lower limbs edema, and hair loss. Two
weeks before admission to a secondary level hospital, she developed fever up to
40°C followed by abdominal pain, rectal bleeding, hematemesis and blisters on
both legs, reason for which she was hospitalized. With active bullous SLE with
rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis suspected, she was treated with
methylprednisolone pulses without response. After one week of treatment, she was 
transferred to a tertiary level hospital. On admission she presented acute
arterial insufficiency of the lower extremities, respiratory failure with apnea, 
metabolic acidosis and shock; six hours later she died. Autopsy findings showed
active diffuse lupus nephritis and diffuse systemic vasculitis that involved
vessels from the skin, brain, myocardium, spleen, iliac and renal arteries. In
addition, serositis of the small intestine and colon, acute and chronic
pericarditis, pericardial effusion and myocarditis were found. Immunologic tests 
confirmed SLE diagnosis. In this case the fulminant course was the result of SLE 
high disease activity, visceral vasculitis of several organs and late diagnosis, 
referral and treatment. Early diagnosis, and opportune referral to the
rheumatologist for intensive treatment can improve the outlook in these patients.

© The Author(s) 2014 Reprints and permissions:
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/0961203314546018 
PMID: 25107938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2014 Nov;49(11):1352-9. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2014.176. Epub
2014 Aug 4.

An update on allogeneic hematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation for
myeloproliferative neoplasms in the era of tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

Adekola K(1), Popat U(1), Ciurea SO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation and Cellular Therapy, The University
of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.

Myeloproliferative neoplasms are a category of diseases that have been
traditionally amenable to allogeneic hematopoietic progenitor cell
transplantation. Current developments in drug therapy have delayed
transplantation for more advanced phases of the disease, especially for patients 
with CML, whereas transplantation remains a mainstream treatment modality for
patients with advanced myelofibrosis and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.
Reduced-intensity conditioning has decreased the treatment-related mortality, and
advances in the use of alternative donors for transplantation could extend the
use of this procedure to an increasing number of patients with improved safety
and efficacy. Here we review the current knowledge about allogeneic
transplantation for myeloproliferative neoplasms and discuss the most important
aspects to be considered when contemplating transplantation for patients with
these diseases. Janus kinase 2 inhibitors offer the promise to improve spleen
size and performance of patients with myelofibrosis and extend transplantation
for patients with more advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1038/bmt.2014.176 
PMID: 25089599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nat Cell Biol. 2014 Aug;16(8):717-27. doi: 10.1038/ncb3015.

The tumour-induced systemic environment as a critical regulator of cancer
progression and metastasis.

McAllister SS(1), Weinberg RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Department of Medicine,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 02115, USA; the Broad Institute of
Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 02142, USA; and the Harvard Stem Cell 
Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 02138, USA. (2)Whitehead Institute for
Biomedical Research, the Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, and the MIT Ludwig Center for Molecular Oncology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, 02142, USA.

Recent pre-clinical and clinical research has provided evidence that cancer
progression is driven not only by a tumour's underlying genetic alterations and
paracrine interactions within the tumour microenvironment, but also by complex
systemic processes. We review these emerging paradigms of cancer pathophysiology 
and discuss how a clearer understanding of systemic regulation of cancer
progression could guide development of new therapeutic modalities and efforts to 
prevent disease relapse following initial diagnosis and treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/ncb3015 
PMID: 25082194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2014 Aug;28(4):747-64, vii. doi:
10.1016/j.hoc.2014.04.002.

Use of magnetic resonance imaging to monitor iron overload.

Wood JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital, Los Angeles, Keck School of
Medicine, University of Southern California, 4650 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, 
CA 90027, USA; Department of Radiology, Children's Hospital, Los Angeles, Keck
School of Medicine, University of Southern California, 4650 Sunset Boulevard, Los
Angeles, CA 90027, USA. Electronic address: jwood@chla.usc.edu.

Treatment of iron overload requires robust estimates of total-body iron burden
and its response to iron chelation therapy. Compliance with chelation therapy
varies considerably among patients, and individual reporting is notoriously
unreliable. Even with perfect compliance, intersubject variability in chelator
effectiveness is extremely high, necessitating reliable iron estimates to guide
dose titration. In addition, each chelator has a unique profile with respect to
clearing iron stores from different organs. This article presents the tools
available to clinicians to monitor their patients, focusing on noninvasive
magnetic resonance imaging methods because they have become the de facto standard
of care.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2014.04.002 
PMCID: PMC4115249
PMID: 25064711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 2014 Jul;195(2):82-7. doi:
10.1016/j.molbiopara.2014.07.006. Epub 2014 Jul 23.

The role of PfEMP1 adhesion domain classification in Plasmodium falciparum
pathogenesis research.

Smith JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Seattle Biomedical Research Institute, Seattle, WA, USA; Department of Global 
Health, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address:
joe.smith@seattlebiomed.org.

The Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1) family has a
key role in parasite survival, transmission, and virulence. PfEMP1 are exported
to the erythrocyte membrane and mediate binding of infected erythrocytes to the
endothelial lining of blood vessels. This process aids parasite survival by
avoiding spleen-dependent killing mechanisms, but it is associated with
adhesion-based disease complications. Switching between PfEMP1 proteins enables
parasites to evade host immunity and modifies parasite tropism for different
microvascular beds. The PfEMP1 protein family is one of the most diverse adhesion
modules in nature. This review covers PfEMP1 adhesion domain classification and
the significant role it is playing in deciphering and deconvoluting P. falciparum
cytoadhesion and disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molbiopara.2014.07.006 
PMCID: PMC4159067
PMID: 25064606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


174. J Endourol. 2014 Nov;28(11):1256-67. doi: 10.1089/end.2014.0344. Epub 2014 Sep 5.

Gastrointestinal system complications in percutaneous nephrolithotomy: a
systematic review.

Öztürk H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, School of Medicine, Sifa University , Izmir, Turkey .

PURPOSE: To evaluate gastrointestinal tract complications of percutaneous
nephrolithotomy (PCNL), to determine risk factors, and to develop strategies for 
diagnosis and treatment.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A literature review was conducted for the studies published
in the English language in the databases of PubMed and Scopus between July 1985
and June 2013. The key words for digital literature search were limited to the
following: "percutaneous nephrolithotomy complications, ([splenic injury, liver
injury, gallbladder injury and biliary peritonitis, colonic injury] during/after 
[percutaneous nephrolithotomy]), complication, Clavien, Clavien-Dindo
classification, management, review, PNL, PCNL."
RESULTS: A total of 16 articles on splenic injury were reviewed. There was no
consensus in the literature regarding the management of splenic injuries. A
conservative approach with new treatment modalities is the most widely accepted
method in the literature. A total of seven articles on gallbladder injury were
reviewed. All gallbladder injuries resulted in cholecystectomy. The time of
diagnosis is the most significant parameter determining choice between
laparoscopy and laparotomy. A total of seven articles on liver injury were
reviewed. The liver injury generally provides the best response to a conservative
approach among other solid organ injuries. A total of 11 articles on bowel injury
were reviewed. Bowel injury mostly results in exploratory laparotomy. Unlike
colon injuries, bowel injuries are more complex to manage with conservative
measures because of the challenges in diagnosis and the fact that the injury is
located in the intraperitoneal area. A total of 28 articles, which comprised a
large case series with colon injuries, consisted of collaborative reviews and
meta-analyses were reviewed. In total, 51 colon injuries (0.5%) were evaluated
occurring in 13,424 patients in supine and prone PCNL series. Conservative
approaches have proven to be effective in colon injuries in the absence of large 
perforations and intraperitoneal involvement.
CONCLUSION: There is a downward trend in gastrointestinal complications from PCNL
because of the technologic advances that guide the diagnosis and treatment.
Paradoxically, the rate of complications is higher in complex kidney stones such 
as those in a horseshoe kidney and pelvic and malrotated kidney that represent
anatomic challenges for intervention. The most important point is to determine
the risk factors for preoperative planning of the procedure and to diagnose the
complications for proper management early.

DOI: 10.1089/end.2014.0344 
PMID: 25057959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


175. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2014 Aug;203(2):315-22. doi: 10.2214/AJR.13.11777.

Nonneoplastic, benign, and malignant splenic diseases: cross-sectional imaging
findings and rare disease entities.

Thipphavong S(1), Duigenan S, Schindera ST, Gee MS, Philips S.

Author information: 
(1)1 Joint Department of Medical Imaging, Women's College Hospital, 76 Grenville 
St, 2nd Fl, Rm 2238, Toronto, ON M5S 1B2, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Splenic lesions are commonly encountered and are often incidental in
nature. Benign splenic vascular neoplasms include hemangioma, hamartoma,
lymphangioma, extra-medullary hematopoiesis (EMH), and sclerosing angiomatoid
nodular transformation (SANT). Uncommonly encountered entities of the spleen
include focal EMH, focal myeloma, angiomyolipoma, and SANT. Primary splenic
angiosarcoma is the most common malignant nonhematolymphoid malignancy of the
spleen. Lymphoma, myeloma, and metastases are the other malignant entities
involving the spleen. The clinical presentation, key imaging findings, and
associations of benign, neoplastic, and malignant diseases that can involve the
spleen will be discussed.
CONCLUSION: Radiologists can use multimodality imaging to diagnose entities
involving the spleen by recognizing key imaging features and considering patient 
characteristics. However, biopsy may be warranted for definitive diagnosis when
imaging findings are nonspecific.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.13.11777 
PMID: 25055265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Mediators Inflamm. 2014;2014:950472. doi: 10.1155/2014/950472. Epub 2014 Jun 23.

The regulatory role of activating transcription factor 2 in inflammation.

Yu T(1), Li YJ(2), Bian AH(3), Zuo HB(2), Zhu TW(2), Ji SX(2), Kong F(2), Yin
DQ(2), Wang CB(2), Wang ZF(2), Wang HQ(2), Yang Y(4), Yoo BC(5), Cho JY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Linyi Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Linyi 276000, China ;
Department of Genetic Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon 440-746,
Republic of Korea. (2)Linyi Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Linyi
276000, China. (3)Laiwu Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Laiwu 271100, 
China. (4)Department of Genetic Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon
440-746, Republic of Korea. (5)Research Institute and Hospital, National Cancer
Center, Goyang 410-769, Republic of Korea.

Activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2) is a member of the leucine zipper family
of DNA-binding proteins and is widely distributed in tissues including the liver,
lung, spleen, and kidney. Like c-Jun and c-Fos, ATF2 responds to stress-related
stimuli and may thereby influence cell proliferation, inflammation, apoptosis,
oncogenesis, neurological development and function, and skeletal remodeling.
Recent studies clarify the regulatory role of ATF2 in inflammation and describe
potential inhibitors of this protein. In this paper, we summarize the properties 
and functions of ATF2 and explore potential applications of ATF2 inhibitors as
tools for research and for the development of immunosuppressive and
anti-inflammatory drugs.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/950472 
PMCID: PMC4090481
PMID: 25049453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Aug;18(3):661-74. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.05.008.

Multivisceral transplantation: where do we stand?

Bhamidimarri KR(1), Beduschi T(2), Vianna R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Miami Transplant Institute, University of Miami, 1500 Northwest 12th Avenue,
Suite 1101, Miami, FL 33136, USA. (2)Miami Transplant Institute, University of
Miami, Highland Professional Building, 1801 Northwest 9th Avenue, Suite 310,
Miami, FL 33136, USA. (3)Miami Transplant Institute, University of Miami,
Highland Professional Building, 1801 Northwest 9th Avenue, Suite 310, Miami, FL
33136, USA. Electronic address: rvianna@med.miami.edu.

Intestinal transplantation is the definitive therapy for patients with
irreversible intestinal failure and can be combined with transplantation of other
abdominal organs, such as stomach, spleen, and pancreas with or without liver.
There is an increasing trend in the volume of intestinal and multivisceral
transplantation in the past few decades and there is also increasing trend in
patient and graft survival primarily due to improved patient selection, advances 
in immunosuppression, and improved perioperative management. This review
summarizes the various key elements in patient selection, types of grafts, and
updates in the perioperative management involved in multivisceral
transplantation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.05.008 
PMID: 25017082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Curr Opin Genet Dev. 2014 Jun;26:59-65. doi: 10.1016/j.gde.2014.06.004. Epub 2014
Jul 10.

Single cell sequencing approaches for complex biological systems.

Baslan T(1), Hicks J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology (MCB), Stony Brook University,
Stony Brook, NY 11790, United States; Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (CSHL), Cold 
Spring Harbor, NY 11724, United States. (2)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (CSHL), 
Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724, United States. Electronic address: hicks@cshl.edu.

Biological phenotype is the output of complex interactions between heterogeneous 
cells within a specified niche. These interactions are tightly governed and
regulated by the genetic, epigenetic, and transcriptional states of single cells,
with deregulation of these states resulting in disease. As such, genome wide
single cell investigations are bound to enhance our knowledge of the underlying
principles that govern biological systems. Recent technological advances have
enabled such investigations in the form of single-cell sequencing. Here, we
review the most recent developments in genome wide profiling of single cells,
discuss some of the novel biological observations gleaned by such investigations,
and touch upon the promise of single cell sequencing in unraveling biological
systems.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gde.2014.06.004 
PMID: 25016438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2014 Jun;35(3):330-5. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1376862.
Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Sarcoidosis and common variable immunodeficiency: similarities and differences.

Verbsky JW(1), Routes JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is a primary immunodeficiency that is
characterized by hypogammaglobulinemia and poor/absent specific antibody
production. Granulomatous and lymphocytic interstitial lung disease (GLILD) is an
increasingly recognized complication of CVID, occurring in 10 to 20% of patients.
GLILD is characterized by non-necrotizing granuloma, lymphocytic interstitial
pneumonitis and follicular bronchiolitis-histological patterns that are typically
present in the same biopsy. GLILD is a multisystem disease and is frequently
accompanied by diffuse adenopathy, splenomegaly, and extrapulmonary granulomatous
disease most commonly in the lymph nodes, spleen, liver, and gastrointestinal
tract. The presence of noncaseating granuloma in the lung along with some of the 
extrapulmonary features of GLILD may lead to an incorrect diagnosis of
sarcoidosis. However, GLILD differs from sarcoidosis in several important ways
including mode of presentation, extrapulmonary manifestations, radiographic
abnormalities on high-resolution computed tomography scan of the chest, and
laboratory features (serum immunoglobulins, bronchoalveolar lavage, and
histopathology). The misdiagnosis of sarcoidosis in a patient with CVID and GLILD
can lead to inappropriate treatment and increase the morbidity and mortality of
the disorder.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1376862 
PMID: 25007085  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Minerva Chir. 2014 Aug;69(4):229-37.

Massive splenomegaly correlates with malignancy: 180 cases of splenic littoral
cell tumors in the world literature.

Sarandria JJ(1), Escano M, Kamangar F, Farooqui S, Montgomery E, Cunningham SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Saint Agnes Hospital Center, Baltimore, MD, USA -
steven.cunningham@stagnes.org.

Littoral cell tumors (LCT) are rare primary splenic neoplasms, unique for their
morphologic and immunolabeling features resembling the endothelial littoral cells
lining the sinusoids of the red pulp. They include the more common and typically 
benign littoral cell angioma, as well as the less common, potentially malignant, 
littoral cell hemangioendothelioma (LCHE) and the aggressive littoral cell
angiosarcoma (LCAS). The most common presentation of these neoplasms is
splenomegaly, and diagnosis is made histologically following biopsy or resection.
To better understand these tumors, a comprehensive, international literature
search was performed. Patient and tumor data, including presenting symptoms,
comorbid cancers, immunosuppressive states, splenic mass and tumor size were
analyzed. Massive splenomegaly (≥ 1500 g) following splenic resection, which
correlates with a splenic length of 20 cm preoperatively, was found to be
significantly associated with the presence of malignancy in the LCT (P<0.05).


PMID: 24987971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2014 Jul;138(7):969-73. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2013-0074-CR.

De novo CD3 negative hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma: diagnostic challenges and
pitfalls.

Kapur LH(1), Khaled Y, Solh M, Ward D, Chang CC.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Orlando Health (Dr
Harn Kapur), Department of Hematology/Oncology, Florida Hospital Cancer Institute
(Drs Khaled and Solh), and Department of Pathology, Florida Hospital, University 
of Central Florida School of Medicine (Drs Ward and Chang), Orlando.

Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma is a rare and aggressive peripheral T-cell
malignancy that is distinctively characterized by sinusoidal infiltration of
mature medium-sized T lymphocytes in the spleen and liver. The neoplastic cells
are classically surface CD3(+), CD2(+), CD5(-), CD4(-), and CD8(+/-) and manifest
variable expression of markers associated with natural killer (NK) cells such as 
CD16 and CD56. In this article, we report the first case to date of a newly
diagnosed de novo surface CD3(-) hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma with circulating
blastlike neoplastic cells expressing NK-cell-associated markers. The lack of
surface CD3 expression, together with the expression of NK-cell-associated
markers and the leukemic presentation, leads to significant diagnostic challenges
in differentiating this CD3(-) hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma from NK-cell
neoplasms, in particular aggressive NK-cell leukemia. The related literature is
reviewed, and the approaches for adequate diagnosis of this novel situation are
described.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2013-0074-CR 
PMID: 24978925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2014 Apr 15;7(5):2421-9. eCollection 2014.

Clinicopathologic characteristics of inflammatory pseudotumor-like follicular
dendritic cell sarcoma.

Ge R(1), Liu C(1), Yin X(1), Chen J(1), Zhou X(1), Huang C(1), Yu W(1), Shen
X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis, Ningbo Diagnostic Pathology Center Ningbo 315021,
China.

Inflammatory pseudotumor (IPT)-like follicular dendritic cell (FDC) sarcoma is a 
recently described rare tumor and considered a unique entity, with different
histologic appearances and behavior from those of the classical FDC sarcoma. This
study analyzed the clinical and pathological findings of two such cases that the 
authors encountered and 36 previously reported cases identified in the
literature. Assessment of all 38 cases showed a slight female predominance
(2.2:1) with a median age of 56.5 years. Seventeen patients complained of
abdominal discomfort or pain, while fifteen patients had no clinical symptom.
Almost all cases occurred in liver (n=20) or spleen (n=17). Except in one case,
all patients underwent surgical resection of the tumor alone. Histologic features
showed a mixture of chronic inflammatory cells and variable amounts of spindle
cells with vesicular nuclei and distinct nucleoli. The tumor cells expressed
conventional FDC markers such as CD21 (75%), CD35 (92%), CD23 (62%), clusterin
(75%), and CNA.42 (100%). EBV was detected in thirty-five cases (92.1%) by
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded RNA in situ hybridization, and EBV-latent
membrane protein-1 was expressed in 90% of the cases. With a median follow-up of 
21 months, 29 patients (85.3%) were alive and well, 4 (11.8%) were alive with
disease, one patient (2.9%) died of disease. Only four patients with hepatic
tumors underwent recurrence or metastasis after initial treatment. Epstein-Barr
virus is thought to play a role in the development of the tumor; however, the
pathogenesis of the disease and the origin of tumor cells remain unclear.


PMCID: PMC4069939
PMID: 24966952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 2014 Jan;45(1):142-8.

Arcanobacterium pyogenes endocarditis: a case report and literature review.

Chesdachai S, Larbcharoensub N, Chansoon T, Chalermsanyakorn P, Santanirand P,
Chotiprasitsakul D, Ratanakorn D, Boonbaichaiyapruck S.

We report the case of a 64-year-old man with Arcanobacterium pyogenes
endocarditis. The patient presented with dyspnea and asymmetrical progressive
quadriparesis. A transthoracic echocardiogram revealed mobile vegetations on both
leaflets of his mitral valve measuring 0.5 x 3 cm, thickening of the mitral valve
with severe mitral regurgitation due to dehiscence of the papillary muscle to the
posterior mitral leaflet. He also had aortic sclerosis with a vegetation
measuring 0.5 x 1 cm causing aortic valve dehiscence and free flow aortic
regurgitation. An initial hemoculture grew out pleomorphic, gram-positive,
non-motile, anaerobic to microaerophilic bacilli. A diagnosis of infective
endocarditis was made using modified Duke criteria. He was treated with
intravenous ampicillin and gentamicin. Four days after admission, he developed
acute respiratory failure and succumbed to the disease. A pre-mortem hemoculture 
and post-mortem heart valve culture grew Arcanobacterium pyogenes. Septic
thromboemboli involving the brain, kidneys, lungs and spleen were documented. The
patient also had ischemic vasculopathy with focal spinal arteriolitis and
bilateral demyelination of the cervical corticospinal tracts. There are three
published reports of human A. pyogenes endocarditis in the literature.
Neurological involvement with ischemic spinal vasculopathy and demyelination has 
not been reported. We report the first autopsy proven case of A. pyogenes
infective endocarditis with ischemic spinal vasculopathy. We review the
clinicopathologic features of systemic A. pyogenes infection.


PMID: 24964663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Jun 20;(6):CD009135. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD009135.pub2.

Rapid tests for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in patients with
suspected disease.

Boelaert M(1), Verdonck K, Menten J, Sunyoto T, van Griensven J, Chappuis F,
Rijal S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: The diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in patients with fever
and a large spleen relies on showing Leishmania parasites in tissue samples and
on serological tests. Parasitological techniques are invasive, require
sophisticated laboratories, consume time, or lack accuracy. Recently, rapid
diagnostic tests that are easy to perform have become available.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the diagnostic accuracy of rapid tests for diagnosing VL
in patients with suspected disease presenting at health services in endemic
areas.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, CIDG SR, CENTRAL,
SCI-expanded, Medion, Arif, CCT, and the WHO trials register on 3 December 2013, 
without applying language or date limits.
SELECTION CRITERIA: This review includes original, phase III, diagnostic accuracy
studies of rapid tests in patients clinically suspected to have VL. As reference 
standards, we accepted: (1) direct smear or culture of spleen aspirate; (2)
composite reference standard based on one or more of the following: parasitology,
serology, or response to treatment; and (3) latent class analysis.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data and
assessed quality of included studies using the QUADAS-2 tool. Discrepancies were 
resolved by a third author. We carried out a meta-analysis to estimate
sensitivity and specificity of rapid tests, using a bivariate normal model with a
complementary log-log link function. We analysed each index test separately. As
possible sources of heterogeneity, we explored: geographical area, commercial
brand of index test, type of reference standard, disease prevalence, study size, 
and risk of bias (QUADAS-2). We also undertook a sensitivity analysis to assess
the influence of imperfect reference standards.
MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-four studies containing information about five index tests
(rK39 immunochromatographic test (ICT), KAtex latex agglutination test in urine, 
FAST agglutination test, rK26 ICT, and rKE16 ICT) recruiting 4271 participants
(2605 with VL) were included. We carried out a meta-analysis for the rK39 ICT
(including 18 studies; 3622 participants) and the latex agglutination test (six
studies; 1374 participants). The results showed considerable heterogeneity. For
the rK39 ICT, the overall sensitivity was 91.9% (95% confidence interval (95% CI)
84.8 to 96.5) and the specificity 92.4% (95% CI 85.6 to 96.8). The sensitivity
was lower in East Africa (85.3%; 95% CI 74.5 to 93.2) than in the Indian
subcontinent (97.0%; 95% CI 90.0 to 99.5). For the latex agglutination test,
overall sensitivity was 63.6% (95% CI 40.9 to 85.6) and specificity 92.9% (95% CI
76.7 to 99.2).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The rK39 ICT shows high sensitivity and specificity for the
diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in patients with febrile splenomegaly and no 
previous history of the disease, but the sensitivity is notably lower in east
Africa than in the Indian subcontinent. Other rapid tests lack accuracy,
validation, or both.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009135.pub2 
PMCID: PMC4468926
PMID: 24947503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2014 Aug;108(8):455-60. doi: 10.1093/trstmh/tru095.
Epub 2014 Jun 18.

Splenic infarction and malaria.

Norman FF(1), Rojas-Marcos J(2), Hermida-Donate JM(2), Monge-Maillo B(3),
Perez-Molina JA(3), López-Vélez R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Diseases Department, Ramón y Cajal Hospital, IRYCIS, Madrid, Spain 
Tropical Medicine and Clinical Parasitology Unit, Ramón y Cajal Hospital, IRYCIS,
Madrid, Spain ffnorman@gmail.com. (2)Infectious Diseases Department, Ramón y
Cajal Hospital, IRYCIS, Madrid, Spain. (3)Infectious Diseases Department, Ramón y
Cajal Hospital, IRYCIS, Madrid, Spain Tropical Medicine and Clinical Parasitology
Unit, Ramón y Cajal Hospital, IRYCIS, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Splenic infarction is a well recognised complication of malaria that 
has been infrequently reported in the literature.
METHODS: A review was performed to describe the spectrum of characteristics
associated with this complication.
RESULTS: Most patients presented with fever, left upper quadrant pain and/or
splenomegaly, but no specific symptoms or signs appear to predict underlying
infarction. The majority of cases reported were associated with autochthonous
Plasmodium vivax infections, whereas cases reported in travellers were mostly due
to P. falciparum acquired in Africa.
CONCLUSION: Identification of infarction may allow specific recommendations for
management, and associated complications such as splenic rupture should be
excluded. Outcome is generally favourable and conservative management is the
preferred option.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Royal
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. All rights reserved. For permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/trstmh/tru095 
PMID: 24942899  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Leuk Res. 2014 Sep;38(9):1004-12. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2014.04.012. Epub 2014
May 9.

Are we altering the natural history of primary myelofibrosis?

Savona MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN,
USA. Electronic address: michael.savona@vanderbilt.edu.

Comment in
    Leuk Res. 2014 Sep;38(9):1013-5.

Primary myelofibrosis (PMF) is a clonal hematologic malignancy with a variable
disease course; survival ranges from months to years. Historically, only
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (alloHSCT) has demonstrated an
ability to alter the natural history of PMF, but high treatment-related mortality
risks limit the utility of alloHSCT to a minority of patients with PMF or
myelofibrosis secondary to other myeloproliferative neoplasms. The recent
development of therapies that regulate the Janus kinase-signal transducer and
activator of transcription signaling pathway has changed the treatment landscape 
from primarily palliative treatment to potential disease modification.

Copyright © 2014 The Author. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2014.04.012 
PMID: 24931396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2014 Feb;25(1):88-91. doi: 10.5152/tjg.2014.3521.

Spontaneous giant splenic hydatid cyst rupture causing fatal anaphylactic shock: 
a case report and brief literature review.

Belli S(1), Akbulut S, Erbay G, Koçer NE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital,
Diyarbakır, Turkey.

Hydatid disease is a parasitic infection characterized by cyst formation in any
organ, although the liver and lungs are most commonly involved. Hydatid disease
of the spleen is uncommon, representing <8% of all human hydatid diseases.
Splenic hydatid cysts usually coexist with liver hydatid cysts (secondary form), 
although the spleen is the primary location (primary form) in some cases. The
clinical signs and symptoms of splenic hydatid cysts depend on their size,
relationship with adjacent organs, and complications. One of the complications of
splenic hydatid cysts is cyst rupture either after trauma or spontaneously as a
result of increased intracystic pressure. These cysts may rupture into a hollow
organ, through the diaphragm into the pleural cavity, or directly into the
peritoneal cavity. A splenic hydatid cyst that ruptures into the peritoneal
cavity may cause complications, including signs of peritoneal irritation,
urticaria, anaphylaxis, and death, as in our case. Therefore, a hydatid cyst
rupture requires both emergency surgery and careful postoperative care. In this
study, we present a case of a giant splenic hydatid cyst that ruptured into the
peritoneal cavity without any trauma. A review of cases reported in the English
literature about splenic hydatid cyst perforation is also discussed.

DOI: 10.5152/tjg.2014.3521 
PMID: 24918138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Surg Radiol Anat. 2015 Jul;37(5):419-24. doi: 10.1007/s00276-014-1322-6. Epub
2014 Jun 11.

Hepatocellular carcinoma in situs ambiguus: CT findings of a rare disposition.

Deshorgue AC(1), Bouras AF, Riva F, Boleslawski E, Pruvot FR, Truant S.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Chirurgie Digestive et Transplantations, Hopital Claude Huriez,
CHU, Univ Nord de France, 59000, Lille, France.

Heterotaxic disorders or situs ambiguus are uncommon anatomical variations
constituted by a partial mirror-image disposition of intra thoracic and/or
abdominal solid organs. These variations are challenging because rarely met in a 
surgeon's career, and because of the coexistence of numerous other anatomical
variants, like ones related to the asymmetrical organs, causing difficulties when
a surgical management is required. We report the case of a 57-year-old patient
presenting liver cirrhosis in which regular follow-up discovered a hepatocellular
carcinoma of the right part of the liver associated to numerous anatomical
variations in the setting of a situs ambiguus. This patient was successfully
treated by a sub-segmentectomy via a right sub-costal laparotomy. There were
neither peroperative nor postoperative complications. This case emphasizes the
technical difficulties faced, successfully managed thanks to a good preoperative 
screening, and allows us to review literature of such a rare and challenging
situation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00276-014-1322-6 
PMID: 24916356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


189. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 May 21;20(19):5794-800. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i19.5794.

Laparoscopic splenectomy for hypersplenism secondary to liver cirrhosis and
portal hypertension.

Zhan XL(1), Ji Y(1), Wang YD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Xiao-Li Zhan, Yun Ji, Yue-Dong Wang, Department of General Surgery, Second
Affiliated Hospital Zhejiang University College of Medicine, 88 Jiefang RD,
Hangzhou 310009, Zhejiang Province, China.

Since the first laparoscopic splenectomy (LS) was reported in 1991, LS has become
the gold standard for the removal of normal to moderately enlarged spleens in
benign conditions. Compared with open splenectomy, fewer postsurgical
complications and better postoperative recovery have been observed, but LS is
contraindicated for hypersplenism secondary to liver cirrhosis in many
institutions owing to technical difficulties associated with splenomegaly,
well-developed collateral circulation, and increased risk of bleeding. With the
improvements of laparoscopic technique, the concept is changing. This article
aims to give an overview of the latest development in laparoscopic splenectomy
for hypersplenism secondary to liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension. Despite a
lack of randomized controlled trial, the publications obtained have shown that
with meticulous surgical techniques and advanced instruments, LS is a technically
feasible, safe, and effective procedure for hypersplenism secondary to cirrhosis 
and portal hypertension and contributes to decreased blood loss, shorter hospital
stay, and less impairment of liver function. It is recommended that the dilated
short gastric vessels and other enlarged collateral circulation surrounding the
spleen be divided with the LigaSure vessel sealing equipment, and the splenic
artery and vein be transected en bloc with the application of the endovascular
stapler. To support the clinical evidence, further randomized controlled trials
about this topic are necessary.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i19.5794 
PMCID: PMC4024788
PMID: 24914339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Adv Anat Pathol. 2014 Jul;21(4):291-9. doi: 10.1097/PAP.0000000000000031.

Selected case from the Arkadi M. Rywlin international pathology slide series:
lymphangiomatosis of the spleen associated with ipsilateral abdominopelvic and
lower extremity venolymphatic malformations: a case report and review of the
literature.

Bisceglia M(1), Chiaramonte A, Lauriola W, Galliani CA, Musto P, Colacchio G.

Author information: 
(1)*IRCCS, Referral Cancer Center of Basilicata, Rionero in Vulture (Pz), Italy
†Department of Surgery ‡Division of Vascular and Interventional Radiology, IRCCS 
Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza Hospital, San Giovanni Rotondo (Fg), Italy
∥Division of Vascular Surgery, IRCCS F. Miulli Hospital, Acquaviva delle Fonti
(Ba), Italy §Department of Pathology, Cook's Children Medical Center, Fort Worth,
TX.

Herein, we report a 26-year-old patient with lymphangiomatosis of the spleen
associated with multiple lymphatic and venous malformations. This patient
underwent excision of a large lymphatic malformation of the left abdominal wall
during childhood. A venous malformation of her left lower limb was excised during
adolescence. Additional lymphatic malformations were found in the soft tissue of 
her left thigh at the age of 20. During hospitalization for a huge vulvar
hemangioma at the age of 26, she was incidentally found to have asymptomatic
splenomegaly, for which she underwent splenectomy. Examination of the spleen
revealed diffuse involvement by a lymphatic anomaly predominantly forming small
cystic spaces. Lymphangiomatosis of the spleen is rare and is classically
separated into an isolated or pure form and a generalized form when it is
associated with involvement of other viscera and/or multiple soft-tissue planes. 
This patient was affected by a borderline form of splenic lymphangiomatosis with 
limited somatic involvement of the superficial soft tissues and blood vessels.
Notably, all the additional vascular malformations in this patient were left
sided, and at this time there was no additional involvement of internal organ. No
hereditary or known syndrome was identified.

DOI: 10.1097/PAP.0000000000000031 
PMID: 24911254  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


191. J Chin Med Assoc. 2014 Jul;77(7):345-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jcma.2014.04.006. Epub
2014 Jun 3.

Update on treatment of gastric cancer.

Kuo CY(1), Chao Y(2), Li CP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University Hospital, Yilan, Taiwan,
ROC; National Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC;
Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital,
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC. (2)National Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, Taipei,
Taiwan, ROC; Department of Oncology Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital,
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC; Central Clinic Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC. (3)National
Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC; Division of
Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital,
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address: cpli@vghtpe.gov.tw.

Surgery is the main treatment for curing gastric cancer. Early diagnosis provides
an excellent survival outcome via an improved detection of early gastric cancer
and an improved resection rate. The extent of lymphadenectomy surgery has been
under debate for a long time. In East Asian countries, especially Japan, Korea,
and Taiwan, gastrectomy with D2 dissection is routinely performed. By contrast,
in most Western countries, gastrectomy with D1 dissection is performed, due to
lower mortality and morbidity. Recently, acceptance of D2 surgery has increased
in Western countries because: (1) modified D2 lymphadenectomy (preservation of
pancreas and spleen) improves operative morbidity and mortality; (2) Western
surgeons can be trained to performed D2 lymph node dissection on Western patients
safely; and (3) D2 resection decreases locoregional recurrence and prolongs
survival. Current guidelines in the United States and Europe suggest modified D2 
dissection is recommended, but needs to be performed by high-volume centers with 
experienced surgeons. Adjuvant or perioperative chemotherapy should be prescribed
for gastric cancer with Stage II or III disease, due to its marked benefits of
reducing disease recurrence and increasing long-term survival. Patients with
inoperable advanced gastric cancer should receive chemotherapy to improve their
survival and quality of life if an acceptable performance status can be achieved.
Targeted therapy with trastuzumab should be considered in patients with HER-2/neu
overexpression who have a higher response rate and a longer survival.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcma.2014.04.006 
PMID: 24907022  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Transl Stroke Res. 2014 Oct;5(5):543-53. doi: 10.1007/s12975-014-0349-7. Epub
2014 Jun 5.

Molecular and cellular immune responses to ischemic brain injury.

Seifert HA(1), Pennypacker KR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology, School of Basic
Biomedical Sciences, Morsani College of Medicine, University of South Florida,
12901 Bruce B Downs Blvd., MDC Box 8, Tampa, FL, 33612, USA.

Despite extensive research into stroke pathology, there have not been any major
recent advancements in stroke therapeutics. Animal models of cerebral ischemia
and clinical data have been used to investigate the progressive neural injury
that occurs after an initial ischemic insult. This has lead researchers to focus 
more on the peripheral immune response that is generated as a result of cerebral 
ischemia. The therapies that have been developed as a result of this research
thus far have proven ineffective in clinical trials. The failure of these
therapeutics in clinical trials is thought to be due to the broad
immunosuppression elicited as a result of the treatments and the cerebral
ischemia itself. Emerging evidence indicates a more selective modulation of the
immune system following stroke could be beneficial. The spleen has been shown to 
exacerbate neural injury following experimental stroke and would provide a strong
therapeutic target. Selecting facets of the immune system to target would allow
the protective and regenerative properties of the immune response to remain
intact while blunting the pro-inflammatory response generated towards the injured
brain.

DOI: 10.1007/s12975-014-0349-7 
PMCID: PMC4125453
PMID: 24895236  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Int J Nanomedicine. 2014 May 6;9 Suppl 1:85-105. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S51854.
eCollection 2014.

Stealth nanotubes: strategies of shielding carbon nanotubes to evade opsonization
and improve biodistribution.

Kotagiri N(1), Kim JW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bio/Nano Technology Laboratory, Institute for Nanoscience and Engineering,
University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, USA ; Department of Biological and
Agricultural Engineering, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, USA ; Cell
and Molecular Biology Graduate Program, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR,
USA ; Optical Radiology Laboratory, Department of Radiology, Washington
University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA. (2)Bio/Nano Technology
Laboratory, Institute for Nanoscience and Engineering, University of Arkansas,
Fayetteville, AR, USA ; Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering,
University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, USA ; Cell and Molecular Biology
Graduate Program, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, USA.

Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have recently been in the limelight for their potential
role in disease diagnostics and therapeutics, as well as in tissue engineering.
Before these medical applications can be realized, there is a need to address
issues like opsonization, phagocytosis by macrophages, and sequestration to the
liver and spleen for eventual elimination from the body; along with equally
important issues such as aqueous solubility, dispersion, biocompatibility, and
biofunctionalization. CNTs have not been shown to be able to evade such
biological obstacles, which include their nonspecific attachments to cells and
other biological components in the bloodstream, before reaching target tissues
and cells in vivo. This will eventually determine their longevity in circulation 
and clearance rate from the body. This review article discusses the current
status, challenges, practical strategies, and implementations of coating CNTs
with biocompatible and opsonin-resistant moieties, rendering CNTs transparent to 
opsonins and deceiving the innate immune response to make believe that the CNTs
are not foreign. A holistic approach to the development of such "stealth" CNTs is
presented, which encompasses not only several biophysicochemical factors that are
not limited to surface treatment of CNTs, but also extraneous biological factors 
such as the protein corona formation that inevitably controls the in vivo fate of
the particles. This review also discusses the present and potential applications,
along with the future directions, of CNTs and their hybrid-based nanotheranostic 
agents for multiplex, multimodal molecular imaging and therapy, as well as in
other applications, such as drug delivery and tissue engineering.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S51854 
PMCID: PMC4024978
PMID: 24872705  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Fetal Pediatr Pathol. 2014 Aug;33(4):216-25. doi: 10.3109/15513815.2014.913748.
Epub 2014 May 27.

Splenic hamartomas in Alagille syndrome: case report and literature review.

James AW(1), Nguyen A, Said J, Genshaft S, Lassman CR, Teitell M.

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.

Alagille syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disorder with characteristic
findings of paucity of intrahepatic bile ducts, congenital heart disease, and
vertebral, ocular, and renal abnormalities. We present a unique autopsy case of
an 18-year-old female with Alagille syndrome and splenic hamartomas. Autopsy
findings included growth restriction, Tetralogy of Fallot, paucity of
intrahepatic bile ducts, end-stage renal disease with mesangiolipidosis, and
splenomegaly with two well-circumscribed, splenic tumors. Histologic findings of 
the splenic tumors revealed disorganized vascular channels lined by cells without
cytologic atypia. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated CD8(+)CD31(+)
endothelial cells, consistent with splenic hamartomas. In summary, Alagille
syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by JAG1 mutations and disrupted
Notch signaling. Review of the literature highlights the importance of Notch
signaling in vascular development and disorders. However, to our knowledge this
is the first description of splenic hamartomas in Alagille syndrome.

DOI: 10.3109/15513815.2014.913748 
PMID: 24865822  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Br J Haematol. 2014 Jul;166(2):165-76. doi: 10.1111/bjh.12950. Epub 2014 May 26.

The spleen and sickle cell disease: the sick(led) spleen.

Brousse V(1), Buffet P, Rees D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Reference Centre for Sickle Cell Disease, Hôpital
Universitaire Necker-Enfants Malades, APHP, Paris, France; Université Paris
Descartes, Paris, France; Laboratory of Excellence GR-Ex, Paris, France.

The spleen has a combined function of immune defence and quality control of
senescent or altered red cells. It is the first organ injured in sickle cell
anaemia (SCA) with evidence of hyposplenism present before 12 months in the
majority of children. Repeated splenic vaso-occlusion leads to fibrosis and
progressive atrophy of the organ (autosplenectomy), which is generally complete
by 5 years in SCA. The precise sequence of pathogenic events leading to
hyposplenism is unknown. Splenic injury is generally silent and progressive. It
can be clinically overt with acute splenic sequestration of red cells, an
unpredictable and life-threatening complication in infants. Splenomegaly, with or
without hypersplenism, can also occur and can coexist with loss of function.
Hyposplenism increases the susceptibility of SCA children to infection with
encapsulated bacteria, which is notably reduced by penicillin prophylaxis and
immunization. Whether hyposplenism indirectly increases the risk of
vaso-occlusion or other circulatory complications remains to be determined.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.12950 
PMID: 24862308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2014 Mar-Apr;47(2):130-6. Epub 2014 Apr 11.

Revisiting the concept of hepatosplenic schistosomiasis and its challenges using 
traditional and new tools.

Lambertucci JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Clínica Médica, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, BRAZIL.

Comment in
    Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2014 Mar-Apr;47(2):127-9.

Different aspects of hepatosplenic schistosomiasis are revisited here. Manson's
schistosomiasis causes periportal fibrosis and portal hypertension in
approximately 6% of infected subjects, usually with preservation of their hepatic
function. The assessment of liver involvement is of major importance in
determining the prognosis and risk of complications from schistosomiasis, such as
upper digestive bleeding secondary to variceal rupture. For many years, the
diagnosis of hepatosplenic schistosomiasis and liver fibrosis was made by
abdominal palpation and the finding of liver and/or spleen enlargement. However, 
there is no consensus regarding the clinical parameters of the liver and spleen
to be considered in this physical evaluation. For the last three decades,
abdominal ultrasound (US) has become the best imaging technique to evaluate liver
fibrosis caused by schistosomiasis mansoni. However, US is a subjective procedure
and is therefore examiner-dependent. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings
have provided valuable information in addition to ultrasound and clinical
examination. The combination of a comprehensive history and physical examination,
basic laboratory tests (a stool examination for Schistosoma mansoni eggs and a
blood cell count), biomarkers for liver fibrosis/portal hypertension and imaging 
methods seem to offer the best approach for evaluating patients with this
disease. In situations where research is involved or in patients with severe
disease, MRI may be considered.


PMID: 24861284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Curr Probl Diagn Radiol. 2014 Sep-Oct;43(5):254-67. doi:
10.1067/j.cpradiol.2014.04.002. Epub 2014 May 24.

Cross-sectional imaging of nontraumatic emergencies of the spleen.

Alabousi A(1), Patlas MN(1), Scaglione M(2), Romano L(3), Soto JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Emergency/Trauma Radiology, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada. (2)Department of Radiology, Pineta Grande Medical Center, Castel
Volturno, Caserta, Italy. (3)Department of Radiology, Cardarelli Hospital,
Naples, Italy. (4)Department of Radiology, Boston University, Boston, MA.
Electronic address: patlas@hhsc.ca.

Multiple nontraumatic splenic emergencies are encountered during the imaging of
patients in emergency room. Occasionally, patients are investigated for symptoms 
of suspected splenic pathology, such as abscess, infarct, symptomatic splenic
artery aneurysm and pseudoaneurysm, splenic torsion, or rupture. More often,
however, splenic emergencies, such as splenic masses and splenic vein thrombosis,
are detected in patients in the emergency room during the evaluation of
nonspecific abdominal pain. It is essential for radiologists to be vigilant in
the identification of nontraumatic splenic emergencies and to be familiar with
interventional radiology management options for these pathologies. Our aim is to 
highlight factors affecting lesion detection on multiple imaging modalities and
to discuss the advantages of different cross-sectional modalities for the
diagnosis of splenic abnormalities. Finally, we review the management options
with emphasis on interventional radiology where applicable.

Copyright © 2014 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1067/j.cpradiol.2014.04.002 
PMID: 24861235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2014 Jul;15(10):1465-73. doi:
10.1517/14656566.2014.923404. Epub 2014 May 24.

Efficacy of ruxolitinib for myelofibrosis.

Santos FP(1), Verstovsek S.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein, Hematology and Oncology Center , São
Paulo, SP , Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: The discovery of the activating JAK2 V617F mutation in patients
with myelofibrosis (MF) led to the development of JAK2 inhibitors. The first such
inhibitor to enter clinical trials was ruxolitinib . This review summarizes
preclinical and clinical data of ruxolitinib in MF.
AREAS COVERED: A literature search through Medline employing the terms
'ruxolitinib,' 'INCB018424' and 'myelofibrosis' was undertaken. The results from 
Phase I/II studies in patients with MF showed that ruxolitinib led to durable
improvements in splenomegaly, and symptoms associated with MF. Two Phase III
trials have compared ruxolitinib against placebo and best available therapy, and 
in both studies ruxolitinib demonstrated superior rates of spleen control and
symptom improvement, and additional analysis demonstrated a survival benefit with
ruxolitinib treatment. The main toxicities seen with ruxolitinib are cytopenias, 
which are managed with dose adjustments. Recent reports documented sporadic cases
of immunosuppression-related infections. Ruxolitinib is the first drug ever
approved for the therapy of patients with MF.
EXPERT OPINION: Understanding the factors that predict the rate and duration of
response to ruxolitinib would improve our ability to manage patients treated with
this medication. Clinical trials combining ruxolitinib with novel compounds that 
are also active in MF will further improve therapy for this disease.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2014.923404 
PMCID: PMC4824286
PMID: 24856675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Int Surg. 2014 May-Jun;99(3):291-4. doi: 10.9738/INTSURG-D-13-00250.1.

Asymptomatic partial splenic infarction in laparoscopic floppy Nissen
fundoplication and brief literature review.

Odabasi M(1), Abuoglu HH, Arslan C, Gunay E, Yildiz MK, Eris C, Ozkan E, Aktekin 
A, Muftuoglu T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Haydarpasa Education and Research Hospital, Istanbul,
Turkey.

Short gastric vessels are divided during the laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication
resulting in splenic infarct in some cases. We report a case of laparoscopic
floppy Nissen fundoplication with splenic infarct that was recognized during the 
procedure and provide a brief literature review. The patient underwent a
laparoscopic floppy Nissen fundoplication. We observed a partial infarction of
the spleen. She reported no pain. A follow-up computed tomography scan showed an 
infarct, and a 3-month abdominal ultrasound showed complete resolution.
Peripheral splenic arterial branches have very little collateral circulation.
When these vessels are occluded or injured, an area of infarction will occur
immediately. Management strategies included a trial of conservative management
and splenectomy for persistent symptoms or complications resulting from splenic
infarct. In conclusion, we believe that the real incidence is probably much
higher because many cases of SI may have gone undiagnosed during or following an 
operation, because some patients are asymptomatic. We propose to check spleen
carefully for the possibility of splenic infarct.

DOI: 10.9738/INTSURG-D-13-00250.1 
PMCID: PMC4027916
PMID: 24833155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Transplantation. 2014 May 15;97(9):881-9. doi: 10.1097/TP.0000000000000024.

Donor-derived West Nile virus infection in solid organ transplant recipients:
report of four additional cases and review of clinical, diagnostic, and
therapeutic features.

Winston DJ(1), Vikram HR, Rabe IB, Dhillon G, Mulligan D, Hong JC, Busuttil RW,
Nowicki MJ, Mone T, Civen R, Tecle SA, Trivedi KK, Hocevar SN; West Nile Virus
Transplant-Associated Transmission Investigation Team.

Author information: 
(1)1 UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA. 2 Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, AZ. 3 U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Fort Collins, CO. 4 Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA. 5 Mendez National Institute of
Transplantation, Los Angeles, CA. 6 One Legacy, Los Angeles, CA. 7 Los Angeles
County Department of Public Health, Los Angeles, CA. 8 Arizona Department of
Health Services, Phoenix, AZ. 9 California Department of Public Health, Richmond,
CA. 10 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA. 11 West Nile
Virus Transplant-Associated Transmission Investigation Team: Dianna M. Blau, Julu
Bhatnagar, Dominique Rollin, Matthew Kuehnert, Sherif R. Zaki (U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA); J. Erin Staples, Marc Fischer (U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Fort Collins, CO). 12 Address
correspondence to: Drew J. Winston, M.D., Room 42-121 CHS, Department of
Medicine, UCLA Center for the Health Sciences, Los Angeles, CA, 90095.

We describe four solid-organ transplant recipients with donor-derived West Nile
virus (WNV) infection (encephalitis 3, asymptomatic 1) from a common donor
residing in a region of increased WNV activity. All four transplant recipients
had molecular evidence of WNV infection in their serum and/or cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF) by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing. Serum 
from the organ donor was positive for WNV IgM but negative for WNV RNA, whereas
his lymph node and spleen tissues tested positive for WNV by RT-PCR. Combination 
therapy included intravenous immunoglobulin (4 cases), interferon (3 cases),
fresh frozen plasma with WNV IgG (2 cases), and ribavirin (1 case). Two of the
four transplant recipients survived.Review of the 20 published cases of
organ-derived WNV infection found that this infection is associated with a high
incidence of neuroinvasive disease (70%) and severe morbidity and mortality
(30%). Median time to onset of symptomatic WNV infection was 13 days after
transplantation (range 5-37 days). Initial unexplained fever unresponsive to
antibiotic therapy followed by rapid onset of neurologic deficits was the most
common clinical presentation. Confirmation of infection was made by testing serum
and CSF for both WNV RNA by RT-PCR and WNV IgM by serological assays. Treatment
usually included supportive care, reduction of immunosuppression, and frequent
intravenous immunoglobulin. The often negative results for WNV by current RT-PCR 
and serological assays and the absence of clinical signs of acute infection in
donors contribute to the sporadic occurrence of donor-derived WNV infection.
Potential organ donors should be assessed for unexplained fever and neurological 
symptoms, particularly if they reside in areas of increased WNV activity.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0000000000000024 
PMID: 24827763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Radiographics. 2014 May-Jun;34(3):E73-88. doi: 10.1148/rg.343135047.

Diffusion-weighted imaging in pediatric body MR imaging: principles, technique,
and emerging applications.

Chavhan GB(1), Alsabban Z, Babyn PS.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Diagnostic Imaging, The Hospital for Sick Children and 
University of Toronto, 555 University Ave, Toronto, ON, Canada M5G 1X8 (G.B.C.,
Z.A.); and Department of Medical Imaging, Royal University Hospital, Saskatoon,
Canada (P.S.B.).

Diffusion-weighted (DW) imaging is an emerging technique in body imaging that
provides indirect information about the microenvironment of tissues and lesions
and helps detect, characterize, and follow up abnormalities. Two main challenges 
in the application of DW imaging to body imaging are the decreased
signal-to-noise ratio of body tissues compared with neuronal tissues due to their
shorter T2 relaxation time, and image degradation related to physiologic motion
(eg, respiratory motion). Use of smaller b values and newer motion compensation
techniques allow the evaluation of anatomic structures with DW imaging. DW
imaging can be performed as a breath-hold sequence or a free-breathing sequence
with or without respiratory triggering. Depending on the mobility of water
molecules in their microenvironment, different normal tissues have different
signals at DW imaging. Some normal tissues (eg, lymph nodes, spleen, ovarian and 
testicular parenchyma) are diffusion restricted, whereas others (eg, gallbladder,
corpora cavernosa, endometrium, cartilage) show T2 shine-through. Epiphyses that 
contain fatty marrow and bone cortex appear dark on both DW images and apparent
diffusion coefficient maps. Current and emerging applications of DW imaging in
pediatric body imaging include tumor detection and characterization, assessment
of therapy response and monitoring of tumors, noninvasive detection and grading
of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis, detection of abscesses, and evaluation of
inflammatory bowel disease.

RSNA, 2014

DOI: 10.1148/rg.343135047 
PMID: 24819803  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


202. In Vivo. 2014 May-Jun;28(3):327-32.

Paraneoplastic phenomena and diagnostic challenges in angioimmunoblastic T-cell
lymphoma (AITL): report of two cases and review of the literature.

Pircher A(1), Verdorfer I, Brunner A, Hopfinger G, Steurer M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine V, Medical University of Innsbruck,
Anichstrasse 35, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria. andreas.pircher@i-med.ac.at.

BACKGROUND: Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) is an aggressive subtype of
peripheral T-cell lymphoma with unique clinical, pathological and genetic
features. Clinical diagnosis is often hampered as typical lymphoma-associated
symptoms may not be found at the time of first presentation and only occur later 
during disease progression. However, as AITL leads to a de-regulated immune
system, various paraneoplastic syndromes or autoimmune reactions may represent
the first clinical signs, resulting in delayed diagnosis and treatment.
CASE REPORT: We herein describe two AITL cases characterized by a fatal clinical 
course and the occurrence of unusual paraneoplastic phenomena, including fluid
retention and disseminated intravascular coagulation, respectively. Despite
multiple diagnostic procedures, both patients died of rapid disease progression
and definitive diagnoses could only be established post-mortem.
CONCLUSION: These cases underscore the complex diagnostic challenges of AITL and 
illustrate the requirement for careful clinical evaluation and prompt integration
of different diagnostic parameters, including immunohistochemistry, flow
cytometry, conventional cytogenetics and molecular genetics, to enable adequate
and prompt therapeutic interventions.


PMID: 24815834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Curr Opin Hematol. 2014 Jul;21(4):341-9. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000048.

Targeting the B-cell receptor signaling pathway in B lymphoid malignancies.

Buchner M(1), Müschen M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California, San Francisco,
San Francisco, California, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Normal B cells that have failed to productively rearrange
immunoglobulin V region genes encoding a functional B-cell receptor (BCR) are
destined to die. Likewise, the majority of B-cell malignancies remain dependent
on functional BCR signaling, whereas in some subtypes BCR expression is missing
and, apparently, counterselected. Here, we summarize the recent experimental
evidence for the importance of BCR signaling and clinical concepts to target the 
BCR pathway in B-cell leukemia and lymphoma.
RECENT FINDINGS: Although the dependency on pre-BCR signaling in pre-B acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) seems to be limited to few ALL subtypes (e.g.
TCF3-PBX1), most mature B-cell lymphomas rely on BCR signaling provided by
different stimuli, for example tonic B-cell signaling, chronic (auto)-antigen
exposure, and self-binding properties of the BCR. The finding that in chronic
lymphocytic leukemia, BCRs bind to an epitope on the BCR itself unravels a novel 
concept for chronic lymphocytic leukemia pathogenesis.
SUMMARY: Targeting of the B-cell receptor tyrosine kinases spleen tyrosine
kinase, Bruton's tyrosine kinase, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase achieve
promising clinical responses in various mature B-cell malignancies and might also
be useful in defined subsets of ALL. However, further understanding of the BCR
signal integration in the different disease groups is required to accurately
predict which groups of patients will benefit from BCR pathway inhibition.

DOI: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000048 
PMCID: PMC4136419
PMID: 24811161  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Leuk Lymphoma. 2015 Feb;56(2):301-10. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2014.919636. Epub
2014 Aug 19.

Splenic marginal-zone lymphoma: ontogeny and genetics.

Baliakas P(1), Strefford JC, Bikos V, Parry M, Stamatopoulos K, Oscier D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Science for Life laboratory,
Uppsala University , Uppsala , Sweden.

Splenic marginal-zone lymphoma (SMZL) is a rare tumor that has recently emerged
as a prototype for how the interplay between genetics and environment shapes the 
natural history of lymphomas. Indeed, the recent identification of molecular
immunogenetic subgroups within SMZL may prove to be relevant not only for the
sub-classification of the disease but also for improved understanding of the
underlying biology. In contrast to other B-cell lymphomas, SMZL lacks a
characteristic genetic lesion, although the majority of cases harbor genomic
aberrations, as recently revealed by high-throughput studies that identified
recurrent genetic aberrations, several in pathways related to marginal-zone
differentiation and B-cell signaling. Here we provide an overview of recent
research into the molecular and cellular biology of SMZL and related disorders,
with special emphasis on immunogenetics and genomic aberrations, and discuss the 
value of molecular and cellular markers for the diagnosis and differential
diagnosis of these entities.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2014.919636 
PMID: 24798744  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:814869. doi: 10.1155/2014/814869. Epub 2014 Mar 30.

Targeting spleen tyrosine kinase-Bruton's tyrosine kinase axis for
immunologically mediated glomerulonephritis.

Chen JS(1), Chang LC(2), Huang SJ(3), Cheng CW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Tri-Service General
Hospital, Taipei 114, Taiwan. (2)School of Pharmacy, National Defense Medical
Center, Taipei 114, Taiwan. (3)School of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, China
Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan ; Chinese Medicine Research and
Development Center, and Center for Molecular Medicine, China Medical University
Hospital, Taichung 404, Taiwan. (4)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine,
College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 110, Taiwan ; Graduate
Institute of Medical Sciences, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei 114,
Taiwan.

The importance of B-cell activation and immune complex-mediated Fc-receptor
activation in the pathogenesis of immunologically mediated glomerulonephritis has
long been recognized. The two nonreceptor tyrosine kinases, spleen tyrosine
kinase (Syk) and Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk), are primarily expressed by
hematopoietic cells, and participate in B-cell-receptor- and Fc-receptor-mediated
activation. Pharmacological inhibitors of Syk or Btk are undergoing preclinical
development and clinical trials for several immune diseases; and Syk inhibitors
have been shown to reduce disease activity in rheumatoid arthritis patients.
However, the clinical therapeutic efficacies of these inhibitors in
glomerulonephritis have not been evaluated. Herein, we review recent studies of
Syk and Btk inhibitors in several experimental primary and secondary
glomerulonephritis models. These inhibitors suppressed development of glomerular 
injury, and also ameliorated established kidney disease. Thus, targeting Syk and 
Btk signaling pathways is a potential therapeutic strategy for
glomerulonephritis, and further evaluation is recommended.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/814869 
PMCID: PMC3985139
PMID: 24795896  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Bol Asoc Med P R. 2014;106(1):57-9.

Wandering spleen torsion causing acute abdominal pain in a child: case report and
review of literature.

Llorens Marina CI, Cedeño A, Lugo-Vicente H, Chapel C, Rivera G, Diaz A.

Wandering spleen is a rare occurrence where the spleen normal fixation to the
abdominal wall is lost and thus allowed to change in position. We report a case
of a child who presented with acute abdominal pain secondary to a wandering
spleen complicated by torsion of its vascular pedicle. The diagnosis was promptly
made using computed tomography and managed with splenectomy.


PMID: 24791368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Int J Oncol. 2014 Jul;45(1):5-12. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2014.2395. Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Motility and trafficking in B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Review).

Till KJ(1), Coupland SE(1), Pettitt AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Cancer Medicine, University of Liverpool,
Liverpool L69 3GA, UK.

B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (B-NHLs) consist of a wide spectrum of entities
and consequently have varied clinical courses. Like many other malignancies, each
of the B-NHL depend on their microenvironment for growth and survival; therefore,
understanding the factors involved in their tissue localisation is likely to have
implications for therapies designed to treat B-NHL. This review summarises the
chemokines, integrins and sphingosine-1 phosphate receptors involved in normal B 
cell location and distribution within the lymphoid tissues (lymph nodes, spleen
and bone marrow). It also provides a précis of what is known about these factors 
in the disease state: i.e., in some subtypes of B-NHL.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2014.2395 
PMID: 24788871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Clin Dermatol. 2014 May-Jun;32(3):351-63. doi:
10.1016/j.clindermatol.2013.11.002. Epub 2013 Nov 23.

Sarcoidosis as a systemic disease.

Sehgal VN(1), Riyaz N(2), Chatterjee K(3), Venkatash P(4), Sharma S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Dermato-Venereology (Skin/VD) Center, Sehgal Nursing Home, A/6 Panchwati,
Delhi-110 033, India. Electronic address: drsehgal@ndf.vsnl.net.in. (2)Department
of Dermatology Govt Medical College, Calicut, India. (3)Department of
Dermatology, Bankura Sammilani Medical College, West Bengal, India. (4)Dr R.P.
Center for Opthalmic Sciences AIIMS, New Delhi, India. (5)Department of
Pathology, University College of Medical Sciences, and associated Guru Teg
Bahadur Hospital, Shahdara Delhi, India.

Sarcoidosis is a systemic disease, where for the abnormal localized collections
of chronic inflammatory cells, the granuloma is cardinal, which may result in the
formation of nodule(s) in the tissue of any organ of the body, with lungs and
lymph nodes involvement being the most common. The granulomas are nonnecrotizing.
The disease may either be asymptomatic or chronic. Its onset is gradual and may
improve or clear up spontaneously. Clinical features of specific and nonspecific 
cutaneous lesions are described, emphasizing their role as a prelude to its
systemic manifestations, afflicting respiratory, liver, spleen, musculoskeletal, 
ocular, cardiac, and neurologic systems. The salient briefs of diagnostic
procedures are outlined, in addition to historical background and
etiopathogenesis. Several currently available treatment modalities are outlined
for instant reference.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clindermatol.2013.11.002 
PMID: 24767183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2013 Sep-Dec;79(3-4):134-5.

Tuberculous pancreatitis complicated by ruptured splenic artery pseudoaneurysm.

Irfan M, Thiavalappil F, Nagaraj J, Brown TH, Roberts D, McKnight L, Harrison NK.

Tuberculosis involving the pancreas is rare. We report a patient with pancreatic 
tuberculosis complicated by haemorrhage from a splenic artery pseudoaneurysm. As 
far as we are aware, the development of a splenic artery pseudoaneurysm in
association with a large caseating mass of tuberculous pancreatic lymph nodes has
not been reported previously. We review the literature and discuss the varied
presentations of tuberculosis involving the pancreas or the pancreatic bed and
its draining lymph nodes.

DOI: 10.4081/monaldi.2013.5212 
PMID: 24761532  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


210. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2014 Aug;72(8):1541-4. doi: 10.1016/j.joms.2014.02.038.
Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Facial trauma evaluation leading to a diagnosis of delayed splenic rupture.

Bourgeois SL Jr(1), Fey J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Chief, Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Service; Chief, Dental Service, Syracuse
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Syracuse, NY. Electronic address:
dr.bourgeois@twcny.rr.com. (2)Attending Surgeon, Department of Surgery, Syracuse 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Syracuse, NY.

A patient presented 48 hours after falling and sustaining facial fractures and
was evaluated in an outpatient setting. The patient had been seen at 2 other
hospitals, including a level I trauma center, and discharged home. While
undergoing evaluation for his facial trauma, the patient became severely
hypotensive. The patient was diagnosed with a delayed splenic rupture and
underwent splenectomy.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joms.2014.02.038 
PMID: 24746399  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Immunol Allergy Clin North Am. 2014 May;34(2):323-39. doi:
10.1016/j.iac.2014.01.010.

Pathology of extramedullary mastocytosis.

Doyle LA(1), Hornick JL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
75 Francis Street, Boston, MA 02115 USA. (2)Department of Pathology, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 75 Francis Street, Boston, MA 02115
USA; Mastocytosis Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis Street,
Boston, MA 02115, USA. Electronic address: jhornick@partners.org.

Mastocytosis encompasses a group of clinically and pathologically heterogeneous
disorders most commonly involving the skin, which typically takes the form of
urticaria pigmentosa. Mastocytosis may also involve other organs, most often bone
marrow, followed by gastrointestinal tract, liver, spleen, and lymph nodes. The
presence of extracutaneous involvement by mastocytosis is a major diagnostic
criterion for systemic disease. However, mast cell infiltrates are often subtle
in skin and extracutaneous organs, and the histologic features of mastocytosis at
different anatomic sites may be variable. This article reviews the pathologic
features and clinical correlates of mastocytosis involving skin and other
extramedullary sites.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.iac.2014.01.010 
PMID: 24745677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2014 Feb;41(2):249-52.

[Gastrectomy for a patient with advanced gastric cancer with spleen metastases
following induction chemotherapy with S-1 plus cisplatin].

[Article in Japanese]

Kano Y(1), Ueki K, Yajima K, Tada T, Ishizuka D, Wakai T.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Kashiwazaki General Hospital and Medical Center.

An asymptomatic 56-year-old woman, upon medical examination, was diagnosed with
advanced adenocarcinoma of the upper third of the stomach. Computed tomography
showed that the primary gastric tumor was directly invading the splenic hilum,
and there were multiple metastases in the spleen; incurable gastric cancer was
confirmed. S-1 plus cisplatin therapy was introduced as the induction regimen,
and the main tumor and splenic metastases reduced significantly. Total
gastrectomy with splenectomy and D2 lymphadenectomy was performed after 9 courses
of chemotherapy. The surgery was completed with no residual tumor, and
intraperitoneal washing cytology was negative. Histologically, the primary tumor 
was classified as Grade 2, reflecting the effect of chemotherapy, and viable
metastatic tumors were confirmed in the spleen. S-1-based treatment was continued
as adjuvant chemotherapy, and the patient was alive with no evidence of tumor
recurrence 39 months after the initiation of chemotherapy. Although metastasis to
the spleen from gastric adenocarcinoma has been reported as a rare metastatic
pattern with poor prognosis, our patient had a long survival time after
gastrectomy following induction chemotherapy.


PMID: 24743208  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


213. World J Surg Oncol. 2014 Apr 10;12:92. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-12-92.

Epidermoid cyst of an intrapancreatic accessory spleen: a case report and
literature review.

Zavras N(1), Machairas N, Foukas P, Lazaris A, Patapis P, Machairas A.

Author information: 
(1)Third Department of Surgery, ATTIKO University Hospital, Athens, Greece.
nikzav2000@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: An epidermoid cyst in an intrapancreatic accessory spleen is a rare
lesion. Despite advances in radiologic techniques, in most cases it has been
diagnosed preoperatively as a possible pancreatic neoplasm.
CASE PRESENTATION: Herein, we present a 63-year-old Caucasian woman, diagnosed
preoperatively with enhanced-contrast abdominal computed tomography, as having a 
potential cystic tumor in the tail of the pancreas. The patient underwent a
distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy, and the histological examination revealed 
the presence of an epidermoid cyst of an accessory intrapancreatic spleen.
CONCLUSIONS: Familiarity with the imaging features, the clinical presentation and
the location of the cyst are important to consider if this rare entity is to be
included in the differential diagnosis of cystic neoplasms of the pancreas.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-12-92 
PMCID: PMC3986436
PMID: 24721745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Toxicol Pathol. 2014 Jun;42(4):725-64. doi: 10.1177/0192623314526475. Epub 2014
Apr 3.

Formation, clearance, deposition, pathogenicity, and identification of
biopharmaceutical-related immune complexes: review and case studies.

Rojko JL(1), Evans MG(2), Price SA(3), Han B(2), Waine G(4), DeWitte M(5), Haynes
J(4), Freimark B(6), Martin P(7), Raymond JT(3), Evering W(2), Rebelatto MC(8),
Schenck E(8), Horvath C(9).

Author information: 
(1)Charles River Pathology Associates, Frederick, Maryland, USA
jennifer.rojko@crl.com. (2)Pfizer, Inc, San Diego, California, USA. (3)Charles
River Pathology Associates, Frederick, Maryland, USA. (4)CSL Limited, Parkville, 
Melbourne, Australia. (5)CSL Behring, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Peregrine Pharmaceuticals, Inc, Tustin, California, USA. (7)Janssen, Malvern, 
Pennsylvania, USA. (8)MedImmune, Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA. (9)bluebird bio,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

Vascular inflammation, infusion reactions, glomerulopathies, and other
potentially adverse effects may be observed in laboratory animals, including
monkeys, on toxicity studies of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies and recombinant
human protein drugs. Histopathologic and immunohistochemical (IHC) evaluation
suggests these effects may be mediated by deposition of immune complexes (ICs)
containing the drug, endogenous immunoglobulin, and/or complement components in
the affected tissues. ICs may be observed in glomerulus, blood vessels, synovium,
lung, liver, skin, eye, choroid plexus, or other tissues or bound to neutrophils,
monocytes/macrophages, or platelets. IC deposition may activate complement,
kinin, and/or coagulation/fibrinolytic pathways and result in a systemic
proinflammatory response. IC clearance is biphasic in humans and monkeys (first
from plasma to liver and/or spleen, second from liver or spleen). IC
deposition/clearance is affected by IC composition, immunomodulation, and/or
complement activation. Case studies are presented from toxicity study monkeys or 
rats and indicate IHC-IC deposition patterns similar to those predicted by
experimental studies of IC-mediated reactions to heterologous protein
administration to monkeys and other species. The IHC-staining patterns are
consistent with findings associated with generalized and localized IC-associated 
pathology in humans. However, manifestations of immunogenicity in preclinical
species are generally not considered predictive to humans.

© 2014 by The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1177/0192623314526475 
PMID: 24705884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Med Life. 2013;6(4):369-75. Epub 2013 Dec 25.

Grade IV blunt splenic injury--the role of proximal angioembolization. A case
report and review of literature.

Gheju I(1), Venter MD(1), Beuran M(2), Gulie L(3), Racoveanu I(4), Carstea P(1), 
Iftimie Nastase I(1), Venter DP(2).

Author information: 
(1)3rd Department of Surgery, Clinical Emergency Hospital, Bucharest, Romania.
(2)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania. (3)1st
Department of Interventional Radiology, Clinical Emergency Hospital, Bucharest,
Romania. (4)Department of Radiology, Clinical Emergency Hospital, Bucharest,
Romania.

The authors present a case of grade IV traumatic spleen rupture (AAST-OIS) and an
Injury Severity Score of 21 and a Revised Trauma Score RTS=7.841, which was
managed without surgery, but with proximal splenic angioembolization (SAE), with 
a positive outcome. Indications, types and side-effects of SAE are also discussed
with regard to blunt spleen trauma and the benefits of SAE as non-operative
treatment approach. It is the first case of a grade IV splenic laceration
non-operatively managed to be published in Romania.


PMCID: PMC3973874
PMID: 24701254  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Surg Laparosc Endosc Percutan Tech. 2014 Apr;24(2):95-102. doi:
10.1097/SLE.0b013e3182a83493.

Presentation and management of splenic injury after colonoscopy: a systematic
review.

Piccolo G(1), Di Vita M, Cavallaro A, Zanghì A, Lo Menzo E, Cardì F, Cappellani
A.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Surgery, University of Catania, Catania, Italy †Digestive
Disease Institute, Cleveland Clinic Boulevard, Weston, FL.

This study reviewed all single experience of splenic injuries after colonoscopy
in the last 40 years to define the possible risk factors and the management of
this complication. A MEDLINE and a PubMed search was undertaken to identify
articles in English, French, Spanish, and Italian from 1974 to 2012 using the key
words: "splenic injury," "splenic rupture," and "colonoscopy." Data were analyzed
using descriptive statistic. A total of 103 cases have been described in 75
reports. The majority of the patients were women (71.56%) and 6.85% underwent
previous pelvic surgery. The mean age was 63 years (range, 29 to 90 y). About 61 
of the 103 studies (59.2%) reported the presence or the absence of previous
abdominal surgery and within these, only 31 of 61 patients (50.82%) underwent
previous abdominal surgery. In this review, over half of the patients with
splenic injury underwent colonoscopy for routine surveillance (62.75%), and only 
one third of the splenic injures were associated with biopsy or polypectomy. The 
majority of patients (78.57%) developed symptoms within the first 24 hours after 
colonoscopy and in a minority of cases (21.43%), there was a delayed presentation
24 hours after colonoscopy. Computed tomography was used as the primary modality 
to make the diagnosis in 69 of 98 cases (70.41%) and as a confirmatory test in
many additional cases. Twenty-six of 102 patients (25.49%) were treated by
conservative methods, whereas the majority of patients (69.61%) underwent
splenectomy as a definitive treatment. Because of possible medicolegal
implications, the endoscopists should consider mentioning splenic injury on the
consent form of colonoscopy after bowel perforation and bleeding, particularly in
higher risk patients.

DOI: 10.1097/SLE.0b013e3182a83493 
PMID: 24686342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Auton Neurosci. 2014 May;182:15-41. doi: 10.1016/j.autneu.2014.01.006. Epub 2014 
Feb 8.

Autonomic regulation of cellular immune function.

Bellinger DL(1), Lorton D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Human Anatomy, Loma Linda University, School of
Medicine, Loma Linda, CA, 92350, USA. Electronic address: dbellinger@llu.edu.
(2)College of Arts and Sciences, Kent State University and the Kent Summa
Initiative for Clinical and Translational Research, Summa Health System, Akron,
OH 44304, USA.

The nervous system and the immune system (IS) are two integrative systems that
work together to detect threats and provide host defense, and to maintain/restore
homeostasis. Cross-talk between the nervous system and the IS is vital for health
and well-being. One of the major neural pathways responsible for regulating host 
defense against injury and foreign antigens and pathogens is the sympathetic
nervous system (SNS). Stimulation of adrenergic receptors (ARs) on immune cells
regulates immune cell development, survival, proliferative capacity, circulation,
trafficking for immune surveillance and recruitment, and directs the cell surface
expression of molecules and cytokine production important for cell-to-cell
interactions necessary for a coordinated immune response. Finally, AR stimulation
of effector immune cells regulates the activational state of immune cells and
modulates their functional capacity. This review focuses on our current
understanding of the role of the SNS in regulating host defense and immune
homeostasis. SNS regulation of IS functioning is a critical link to the
development and exacerbation of chronic immune-mediated diseases. However, there 
are many mechanisms that need to be further unraveled in order to develop sound
treatment strategies that act on neural-immune interaction to resolve or prevent 
chronic inflammatory diseases, and to improve health and quality of life.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autneu.2014.01.006 
PMID: 24685093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 May;18(2):371-88. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.01.002. Epub 2014 
Feb 26.

Gastric and ectopic varices.

Henry Z(1), Uppal D(1), Saad W(2), Caldwell S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Virginia Health
System, PO Box 800708, Charlottesville, VA 22908-0708, USA. (2)Division of
Vascular and Interventional Radiology, University of Virginia Health System, PO
Box 800170, Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA. (3)Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, University of Virginia Health System, PO Box 800708, Charlottesville,
VA 22908-0708, USA. Electronic address: shc5c@virginia.edu.

Although often considered together, gastric and ectopic varices represent
complications of a heterogeneous group of underlying diseases. Commonly, these
are known to arise in patients with cirrhosis secondary to portal hypertension;
however, they also arise in patients with noncirrhotic portal hypertension, most 
often secondary to venous thrombosis of the portal venous system. One of the key 
initial assessments is to define the underlying condition leading to the
formation of these portal-collateral pathways to guide management. In the
authors' experience, these patients can be grouped into distinct although
sometimes overlapping conditions, which can provide a helpful conceptual basis of
management.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.01.002 
PMID: 24679501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Radiat Oncol. 2014 Mar 27;9:86. doi: 10.1186/1748-717X-9-86.

Low-dose splenic irradiation in symptomatic congestive splenomegaly: report of
five cases with literature data.

Bruns F(1), Bremer M, Dettmer A, Janssen S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hannover Medical School, 30625 Hannover,
Germany. Bruns.Frank@mh-hannover.de.

BACKGROUND: To show effectiveness of low-dose splenic irradiation in symptomatic 
congestive splenomegaly.
METHODS: Five patients were referred to our department for symptomatic congestive
splenomegaly within three years. Primary diseases were autoimmune hepatitis with 
liver cirrhosis (n=2), cystic fibrosis (n=1), granulomatous liver disease (n=1)
and Werlhof disease with liver cirrhosis (n=1). Mean age was 54 years (range:
36-67). Patients received splenic irradiation with a total dose of 3 Gy (single
dose: 0.5 Gy). One patient was re-irradiated after long-term failure with the
same treatment schedule.
RESULTS: In four patients long term relief of splenic pain could be observed
during the follow-up time of median 20 (range: 2-36) months. Four patients showed
haematological response after irradiation with an increase of erythrocytes,
leucocytes and/or platelets. A slightly decrease in spleen size was found in two 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Low-dose splenic irradiation in symptomatic congestive splenomegaly 
is feasible and perhaps as effective as in lympho-and myeloproliferative
malignancies regarding pain relief and haematological response.

DOI: 10.1186/1748-717X-9-86 
PMCID: PMC3997820
PMID: 24673965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


220. J Comput Assist Tomogr. 2014 Jul-Aug;38(4):568-70. doi:
10.1097/RCT.0000000000000082.

Transient reduction of spleen density in acute pancreatitis: case reports and
literature review.

Jiang XY(1), Bian J, Zhang CZ, Wang SS, Nie TM, Zhang L.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Radiology, Affiliated Hospital of Binzhou Medical
University, Binzhou, Shandong, PR China.

A healthy spleen has density stable on computed tomographic (CT) scan; in some
patients, spleen infarction can be associated with acute pancreatitis. Here, we
report 2 patients with acute pancreatitis associated with transient reduction of 
spleen density that were confirmed in our hospital. The clinical data of the 2
patients were retrospectively analyzed, and the relevant literature was reviewed.
Acute pancreatitis with transient reduction of splenic density has certain
characteristics in clinical and radiological aspects. After clinical treatment,
the spleen density can be restored. Its mechanism may be related to glucose and
lipid metabolism, transient thrombosis formation in splenic vessels, and so on.

DOI: 10.1097/RCT.0000000000000082 
PMID: 24651738  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


221. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Mar 14;20(10):2595-605. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i10.2595.

Management of thrombocytopenia due to liver cirrhosis: a review.

Hayashi H(1), Beppu T(1), Shirabe K(1), Maehara Y(1), Baba H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hiromitsu Hayashi, Toru Beppu, Hideo Baba, Department of Gastroenterological
Surgery, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto
860-8556, Japan.

Thrombocytopenia is a common complication in liver disease and can adversely
affect the treatment of liver cirrhosis, limiting the ability to administer
therapy and delaying planned surgical/diagnostic procedures because of an
increased risk of bleeding. Multiple factors, including splenic sequestration,
reduced activity of the hematopoietic growth factor thrombopoietin, bone marrow
suppression by chronic hepatitis C virus infection and anti-cancer agents, and
antiviral treatment with interferon-based therapy, can contribute to the
development of thrombocytopenia in cirrhotic patients. Of these factors, the
major mechanisms for thrombocytopenia in liver cirrhosis are (1) platelet
sequestration in the spleen; and (2) decreased production of thrombopoietin in
the liver. Several treatment options, including platelet transfusion,
interventional partial splenic embolization, and surgical splenectomy, are now
available for severe thrombocytopenia in cirrhotic patients. Although
thrombopoietin agonists and targeted agents are alternative tools for
noninvasively treating thrombocytopenia due to liver cirrhosis, their ability to 
improve thrombocytopenia in cirrhotic patients is under investigation in clinical
trials. In this review, we propose a treatment approach to thrombocytopenia
according to our novel concept of splenic volume, and we describe the current
management of thrombocytopenia due to liver cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i10.2595 
PMCID: PMC3949268
PMID: 24627595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Intern Med J. 2014 Mar;44(3):287-90. doi: 10.1111/imj.12363.

Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma, immunosuppressive agents and biologicals: what are
the risks?

Subramaniam K(1), Yeung D, Grimpen F, Joseph J, Fay K, Buckland M, Talaulikar D, 
Elijah J, Clarke AC, Pavli P, Moore J.

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Unit, Therapeutic Goods Administration,
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.

We present three cases of the rare hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL); two
patients suffering from Crohn disease who developed HSTCL on azathioprine without
exposure to biologicals, and a third patient who had psoriasis treated using
etanercept, cyclosporine and methotrexate. The evidence for an association
between HSTCL and immunosuppressive drugs and biologicals is reviewed. We argue
for improved pharmacovigilance processes to help determine the benefit to risk
ratios for the use of these and other new agents.

© 2014 The Authors; Internal Medicine Journal © 2014 Royal Australasian College
of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/imj.12363 
PMID: 24621284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Mar 6;(3):CD002890. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD002890.pub2.

Psychological therapies for thalassaemia.

Anie KA(1), Massaglia P.

Author information: 
(1)Haematology and Sickle Cell Centre, North West London Hospitals NHS Trust,
Central Middlesex Hospital, Acton Lane, London, UK, NW10 7NS.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2001;(3):CD002890.

BACKGROUND: Thalassaemia is a group of genetic blood disorders characterised by
the absence or reduction in the production of haemoglobin. Severity is variable
from less severe anaemia, through thalassaemia intermedia, to profound severe
anaemia (thalassaemia major). In thalassaemia major other complications include
growth retardation, bone deformation, and enlarged spleen. Blood transfusion is
required to treat severe forms of thalassaemia, but this results in excessive
accumulation of iron in the body (iron overload), removed mostly by a drug called
desferrioxamine through 'chelation therapy'. Non-routine treatments are bone
marrow transplantation (which is age restricted), and possibly hydroxyurea,
designed to raise foetal haemoglobin level, thus reducing anaemia. In addition,
psychological therapies seem appropriate to improving outcome and adherence to
medical treatment.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the evidence that in people with thalassaemia,
psychological treatments improve the ability to cope with the condition, and
improve both medical and psychosocial outcomes.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register which comprises of references
identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearches of
relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings. Searches on the
Internet were also performed.Date of the most recent search of the Group's
Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register: 11 November 2013.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials
comparing the use of psychological intervention to no (psychological)
intervention in people with thalassaemia.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: No trials of psychological therapies have been
found in the literature for inclusion in this review.
MAIN RESULTS: There are currently no results to be reported.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: As a chronic disease with a considerable role for
self-management, psychological support seems appropriate for managing
thalassaemia. However, from the information currently available, no conclusions
can be made about the use of specific psychological therapies in thalassaemia.
This systematic review has clearly identified the need for well-designed,
adequately-powered, multicentre, randomised controlled trials assessing the
effectiveness of specific psychological interventions for thalassaemia.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002890.pub2 
PMID: 24604627  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Dermatology. 2014;228(3):193-7. doi: 10.1159/000357729. Epub 2014 Mar 1.

Sight-threatening ocular manifestations of acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis 
(Sweet's syndrome).

Baartman B(1), Kosari P, Warren CC, Ali S, Jorizzo JL, Sato M, Kurup SK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Wake Forest University Eye Center, Winston-Salem,
N.C., USA.

Sweet's syndrome is a primarily dermatologic disorder with many features of
systemic inflammation. It is generally characterized by a neutrophilic dermatosis
in the setting of fever and an elevated white blood cell count. Inflammation has 
been described to occur in many organ systems including the lung, bone, liver,
spleen, brain and eye. Ocular inflammation is a well-known comorbidity that may
occur in the setting of Sweet's syndrome, including conjunctivitis, episcleritis,
scleritis, iritis and choroiditis, among other forms. In the current article, we 
have compiled a series of cases that describe three separate patients who
demonstrated a rare form of ocular involvement in Sweet's syndrome, retinal
vasculitis. The evidence from these three cases and other reports in recent
ophthalmologic literature suggest overlapping of ocular manifestations of Sweet's
syndrome and the closely related Behçet's disease. It is important to be aware of
the sometimes challenging differential between these two disorders and their
sight-threatening complications.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000357729 
PMID: 24603349  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2015 Feb;30(2):197-203. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfu044. Epub
2014 Mar 2.

Metabolic abnormalities in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.

Mao Z(1), Xie G(1), Ong AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology, Kidney Institute of CPLA, Changzheng Hospital Second
Military Medical University, Shanghai 200003, China. (2)Kidney Genetics Group,
Academic Nephrology Unit, The Henry Wellcome Laboratories for Medical Research,
University of Sheffield Medical School, Sheffield, UK Sheffield Kidney Institute,
Sheffield Teaching Hospitals Foundation Trust, Sheffield, UK.

Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common inherited
kidney disorder and is known to affect all ethnic groups with a prevalence of
1:400-1:1000 live births. The kidney in ADKPD is characterized by the formation
of numerous cysts which progressively expand and eventually destroy normal kidney
structure and function. Cysts occur in other organs outside the kidney, most
commonly in the liver, pancreas and spleen. Important non-cystic features include
intracranial aneurysms and cardiac valve defects. Less well recognized are a
range of metabolic abnormalities, which could be involved in cystic disease
progression or be associated with other disease complications. In this review, we
summarize the literature suggesting that metabolic abnormalities could be
important under-recognised and under-treated features in ADPKD.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of ERA-EDTA.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfu044 
PMID: 24589722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2014 Mar 15;71(6):453-62. doi: 10.2146/ajhp120602.

Ruxolitinib for the treatment of primary myelofibrosis.

Swaim SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Starla J. Swaim, Pharm.D., BCOP, is Clinical Pharmacy Specialist, Leukemia,
Division of Pharmacy, University of Texas, M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston 
(ssweany@mdanderson.org).

PURPOSE: The pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, pharmacogenomics, clinical efficacy,
and safety profile of ruxolitinib for the treatment of primary myelofibrosis are 
reviewed.
SUMMARY: Ruxolitinib, an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets the
Janus-associated kinases (JAKs) 1 and 2, has been recently approved for the
treatment of patients with intermediate- or high-risk myelofibrosis. Unlike
previous treatment options for patients with myelofibrosis, ruxolitinib offers a 
targeted therapy option for these patients who often suffer with severe and
debilitating symptoms associated with the disease process. After oral
administration, ruxolitinib is rapidly absorbed and can be given without regard
to meals. Ruxolitinib is primarily metabolized by the cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 3A4 
isoenzyme system; therefore, if concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is
unavoidable, an initial dosage reduction is warranted. Two Phase III randomized
trials comparing ruxolitinib to either placebo or best available therapy found a 
rapid and sustained response in the reduction of spleen size and improvements in 
constitutional symptoms and quality of life, with one study demonstrating an
improvement in overall survival. The most commonly reported serious adverse
effects of ruxolitinib are anemia and thrombocytopenia. Ruxolitinib is
administered as an oral tablet given twice daily, with the initial starting
dosage based on the baseline platelet count. Dosage reductions are based on the
development of thrombocytopenia.
CONCLUSION: By directly targeting both JAK1 and JAK2 through small-molecule
inhibition, ruxolitinib elicits a reduction in splenomegaly and disease-related
symptoms in patients with intermediate- or high-risk myelofibrosis while
maintaining an acceptable toxicity profile and a low treatment-discontinuation
rate.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp120602 
PMID: 24589536  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(29):4723-32.

Crosstalk between behavior and immune system during the prodromal stages of
Alzheimer's disease.

Giménez-Llort L, Torres-Lista V, De la Fuente M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neuroscience Group. Department of Psychiatry and Forensic Medicine,
Medical Psychology Unit, M5-133, Edifici M, Campus Bellaterra, s/n. Universitat
Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193 Bellaterra, Barcelona, Spain. lidia.gimenez@uab.cat.

The crosstalk in the functional interplay of the neuroimmune system is essential 
to ensure homeostasis preservation and health. Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be
understood in the context of aging of this neuroimmune communication. AD has an
important genderdependent component and is benefitted by lifestyle strategies
such as physical exercise, enriched environments and nutrition. Recently, the
functional and redox state of peripheral immune cells has been proposed as a
useful tool for measuring the progression of AD. The present review summarizes
the relevance of the disruption of crosstalk among neurons, glial cells, immune
mediators and cells from the very beginning of the prodromal stages of AD, when
early BPSD symptoms have already started but cognitive function still seems
apparently normal. The study of the role of neuroimmune system and how its
disruption contributes to the onset of disease may help in understanding its
biological mechanisms and in finding behavioral parameters and immunological
biomarkers for the prodromic phases. Here we present results of 3xTg-AD mice from
pre-morbid to early-stages of AD and how early BPSD-like symptoms correlate with 
changes in the organometrics of thymus and spleen that are indirect indicators of
the immunological status. These functional relationships between behavioral and
peripheral system also revealed the existence of differences between biological
and chronological ages (an advanced biological age) since the prodromal stages.
Overall, the data available suggest that the crosstalk between behavior (nervous)
and immune system plays an important role since prodromal stages of AD.


PMID: 24588823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct;38(5):564-9. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2013.12.012. Epub 2014 Feb 24.

Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension--concept, diagnosis and clinical management.

Strauss E(1), Valla D(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic
address: ednastrauss@gmail.com. (2)Service d'Hépatologie, Hôpital Beaujon,
Clichy, France.

Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension (NCPH) is mainly related to vascular disorders 
in the portal system, granuloma formation with periportal fibrosis or genetic
alterations affecting the hepatobiliary system. For the diagnosis of the
so-called idiopathic NCPH, it is essential to rule out chronic liver diseases
associated with progression to cirrhosis as viral hepatitis B and C, alcoholic
and non-alcoholic fatty liver, autoimmune disease, hereditary hemochromatosis,
Wilson's disease as well as primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing
cholagitis. This mini review will focus on the most common types of NCPH,
excluding the idiopathic NCPH. Primary Budd-Chiari syndrome, characterized by
obstruction of hepatic venous outflow, must be distinguished from sinusoidal
obstruction syndrome, a cause of portal hypertension associated with exposure to 
toxic plants or therapeutic agents. Noninvasive imaging methods usually help the 
diagnosis of both Budd-Chiari syndrome and portal thrombosis, the later a
relatively frequent cause NCPH. Clinical presentation and management of these
vascular disorders are evaluated. Schistosomiasis, a worldwide spread endemic
parasitic disease, may evolve to severe forms of the disease with huge spleen and
gastroesophageal varices due to presinusoidal portal hypertension. Although
management of acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding is similar to that of
cirrhosis, prevention of rebleeding differs. Instead of portosystemic shunt
procedures, the esophagogastric devascularization with splenectomy is the
accepted surgical alternative. Its association with endoscopic therapy is
suggested to be the best option for PH due to schistosomiasis. In conclusion, the
prompt diagnosis of the disorder leading to non-cirrhotic portal hypertension is 
essential for its correct management.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2013.12.012 
PMID: 24581591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Nihon Hansenbyo Gakkai Zasshi. 2013 Dec;82(3):111-7.

[Towards novel tuberculosis and leprosy vaccine development: the role of
Th1-inducing peptide in cytotoxic T cell differentiation].

[Article in Japanese]

Tamura T(1), Shimohakamada Y(2), Makino M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mycobacteriology, Leprosy Research Center, National Institute of
Infectious Diseases. toshikit@niid.go.jp (2)Department of Mycobacteriology,
Leprosy Research Center, National Institute of Infectious Diseases.

The effectiveness of a vaccine against tuberculosis and leprosy is mainly judged 
by its capability to induce memory CD8 cytotoxic T cells (CTL). It has been
reported that 'help' from CD4+ T cells is required to induce memory CTL. However,
how CD4+ T cells instruct or support memory CTL during priming phase has not been
resolved in detail. Therefore, we examined the helper function of CD4+ T cells in
CTL differentiation. Peptide-25 is the major T cell epitope of Ag85B of
Mycobacterium tuberculosis. We found that this peptide induced the expression of 
T-bet and TATA box binding protein-associated factor that can induce the
chromatin remodeling of ifn-gamma gene, and as a result induced Th1
differentiation even in the absence of IFN-gamma and IL-12. Next, we established 
an in vitro CTL differentiation system using Peptide-25, Peptide-25 specific CD4+
T cells, OVA specific CD8+ T cells and splenic DC. By using this system, we found
that CD4+ T cells activated DC even in the absence of IFN-gamma and CD40 ligand
association, and the activated DC induced the functional differentiation of CTL. 
To identify the regulatory factors for DC activation, we analyzed the gene
expression profile of helper CD4 T cells and identified 27 genes. Taken together,
these results suggest that the inducing factors for Th1 differentiation are not
indispensable to induce the functional differentiation of CTL.


PMID: 24579458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2014 Mar;14(3):175-81. doi: 10.1089/vbz.2012.1279.
Epub 2014 Feb 27.

Visceral cat scratch disease with endocarditis in an immunocompetent adult: a
case report and review of the literature.

Shasha D(1), Gilon D, Vernea F, Moses AE, Strahilevitz J.

Author information: 
(1)1 The Department of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases,
Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center , Jerusalem, Israel .

Infective endocarditis and hepatosplenic abscesses are rare manifestations of cat
scratch disease (CSD), especially among immunocompetent adults. An otherwise
healthy woman who presented with fever and abdominal pain was diagnosed with
multiple abscesses in the spleen and the liver, as well as a mitral valve
vegetation. PCR on spleen tissue was positive for Bartonella henselae. Prolonged 
treatment with doxycycline and gentamicin led to complete recovery. Review of the
literature revealed 18 cases of hepatosplenic CSD in immunocompetent adults; the 
majority presented with fever of unknown origin and abdominal pain. In most cases
the causative organism was B. henselae and the pathological findings were
necrotizing granulomas, similar to the pathological features in classic CSD.
Concomitant endocarditis was diagnosed in one case. Because Bartonella is one of 
the leading pathogens of culture-negative endocarditis, we raise the question of 
whether a comprehensive evaluation for endocarditis is needed in cases of
systemic CSD.

DOI: 10.1089/vbz.2012.1279 
PMID: 24575798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Curr Opin Hematol. 2014 May;21(3):186-92. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000036.

Red cell adhesion in human diseases.

Colin Y(1), Le Van Kim C, El Nemer W.

Author information: 
(1)aInserm U1134 bUniversité Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, UMR_S 1134
cInstitut National de la Transfusion Sanguine dLaboratoire d' Excellence GR-Ex,
Paris, France.

Erratum in
    Curr Opin Hematol. 2014 Jul;21(4):369.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review discusses the unexpected role of red blood cell
(RBC) adhesiveness in the pathophysiology of two red cell diseases, hereditary
spherocytosis and polycythemia vera, and two 'nonerythroid' disorders, central
retinal vein occlusion and Gaucher disease. These pathologies share common
clinical manifestations, that is vaso-occlusion and/or thrombotic events.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recently, the direct involvement of RBC adhesion to the vascular
endothelium has been demonstrated in the occurrence of vaso-occlusive events, in 
particular in sickle cell disease (SCD). Several erythroid adhesion molecules and
their ligands have been identified that belong to different molecular classes
(integrins, Ig-like molecules, lipids...) and are activated by a variety of
signaling pathways. Among these, the laminin receptor, Lutheran/basal cell
adhesion molecule, which is activated by phosphorylation, appears to play a
central role in several pathologies.
SUMMARY: RBC adhesiveness might be involved in complications such as the
vaso-occlusive crisis in SCD, thrombosis in polycythemia vera, splenic
sequestration in hereditary spherocytosis, occlusions in central retinal vein
occlusion and bone infarcts in Gaucher disease. Characterization of this
pathological process at the cellular and molecular levels should prove useful to 
develop new therapeutic approaches based on the blockade of RBC abnormal
interactions with vascular endothelium and/or circulating blood cells.

DOI: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000036 
PMID: 24572988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Abdom Imaging. 2014 Jun;39(3):570-87. doi: 10.1007/s00261-014-0080-6.

Multimodality imaging of splenic lesions and the role of non-vascular,
image-guided intervention.

Gaetke-Udager K(1), Wasnik AP, Kaza RK, Al-Hawary MM, Maturen KE, Udager AM, Azar
SF, Francis IR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Division of Abdominal Imaging, University of Michigan
Health System, 1500 East Medical Center Drive Ann Arbor, Michigan, 48109, USA.

Splenic lesions are often incidentally detected on abdominal-computed tomography 
(CT), ultrasound, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and these can pose a
diagnostic challenge in patients with suspected or known malignancy. This review 
will discuss the multimodality imaging features of various benign and malignant
splenic pathologies including trauma, infection, infarct, granulomatous disease, 
benign neoplasms such as hemangioma, hamartoma, and littoral cell angioma, cystic
entities such as peliosis, splenic cysts, and pseudocysts, and malignant
processes such as metastasis, lymphoma, angiosarcoma, and leiomyosarcoma. While
several of these splenic pathologies have characteristic imaging features that
are helpful in diagnosis, others have nonspecific findings. In such clinical
dilemmas, image-guided intervention may be essential, and we therefore discuss
the role of non-vascular, image-guided splenic interventions for diagnostic and
therapeutic purposes. The radiologist can play a key part in the clinical
diagnosis and management of splenic lesions, and therefore a thorough knowledge
of the imaging features of splenic lesions and a thoughtful approach to their
management is crucial.

DOI: 10.1007/s00261-014-0080-6 
PMID: 24525666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Surg Today. 2015 Feb;45(2):129-39. doi: 10.1007/s00595-014-0857-9. Epub 2014 Feb 
11.

Laparoscopic surgery for colon cancer: a review of the fascial composition of the
abdominal cavity.

Mike M(1), Kano N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Kameda Medical Center, 929 Higashicho, Kamogawa, Chiba,
298-8602, Japan, mmike@ace.ocn.ne.jp.

Laparoscopic surgery has generally been performed for digestive diseases. Many
patients with colon cancer undergo laparoscopic procedures. The outcomes of
laparoscopic colectomy and open colectomy are the same in terms of the long-time 
survival. It is important to dissect the embryological plane to harvest the lymph
nodes and to avoid bleeding during colon cancer surgery. To date, descriptions of
the anatomy of the fascial composition have mainly involved observations
unrelated to fundamental embryological concepts, causing confusion regarding the 
explanations of the surgical procedures, with various vocabularies used without
definitions. We therefore examined the fascia of the abdominal space using a
fascia concept based on clinical anatomy and embryology. Mobilization of the
bilateral sides of the colon involves dissection between the fusion fascia of
Toldt and the deep subperitoneal fascia. It is important to understand that the
right fusion fascia of Toldt is divided into the posterior pancreatic fascia of
Treitz dorsally and the anterior pancreatic fascia ventrally at the second
portion of the duodenum. A comprehensive understanding of fascia composition
between the stomach and transverse colon is necessary for dissecting the splenic 
flexure of the colon. As a result of these considerations of the fascia, more
accurate surgical procedures can be performed for the excision of colon cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-014-0857-9 
PMID: 24515451  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Trends Mol Med. 2014 May;20(5):293-301. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2014.01.001. Epub
2014 Feb 6.

Complement activation in malaria: friend or foe?

Biryukov S(1), Stoute JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Pennsylvania State University
College of Medicine, 500 University Drive, Hershey, PA 17033, USA. (2)Department 
of Microbiology and Immunology, Pennsylvania State University College of
Medicine, 500 University Drive, Hershey, PA 17033, USA; Department of Medicine,
Division of Infectious Diseases and Epidemiology, Pennsylvania State University
College of Medicine, 500 University Drive, MC H036, Hershey, PA 17033, USA.
Electronic address: jstoute@psu.edu.

Complement is activated during malaria infection, but there is little evidence
that it benefits the host. On the contrary, growing evidence points to the
central role of complement activation in the pathogenesis of complicated malaria.
Recent evidence suggests a critical role for C5a and the membrane attack complex 
in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria, and for C5a in the pathogenesis of
placental malaria. In addition, erythrocytes of children with severe malarial
anemia have increased deposition of C3b and decreased capacity to regulate
complement activation, that probably increase their susceptibility to destruction
by liver and splenic macrophages. These observations justify further
investigation of the role of complement in malaria and the testing of complement 
inhibitors as adjunctive treatment for severe malaria.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmed.2014.01.001 
PMID: 24508275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Leuk Lymphoma. 2014 Nov;55(11):2457-65. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2014.889821. Epub
2014 Mar 10.

Challenges and new prospects in hepatosplenic γδ T-cell lymphoma.

Calvaruso M(1), Gulino A, Buffa S, Guarnotta C, Franco G, Cacciatore M, Bonura
MG, Franco V, Florena AM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio di Tecnologie Oncologiche - HSR Giglio, C. da
Pietrapollastra-Pisciotto , Cefalù , Italy.

Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are a heterogeneous group of lymphoid
neoplasms characterized by aggressive clinical behavior and dismal prognosis.
Hepatosplenic γδ T-cell lymphoma (γδ-HSTL) is a particular form of PTCL that
arises from a small subset of γ/δ T-cell receptor-expressing lymphocytes. γδ-HSTL
has a rapidly progressive course and poor outcome due also to its refractoriness 
to conventional chemotherapy regimens. The very low incidence of γδ-HSTL, along
with its propensity to mimic different pathological entities, makes this lymphoma
a true diagnostic challenge. In this review, we highlight the biological and
clinical features of γδ-HSTL that contribute to making this lymphoma a mostly
incurable disease. Moreover, we provide a new insight into the crosstalk between 
HSTL clones and the bone marrow, liver and spleen vascular microenvironment, in
which neoplastic cells reside and proliferate. We further discuss γδ-HSTL
associated molecules that might be proposed as potential targets for novel
therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2014.889821 
PMID: 24506469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


236. BMJ Case Rep. 2014 Feb 5;2014. pii: bcr2013202843. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2013-202843.

Two rare manifestations of Q fever: splenic and hepatic abscesses and cerebral
venous thrombosis, with literature review ma non troppo.

Gomes MM(1), Chaves A, Gouveia A, Santos L.

Author information: 
(1)Serviço de Medicina Interna, Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra,
Coimbra, Portugal.

Q fever is a zoonosis caused by Coxiella burnetii. It often manifests as a
flu-like syndrome; other common manifestations are pneumonia, hepatitis and
endocarditis. Its course may be acute or chronic. The authors present two
clinical cases of Q fever with rare manifestations. Case 1: A 55-year-old man
admitted due to abdominal pain, diarrhoea and fever. Blood tests showed elevated 
transaminases, low platelets and elevated C reactive protein, with normal white
cell counts; abdominal ultrasound showed splenic and hepatic abscesses.
Serologies to C burnetii were positive (1:640), leading to the diagnosis of Q
fever with splenic and hepatic abscesses. Case 2: A 47-year-old man admitted due 
to headache after sneezing, with unstable gait and vertigo. A brain tomography
showed cerebral venous thrombosis. After an exhaustive investigation, antibodies 
to C burnetii were found and were undoubtedly positive (1:5120), leading to the
diagnosis of Q fever. Both patients were treated with oral doxycycline.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2013-202843 
PMCID: PMC3918609
PMID: 24501338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Cardiovasc Res. 2014 May 1;102(2):240-8. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvu025. Epub 2014 Feb
5.

Cardiac macrophages and their role in ischaemic heart disease.

Frantz S(1), Nahrendorf M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Hospital Würzburg,
Oberdürrbacherstraße 6, 97080 Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.

Cardiac macrophages are abundant in the healthy heart and after myocardial
infarction (MI). Different macrophage phenotypes likely promote myocardial health
vs. disease. Infarct macrophages are inflammatory and derive from circulating
monocytes produced by the haematopoietic system. These cells are centrally
involved in inflammatory tissue remodelling, resolution of inflammation during
post-MI healing, and left ventricular remodelling. Presumably, macrophages
interact with myocytes, endothelial cells, and fibroblasts. Although macrophages 
are primarily recruited to the ischaemic myocardium, the remote non-ischaemic
myocardium macrophage population changes dynamically after MI. Macrophages' known
roles in defending the steady state and their pathological actions in other
disease contexts provide a road map for exploring cardiac macrophages and their
phenotypes, functions, and therapeutic potential. In our review, we summarize
recent insights into the role of cardiac macrophages, focus on their actions
after ischaemia, and highlight emerging research topics.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvu025 
PMCID: PMC3989449
PMID: 24501331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Ginecol Obstet Mex. 2013 Oct;81(10):602-7.

[Prenatal ultrasonic diagnosis and follow-up of fetal splenic cysts: report of
two cases. Review of the literature].

[Article in Spanish]

Ruiz-Labarta FJ(1), Pérez-Fernández R(1), Gámez-Alderete F(1), Pintado-Recarte
Mdel P(1), Hernández-Martín C(1), de León-Luis J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Obstetricia y Ginecología, Hospital General Universitario
Gregorio Marañón, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, España.

Congenital splenic cysts are rare entities wich are not frequently diagnosed in
prenatal sonographies and there is only a few literature wich report these
medical cases. The aim of this article is to introduce this sonographic discovery
and study whether there are impacts for the newborn, association with
cormosomopathy or fetal pathology. We describe two medical cases of fetal splenic
cysts wich were diagnosed in our service by ultrasonography at 29 and 32 weeks of
gestation, their antenatal monitoring and postnatal evolution. Besides theses, it
is made a review of this entity in medical literature, examination about the:
etiology, prenatal diagnosis, prenatal and postnatal following and complications.
In conclusion, the congenital splenic cyst has a good prognosis with an
spontaneous postnatal resolution in the majority of the cases. No association was
observed between cromosopathy or fetal pathology with the examined cases.


PMID: 24483043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2014 Jun;49(6):737-43. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2013.237. Epub
2014 Jan 27.

Stromal cells-are they really useful for GVHD?

Kaipe H(1), Erkers T(1), Sadeghi B(1), Ringdén O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Therapeutic Immunology and Centre for Allogeneic Stem Cell
Transplantation, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital Huddinge, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have immunomodulatory effects and are
increasingly being used for the treatment of acute and chronic GVHD. Although
they seem immuno-privileged, they induce alloresponses, but the risk of
immunization is poorly characterized. After infusion, they first reach the lungs,
liver and spleen, and are then difficult to trace. Several mechanisms are
involved in stromal cells suppressing alloreactivity, such as induction of
regulatory T cells, but whether or not this will also affect leukemic relapse or 
increase infections is not known. Although several encouraging pilot studies have
been published, there have been few prospective randomized trials. There may be a
bias in the literature, as negative results are seldom published, and there have 
been few comparative studies with other immunosuppressive regimens. Most animal
models have failed to show any effect on GVHD. Several questions remain to be
answered for optimization of stromal cell therapy. Which source is optimal-BM,
fat, cord or decidua? Can stromal cells be replaced by exosomes, which culture
conditions are most appropriate and at what passage and how frequently should
cells be administered? More research is required to move stromal cell therapy
forward to become an established treatment for acute and chronic GVHD.

DOI: 10.1038/bmt.2013.237 
PMID: 24464141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Int J Rheum Dis. 2014 May;17(4):359-68. doi: 10.1111/1756-185X.12293. Epub 2014
Jan 27.

Kinase inhibitors: the next generation of therapies in the treatment of
rheumatoid arthritis.

MacFarlane LA(1), Todd DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts,
USA.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) can be the source of significant pain and functional
limitation. The past 20 years have seen a transition in treatment goals away from
mere pain management toward disease modification through the suppression of
autoimmunity. Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, such as methotrexate and
biologic agents, impair disease progression and joint destruction. However,
despite these achievements, a substantial subset of RA patients does not respond 
to or cannot tolerate current treatments for RA. Scientific insight into the
cellular pathways of inflammation has revealed new therapeutic targets for the
treatment of autoimmune diseases like RA. Attention has focused on pathways
mediated by Janus kinase (JAK), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and
spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk). This review article summarizes the evidence
supporting the use of various kinase inhibitors, including the newly approved JAK
inhibitor tofacitinib, in the treatment of RA.

© 2014 Asia Pacific League of Associations for Rheumatology and Wiley Publishing 
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1756-185X.12293 
PMID: 24460872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Int J Infect Dis. 2014 Mar;20:68-70. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2013.11.010. Epub 2014
Jan 13.

Splenic abscess due to brucellosis: a case report and a review of the literature.

Yilmaz M(1), Arslan F(2), Başkan O(3), Mert A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Diseases and Clinical Microbiology Department, Istanbul Medipol
University, School of Medicine, Unkapanı, Atatürk Bulvarı No .27, 34083 Fatih
Istanbul, Turkey. Electronic address: myilmaz@medipol.edu.tr. (2)Infectious
Diseases and Clinical Microbiology Department, Istanbul Medipol University,
School of Medicine, Unkapanı, Atatürk Bulvarı No .27, 34083 Fatih Istanbul,
Turkey. (3)Radiology Department, Istanbul Medipol University, School of Medicine,
Istanbul, Turkey.

Splenic abscess due to acute brucellosis is a rare event. We report a case of
multiple splenic abscesses caused by Brucella melitensis in a 45-year-old woman
and review the English language literature based on a PubMed/MEDLINE search of
the last 50 years. The majority of the cases published in the literature were due
to B. melitensis and a splenectomy was required in half of the cases. Antibiotics
alone without surgical intervention can be successful in the treatment of
patients with splenic brucellosis in the early stages of the disease.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2013.11.010 
PMID: 24433982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2013 Nov-Dec;22(6):865-73.

Thromboembolism associated with atrial fibrillation as a cause of limb and organ 
ischemia.

Wasilewska M(1), Gosk-Bierska I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Angiology, Hypertension and Diabetology, Wroclaw Medical
University, Poland.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with a high risk of thromboembolic
episodes. Stroke is the most common embolic complication of AF. Consequently, the
majority of the conclusions regarding the association between AF and embolism are
based on clinical studies of patients with ischemic stroke. The AF-related
thromboembolism of limbs and visceral arteries is rarely recognized, and there is
little data on this matter. For this reason it is often a neglected issue.
Nevertheless, AF is diagnosed in 60-95% of patients operated on due to acute limb
ischemia, 31% of patients with splenic artery embolization, 55% with acute renal 
ischemia and 47% with mesenteric ischemia. AF should be considered as a leading
cause of peripheral embolism. Extracerebral AF-related thromboembolic events are 
associated with serious clinical consequences including a high mortality rate.
This paper reviews the current evidence regarding AF as a cause of visceral and
limb ischemia.


PMID: 24431317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2014 Mar;26(2):237-43. doi: 10.1097/BOR.0000000000000023.

Advances in kinase inhibition: treating rheumatic diseases and beyond.

Gadina M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Office of Science and Technology, National Institute of Arthritis
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Kinases inhibitors are now used for the treatment of
autoimmune diseases. Here, the most recent findings related to their mechanism of
action and some of the newest molecules and targets which are being investigated 
for autoimmune and inflammatory disorders are reviewed.
RECENT FINDINGS: Similarly to p38 inhibitors, current spleen tyrosine kinase
inhibitors have not fulfilled the expectations of researchers and clinicians, and
will likely not be used therapeutically in autoimmunity. Bruton's tyrosine kinase
inhibitors remain in the preclinical phase. Studies on the mechanism of action of
successful Janus kinase (Jak) inhibitors have revealed that, apart from T and B
cells, bone cells such as osteoclasts and innate immunity cells such as dendritic
cells are positively affected. More specific, novel Jak inhibitors are now in
clinical trials and newer Jak inhibitors are being developed. Other kinases are
emerging from basic studies as potentially druggable and will surely be
investigated.
SUMMARY: First-generation pan-Jak inhibitors can be useful for a wide variety of 
diseases. They act on adaptive as well as innate immune cells and can promote
tolerance. More specific inhibitors will soon be available and these may be used 
in a disease-specific manner.

DOI: 10.1097/BOR.0000000000000023 
PMCID: PMC4106228
PMID: 24419749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Curr Pain Headache Rep. 2014 Feb;18(2):394. doi: 10.1007/s11916-013-0394-z.

Celiac plexus block in the management of chronic abdominal pain.

Rana MV(1), Candido KD, Raja O, Knezevic NN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center, 836 W.
Wellington Ave. Suite 4815, Chicago, IL, 60657, USA, maunakr@gmail.com.

Chronic abdominal pain is a devastating problem for patients and providers, due
to the difficulty of effectively treating the entity. Both benign and malignant
conditions can lead to chronic abdominal pain. Precision in diagnosis is required
before effective treatment can be instituted. Celiac Plexus Block is an
interventional technique utilized for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in the 
treatment of abdominovisceral pain. The richly innervated plexus provides sensory
input about pathologic processes in the liver, pancreas, spleen, omentum,
alimentary tract to the mid-transverse colon, adrenal glands, and kidney. Chronic
pancreatitis and chronic pain from pancreatic cancer have been treated with
celiac plexus block to theoretically decrease the side effects of opioid
medications and to enhance analgesia from medications. Historically, the block
was performed by palpation and identification of bony and soft tissue anatomy;
currently, various imaging modalities are at the disposal of the
interventionalist for the treatment of pain. Fluoroscopy, computed tomography
(CT) guidance and endoscopic ultrasound assistance may be utilized to aid the
practitioner in performing the blockade of the celiac plexus. The choice of
radiographic technology depends on the specialty of the interventionalist, with
gastroenterologists favoring endoscopic ultrasound and interventional pain
physicians and radiologists preferring CT guidance. A review is presented
describing the indications, technical aspects, and agents utilized to block the
celiac plexus in patients suffering from chronic abdominal pain.

DOI: 10.1007/s11916-013-0394-z 
PMID: 24414338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Pediatr Radiol. 2014 Mar;44(3):279-88. doi: 10.1007/s00247-013-2851-6. Epub 2014 
Jan 10.

Wandering spleen in children: a report of 3 cases and a brief literature review
underlining the importance of diagnostic imaging.

Lombardi R(1), Menchini L, Corneli T, Magistrelli A, Accinni A, Monti L, Tomà P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Bambino Gesù Pediatric Hospital, P.zza S. Onofrio,
4-00165, Rome, Italy, rlombardi78@email.it.

BACKGROUND: Wandering spleen is a rare condition in children that is often caused
by loss or weakening of the splenic ligaments. Its clinical presentation is
variable; 64% of children with wandering spleen have splenic torsion as a
complication.
OBJECTIVE: To provide up-to-date information on the diagnosis, clinical
management and diagnostic imaging approaches for wandering spleen in infants and 
children and to underline the importance of color Doppler US and CT in providing 
important information for patient management.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We report a series of three children with wandering spleen
treated at our children's hospital over the last 6 years. All three underwent
clinical evaluation, color Doppler US and CT and were surgically treated. We also
reviewed 40 articles that included 55 patients younger than 18 years reported in 
the Medline database from 2002 to 2012.
RESULTS: We correlated pathological data with imaging findings. Color Doppler US,
the first imaging modality in investigating abdominal symptoms in children with
suspected wandering spleen, yielded a diagnostic sensitivity of 54.9%, whereas CT
achieved about 71.7%.
CONCLUSION: Radiologic evaluation has a major role in confirming the diagnosis of
a suspected wandering spleen and avoiding potentially life-threatening
complications requiring immediate surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-013-2851-6 
PMID: 24407229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Acta Myol. 2013 Oct;32(2):91-4.

Non-muscle involvement in late-onset glycogenosis II.

Filosto M(1), Todeschini A(1), Cotelli MS(1), Vielmi V(1), Rinaldi F(1), Rota
S(1), Scarpelli M(2), Padovani A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurology, Section for Neuromuscular Diseases and Neuropathies,
University Hospital "Spedali Civili", Brescia, Italy; (2)Clinical Neurology,
Department of Neurological, Neuropsychological, Morphological and Movement
Sciences, University of Verona, Italy.

Glycogenosis II (GSD II) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder
resulting from acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency, subsequent accumulation of
glycogen in tissues, impairment of autophagic processes and progressive cardiac, 
motor and respiratory failure. The late-onset form is characterized by wide
variability in residual enzyme activity, age of onset, rate of disease
progression and phenotypical spectrum. Although the pathological process mainly
affects the skeletal muscle, several other tissues may be involved in the course 
of the disease; therefore GSD II should be regarded as a multisystem disorder in 
which glycogen accumulation is present in skeletal and smooth muscle, heart,
brain, liver, spleen, salivary glands, kidney and blood vessels. In this review, 
we briefly summarize the main non-muscle targets of the pathological process in
late-onset GSD II. Further studies aimed at evaluating the extra-muscle
involvement in this group of patients will help to better define clinical
features and prognostic factors and to delineate the natural history of the
disease.


PMCID: PMC3866903
PMID: 24399865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Jan 8;(1):CD008185. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD008185.pub3.

Enzyme replacement therapy with idursulfase for mucopolysaccharidosis type II
(Hunter syndrome).

da Silva EM(1), Strufaldi MW, Andriolo RB, Silva LA.

Author information: 
(1)Emergency Medicine and Evidence Based Medicine, Universidade Federal de São
Paulo, Rua Borges Lagoa 564 cj 64, Vl. Clementino, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil, 
04038-000.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016;2:CD008185.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011;(11):CD008185.

BACKGROUND: Mucopolysaccharidosis II, also known as Hunter syndrome, is a rare,
X-linked disease caused by a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme
iduronate-2-sulfatase, which catalyses a step in the catabolism of
glycosaminoglycans. The glycosaminoglycans accumulate within tissues affecting
multiple organs and physiologic systems. The clinical manifestations include
neurologic involvement, severe airways obstruction, skeletal deformities and
cardiomyopathy. The disease has a variable age of onset and variable rate of
progression. In those with severe disease, death usually occurs in the second
decade of life, whereas those patients with less severe disease may survive into 
adulthood. Enzyme replacement therapy with intravenous infusions of idursulfase
has emerged as a new treatment for mucopolysaccharidosis type II.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of enzyme replacement
therapy with idursulfase compared to other interventions, placebo or no
intervention, for treating mucopolysaccharidosis type II.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Group's Trials Register (date of last search 22 July 2013).We also searched
EMBASE, PubMed and the Literature Latino-Americana e do Caribe em Ciências da
Saúde (LILACS) (date of last search 09 July 2013).
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials of enzyme
replacement therapy with idursulfase compared to no intervention, placebo or
other options (e.g. behavioral strategies, transplantation).
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently screened the trials
identified, appraised quality of papers and extracted data.
MAIN RESULTS: One study (96 patients) met the inclusion criteria, although the
primary outcome of this review - z score for height and weight, was not assessed 
in the study. This trial was considered to be of overall good quality. Following 
53 weeks of treatment, patients in the weekly idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg group
demonstrated a significant improvement rate compared with placebo for the primary
outcome: distance walked in six minutes on the basis of the sum of ranks of
change from baseline, mean difference 37.00 (95% confidence interval 6.52 to
67.48). The every-other-week idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg group also showed an
improvement, which was not significant compared with placebo, mean difference
23.00 (95% confidence interval -4.49 to 50.49). After 53 weeks, there was no
statistical significance difference in per cent predicted forced vital capacity
between the three groups and absolute forced vital capacity was significantly
increased from baseline in the weekly dosing group compared to placebo, mean
difference 0.16 (95% confidence interval CI 0.05 to 0.27). No difference was
observed between the every-other-week idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg group and placebo.In 
addition, liver and spleen volumes and urine glycosaminoglycan excretion were
significantly reduced from baseline by both idursulfase dosing regimens.
Idursulfase was generally well tolerated, but infusion reactions did occur.
Idursulfase antibodies were detected in 31.7% of patients at the end of the study
and they were related to a smaller reduction in urine glycosaminoglycan levels.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The current evidence is limited. While the randomised
clinical trial identified was considered to be of good quality, it failed to
describe important outcomes. It has been demonstrated that enzyme replacement
therapy with idursulfase is effective in relation to functional capacity
(distance walked in six minutes and forced vital capacity), liver and spleen
volumes and urine glycosaminoglycan excretion in patients with
mucopolysaccharidosis type II compared with placebo. There is no available
evidence in the included study and in the literature on outcomes such as
improvement in growth, sleep apnoea, cardiac function, quality of life and
mortality. More studies are needed to obtain more information on the long-term
effectiveness and safety of enzyme replacement therapy.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008185.pub3 
PMID: 24399699  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Semin Reprod Med. 2014 Jan;32(1):56-67. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1361823. Epub 2014
Jan 3.

Fetal immune response to chorioamnionitis.

Kallapur SG(1), Presicce P(1), Rueda CM(2), Jobe AH(1), Chougnet CA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neonatology/Pulmonary Biology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital
Medical Center, University of Cincinnati. (2)Division of Immunobiology, The
Perinatal Institute, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, University of
Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Chorioamnionitis is a frequent cause of preterm birth and is associated with an
increased risk for injury responses in the lung, gastrointestinal tract, brain,
and other fetal organs. Chorioamnionitis is a polymicrobial nontraditional
infectious disease because the organisms causing chorioamnionitis are generally
of low virulence and colonize the amniotic fluid often for extended periods, and 
the host (mother and the fetus) does not have typical infection-related symptoms 
such as fever. In this review, we discuss the effects of chorioamnionitis in
experimental animal models that mimic the human disease. Our focus is on the
immune changes in multiple fetal organs and the pathogenesis of
chorioamnionitis-induced injury in different fetal compartments. As
chorioamnionitis disproportionately affects preterm infants, we discuss the
relevant developmental context for the immune system. We also provide a clinical 
context for the fetal responses.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1361823 
PMCID: PMC4118297
PMID: 24390922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi. 2013;36(6):433-41.

A novel mouse xenotransplantation model of EBV-T/NK-LPD and the application of
the mouse model.

Imadome K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, National Research Institute for Child
Health and Development.

Chronic active Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection (CAEBV), characterized by
proliferation of EBV-infected T or NK cells, is a disease of unknown pathogenesis
and requires hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for curative treatment. Here
we show that intravenous injection of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) 
isolated from patients with CAEBV to NOD/Shi-scid/IL-2R γ(null) (NOG) mice leads 
to engraftment of EBV-infected T or NK cells. Analysis of TCR repertoire
identified an identical predominant EBV-infected T-cell clone both in a patient
and a mouse transplanted with his PBMCs. EBV-infected T or NK cells infiltrated
to most major organs including the liver, spleen, lungs, kidneys, adrenal glands,
and intestine, showing histological characteristics of CAEBV. Expression of
EBNA1, LMP1, and LMP2A, but not EBNA2, in these cells indicated the latency II
program of EBV gene characteristic to CAEBV. High levels of TNF-α, IFN-γ, and
RANTES were detected in the peripheral blood of these mice. EBV-containing
fractions of either CD8(+), γδT, or NK cell lineages failed to engraft, once they
were isolated from PBMCs ; they could engraft only when CD4(+) cell fraction was 
transplanted in parallel. Isolated EBV-containing CD4(+) T cells, in contrast,
did engraft on their own. This is the first report of an animal model of CAEBV
and suggest that EBV-infected T or NK cells in CAEBV are not truly neoplastic but
are dependent on CD4(+) T cells for their proliferation in vivo.


PMID: 24390103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Circ Res. 2014 Jan 3;114(1):157-70. doi: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.114.300738.

ATP-binding cassette transporters, atherosclerosis, and inflammation.

Westerterp M(1), Bochem AE, Yvan-Charvet L, Murphy AJ, Wang N, Tall AR.

Author information: 
(1)From the Division of Molecular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Columbia
University, New York, NY (M.W., A.E.B., L.Y.-C., A.J.M., N.W., A.R.T.);
Departments of Medical Biochemistry (M.W.) and Vascular Medicine (A.E.B.),
Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; and
Haematopoiesis and Leukocyte Biology, Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute,
Melbourne, Australia (A.J.M.).

Although recent genome-wide association studies have called into question the
causal relationship between high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels and
cardiovascular disease, ongoing research in animals and cells has produced
increasing evidence that cholesterol efflux pathways mediated by ATP-binding
cassette (ABC) transporters and HDL suppress atherosclerosis. These differing
perspectives may be reconciled by a modified HDL theory that emphasizes the
antiatherogenic role of cholesterol flux pathways, initiated in cells by ABC
transporters. ABCA1 and ABCG1 control the proliferation of hematopoietic stem and
multipotential progenitor cells in the bone marrow and hematopoietic stem and
multipotential progenitor cell mobilization and extramedullary hematopoiesis in
the spleen. Thus, activation of cholesterol efflux pathways by HDL infusions or
liver X receptor activation results in suppression of hematopoietic stem and
multipotential progenitor cell mobilization and extramedullary hematopoiesis,
leading to decreased production of monocytes and neutrophils and suppression of
atherosclerosis. In addition, macrophage-specific knockout of transporters has
confirmed their role in suppression of inflammatory responses in the arterial
wall. Recent studies have also shown that ABCG4, a close relative of ABCG1,
controls platelet production, atherosclerosis, and thrombosis. ABCG4 is highly
expressed in megakaryocyte progenitors, where it promotes cholesterol efflux to
HDL and controls the proliferative responses to thrombopoietin. Reconstituted HDL
infusions act in an ABCG4-dependent fashion to limit hypercholesterolemia-driven 
excessive platelet production, thrombosis, and atherogenesis, as occurs in human 
myeloproliferative syndromes. Activation of ABC transporter-dependent cholesterol
efflux pathways in macrophages, hematopoietic stem and multipotential progenitor 
cells, or platelet progenitors by reconstituted HDL infusion or liver X receptor 
activation remain promising approaches to the treatment of human atherothrombotic
diseases.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.114.300738 
PMID: 24385509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


251. J Med Life. 2014;7 Spec No. 2:54-7.

Echinococcal cyst of the left vas deferens - a case report and literature review.

Farcaş CP(1), Rădulescu A(1), Dinu M(1), Mădan V(1), Bratu O(1), Spînu D(1),
Popescu R(1), Mischianu D(1).

Author information: 
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.

Cystic echinococcosis or hydatid disease is an important public health issue,
mainly in developing countries, due to its high prevalence. Echinococcus
granulosus, a cyclophyllid cestode, the pathogenic parasite found in humans,
their intermediate host in its way to the final host, the members of canidae
family. The main sites of infection in humans are the liver and the lungs. There 
have been recorded Rare locations such as the heart, spleen, muscles or
retroperitoneal have also been recorded.CASE PRESENTATION: We present the case of
a 29-year-old man, living in rural environment, who was admitted in our Clinic
for a pelvic cystic tumor and intermittent ureterohydronephrosis. The blood work 
showed positive antibodies for Echinococcus granulosus. An urethrocystoscopy and 
the excision of the tumor were performed.
CONCLUSIONS: Although rare, the involvement of the male genitourinary tract in
cystic echinococcosis is possible and can pose important diagnostic challenges.


PMCID: PMC4391357
PMID: 25870674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Biol Aujourdhui. 2014;208(4):289-98. doi: 10.1051/jbio/2015001. Epub 2015 Apr 3.

[Connecting isolated congenital asplenia to the ribosome].

[Article in French]

Bolze A.

Isolated congenital asplenia is characterized by the absence of a spleen at birth
without any other developmental defect. Isolated congenital asplenia is a rare
and life-threatening disease that predisposes patients to severe bacterial
infections. The first and main genetic etiology of isolated congenital asplenia
was discovered in 2013. Mutations in the gene RPSA, which encodes ribosomal
protein SA, cause more than half of the cases of isolated congenital asplenia.
These disease-causing mutations lead to haploinsufficiency of RPSA.
Haploinsufficiency of genes encoding other ribosomal proteins have been reported 
to cause other developmental defects in humans, and in model organisms like the
fly or the mouse. About half of the patients with Diamond-Blackfan anemia, which 
is a well-characterized ribosomopathy, present developmental defects such as
craniofacial defects, cardiac defects or thumb abnormalities. The mechanism of
pathogenesis linking mutations in ribosomal proteins, which are highly and
ubiquitously expressed, to specific developmental defects remains to be
elucidated. One hypothesis is that the ribosome, and ribosomal proteins in
particular, regulate the expression of specific genes during development.

© Société de Biologie, 2015.

DOI: 10.1051/jbio/2015001 
PMID: 25840456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Cardiovasc Comput Tomogr. 2013 Nov-Dec;7(6):408-16. doi:
10.1016/j.jcct.2013.11.008. Epub 2013 Nov 7.

Cardiovascular manifestations of heterotaxy and related situs abnormalities
assessed with CT angiography.

Wolla CD(1), Hlavacek AM(2), Schoepf UJ(3), Bucher AM(4), Chowdhury S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Medical University of South,
Carolina, Ashley River Tower, MSC 226, 25 Courtenay Dr, Charleston, SC 29425,
USA. (2)Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Medical University of
South, Carolina, Ashley River Tower, MSC 226, 25 Courtenay Dr, Charleston, SC
29425, USA; Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, Medical
University of South, Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA. (3)Department of Radiology
and Radiological Science, Medical University of South, Carolina, Ashley River
Tower, MSC 226, 25 Courtenay Dr, Charleston, SC 29425, USA; Department of
Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA. Electronic
address: schoepf@musc.edu. (4)Department of Radiology and Radiological Science,
Medical University of South, Carolina, Ashley River Tower, MSC 226, 25 Courtenay 
Dr, Charleston, SC 29425, USA; Department of Diagnostic and Interventional
Radiology, University Hospital Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, Frankfurt, Germany. 
(5)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, Medical University
of South, Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA.

Heterotaxy and situs abnormalities describe an abnormal arrangement of visceral
organs in the thoracoabdominal cavity across the normal left-right axis of the
body. It is associated with a high occurrence of congenital heart and abdominal
defects, including anomalous pulmonary venous connections, systemic venous
abnormalities, asplenia, and intestinal malrotation. Without proper diagnosis and
surgical intervention, the prognosis of patients with heterotaxy syndrome and
associated congenital defects is extremely poor. Complex intracardiac and
extracardiac lesions are common in heterotaxy and can be difficult to assess by
echocardiography. CT angiography (CTA) is a useful tool in this setting to
accurately assess intracardiac and extracardiac abnormalities in this population 
for medical or surgical management. The intention of this pictorial essay is to
review the most common cardiovascular defects involved with heterotaxy syndrome
in addition to emphasizing the utility of CTA in the identification and
classification of anomalies seen in these patients. This review briefly defines
most common terminology used in situs abnormalities as well as presents CT images
and 3-dimensional reconstructions of common anomalies associated with situs
abnormalities. In summary, this review should prepare radiologists and pediatric 
cardiologists to describe heterotaxy and situs abnormalities in addition to
recognizing the utility of CTA in these patients.

Copyright © 2013 Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcct.2013.11.008 
PMCID: PMC3947807
PMID: 24331937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Clin Cancer Res. 2014 Feb 1;20(3):548-56. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0226.
Epub 2013 Dec 9.

Molecular pathways: targeting the microenvironment in chronic lymphocytic
leukemia--focus on the B-cell receptor.

ten Hacken E(1), Burger JA.

Author information: 
(1)Authors' Affiliation: Department of Leukemia, The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.

Interactions between malignant B lymphocytes and the tissue microenvironment play
a major role in the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other 
B-cell malignancies. The coexistence and coevolution of CLL cells with their
tissue neighbors provided the basis for discovery of critical cellular and
molecular drivers of the disease and identification of new therapeutic targets.
Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC), monocyte-derived nurselike cells (NLC), and T
cells are key players in the CLL microenvironment, which activate and protect CLL
cells within the tissues. CLL surface molecules, such as the B-cell antigen
receptor (BCR), chemokine receptors, adhesion molecules, and TNF receptor
superfamily members (e.g., CD40, BCMA, and BAFF-R) engage in cross-talk with
respective tissue ligands. This cross-talk results in survival and expansion of
the CLL clone, and protects CLL cells from conventional cytotoxic drugs.
Inhibiting these pathways represents an alternative therapeutic strategy to more 
conventional chemoimmunotherapy. Here, we review central components of the CLL
microenvironment, with a particular emphasis on BCR signaling, and we summarize
the most relevant clinical advances with inhibitors that target the
BCR-associated spleen tyrosine kinase/SYK (fostamatinib), Bruton's tyrosine
kinase/BTK (ibrutinib), and PI3Kδ (idelalisib).

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0226 
PMID: 24323900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2013;2013:632-7. doi:
10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.632.

Sickle cell trait testing and athletic participation: a solution in search of a
problem?

Thompson AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Lurie Children's Hospital Chicago, Chicago, IL.

Carriers of a single sickle cell gene mutation generally enjoy normal lifespans
without serious health consequences related to their sickle cell status, but
under extreme conditions such as severe dehydration and high-intensity physical
activity, complications such as exertional rhabdomyolysis, splenic infarction,
and papillary necrosis can occur. Recently, the National Collegiate Athletic
Association (NCAA) adopted a policy that requires sickle cell solubility testing 
for all incoming student athletes. However, the American Society of Hematology
(ASH) and other physician organizations oppose this policy. What is the basis for
this controversy and how have new findings moved the field forward? I discuss
herein the epidemiology, genetics, and clinical studies of sickle cell trait;
review the implications of current policies regarding sickle cell trait screening
and interventions for the student athlete; and examine additional areas where
more information is needed.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.632 
PMID: 24319243  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2013;2013:553-60. doi:
10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.553.

Targeting B-cell receptor signaling: changing the paradigm.

Fowler N(1), Davis E.

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Lymphoma/Myeloma, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.

It is well known that signals emanating from the B-cell receptor (BCR) activate
downstream pathways to regulate the development and survival of normal B cells.
In B-cell malignancies, it is increasingly understood that similar pathways are
activated through both tonic and chronic active BCR signaling to promote tumor
viability and resistance to therapy. Recently, several active and oral agents
have emerged that target key proximal kinases in the BCR pathway, including
Bruton tyrosine kinase, PI3K, and spleen tyrosine kinase. In early clinical
studies, these agents have shown significant activity across a broad range of
B-cell lymphomas and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Especially impressive
responses have been reported in mantle cell lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic
leukemia, and many patients remain on treatment with continued disease control.
Toxicity profiles have been mild in the majority of early studies, without
significant myelosuppression over prolonged dosing. Due to these attractive
attributes, several agents targeting the BCR pathway are now entering early
combination studies with traditional chemotherapeutics and/or other novel agents.
It is clear that agents targeting the BCR pathway will significantly affect the
design of future therapeutic regimens for B-cell malignancies. Future research
will focus on understanding potential mechanisms of resistance, identifying
biomarkers of response, and defining optimal combination regimens.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.553 
PMID: 24319231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2013;2013:529-37. doi:
10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.529.

JAK inhibition in the myeloproliferative neoplasms: lessons learned from the
bench and bedside.

Gotlib J(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Stanford University School of Medicine/Stanford Cancer Institute, Stanford,
CA.

The discovery of the JAK2 V617F mutation in the classic BCR-ABL1-negative
myeloproliferative neoplasms in 2005 catalyzed a burst of research efforts that
have culminated in substantial dividends for patients. Beyond JAK2 V617F, a more 
detailed picture of the pathobiologic basis for activated JAK-STAT signaling has 
emerged. In some patients with myelofibrosis (MF), next-generation sequencing
technologies have revealed a complex clonal architecture affecting both genetic
and epigenetic regulators of cell growth and differentiation. Although these
bench-top findings have informed the clinical development of JAK inhibitors in
MF, they have also provided scientific context for some of their limitations. The
JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor ruxolitinib is approved for treatment of MF in North America 
and Europe and other lead JAK inhibitors discussed herein (fedratinib
[SAR302503], momelotinib [CYT387], and pacritinib [SB1518]), have entered
advanced phases of trial investigation. Uniformly, these agents share the ability
to reduce spleen size and symptom burden. A major challenge for practitioners is 
how to optimize dosing of these agents to secure clinically relevant and durable 
benefits while minimizing myelosuppression. Suboptimal responses have spurred a
"return to the bench" to characterize the basis for disease persistence and to
inform new avenues of drug therapy.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.529 
PMID: 24319228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Coll Antropol. 2013 Sep;37(3):1007-10.

Primary malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the spleen: recurrence eight years
after splenectomy--report of a case and literature review.

Rakić M(1), Pogorelić Z, Lambasa S, Patrlj L, Perko Z, Rakić M, Mrklić I, Jukić
M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Zagreb, University Hospital Dubrava, Department of Surgery,
Zagreb, Croatia.

Primary intraabdominal malignant mesenchymal tumors are very rare. There are just
few cases of intraabdominal visceral malignant fibrous histiocytoma in the
literature. We report a case of primary malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the
spleen in a 57-year-old man, with a recurrence eight years after the splenectomy.
After the initial surgery the patient was without complaints, and refused to
receive chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Eight years after the surgery the patient
reported due to general weakness and malaise when the diagnosis of disease
relapse was established. Radical surgery was performed although the tumor
involved large curvature of the stomach, left crus of the diaphragm, splenic
flexure of the colon and tail of pancreas. Four months after the surgery patient 
died. To the best of our knowledge, to date, only 18 cases have been reported in 
the literature, describing malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the spleen.


PMID: 24308251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Acta Chir Belg. 2013 Sep-Oct;113(5):325-9.

Histopathological, histogenetic, and immunohistochemical analysis of epidermoid
cyst of spleen.

Gilani SM(1), Tashjian R, Qu H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, St. John Hospital and Medical Center, Detroit,
Michigan 48236, USA. syed.gilani@stjohn.org

Splenic cysts are encountered not uncommonly, but large cysts occupying a
significant portion of the spleen are extremely rare. We report a case of a young
female patient presenting with a large epidermoid cyst involving the majority of 
the spleen. The patient was involved in a motor vehicle accident during which she
sustained multiple rib fractures and traumatic internal organ injuries. She
subsequently underwent exploratory laparotomy and splenectomy for grade III
splenic lacerations. Incidentally, a 13.3 cm in greatest dimension splenic cyst
replacing the majority of the splenic parenchyma was identified. Grossly, the
inner lining of cyst was gray-white, smooth, and glistening. Histologically, the 
thick fibrous cyst wall was composed of stratified squamous epithelium, scattered
foci of which were denuded. A panel of properly-controlled immunohistochemical
stains was performed and showed the squamous epithelium to be strongly and
diffusely immunoreactive with carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), CA 19-9, and
cytokeratin 5/6, focally immunoreactive with HBME-1, and negative for calretinin.
The histomorphological features and immunohistochemical staining pattern were
consistent with a diagnosis of an epidermoid cyst of the spleen.


PMID: 24294796  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


260. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Nov 21;19(43):7647-51. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i43.7647.

Liver diseases in pregnancy: liver transplantation in pregnancy.

Hammoud GM(1), Almashhrawi AA, Ahmed KT, Rahman R, Ibdah JA.

Author information: 
(1)Ghassan M Hammoud, Ashraf A Almashhrawi, Khulood T Ahmed, Rubayat Rahman,
Jamal A Ibdah, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of
Missouri, Columbia, MO 65212, United States.

Pregnancy in patients with advanced liver disease is uncommon as most women with 
decompensated cirrhosis are infertile and have high rate of anovulation. However,
if gestation ensued; it is very challenging and carries high risks for both the
mother and the baby such as higher rates of spontaneous abortion, prematurity,
pulmonary hypertension, splenic artery aneurysm rupture, postpartum hemorrhage,
and a potential for life-threatening variceal hemorrhage and hepatic
decompensation. In contrary, with orthotopic liver transplantation, menstruation 
resumes and most women of childbearing age are able to conceive, give birth and
lead a better quality of life. Women with orthotopic liver transplantation
seeking pregnancy should be managed carefully by a team consultation with
transplant hepatologist, maternal-fetal medicine specialist and other
specialists. Pregnant liver transplant recipients need to stay on
immunosuppression medication to prevent allograft rejection. Furthermore, these
medications need to be monitored carefully and continued throughout pregnancy to 
avoid potential adverse effects to mother and baby. Thus delaying pregnancy 1 to 
2 years after transplantation minimizes fetal exposure to high doses of
immunosuppressants. Pregnant female liver transplant patients have a high rate of
cesarean delivery likely due to the high rate of prematurity in this population. 
Recent reports suggest that with close monitoring and multidisciplinary team
approach, most female liver transplant recipient of childbearing age will lead a 
successful pregnancy.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i43.7647 
PMCID: PMC3837263
PMID: 24282354  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Semin Immunopathol. 2014 Jan;36(1):3-12. doi: 10.1007/s00281-013-0405-5. Epub
2013 Nov 27.

Impacts of the apoptosis inhibitor of macrophage (AIM) on obesity-associated
inflammatory diseases.

Arai S(1), Miyazaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biomedicine for Pathogenesis, Center for Disease
Biology and Integrative Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, The University of Tokyo,
7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan, sarai@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Obesity is associated with various metabolic and cardiovascular diseases caused
by chronic, low-grade inflammation that is initially observed in obese adipose
tissue. In addition, many etiological studies in humans have shown a strong
correlation between obesity and inflammatory autoimmune diseases. In this review,
we focus on the involvement of apoptosis inhibitor of macrophage (AIM), a
macrophage-derived blood protein, in both types of immune response. Through
differential mechanisms, AIM thereby plays key roles in the pathogenesis of
atherosclerosis, metabolic diseases, and obesity-associated autoimmune diseases. 
Thus, the regulation of blood AIM levels or AIM function has the potential to
serve as a next-generation therapy against these inflammatory diseases brought
about by modern lifestyle.

DOI: 10.1007/s00281-013-0405-5 
PMCID: PMC3912372
PMID: 24281248  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Acta Med Croatica. 2013 Mar;67(1):3-11.

[Diagnostic approach and treatment of immune thrombocytopenia in adults].

[Article in Croatian]

Kolonić SO(1), Patekar MB, Milunović V.

Author information: 
(1)Zavod za hematologiju, Klinika za unutarnje bolesti, Klinicka bolnica Merkur, 
Zagreb, Hrvatska. ostojic@net.hr

The aim of this review is to provide the Croatian medical public with novel
insights into the definition, pathogenesis, diagnostic algorithms and treatment
approaches to immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in adults. Recently, primary ITP has 
been uniformly defined as an autoimmune disorder characterized by an isolated
platelet count lower than 100 x 10(9)/L without preexisting disease or
conditions, which could lead to thrombocytopenia. The recognition of primary and 
secondary ITP is important because they require different treatment strategies.
In secondary ITP, therapeutic approach oriented towards the underlying disorder. 
Unlike childhood onset ITP, which is a self-limited condition with high rates of 
spontaneous remissions, adulthood onset ITP usually has chronic course.
Previously, the pathogenesis of ITP was considered to be immune mediated
destruction of platelets in liver and spleen, while recent findings have shown a 
novel pathophysiological pathway based on the inhibition of thrombopoiesis,
leading to novel treatment approaches. The diagnosis of ITP is based on exclusion
of the possible underlying causes of thrombocytopenia and consists of simple
diagnostic procedures. The decision to treat ITP should be based individually:
platelets count (lower than 30 x 10(9)/L), various bleeding risk factors and
patient's preference. The use of corticosteroids is the mainstay of first line
therapy. Two most commonly used corticosteroids are prednisone and dexamethasone.
Prednisone is administered continuously, while dexamethasone is applied in
cycles. Due to the lack of randomized clinical trials, it is not possible to
recommend certain class of corticosteroid therapy. Another two agents used as
first line therapy in case of corticosteroid refractoriness or the need of rapid 
platelet elevation, are intravenous immunoglobulins and anti-D immunoglobulin
(anti-D is not approved in Europe). They are characterized by rapid onset of
platelet recovery and low long-term remission rates. Until recently, splenectomy,
with adequate infectious and thromboprophylaxis, was the therapy of choice in
patients who did not respond to corticosteroids due to high long-term remission
rates and low relapse rates. This procedure can be offered to a younger patient
without significant comorbidities after the first year of ITP duration. With
advances in the understanding of ITP pathogenesis, a new class of drug has been
established: thrombopoietin agonists (TPO). Eltrombopag and romiplostim, the TPO 
agonists currently approved for the management of ITP in patients who failed the 
first line therapy and are not suitable for splenectomy, are only two agents that
have shown benefits in large clinical randomized trials. They are characterized
by a high response rate and appropriate safety profile, but the need for
continuous use, a high relapse rate after therapy withdrawal, and price limit
their use in everyday practice. TPO agonists represent an appropriate treatment
choice in patients who have relapse after splenectomy. Another agent, often used 
in everyday clinical practice, is rituximab with high response and relapse rates.
Its use is based on small studies, and due to the lack of clinical randomized
controlled trials, rituximab is not approved by the leading medical agencies for 
this indication. As shown in this review article, our understanding and therapy
for ITP has improved, but further research is needed to implement evidence-based 
therapy in clinical practice.


PMID: 24279250  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


263. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 21;8(11):e80264. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0080264.
eCollection 2013.

Imaging findings of primary splenic lymphoma: a review of 17 cases in which
diagnosis was made at splenectomy.

Li M(1), Zhang L, Wu N, Huang W, Lv N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of
Medical Sciences, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

PURPOSE: This study sought to characterize the imaging features of primary
splenic lymphoma (PSL).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Pathological and imaging data from 17 patients with
primary splenic lymphoma initially diagnosed at splenectomy were retrospectively 
analyzed. Pretreatment computed tomography (CT) imaging was available for 16
patients, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data were available for 4
patients. Splenic lymphoma imaging data were categorized based on the gross
pathological presentation in the following manner: type 1, homogeneous
enlargement; type 2, miliary nodules; type 3, multifocal masses of varying size; 
and type 4, solitary large mass.
RESULTS: Of the 17 patients with PSL, 16 cases were non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and of 
these, 9 cases were diffuse large B cell lymphomas (DLBCL) and 4 cases were
splenic marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (SMZL). Imaging showed the following types 
of PSL presentation: 1 case of type 1, 0 cases of type 2, 4 cases of type 3, and 
12 cases of type 4. There was evidence of necrosis in 12 cases (70.6%), and there
was evidence of mild enhancement in enhanced CT in 14 cases and in enhanced MRI
in 3 cases. Prior to surgery, PSL was considered possible in 8 patients.
CONCLUSION: The most frequent histological subtype was DLBCL, followed by SMZL.
In both CT and MRI, PSL generally presents as a solitary mass or masses rather
than as splenomegaly. In addition, necrosis and mild enhancement are commonly
observed, and splenectomy may be required to confirm the diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0080264 
PMCID: PMC3837000
PMID: 24278265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Singapore Med J. 2013 Nov;54(11):e230-2.

Splenic artery pseudoaneurysm due to seatbelt injury in a glucose-6-phosphate
dehydrogenase-deficient adult.

Lau YZ(1), Lau YF, Lai KY, Lau CP.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiac Heart Health Centre, Suite 1303, Central Building, 3 Pedder Street,
Central, Hong Kong, China. cplau@hkucc.hku.hk.

A 23-year-old man presented with abdominal pain after suffering blunt trauma
caused by a seatbelt injury. His low platelet count of 137 × 10(9)/L was
initially attributed to trauma and his underlying hypersplenism due to
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Despite conservative
management, his platelet count remained persistently reduced even after his
haemoglobin and clotting abnormalities were stabilised. After a week, follow-up
imaging revealed an incidental finding of a pseudoaneurysm (measuring 9 mm × 8 mm
× 10 mm) adjacent to a splenic laceration. The pseudoaneurysm was successfully
closed via transcatheter glue embolisation; 20% of the spleen was also embolised.
A week later, the platelet count normalised, and the patient was subsequently
discharged. This case highlights the pitfalls in the detection of a delayed
occurrence of splenic artery pseudoaneurysm after blunt injury via routine
delayed phase computed tomography. While splenomegaly in G6PD may be a
predisposing factor for injury, a low platelet count should arouse suspicion of
internal haemorrhage rather than hypersplenism.

DOI: 10.11622/smedj.2013189 
PMID: 24276111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Am J Hematol. 2013 Dec;88(12):1082-8. doi: 10.1002/ajh.23615.

Mantle cell lymphoma: 2013 Update on diagnosis, risk-stratification, and clinical
management.

Vose JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha,
Nebraska.

DISEASE OVERVIEW: Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a non-Hodgkin lymphoma
characterized by involvement of the lymph nodes, spleen, blood, and bone marrow
with a short remission duration to standard therapies and a median overall
survival of 4-5 years.
DIAGNOSIS: Diagnosis is based on lymph node, bone marrow, or tissue morphology of
centrocytic lymphocytes, small cell type, or blastoid variant cells. A
chromosomal translocation t(11:14) is the molecular hallmark of MCL, resulting in
the overexpression of cyclin D1. Cyclin D1 is detected by immunohistochemistry in
98% of cases. The absence of SOX-11 or a low Ki-67 may correlate with a more
indolent form of MCL. The differential diagnosis of MCL includes small
lymphocytic lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma.
RISK STRATIFICATION: The Mantle Cell Lymphoma International Prognostic Index
(MIPI) is the prognostic model most often used and incorporates ECOG performance 
status, age, leukocyte count, and lactic dehydrogenase. A modification of the
MIPI also adds the Ki-67 proliferative index if available. The median overall
survival (OS) for the low risk group was not reached (5-year OS of 60%). The
median OS for the intermediate risk group was 51 months and 29 months for the
high risk group.
RISK-ADAPTED THERAPY: For selected indolent, low MIPI MCL patients, initial
observation may be appropriate therapy. For younger patients with intermediate or
high risk MIPI MCL, aggressive therapy with a cytarabine containing regimen ±
autologous stem cell transplantation should be considered. For older MCL patients
with intermediate or high risk MIPI, combination chemotherapy with R-CHOP,
R-Bendamustine, or a clinical trial should be considered. At the time of relapse,
agents directed at activated pathways in MCL cells such as bortezomib (NFkB
inhibitor) or lenalidamide (anti-angiogenesis) are approved agents. Clinical
trials with Ibruitinib (Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase inhibitor) or Idelalisib (PI3K
inhibitor) have demonstrated excellent clinical activity in MCL patients.
Autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation can also be considered in
young patients.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.23615 
PMID: 24273091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Surg Clin North Am. 2014 Feb;94(1):65-9. doi: 10.1016/j.suc.2013.10.006. Epub
2013 Oct 30.

Spontaneous hemoperitoneum.

Kasotakis G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Trauma & Acute Care Surgery, Boston Medical Center, Boston
University School of Medicine, 840 Harrison Avenue, Dowling 2 South, #2414,
Boston, MA 02118, USA. Electronic address: gkasot@bu.edu.

Spontaneous hemoperitoneum is a rare, but life-threatening condition usually
caused by nontraumatic rupture of the liver, spleen, or abdominal vasculature
with underlying pathology. Management revolves around angioembolization or
surgical intervention. This article provides a brief overview of the diagnosis
and treatment of this disorder.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suc.2013.10.006 
PMID: 24267498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Med Monatsschr Pharm. 2013 Oct;36(10):364-8.

[Infectious mononucleosis--a "childhood disease" of great medical concern].

[Article in German]

Stock I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Mikrobiologie, Immunologie und Parasitologie,
Abteilung Pharmazeutische Mikrobiologie, Universität Bonn, Meckenheimer Allee
168, 53115 Bonn. Ingo_Stock@web.de

Infectious mononucleosis is usually a benign self-limiting disease, which is
caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a member of the Herpes virus family. EBV 
virions have a double-stranded, linear DNA genome surrounded by a protein capsid.
EBV is transmitted primarily through saliva, but transmission via blood and
droplets also occurs. Infectious mononucleosis is the most frequent clinical
manifestation of EBV infection and occurs during primary infection with the
virus. With some exceptions, only children older than 10 years, adolescents and
young adults are suffering from the disease. Primary EBV infection in children up
to 10 years is usually asymptomatic or shows unspecific courses. After an
incubation period of up to seven weeks, a sore throat, mild fever and swollen
lymph nodes in the neck area are the first signs of symptomatic infection.
Further course of the disease often leads to hepatitis and swelling of the
spleen. The symptoms usually subside after a few weeks, but protracted courses
and clinical active infection also occur. The Epstein-Barr virus is distributed
worldwide. At least 90% of all adults are seropositive to EBV. The treatment of
infectious mononucleosis is mainly symptomatic, a generally effective specific
therapy does not exist. A vaccine is currently not available.


PMID: 24266247  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Immunol Res. 2013 Dec;57(1-3):311-25. doi: 10.1007/s12026-013-8468-x.

Secreted heat shock protein gp96-Ig: next-generation vaccines for cancer and
infectious diseases.

Strbo N(1), Garcia-Soto A, Schreiber TH, Podack ER.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Miami Miller School
of Medicine, RMSB 3008, 1600 NW 10th Ave, Miami, FL, 33136, USA,
nstrbo@med.miami.edu.

Over the past decade, our laboratory has developed a secreted heat shock protein 
(HSP), chaperone gp96, cell-based vaccine that generates effective anti-tumor and
anti-infectious immunity in vivo. Gp96-peptide complexes were identified as an
extremely efficient stimulator of MHC I-mediated antigen cross-presentation,
generating CD8 cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responses detectable in blood, spleen, gut 
and reproductive tract to femto-molar concentrations of antigen. These studies
provided the first evidence that cell-based gp96-Ig-secreting vaccines may serve 
as a potent modality to induce both systemic and mucosal immunity. This approach 
takes advantage of the combined adjuvant and antigen delivery capacity of gp96
for the generation of cytotoxic immunity against a wide range of antigens in both
anti-vial and anti-cancer vaccination. Here, we review the vaccine design that
utilizes the unique property/ability of endoplasmic HSP gp96 to bind antigenic
peptides and deliver them to antigen-presenting cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-013-8468-x 
PMID: 24254084  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Mod Rheumatol. 2014 Jul;24(4):645-50. doi: 10.3109/14397595.2013.850998. Epub
2013 Nov 4.

Clinical value of ¹⁸F-fluoro-dexoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed 
tomography in patients with adult-onset Still's disease: a seven-case series and 
review of the literature.

Yamashita H(1), Kubota K, Takahashi Y, Minamimoto R, Morooka M, Kaneko H, Kano T,
Mimori A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatic Diseases, National Center for Global Health and Medicine
, Tokyo , Japan.

OBJECTIVES: While there are a few reports describing 18F-fluoro-dexoxyglucose
positron emission tomography/computed tomography (18F-FDG PET/CT) findings in
patients with adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD), no summary report has yet been 
published. In this study, we evaluated the usefulness of FDG-PET/CT for diagnosis
and activity evaluation in patients with AOSD by summarizing the findings of our 
patients and those reported in the literature.
METHODS: Seven consecutive AOSD patients who had undergone PET/CT at our
department between 2007 and 2012 were included. We evaluated FDG uptake for
characteristic findings in patients with AOSD. In addition, we reviewed the
literature on seven previously reported AOSD patients who had undergone PET/CT.
RESULTS: FDG accumulation was positive mainly in the bone marrow (100%), spleen
(90.9%), lymph nodes (80.0%) and joints (75.0%). In addition, FDG uptake was
positive in the pericardium, pleura, salivary glands, eyelids, muscle and major
blood vessels. Six patients underwent follow-up FDG PET/CT for evaluation of
treatment efficacy. Follow-up PET/CT showed diminished FDG accumulation in the
bone marrow, spleen and lymph nodes, with maximum standardized uptake value
(SUVmax) being substantially reduced from 4.03 ± 0.95 to 2.20 ± 0.75 (p = 0.04), 
4.04 ± 1.10 to 2.55 ± 1.13 (p = 0.04) and 5.63 ± 4.99 to 2.10 ± 1.91 (p = 0.11), 
respectively. No significant correlation was found between SUVmax in each lesion 
and the laboratory data, except for a significant correlation between lactate
dehydrogenase (LDH) and spleen SUV.
CONCLUSIONS: FDG-PET/CT is useful for long-term assessments of AOSD activity in
individual patients. However, PET/CT findings alone are not sufficient to make a 
differential diagnosis of AOSD versus malignant lymphoma.

DOI: 10.3109/14397595.2013.850998 
PMID: 24252024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Immunol. 2013 Dec 1;191(11):5341-6. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1302070.

Exploiting apoptosis for therapeutic tolerance induction.

Getts DR(1), McCarthy DP, Miller SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology and Interdepartmental Immunobiology
Center, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611.

Immune tolerance remains the most promising yet elusive strategy for treating
immune-mediated diseases. An experimental strategy showing promise in phase 1
clinical studies is the delivery of Ag cross-linked to apoptotic leukocytes using
ethylene carbodiimide. This approach originated from demonstration of the
profound tolerance-inducing ability of i.v. administered Ag-coupled splenocytes
(Ag-SP) in mice, which has been demonstrated to treat T cell-mediated disorders
including autoimmunity, allergy, and transplant rejection. Recent studies have
defined the intricate interplay between the innate and adaptive immune systems in
Ag-SP tolerance induction. Innate mechanisms include scavenger receptor-mediated 
uptake of Ag-SP by host APCs, Ag representation, and the required upregulation of
PD-L1 expression and IL-10 production by splenic marginal zone macrophages
leading to Ag-specific T cell regulation via the combined effects of
cell-intrinsic anergy and regulatory T cell induction. In this paper, we discuss 
the history, advantages, current mechanistic understanding, and clinical
potential of tolerance induction using apoptotic Ag-coupled apoptotic leukocytes.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1302070 
PMCID: PMC3845408
PMID: 24244028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


271. JOP. 2013 Nov 10;14(6):636-41. doi: 10.6092/1590-8577/1784.

Laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy for multiple epithelial cysts in an
intrapancreatic accessory spleen. A case report and review of literature.

Wakasugi M(1), Tori M, Akamatsu H, Ueshima S, Omori T, Tei M, Masuzawa T,
Tsujimoto M, Nishida T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Osaka Police Hospital. Osaka, Japan.
wakasugi@oph.gr.jp.

CONTEXT: Accessory spleen is a congenital abnormality consisting of normal
splenic tissue in ectopic sites that is found in approximately 10-15% of the
general population. However, an intrapancreatic accessory spleen has seldom been 
reported and multiple epithelial cysts in the intrapancreatic accessory spleen
are extremely rare.
CASE REPORT: A 37-year-old woman with no clinical manifestations presented with
two cystic lesions in the tail of the pancreas. The tumor markers CA 19-9 (251
U/mL) and SPAN-1 (38 U/mL) were increased. Computed tomography showed a
multilocular cyst, 40 mm in size, and a unilocular cyst, 20 mm in size, in the
tail of the pancreas and gallstones. The cystic component was hypointense on
T1-weighted magnetic resonance images and hyperintense on T2-weighted magnetic
resonance images. A laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy was performed with the
presumptive diagnosis of a mucinous cystic neoplasm or an intraductal papillary
mucinous neoplasm with gallstones. The pathological examination showed that the
walls of the two cysts were covered with non-keratinized stratified squamous
epithelium, surrounded by normal splenic tissue. The final pathological diagnosis
was two epithelial cysts originating from an intrapancreatic accessory spleen.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though multiple masses were detected in the pancreatic tail,
the possibility of epithelial cysts originating from an accessory spleen should
be considered. Laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy might be a safe and effective
procedure and provide good cosmetic result for a benign or low-grade malignant
tumor in the pancreas.


PMID: 24216550  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nihon Rinsho. 2013 Sep;71(9):1681-9.

[Latest topics on macrophage-derived AIM -multiple AIM roles in
obesity-associated diseases-].

[Article in Japanese]

Arai S(1), Miyazaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biomedicine for Pathogenesis, Center for Disease
Biology and Integrative Medicine. Faculty of Medicine, The University of Tokyo.

AIM is a secreted molecule produced by tissue macrophages, and observed in blood 
at 5-15microg/mL in both mice and humans. Today, AIM is highlighted as a key
molecule in the pathogenesis of multiple metabolic diseases in particular by its 
lipolytic function in obese adipose tissue, causes chronic inflammation leading
to insulin resistance. Furthermore, we recently found that association of AIM
with IgM accumulates AIM in blood. Interestingly, this association also strongly 
supports IgM function in the presentation of self-antigens in the splenic
germinal center, which promotes obesity-associated autoantibody production. In
this report, we present the current knowledge about AIM, and discuss its
important pathological roles, as well as its intriguing molecular behavior.


PMID: 24205735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


273. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Oct 28;19(40):6939-42. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i40.6939.

Isolated gastric variceal bleeding caused by splenic lymphoma-associated splenic 
vein occlusion.

Chen BC(1), Wang HH, Lin YC, Shih YL, Chang WK, Hsieh TY.

Author information: 
(1)Bao-Chung Chen, Yu-Lueng Shih, Wei-Kuo Chang, Tsai-Yuan Hsieh, Division of
Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Tri-Service General Hospital, 
National Defense Medical Center, Taipei 114, Taiwan.

Isolated gastric varices (IGV) can occur in patients with left-sided portal
hypertension resulting from splenic vein occlusion caused by thrombosis or
stenosis. In left-sided portal hypertension, blood flows retrogradely through the
short and posterior gastric veins and the gastroepiploic veins, leading to the
formation of an IGV. The most common causes of splenic vein occlusion are
pancreatic diseases, such as pancreatic cancer, pancreatitis, or a pseudocyst.
However, various other cancers, such as colon, gastric, or renal cancers, have
also been known to cause splenic vein occlusion. Our patient presented with a
rare case of IGV bleeding induced by splenic lymphoma-associated splenic vein
occlusion. Splenectomy, splenic artery embolization, and stenting of the splenic 
vein are the current treatment choices. Chemotherapy, however, is an alternative 
effective treatment for splenic vein occlusion caused by chemotherapy-sensitive
tumors. Our patient responded well to chemotherapy with a cyclophosphamide,
hydroxydaunorubicin, oncovin, and prednisolone regimen, and the splenic vein
occlusion resolved after the lymphoma regressed.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i40.6939 
PMCID: PMC3812498
PMID: 24187474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


274. J Am Coll Radiol. 2013 Nov;10(11):833-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2013.05.020.

Managing incidental findings on abdominal and pelvic CT and MRI, part 3: white
paper of the ACR Incidental Findings Committee II on splenic and nodal findings.

Heller MT(1), Harisinghani M, Neitlich JD, Yeghiayan P, Berland LL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and
Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

This white paper describes splenic and nodal incidental findings found on CT and 
MRI. Recommendations for management are included. This represents the third of 4 
such papers from the ACR Incidental Findings Committee II, which used a consensus
method based on repeated reviews and revisions and a collective review and
interpretation of relevant literature. Topics include descriptions of appearances
of several types of splenic lesions and, the importance of size and distribution 
of lymph nodes. Flowcharts are provided for reference.

Copyright © 2013 American College of Radiology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2013.05.020 
PMID: 24183552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Curr Top Med Chem. 2013;13(23):2955-64.

Multiple metamorphoses of CD38 from prognostic marker to disease modifier to
therapeutic target in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Vaisitti T(1), Audrito V, Serra S, Bologna C, Arruga F, Brusa D, Buonincontri R, 
Gizdic B, Deaglio S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin School of Medicine & Human
Genetics Foundation (HuGeF), via Nizza, 52, 10126 Torino, Italy.
silvia.deaglio@unito.it.

Human CD38, an ecto-enzyme and a receptor, performs as an independent negative
prognostic marker for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a
hematological malignancy characterized by the accumulation of a population of
mature B lymphocytes expressing CD5. Patients with a CD38⁺ CLL clone display a
more aggressive form of the disease with earlier treatment requirements and
ultimately shorter overall survival than patients with a CD38⁻ clone. Several
lines of evidence indicate that CD38 is not only a diagnostic marker but also a
key element in the molecular network regulating disease maintenance and
progression. First, CD38 is a receptor that induces proliferation and increases
survival of CLL cells. Second, CD38 signals facilitate access of CLL cells to
growth-favorable districts. This is achieved by enhancing i) chemotaxis towards
CXCL12, ii) integrin-mediated adhesion and iii) matrix metalloprotease synthesis 
and secretion. Third, blocking monoclonal antibodies targeting CD38 impair CLL
homing to spleen and bone marrow in xenograft models. These functions appear to
be modulated by frontal interactions with CD31 as well as by lateral associations
on the CLL membrane to form a large supramolecular complex similar to the
invadosomes of epithelial cells. Our understanding has evolved from considering
CD38 as a marker of unfavorable prognosis to recognizing its function as a
disease modifier. Studies in the next few years will likely determine whether the
molecule can also serve as a target for new therapies, using monoclonal
antibodies, inhibitors of the enzymatic activity or both.


PMID: 24171772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Expert Rev Hematol. 2013 Dec;6(6):735-45. doi: 10.1586/17474086.2013.845522. Epub
2013 Oct 30.

Splenic marginal zone lymphoma: disease features and management.

Matutes E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Haematopathology Unit, Hospital Clinic . Barcelona University, Villarroel,
170, 08036 Barcelona, Spain +34 663 109 312 +34 932 275 717
estella.matutes.juan@gmail.com.

Splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL) is a lymphoma recognized as a distinct
entity in the WHO classification of the lymphoid tumors. SMZL probably results
from the expansion of a marginal zone B-cell driven by persistent antigen
stimulation. SMZL is clinically and biologically heterogeneous. The SMZL Working 
Group has published guidelines for the diagnosis, workup and treatment of SMZL.
There are no standard criteria to initiate treatment. A policy of watch and wait 
in asymptomatic patients is recommended. In symptomatic patients, data from
retrospective studies suggest that rituximab with or without chemotherapy is the 
best strategy for SMZL. It is uncertain which is the optimal type of chemotherapy
and whether patients may benefit from splenectomy prior chemoimmunotherapy. In
the future, we may see progress with agents targeting known molecular lesions in 
SMZL.

DOI: 10.1586/17474086.2013.845522 
PMID: 24168526  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Acta Clin Belg. 2013 May-Jun;68(3):220-2.

Meningitis and splenic infarction due to disseminated Mycobacterium genavense
infection in an HIV patient. Case report and review of the literature.

Kyrilli A(1), Payen MC, Antoine-Moussiaux T, Dewit S, Clumeck N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, St Pierre Hospital, 322, Rue Haute, 1000
Brussels, Belgium. elina_kdc@hotmail.com

We report a case of disseminated infection with Mycobacterium genavense in a 58
year old HIV positive woman presenting with fever, diarrhea, abdominal pain and
weight loss. She had a striking hepatosplenomegaly, abdominal lymphadenopathy,
anaemia and thrombopenia. Direct smears and cultures of blood, stool, sputum,
urine and bone marrow were negative for common and opportunistic microorganisms. 
Splenectomy revealed numerous acid fast bacill. Lumbar puncture also showed acid 
fast bacilli at direct examination. Specific PCR and 16s rRNA gene sequencing
identified M. genavense. The outcome was fatal despite antimycobacterial therapy.
M. genavense must be included in the differential diagnosis of fever, weight
loss, lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly in immunocompromised patients. Prompt
diagnosis is based on molecular biology methods. Empirical therapy, using at
least three antimycobacterial agents, including clarithromycin should be
introduced in case of high clinical suspicion.

DOI: 10.2143/ACB.3204 
PMID: 24156225  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis. 2013 Dec;77(4):376-9. doi:
10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2013.09.011. Epub 2013 Sep 28.

Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 6C presenting as recurrent prosthetic knee
joint infection in a patient with a history of congenital asplenia and underlying
autoimmune disease: a case report and literature review.

Roberts AL(1), Hewlett AL, Yu J, Nahm MH, Fey PD, Iwen PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Microbiology, University of Nebraska Medical
Center, Omaha, NE, USA.

This report describes a case of primary Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteremia with 
prosthetic joint infection caused by serotype 6C with recurrent infection in a
patient with a history of congenital asplenia and underlying autoimmune disease. 
Isolates from the primary and recurrent infections were determined to be
indistinguishable by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. This study expands the
conditions associated with recurrent invasive pneumococcal disease caused by
serotype 6C.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2013.09.011 
PMID: 24139971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Curr Opin Allergy Clin Immunol. 2013 Dec;13(6):607-13. doi:
10.1097/ACI.0000000000000010.

Human primary immunodeficiencies causing defects in innate immunity.

Wong T(1), Yeung J, Hildebrand KJ, Junker AK, Turvey SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Child & Family Research Institute, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: There have been exciting recent advances in identifying new
mutations that cause human primary immunodeficiencies which impact innate immune 
defences. In this review, we will highlight the most important and influential
advances published in the last 18 months related to the defects of the innate
immune system. We will also provide clinical context to facilitate the
incorporation of these discoveries into clinical practice.
RECENT FINDINGS: We will specifically focus on three areas that have seen recent 
significant advances: defects in Toll-like receptor signalling that enhance
susceptibility to viral infection, particularly herpes simplex encephalitis;
defects in innate immunity that impact phagocyte function predisposing to
mycobacterial infection; and the discovery of genes responsible for isolated
congenital asplenia.
SUMMARY: The field of innate immunodeficiency has benefited greatly from the
recent improvements in genome sequencing technology and has advanced dramatically
in the last 18 months. For clinicians confronted with patients with suspected
innate immunodeficiency, these new discoveries not only increase the likelihood
that a patient will receive a specific molecular diagnosis and tailored therapy, 
but also add significant complexity to the diagnostic workup. Future challenges
will include identifying accurate, cost-effective diagnostic approaches to these 
novel immunodeficiencies, so these impressive advances in our understanding of
innate immunity can be translated into improved health outcomes for our affected 
patients and their families.

DOI: 10.1097/ACI.0000000000000010 
PMID: 24126612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Exp Hematol. 2014 Jan;42(1):4-10. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2013.10.002. Epub 2013
Oct 11.

Murine xenogeneic models of myelodysplastic syndrome: an essential role for
stroma cells.

Li X(1), Deeg HJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wu'Xi Medical School, Jiangnan University, Wu'Xi, China. (2)Clinical Research 
Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA; Department of
Medicine, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.
Electronic address: jdeeg@fhcrc.org.

The objective of is this article is to review murine xenotransplantation models
for myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). The difficulties in achieving sustained
engraftment of MDS cells in immunodeficient mice may lie in innate
characteristics of the MDS clones and microenvironmental factors. Engraftment of 
very low numbers of CD45(+) clonal MDS cells has been achieved with intravenous
injection; higher rates of engraftment are obtained via the intramedullary route.
Coinjection of certain stroma components with hematopoietic cells overcomes
limitations of intravenous (IV) administration, allowing for engraftment of high 
proportions of human CD45(+) cells in mouse spleen and marrow. Expression of
CD146 on stroma cells conveys an engraftment-facilitating effect. Clonal MDS
cells have been propagated for periods beyond 6 months and have been transplanted
successfully into secondary recipients. Engraftment of human clonal MDS cells
with stem cell characteristics in immunodeficient mice is greatly facilitated by 
coinjection of stroma/mesenchymal cells, particularly with IV administration.
CD146 expression on stroma is an essential factor; however, no model develops the
laboratory and clinical features of human MDS. Additional work is needed to
determine cellular and noncellular factors required for the full evolution of
MDS.

Copyright © 2014 ISEH - Society for Hematology and Stem Cells. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2013.10.002 
PMCID: PMC4053244
PMID: 24125777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nestle Nutr Inst Workshop Ser. 2013;77:91-8. doi: 10.1159/000351390. Epub 2013
Aug 29.

Transforming growth factor and intestinal inflammation: the role of nutrition.

Ruemmele FM(1), Garnier-Lengliné H.

Author information: 
(1)Université Sorbonne Paris Cité, Université Paris Descartes, INSERM U989,
Hôpital Necker Enfants Malades, Service de Gastroentérologie Pédiatrique, Paris, 
France.

The intestinal mucosa possesses a complex epithelial barrier and a well-organized
local immune system, which both efficiently protect this internal-external
surface against potential microbial aggressions while guaranteeing tolerance
towards harmless bacteria or antigens (oral tolerance). There is good
experimental evidence that the intestinal microbiota is a main driver for the
development of the mucosal immune system. Any perturbations/changes of this
interaction with the intestinal microbiota or the microbial colonization process 
may cause health problems with short- and eventually long-term consequences, such
as suspected for allergic or dysimmune disorders. Dendritic cells (DC) play a key
role in the initiation of immune responses. Immune responses elicited by
intestinal DC differ markedly from those initiated by spleen-derived DC: while
intestinal DC induce anti-inflammatory and tolerogenic responses to harmless
antigens such as derived from the resident microflora or harmless food allergens,
systemic immune activation yields in a strong inflammatory TH1/TH17 reaction to
the same antigens. The recent discovery how DC functions are regulated and
imprinted by the microenvironment (DC conditioning) will be discussed in this
review. High concentrations of retinoic acid or vitamin D metabolites, thymic
stromal lymphopoietin and/or transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) activate
signaling programs in DC that yield in priming of regulatory and
anti-inflammatory T cell responses. TGF-β is one of the key factors implicated in
intestinal immune regulation; it is produced by a large variety of cells in the
intestinal mucosa, including intestinal epithelial cells, lymphocytes and
monocytes/macrophages/DC. An important anti-inflammatory effect of TGF-β on the
immune system is the promotion and generation of FOXP3-positive regulatory T
cells in the intestinal compartment. There are first and encouraging data from
the treatment of Crohn's disease, an inflammatory GI condition, that targeted
enteral therapy with optimized concentrations of immunoregulatory peptides, such 
as TGF-β, might of interest for the treatment of inflammatory disorders.

Copyright © 2013 Nestec Ltd., Vevey/S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000351390 
PMID: 24107499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Bull Cancer. 2013 Oct;100(10):1043-7. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1823.

[Molecular and therapeutic advances in Hairy cell leukemia].

[Article in French]

Balsat M(1), Cornillon J.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de cancérologie Lucien-Neuwirth, Service d'hématologie clinique, 108 
bis, avenue Albert-Raimond, 42271 Saint-Priest-en-Jarez, France.

Hairy cell leukemia is a rare chronic lymphoproliferative disorder. Its diagnosis
remains difficult due to different variant forms and differential diagnosis that 
are splenic marginal zone lymphoma and b-prolymphocytic leukemia. The prognosis
of this malignancy has been transformed by purine nucleoside analogs, interferon,
monoclonal antibodies and recombinant immunotoxins usually used in refractory or 
relapsed disease. The discovery of BRAF V600E mutation has become the milestone
in the disease's history since it was uniformly identified in a HCL series in
2011. This mutation, commonly identified in melanoma, involves the protooncogene 
BRAF, a MAP3Kinase belonging to the RAF-MEK-ERK signaling pathway, which is the
central key in several oncogenic processes. This mutation suggests
disease-specific oncogene dependence. The detection of this mutation provides an 
additional diagnosis marker (because not found in variant forms), a best for
monitoring minimal residual disease and a therapeutic target with the BRAF
inhibitors in specific subgroups of patients, already tested in melanoma. This
review aims to summarize the clinical and biological aspects and treatment of
hairy cell leukemia and discusses the perspectives provided by the discovery of
BRAF mutation in this disease.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1823 
PMID: 24103785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Minerva Chir. 2013 Oct;68(5):489-97.

Robotic distal pancreatectomy: a valid option?

Jung MK(1), Buchs NC, Azagury DE, Hagen ME, Morel P.

Author information: 
(1)Clinic for Visceral and Transplantation Surgery Department of Surgery
University Hospital of Geneva Geneva, Switzerland - minoa.jung@hcuge.ch.

Although reported in the literature, conventional laparoscopic approach for
distal pancreatectomy is still lacking widespread acceptance. This might be due
to two-dimensional vision and decreased range of motion to reach and safely
dissect this highly vascularized retroperitoneal organ by laparoscopy. However,
interest in minimally invasive access is growing ever since and the robotic
system could certainly help overcome limitations of the laparoscopic approach in 
the challenging domain of pancreatic resection, notably in distal pancreatectomy.
Robotic distal pancreatectomy with and without spleen preservation has been
reported with encouraging outcomes for benign and borderline malignant disease.
As a result of upgraded endowristed manipulation and three-dimensional
visualization, improved outcome might be expected with the launch of the robotic 
system in the procedure of distal pancreatectomy. Our aim was thus to extensively
review the current literature of robot-assisted surgery for distal pancreatectomy
and to evaluate advantages and possible limitations of the robotic approach.


PMID: 24101006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Handb Clin Neurol. 2013;117:119-34. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53491-0.00011-0.

The clinical importance of the anti-inflammatory vagovagal reflex.

Boeckxstaens G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Leuven, University of
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: Guy.Boeckxstaens@med.kuleuven.be.

Excessive activation of the immune system is prevented by anti-inflammatory
mediators such as corticosteroids and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Recently, it
became clear that the brain not only senses peripheral inflammation through vagal
afferent nerve fibers, but also provides an integrated response dampening the
immune system through vagal efferents. This so-called anti-inflammatory pathway
has been introduced as a third system by which the immune system is modulated. In
sepsis, the anti-inflammatory effect is mediated by modulation of splenic
macrophages, whereas in the gut, vagal nerve fibers synapse with enteric
cholinergic neurons interacting with resident intestinal macrophages. In this
chapter, the preclinical data underscoring the importance of this pathway are
summarized, and its clinical significance is reviewed. Finally, the current data 
supporting its relevance to human disease and its therapeutic potential will be
discussed. Insight in the mechanisms underlying these crucial properties will
lead to better understanding of immune-mediated diseases and ultimately to
improved anti-inflammatory therapies.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53491-0.00011-0 
PMID: 24095121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Semin Nucl Med. 2013 Nov;43(6):404-11. doi: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2013.06.007.

FDG PET imaging in sarcoidosis.

Sobic-Saranovic D(1), Artiko V, Obradovic V.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Center for Nuclear Medicine,
Clinical Center of Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia. Electronic address:
dsobic2@gmail.com.

The objective of this review is to highlight the clinical utility of FDG-PET/CT
for evaluation of patients with chronic sarcoidosis. The emphasis was on the
potential advantages and disadvantages of this technique in these patients based 
on which recommendations were made. The advantage of FDG-PET/CT technique is that
it can visualize FDG accumulation in activated inflammatory cells and
simultaneously provide PET and CT images. Of particular interest is the use of
FDG-PET/CT for the staging and identification of occult sites and sites suitable 
for biopsy and for the assessment of inflammatory active sarcoidosis in patients 
with prolonged symptoms, especially when other markers of the disease are within 
normal values. FDG-PET/CT also provides a better visualization of extrathoracic
sites of active sarcoidosis, such as in the bones, liver, spleen, and
retroperitoneal lymph nodes. The use of FDG-PET/CT is of special interest in
cardiac sarcoidosis because this potentially life-threatening disease is
sometimes present in asymptomatic patients. FDG-PET/CT also has a role in the
clinical management of patients with chronic persistent sarcoidosis, such as for 
planning treatment, monitoring response, and long-term follow-up. The limitations
of FDG-PET/CT in patients with sarcoidosis are discussed in the context of a
"sarcoidosis-lymphoma syndrome" and potentially excessive radiation exposure.
Further prospective multicentre studies are needed to refine the clinical
applications of FDG-PET/CT in patients with sarcoidosis and drive the field
forward.

© 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2013.06.007 
PMID: 24094707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Eur J Intern Med. 2014 Feb;25(2):117-24. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2013.09.006. Epub
2013 Oct 1.

Gaucher disease: a diagnostic challenge for internists.

Cassinerio E(1), Graziadei G(2), Poggiali E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Rare Diseases Center, Department of Medicine and Medical Specialities, "Ca'
Granda" Foundation IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, University of Milan,
Italy. Electronic address: elena.cassinerio@virgilio.it. (2)Rare Diseases Center,
Department of Medicine and Medical Specialities, "Ca' Granda" Foundation IRCCS
Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, University of Milan, Italy. (3)Department of
Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan, Italy.

Gaucher disease (GD), the most common inherited lysosomal storage disorder, is a 
multiorgan disease due to an autosomal recessive defect of the gene encoding
glucocerebrosidase enzyme, responsible for the accumulation of glucosylceramide
(glucocerebroside) into reticuloendothelial cells, particularly in the liver,
spleen and bone marrow. GD is a clinically heterogeneous disorder and it is
conventionally classified in type 1 (non-neuronopathic disease), types 2 and 3
(acute and chronic neuronopathic disease, respectively). Features of clinical
presentation and organ involvement as well as age, at presentation are highly
variable among affected patients. Splenomegaly and/or thrombocytopenia are the
most common presenting features either as incidental findings during routine
blood count or physical examination. Other possible clinical manifestations can
be hepatomegaly with abnormal liver function tests, bone pain often associated
with skeletal complications (pathological fractures, avascular necrosis,
osteopenia), pulmonary hypertension and, in neuronopathic forms, neurological
manifestations (dysfunction of eye motility, mild mental retardation, behavioural
difficulties, choreoathetosis and cramp attacks). For all these reasons GD
diagnosis is often a real challenge for internists. In the presence of clinical
suspicion of GD, the diagnosis has to be confirmed measuring the
betaglucocerebrosidase activity in the peripheral leukocytes and by molecular
analysis. Each patient needs an accurate initial multisystemic assessment,
staging the damage of all the possible organs involved, and the burden of the
disease, followed by regular followup. The correct and early diagnosis permits to
treat patients properly, avoiding the complications of the disease.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2013.09.006 
PMID: 24090739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Jun;12(6):935-45.e4. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2013.09.013. Epub 2013 Sep 18.

Accuracy of spleen stiffness measurement in detection of esophageal varices in
patients with chronic liver disease: systematic review and meta-analysis.

Singh S(1), Eaton JE(2), Murad MH(3), Tanaka H(4), Iijima H(4), Talwalkar JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. Electronic address: Singh.Siddharth2@mayo.edu.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. (3)Knowledge and Evaluation Research Unit,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. (4)Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic
Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, Hyogo College of Medicine, Hyogo,
Japan.

Comment in
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Jan;13(1):212.
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Jan;13(1):211-2.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Spleen stiffness measurement (SSM) is a promising noninvasive 
alternative to esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) that could be used in the
diagnosis of esophageal varices (EV) in patients with cirrhosis. However, its
overall diagnostic accuracy in various clinical settings is unknown. We conducted
a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies that compared the accuracy of
SSM with that of EGD in detecting EV in patients with chronic liver disease.
METHODS: Through a systematic search of bibliographic databases and conference
proceedings, and contact with authors, we identified 12 studies that reported the
accuracy of SSM, compared with EGD, in the diagnosis of any and/or clinically
significant EV in adults with chronic liver disease. In a meta-analysis, we
combined measures of test performance of individual studies.
RESULTS: Based on pooled estimates, SSM detected the presence of any EV with 78% 
sensitivity (95% confidence interval [CI], 75%-81%), 76% specificity (95% CI,
72%-79%), a positive likelihood ratio (LR) of 3.4 (95% CI, 2.3-4.9), a negative
LR of 0.2 (95% CI, 0.1-0.4), and a diagnostic odds ratio of 19.3 (95% CI,
7.5-49.8). In a meta-analysis of 9 studies, SSM detected the presence of
clinically significant EV with 81% sensitivity (95% CI, 76%-86%), 66% specificity
(95% CI, 61%-69%), a positive LR of 2.5 (95% CI, 1.7-3.9), a negative LR of 0.2
(95% CI, 0.1-0.5), and a diagnostic odds ratio of 12.6 (95% CI, 5.5-28.7). There 
was significant heterogeneity among studies owing to differences in elastography 
techniques and study locations. The included studies that were at risk for
spectrum bias, review bias, and disease progression bias.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on a meta-analysis, current techniques for measuring spleen
stiffness are limited in their accuracy of EV diagnosis; these limitations
preclude widespread use in clinical practice at this time.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2013.09.013 
PMID: 24055985  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Leuk Lymphoma. 2014 Jul;55(7):1463-70. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2013.845884. Epub
2013 Nov 6.

Treatment of splenic marginal zone lymphoma: should splenectomy be abandoned?

Kalpadakis C(1), Pangalis GA, Vassilakopoulos TP, Sachanas S, Angelopoulou MK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, School of Medicine, University of Crete , Heraklion 
, Greece.

Splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL) is a rare chronic B-cell
lymphoproliferative disorder recognized as a distinct entity in the World Health 
Organization (WHO) classification. SMZL usually runs an indolent clinical course 
with a median survival of more than 10 years. However, in a proportion of
patients (10-20%) SMZL behaves more aggressively, with a median survival of less 
than 4 years. Many efforts are ongoing to establish commonly accepted prognostic 
factors as a guide to therapy for this disorder. Data on the treatment of SMZL
come from reported retrospective series including relatively limited numbers of
patients. Despite these limitations, much progress has recently been made in the 
management of patients with SMZL. The oldest and most commonly used first-line
therapeutic modality is splenectomy, which offers rapid alleviation of
splenomegaly-related symptoms along with an improvement of cytopenias in the
majority of patients, with a median PFS of 5 years. However, SMZL is a systemic
disease, and splenectomy is not carried out with eradicative intent. Furthermore,
splenectomy is a major surgical procedure with significant morbidity or even
mortality, especially in older patients. Chemotherapy has only moderate activity 
in this form of MZL. Recent data suggest that rituximab is a very effective
therapy with minimal toxicity and could replace splenectomy as first-line
treatment. The overall response rate is > 90%, with almost half of responses
being complete, while the 5-year progression-free survival is approximately 70%. 
The combination of rituximab with chemotherapy requires further evaluation. Based
on the current data, splenectomy could be abandoned as first-line treatment for
patients with SMZL.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2013.845884 
PMID: 24050506  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Neurotherapeutics. 2013 Oct;10(4):688-97. doi: 10.1007/s13311-013-0217-2.

Treatment of Niemann--pick type C disease by histone deacetylase inhibitors.

Helquist P(1), Maxfield FR, Wiech NL, Wiest O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, IN, 46556 5670, USA.

Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC) is a devastating, recessive, inherited disorder
that causes accumulation of cholesterol and other lipids in late endosomes and
lysosomes. Mutations in 2 genes, NPC1 and NPC2, are responsible for the disease, 
which affects about 1 in 120,000 live births. About 95% of patients have
mutations in NPC1, a large polytopic membrane protein that is normally found in
late endosomes. More than 200 missense mutations in NPC1 have been found in NPC
patients. The disease is progressive, typically leading to death before the age
of 20 years, although some affected individuals live well into adulthood. The
disease affects peripheral organs, including the liver, spleen, and lungs, but
the most severe symptoms are associated with neurological disease. There are some
palliative treatments that slow progression of NPC disease. Recently, it was
found that histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors that are effective against HDACs
1, 2, and 3 can reduce the cholesterol accumulation in fibroblasts derived from
NPC patients with mutations in NPC1. One example is vorinostat. As vorinostat is 
a Food and Drug Administration-approved drug for treatment of cutaneous T-cell
lymphoma, this opens up the possibility that HDAC inhibitors could be repurposed 
for treatment of this rare disease. The mechanism of action of the HDAC
inhibitors requires further study, but these drugs increase the level of the NPC1
protein. This may be due to post-translational stabilization of the NPC1 protein,
allowing it to be transported out of the endoplasmic reticulum.

DOI: 10.1007/s13311-013-0217-2 
PMCID: PMC3805865
PMID: 24048860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Parasitol Int. 2014 Feb;63(1):206-15. doi: 10.1016/j.parint.2013.09.001. Epub
2013 Sep 14.

In vivo imaging in NHP models of malaria: challenges, progress and outlooks.

Beignon AS(1), Le Grand R, Chapon C.

Author information: 
(1)CEA, Division of Immno-Virology, iMETI, Fontenay-aux-Roses Cedex, France; UMR 
E1, Université Paris Sud 11, Orsay, France; Center for Infectious Disease Models 
and Innovative Therapies (IDMIT), Fontenay-aux-Roses Cedex, France; CNRS,
UMR3569, Paris, France.

Animal models of malaria, mainly mice, have made a large contribution to our
knowledge of host-pathogen interactions and immune responses, and to drug and
vaccine design. Non-human primate (NHP) models for malaria are admittedly
under-used, although they are probably closer models than mice for human malaria;
in particular, NHP models allow the use of human pathogens (Plasmodium
falciparum, Plasmodium vivax, Plasmodium malariae and Plasmodium knowlesi). NHPs,
whether natural hosts or experimentally challenged with a simian Plasmodium, can 
also serve as robust pre-clinical models. Some simian parasites are closely
related to a human counterpart, with which they may share a common ancestor, and 
display similar major features with the human infection and pathology. NHP models
allow longitudinal studies, from the early events following sporozoite
inoculation to the later events, including analysis of organs and tissues,
particularly liver, spleen, brain and bone marrow. NHP models have one other
significant advantage over mouse models: NHPs are our closest relatives and thus 
their biology is very similar to ours. Recently developed in vivo imaging tools
have provided insight into malaria parasite infection and disease in mouse
models. One advantage of these tools is that they limit the need for invasive
procedures, such as tissue biopsies. Many such technologies are now available for
NHP studies and provide new opportunities for elucidating host/parasite
interactions. The aim of this review is to bring the malaria community up to date
on what is currently possible and what soon will be, in terms of in vivo imaging 
in NHP models of malaria, to consider the pros and the cons of the various
techniques, and to identify challenges.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parint.2013.09.001 
PMID: 24042056  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Annu Rev Genet. 2013;47:353-76. doi: 10.1146/annurev-genet-111212-133243. Epub
2013 Sep 6.

Expanding horizons: ciliary proteins reach beyond cilia.

Yuan S(1), Sun Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520.

Once obscure, the cilium has come into the spotlight during the past decade. It
is now clear that aside from generating locomotion by motile cilia, both motile
and immotile cilia serve as signaling platforms for the cell. Through both
motility and sensory functions, cilia play critical roles in development,
homeostasis, and disease. To date, the cilium proteome contains more than 1,000
different proteins, and human genetics is identifying new ciliopathy genes at an 
increasing pace. Although assigning a function to immotile cilia was a challenge 
not so long ago, the myriad of signaling pathways, proteins, and biological
processes associated with the cilium have now created a new obstacle: how to
distill all these interactions into specific themes and mechanisms that may
explain how the organelle serves to maintain organism homeostasis. Here, we
review the basics of cilia biology, novel functions associated with cilia, and
recent advances in cilia genetics, and on the basis of this framework, we further
discuss the meaning and significance of ciliary connections.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-genet-111212-133243 
PMID: 24016188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Crit Care. 2013 Sep 3;17(5):R185. doi: 10.1186/cc12868.

Is non-operative management safe and effective for all splenic blunt trauma? A
systematic review.

Cirocchi R, Boselli C, Corsi A, Farinella E, Listorti C, Trastulli S, Renzi C,
Desiderio J, Santoro A, Cagini L, Parisi A, Redler A, Noya G, Fingerhut A.

INTRODUCTION: The goal of non-operative management (NOM) for blunt splenic trauma
(BST) is to preserve the spleen. The advantages of NOM for minor splenic trauma
have been extensively reported, whereas its value for the more severe splenic
injuries is still debated. The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the 
available published evidence on NOM in patients with splenic trauma and to
compare it with the operative management (OM) in terms of mortality, morbidity
and duration of hospital stay.
METHODS: For this systematic review we followed the "Preferred Reporting Items
for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses" statement. A systematic search was
performed on PubMed for studies published from January 2000 to December 2011,
without language restrictions, which compared NOM vs. OM for splenic trauma
injuries and which at least 10 patients with BST.
RESULTS: We identified 21 non randomized studies: 1 Clinical Controlled Trial and
20 retrospective cohort studies analyzing a total of 16,940 patients with BST.
NOM represents the gold standard treatment for minor splenic trauma and is
associated with decreased mortality in severe splenic trauma (4.78% vs. 13.5% in 
NOM and OM, respectively), according to the literature. Of note, in BST treated
operatively, concurrent injuries accounted for the higher mortality. In addition,
it was not possible to determine post-treatment morbidity in major splenic
trauma. The definition of hemodynamic stability varied greatly in the literature 
depending on the surgeon and the trauma team, representing a further bias.
Moreover, data on the remaining analyzed outcomes (hospital stay, number of blood
transfusions, abdominal abscesses, overwhelming post-splenectomy infection) were 
not reported in all included studies or were not comparable, precluding the
possibility to perform a meaningful cumulative analysis and comparison.
CONCLUSIONS: NOM of BST, preserving the spleen, is the treatment of choice for
the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma grades I and II. Conclusions
are more difficult to outline for higher grades of splenic injury, because of the
substantial heterogeneity of expertise among different hospitals, and potentially
inappropriate comparison groups.

DOI: 10.1186/cc12868 
PMCID: PMC4056798
PMID: 24004931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Oct;31(10):841-52. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0083-0.

Ruxolitinib for the treatment of myelofibrosis: a NICE single technology
appraisal.

Wade R(1), Rose M, Neilson AR, Stirk L, Rodriguez-Lopez R, Bowen D, Craig D,
Woolacott N.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD), University of York, York YO10 5DD,
UK, ros.wade@york.ac.uk.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the
manufacturer of ruxolitinib (Novartis) to submit clinical and cost-effectiveness 
evidence for ruxolitinib within its licensed indication (the treatment of
disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with myelofibrosis),
according to the Institute's Single Technology Appraisal process. The Centre for 
Reviews and Dissemination and Centre for Health Economics at the University of
York were commissioned to act as the independent Evidence Review Group (ERG).
This article provides a description of the company submission, the ERG review and
the resulting NICE guidance TA289 issued in June 2013. The ERG critically
reviewed the evidence presented in the manufacturer's submission and identified
areas requiring clarification, for which the manufacturer provided additional
evidence. The main clinical effectiveness data were derived from two phase III,
multicentre, randomised controlled trials (RCTs): Controlled myelofibrosis study 
with oral JAK inhibitor treatment (COMFORT)-II compared ruxolitinib with best
available therapy (BAT), and COMFORT-I compared ruxolitinib with placebo. These
RCTs demonstrated that ruxolitinib confers significant benefits in terms of
spleen size reduction and improvement in symptom burden. In the COMFORT-II trial,
a reduction in spleen volume of ≥35 % was achieved in 28 % of ruxolitinib-treated
patients compared with 0 % of patients in the BAT group (p < 0.001) at 48 weeks, 
and there was a mean change in spleen volume of -30.1 versus +7.3 % (p < 0.001). 
Ruxolitinib also provided significant improvements in myelofibrosis-associated
symptoms and health-related quality-of-life compared with BAT and placebo. The
ERG concluded that ruxolitinib appears to reduce splenomegaly and its associated 
symptoms, but that there was considerable uncertainty surrounding the
manufacturer's cost-effectiveness estimates due to limitations in the
manufacturer's model. The manufacturer's model did not allow for disease
progression, did not accurately capture symptomatic relief, had several
implausible or unjustified assumptions, and there were several parameter choices 
that the ERG found sub-optimal. ERG sensitivity analyses found that nearly all
plausible adjustments to the model reduced the cost effectiveness of ruxolitinib.
It is very likely that the base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of
£73,980/quality-adjusted life-year presented by the manufacturer represents a
best-case scenario. The NICE Appraisal Committee concluded that ruxolitinib was
clinically effective, but could not be considered a cost effective use of
National Health Service (NHS) resources for treating disease-related splenomegaly
or symptoms in adults with myelofibrosis. Ruxolitinib is not recommended for the 
treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with
primary myelofibrosis (also known as chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis),
post-polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis and post-essential thrombocythaemia
myelofibrosis in NICE TA289.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0083-0 
PMID: 23996108  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2013 Sep;137(9):1309-12. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2012-0601-RS.

Sclerosing angiomatoid nodular transformation of the spleen.

Pradhan D(1), Mohanty SK.

Author information: 
(1)Pushpanjali Crosslay Hospital, Ghaziabad, Delhi, India.
drdineshpradhan@gmail.com

Sclerosing Angiomatoid Nodular Transformation (SANT) of the spleen is a rare
benign lesion of the spleen with unknown etiology. SANT is classically considered
to be a female-predominant disease, with most of the patients in the 30- to
60-year age group. Most lesions are found incidentally on imaging. Although SANT 
has specific imaging findings, the differential diagnosis from other splenic
tumors or malignant lesions is very difficult. Histopathologically, these tumors 
reveal multiple confluent angiomatoid nodules; these nodules are surrounded by
concentric collagen fibers exhibiting an inflammatory and myofibroblastic
response and are accompanied by numerous erythrocytes and siderophages. The
nodules are populated by endothelial cells, phenotypically recapitulating normal 
splenic vasculature, such as sinusoids, capillaries, and small veins. Nuclear
atypia is minimal, mitotic figures are extremely rare, and necrosis is
consistently absent. This lesion has a unique immunohistochemical profile
characterized by CD34(-)CD31(+)CD8(+) sinusoids, CD34(+)CD31(+)CD8(-)
capillaries, and CD34(-)CD31(+)CD8(-) small veins. CD68 is positive in
macrophages. Splenectomy is a useful and effective technique for the management
of SANT. SANT patients have a good prognosis, with no recurrence after
splenectomy. In this review, we discuss the current knowledge of SANT of the
spleen and its clinical relevance.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2012-0601-RS 
PMID: 23991745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Ann Vasc Surg. 2014 Jan;28(1):269-77. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.03.003. Epub 2013 
Aug 26.

Segmental arterial mediolysis: a systematic review of 85 cases.

Shenouda M(1), Riga C(2), Naji Y(3), Renton S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Northwick Park Hospital, London, UK.
Electronic address: m.shenouda@doctors.org.uk. (2)Department of Vascular Surgery,
Northwick Park Hospital, London, UK; Academic Division of Surgery and Cancer,
Imperial College London, London, UK. (3)Department of Interventional Radiology,
Northwick Park Hospital, London, UK. (4)Department of Vascular Surgery, Northwick
Park Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Segmental arterial mediolysis (SAM) is a nonatherosclerotic,
noninflammatory arteriopathy of unknown etiology with life-threatening
manifestations. With advances in endovascular techniques, SAM is increasingly
being managed without the need for major surgery.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature published on SAM between 1976 and 
2012 was performed, focusing on arterial involvement, diagnostic imaging
modalities, mortality and morbidity rates, and in particular treatment outcomes
with open versus endovascular intervention.
RESULTS: Sixty-two studies reporting on 85 cases of SAM were reviewed. Sixty-nine
percent of cases were diagnosed histologically (24% on autopsy). Angiography was 
the most common form of diagnostic imaging modality (56% of cases). Arterial
involvement was largely abdominal or cranial, with splenic arterial involvement
being the most prevalent (29% of cases). There was a total SAM-related mortality 
of 26%. Endovascular intervention, most commonly in the form of coil embolization
of aneurysmal vessel(s), was successful in 88% of cases where attempted, with no 
reported mortality. There was a mortality rate of 9% where open surgery was
attempted.
CONCLUSIONS: Catheter-based endovascular techniques can be a successful,
minimally invasive treatment option in the management of this potentially
life-threatening condition, and may also provide a temporary bailout measure in
the acute phase before definitive surgical treatment at a later stage.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.03.003 
PMID: 23988553  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2013;157(35):A5864.

[Surgical treatment of gastric cancer: focus on centralisation and laparoscopic
resections].

[Article in Dutch]

Haverkamp L(1), Ruurda JP, van der Sluis PC, van Hillegersberg R.

Author information: 
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht, afd. Heelkunde, Utrecht, the
Netherlands. j.p.ruurda@umcutrecht.nl

Approximately 2000 patients are diagnosed with gastric carcinoma in the
Netherlands each year; about 500 will be eligible for curative surgical
treatment. The 5-year survival rate after therapy aimed at curing the condition
is 45%, which can increase by an average of 10% if perioperative chemotherapy is 
added to the treatment regimen. Surgical treatment consists of a distal or total 
gastrectomy with spleen-preserving lymphadenectomy. Centralising this type of
treatment leads to less postoperative mortality and better oncological outcomes. 
There are indications that laparoscopic surgery can accelerate postoperative
recovery time. There are insufficient long-term data on outcomes of laparoscopic 
surgery to date to be able to conclude whether the laparoscopic or open approach 
to total gastric resection is preferable.


PMID: 23985239  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Pediatr Surg Int. 2013 Oct;29(10):1019-22. doi: 10.1007/s00383-013-3402-9.

Management of blunt pancreatic trauma in children.

Maeda K(1), Ono S, Baba K, Kawahara I.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Surgery, Department of Surgery, Jichi Medical University
School of Medicine, 3311-1, Yakushiji, Shimotsuke, Tochigi, 329-0498, Japan,
maedak@jichi.ac.jp.

Blunt trauma to the abdomen accounts for the majority of abdominal injuries in
children. Pancreatic injury is the fourth most common solid organ injury,
following injuries to the spleen, liver and kidneys. The most common
complications are the formation of pancreatic fistulae, pancreatitis and the
development of pancreatic pseudocysts, which usually present several weeks after 
injury. The nonoperative management of minor pancreatic injury is well accepted; 
however, the treatment of more serious pancreatic injuries with capsular, ductal 
or parenchymal disruption in pediatric patients remains controversial. Based on
the data presented in this literature review, although children with pancreatic
injuries (without ductal disruption) do not appear to suffer increased morbidity 
following conservative management, patients with ductal disruption may benefit
from operative intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s00383-013-3402-9 
PMID: 23982392  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Ann Anat. 2013 Dec;195(6):501-11. doi: 10.1016/j.aanat.2013.06.003. Epub 2013 Jul
20.

Variations in the anatomy of the celiac trunk: A systematic review and clinical
implications.

Panagouli E(1), Venieratos D, Lolis E, Skandalakis P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical School, University of Athens, 116 27, Greece.
Electronic address: eleni72000@yahoo.gr.

The normal pattern of the celiac trunk (CT) implies its bifurcation to three
branches, the common hepatic, the splenic and the left gastric artery. According 
to the available literature the CT presents several anatomical variations. The
purpose of our study is to investigate the different types of these variations,
the corresponding incidences and the probable influence of genetic factors, as
they are presented in the existing literature. Four databases were searched for
eligible articles for the period up to January 2013 and a total of 36 studies
were collected. The CT was trifurcated into the three basic branches in the
89.42% (10,906/12,196) of the cases. Bifurcation of the CT occurred in the 7.40% 
of the pooled samples (903/12,196). Absence of the CT was the rarest variation
with a percentage of 0.38% (46/12,196), hepatosplenomesenteric trunk was found in
49 out of the 12,196 cases (0.40%) and the celiacomesenteric trunk presented an
incidence of 0.76% (93/12,196). Other variations of the CT were detected in the
1.64% of the pooled cases (199/12,196). The 14.9% of the cases in the cadaveric
series (489/3278 specimens), the 10.5% in the imaging series (675/6501 specimens)
and the 4.6% (104/2261) in the liver transplantation series presented variations.
These differences are statistically significant (p<0.001). The Japanese and
Korean populations presented more variations in the CT than Caucasians (p<0.05
and p<0.001). Negro, colored and black populations presented more variations of
the CT than Indian ones (p>0.05). Using those data, a novel classification of CT 
variations is proposed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aanat.2013.06.003 
PMID: 23972701  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Expert Opin Emerg Drugs. 2013 Sep;18(3):393-404. doi:
10.1517/14728214.2013.832754.

Emerging drugs for polycythemia vera.

Tibes R(1), Mesa RA.

Author information: 
(1)Mayo College of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Mayo Clinic Cancer Center, Division of 
Hematology & Medical Oncology, 13400 E. Shea Boulevard, Scottsdale, AZ 85259,
USA. Tibes.raoul@mayo.edu

INTRODUCTION: Polycythemia vera (PV) patients suffer from disease-related
constitutional symptoms, cardiovascular complications and risk of transformation 
into myelofibrosis and acute leukemia.
AREAS COVERED: Clinical and molecular aspects and current therapies will be
described to provide clinical and molecular background to understand the natural 
history and treatment strategies in PV. Pertinent ongoing research questions,
challenges arising out of the specific disease course and biology of PV as well
as challenges and opportunities for new agents in PV are addressed. A focus is
placed on pegylated interferon-α formulations (PEG-INFa2a) and JAK2 inhibitors.
Newest data on symptom burden and incidence and prevalence of PV and MPNs are
highlighted in the context of development of PV therapies.
EXPERT OPINION: Therapeutic goals in PV are to prevent vascular events, reduce
symptoms and for future therapies delay/prevent disease progression. Currently
available treatments such as phlebotomy, antiplatelet therapy, managing risk
factors and cytoreductive therapies such as hydroxyurea (HU) and PEG-INFa2a are
effective. JAK2 inhibitors recently have shown promising activity in reducing PV 
symptoms and spleen size and improving blood counts. Yet the influence of
long-term outcome and delaying disease progression is unknown. Thus, there still 
remains an unmet medical need for improved therapy and symptom management in PV.

DOI: 10.1517/14728214.2013.832754 
PMID: 23968379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


300. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Aug 21;19(31):5199-203. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v19.i31.5199.

Isolated splenic metastases from gastric carcinoma: a case report and literature 
review.

Zhu YP(1), Mou YP, Ni JJ, Zhou YC, Jiang JW, Jiang ZN, Wang GY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310016, Zhejiang Province, China.

Isolated metastases to the spleen from gastric carcinoma is very rare. Only a few
cases have been reported in the literature. We herein present a case of isolated 
splenic metastases in a 62-year-old man, occurring 12 mo after total gastrectomy 
for gastric carcinoma. The patient underwent a laparoscopic exploration, during
which two lesions were found at the upper pole of the spleen, without involvement
of other organs. A laparoscopic splenectomy was performed. Histological
examination confirmed that the splenic tumor was a poorly differentiated
adenocarcinoma similar to the primary gastric lesion. The postoperative course
was uneventful and the patient has been well for 9 mo, with no tumor recurrence. 
The clinical data of 18 cases of isolated splenic metastases from gastric
carcinoma treated by splenectomy were summarized after a literature review. To
our knowledge, this is the first reported case of isolated splenic metastases
undergoing laparoscopic splenectomy.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i31.5199 
PMCID: PMC3746397
PMID: 23964159  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Scand J Infect Dis. 2013 Nov;45(11):888-90. doi: 10.3109/00365548.2013.821627.
Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Splenic infarction as a rare complication of infectious mononucleosis due to
Epstein-Barr virus infection in a patient with no significant comorbidity: case
report and review of the literature.

Gavriilaki E(1), Sabanis N, Paschou E, Grigoriadis S, Mainou M, Gaitanaki A,
Skargani-Koraka M.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Internal Medicine, General Hospital of Edessa , Edessa 
, Greece.

We report the case of a 17-y-old boy diagnosed with infectious mononucleosis due 
to Epstein-Barr virus infection who complained of left upper quadrant pain. A
magnetic resonance imaging scan showed a splenic infarct in the enlarged spleen. 
Other causes of splenic infarction were excluded. Thus, infectious mononucleosis 
may cause splenic infarction in patients without other comorbidities.

DOI: 10.3109/00365548.2013.821627 
PMID: 23957538  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Med Assoc Thai. 2013 Jun;96(6):749-55.

Upper gastrointestinal bleeding from gastric splenosis; A case report and
literature review.

Hiranyatheb P(1), Euanorasetr C, Suwanthanma W, Supsamutchai C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine,
Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand. pitichoteh@yahoo.com

Splenosis is a common condition found in a case that has a history of splenic
trauma or splenectomy. It is usually a non-significant condition in clinical
practice. However, splenosis can give rise to some complications including
gastrointestinal hemorrhage as in the present case. The authors report here a
case of gastric splenosis presenting with active upper gastrointestinal
hemorrhage that was eventually managed with surgical resection, and the
literature regarding splenosis was reviewed.


PMID: 23951834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Gastrointest Surg. 2013 Oct;17(10):1784-95. doi: 10.1007/s11605-013-2303-5.
Epub 2013 Aug 15.

Hydatid disease of the spleen: single-center experience and a brief literature
review.

Akbulut S(1), Sogutcu N, Eris C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Diyarbakir Education and Research Hospital, 21400,
Diyarbakir, Turkey, akbulutsami@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to discuss the management of patients with 
splenic hydatid cyst (SHC) and to provide a review of the literature in this
field.
METHODS: The outcomes of patients surgically treated for SHC at the Diyarbakir
Education and Research Hospital (DERH) between January 2006 and May 2013 were
assessed by retrospectively reviewing demographic, radiological, and clinical
data. In addition, the outcome profiles of these patients were compared to the
overall outcomes of surgically treated SHC cases reported in the literature.
Relevant case series (≥4 cases) were identified by searching the PubMed, Medline,
and Google Scholar databases for publications from 1990 to May 2013 in English or
Turkish languages.
RESULTS: Nine patients with SHC received surgical treatment at DERH (age range,
18-53 years old; mean, 36.9 ± 11.8; female/male, 7/2), including five (55.6%)
primary SHC and four (44.4%) secondary (100% liver) SHC cases. Two patients had
previous SHC surgery. Seven patients received albendazole therapy, both
preoperative (10-21 days) and postoperative (10-42 days) periods. All patients
received vaccination, either preoperative (n = 4) or postoperative (n = 5). Six
patients underwent splenectomy and three underwent splenectomy with partial
cystectomy and omentopexy, and no patient experienced SHC recurrence during
follow-up (1-60 months). The literature review identified 27 full-text articles
representing 333 surgically treated SHC cases, among which 60.5% had primary SHC 
and 39.5% had secondary SHC. Two hundred thirty of 333 patients underwent
splenectomy, 81 underwent spleen-sparing surgery, and 17 underwent puncture,
aspiration, injection, and reaspiration. The remaining five patients were not
operated for various reasons.
CONCLUSION: We found no significant difference in recurrence rates between
splenectomy and spleen-sparing surgery, either in our patient cohort or among
cases reported in the literature. Nevertheless, we cannot make any solid
recommendations for either procedure based on these results, as the studies were 
largely retrospective.

DOI: 10.1007/s11605-013-2303-5 
PMID: 23949423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2014 Apr;71(8):1327-52. doi: 10.1007/s00018-013-1430-1. Epub
2013 Aug 10.

Of mice and men: molecular genetics of congenital heart disease.

Andersen TA(1), Troelsen Kde L, Larsen LA.

Author information: 
(1)Wilhelm Johannsen Centre for Functional Genome Research, Department of
Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3, 2200,
Copenhagen, Denmark.

Congenital heart disease (CHD) affects nearly 1 % of the population. It is a
complex disease, which may be caused by multiple genetic and environmental
factors. Studies in human genetics have led to the identification of more than 50
human genes, involved in isolated CHD or genetic syndromes, where CHD is part of 
the phenotype. Furthermore, mapping of genomic copy number variants and exome
sequencing of CHD patients have led to the identification of a large number of
candidate disease genes. Experiments in animal models, particularly in mice, have
been used to verify human disease genes and to gain further insight into the
molecular pathology behind CHD. The picture emerging from these studies suggest
that genetic lesions associated with CHD affect a broad range of cellular
signaling components, from ligands and receptors, across down-stream effector
molecules to transcription factors and co-factors, including chromatin modifiers.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-013-1430-1 
PMCID: PMC3958813
PMID: 23934094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


305. J Infect. 2013 Nov;67(5):359-68. doi: 10.1016/j.jinf.2013.07.024. Epub 2013 Jul
31.

Exosome release from infected dendritic cells: a clue for a fast spread of prions
in the periphery?

Klöhn PC(1), Castro-Seoane R, Collinge J.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Prion Unit and Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of
Neurology, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK. Electronic address:
p.kloehn@prion.ucl.ac.uk.

Prion diseases are incurable transmissible neurological disorders. In many
natural and experimental prion diseases, infectious prions can be detected in the
lymphoreticular system (LRS) long before they reach the brain where they cause a 
fatal rapidly progressive degeneration. Although major cell types that contribute
to prion accumulation have been identified, the mode of prion dissemination in
the LRS remains elusive. Recent evidence of a remarkably fast splenic prion
accumulation after peripheral infection of mice, resulting in high prion titers
in dendritic cells (DCs) and a release of prions from infected DCs via exosomes
suggest that intercellular dissemination may contribute to rapid prion
colonization in the LRS. A vast body of evidence from retroviral infections shows
that DCs and other antigen-presenting cells (APCs) share viral antigens by
intercellular transfer to warrant immunity against viruses if APCs remain
uninfected. Evolved to adapt the immune response to evading pathogens, these
pathways may constitute a portal for unimpeded prion dissemination owing to the
tolerance of the immune system against host-encoded prion protein. In this review
we summarize current paradigms for antigen-sharing pathways which may be relevant
to better understand dissemination of rogue neurotoxic proteins.

Copyright © 2013 The British Infection Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinf.2013.07.024 
PMID: 23911964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Autoimmun. 2013 Oct;46:55-65. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.07.003. Epub 2013 Jul
21.

The role of natural killer cells in autoimmune liver disease: a comprehensive
review.

Hudspeth K(1), Pontarini E, Tentorio P, Cimino M, Donadon M, Torzilli G, Lugli E,
Della Bella S, Gershwin ME, Mavilio D.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Clinical and Experimental Immunology, Humanitas Clinical and Research 
Center, Via Manzoni 56, 20089 Rozzano, Milan, Italy.

Natural Killer (NK) cells are important players of the innate arm of the immune
system and provide an early defense against pathogens and tumor-transformed
cells. Peripheral blood NK (PB-NK) cells were first identified because of their
ability to spontaneously kill tumor-cell targets in vitro without the need for
specific antigen priming, which is the reason that they were named 'natural
killer' cells. The characterization of NK cells in human tissues and body organs 
represented another important step forward to better understand their physiology 
and physiopathology. In this regard, many reports revealed over the past decade a
differential anatomic distribution of NK cell subsets in several sites such as
the intestine, lung, cervix, placenta and liver as well as in secondary lymphoid 
organs such as spleen, lymph nodes and tonsils. Among all these tissues, the
liver is certainly unique as its parenchyma contains an unusually high number of 
infiltrating immune cells with 30-50% of total lymphocytes being NK cells. Given 
the constant liver intake of non-self antigens from the gastrointestinal tract
via the portal vein, hepatic NK (H-NK) cells must retain a certain degree of
tolerance in the context of their immune-surveillance against dangers to the
host. Indeed, the breakdown of the tolerogenic state of the liver-associated
immune system has been shown to induce autoimmunity. However, the role of NK
cells during the course of autoimmune liver diseases is still being debated
mainly because a complete characterization of H-NK cells normally resident in
healthy human liver has not yet been fully disclosed. Furthermore, the
differences in phenotype and functions between human and mouse H-NK cells often
preclude translation of results obtained from murine models into experimental
approaches to be performed in humans. Here, we provide an extensive
characterization of the phenotype of H-NK cells physiologically resident in the
human liver by both mentioning data available in literature and including a set
of original results recently developed in our laboratory. We then review our
current knowledge in regard to the contribution of H-NK cells in regulating local
immune homeostasis and tolerance as well as in inducing the development of liver 
autoimmunity.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.07.003 
PMID: 23880068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk. 2013 Aug;13(4):360-9. doi:
10.1016/j.clml.2013.03.011.

Hepatosplenic γδ T-cell lymphoma: an overview.

Visnyei K(1), Grossbard ML, Shapira I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Beth Israel Medical Center, Albert Einstein
College of Medicine, New York, NY 10003, USA. kvisnyei@chpnet.org

Peripheral T-cell lymphomas are a heterogeneous group of lymphoid malignancies.
Among these, hepatosplenic γδ T-cell lymphoma (HTCL) represents an aggressive and
treatment-resistant subgroup for which new avenues of treatment are critically
needed. HTCL is characterized by primary extranodal distribution of the malignant
cells with typical intrasinusoidal infiltration of the liver, spleen, and bone
marrow, which results in hepatosplenomegaly and peripheral blood cytopenias.
Another characteristic feature is the expression of γδ T-cell receptors. HTCL
exhibits a rapid progressive course and an extremely poor response to currently
known therapeutic strategies, with a 5-year overall survival rate of only 7%. In 
this review, we discuss the clinical, pathologic, and molecular characteristics
of this disease, along with the challenges that are associated with its diagnosis
and treatment.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clml.2013.03.011 
PMID: 23876844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2013 Sep;52(9):1556-62. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/ket225. 
Epub 2013 Jul 16.

Inhibition of spleen tyrosine kinase in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.

Nijjar JS(1), Tindell A, McInnes IB, Siebert S.

Author information: 
(1)College of Medicine, Veterinary Medicine and Life Sciences, University of
Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8TA, UK. jagtar.nijjar@glasgow.ac.uk

The pathogenesis of RA is a complex and ever-changing landscape but amid the
chaos of the disease process we have found effective treatment regimes. However, 
our current therapeutics, although targeting various components of both the
innate and adaptive immune response, do not result in disease remission. Protein 
kinase inhibitors are attractive targets due to their ability to influence
downstream signalling and their oral bioavailability. Fostamatinib (R788)
inhibits spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) and has been in clinical trials involving
both MTX inadequate responders (MTX-IRs) and biologic inadequate responders.
Studies on the MTX-IR population revealed ACR20 responses of 67-72% at higher
doses (150 mg bd and 100 mg bd), ACR50 responses of 43-57% and ACR70 responses of
28-40%. The trial in the biologic non-responder population showed no efficacy,
however, post hoc analyses of the data suggested that a further trial in this
population is warranted. The most common adverse events included gastrointestinal
effects, hypertension, neutropenia and transaminitis. Many adverse effects were
dose responsive and hypertension was amenable to treatment. Upper respiratory
tract infections were more likely at higher doses, but no serious infections with
tuberculosis, fungi or opportunistic infections were reported. The oral
availability of these agents makes them attractive treatment options for our
patients, although the literature from the oncology field suggests that patients 
will only choose the oral route if efficacy is equivalent. Long-term follow-up
studies are ongoing and will be critical for rare side effects. The role of these
agents in our current arsenal is unclear and economic analyses are awaited.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/ket225 
PMID: 23861534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Br J Haematol. 2013 Sep;162(6):730-47. doi: 10.1111/bjh.12461. Epub 2013 Jul 15.

Splanchnic vein thrombosis in myeloproliferative neoplasms.

Sekhar M(1), McVinnie K, Burroughs AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    Br J Haematol. 2014 May;165(4):579.
    Br J Haematol. 2014 May;165(4):578-9.

Splanchnic vein thrombosis (SVT) is one of the most important complications of
myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN). Although MPN are common causes of SVT, the
pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this predisposition, their epidemiology 
and natural history are not fully understood. Studies have concentrated on the
generalized prothrombotic environment generated by MPN and their relationship
with abnormal blood counts, thereby furthering our knowledge of arterial and
venous thrombosis in this population. In contrast, there are few studies that
have specifically addressed SVT in the context of MPN. Recent research has
demonstrated in patients with MPN the existence of factors increasing the risk of
SVT such as the presence of the JAK2 V617F mutation and its 46/1 haplotype.
Features unique to the circulating blood cells, splanchnic vasculature and
surrounding micro-environment in patients with MPN have been described. There are
also abnormalities in local haemodynamics, haemostatic molecules, the spleen, and
splanchnic endothelial and endothelial progenitor cells. This review considers
these important advances and discusses the contribution of individual anomalies
that lead to the development of SVT in both the pre-neoplastic and overt stage of
MPN. Clinical issues relating to epidemiology, recurrence and survival in these
patients have also been reviewed and their results discussed.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.12461 
PMID: 23855810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Ann Vasc Surg. 2013 Oct;27(7):976-83. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.02.004. Epub 2013 
Jul 10.

The role of robotic surgical system in the management of vascular disease.

Lin JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Henry Ford Hospital, 2799 West Grand Boulevard, 
Detroit, Michigan, USA. judithlin1@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The evolution of minimally invasive treatment for aneurysms and
occlusive disease has led to the development of endovascular, laparoscopic, and
robot-assisted techniques. This article reviews the current literature on the
clinical use of robotic surgical systems in the treatment of patients with
aneurysms and occlusive disease.
METHODS: A MEDLINE search was performed using the keywords "robotic, vascular,
AND surgery." All pertinent articles concerning the use of the robotic surgical
system on aneurysms and occlusive disease were reviewed. The author's personal
experience consisted of a retrospective review of a prospectively maintained
confidential database on all procedures performed with the da Vinci(®) surgical
system.
RESULTS: Several robot-assisted laparoscopic series on the treatment of aortic
disease were identified, including review articles of potential clinical
applications in hybrid, laparoscopic vascular, and endovascular treatments for
vascular patients using robotic technology. The use of computer-enhanced or
robotic technology as a sole modality for bypass of occlusive disease and repair 
of abdominal aortic, splenic, and renal aneurysms was described in case series
with satisfactory patient outcomes. Current robotic endovascular technology was
also described.
CONCLUSIONS: Minimally invasive techniques using endovascular, laparoscopic, or
robot-assisted technology have revolutionized the treatment of aortoiliac,
splanchnic, and renal aneurysms and occlusive disease. However, robot-assisted
techniques for aortic disease may involve a learning curve and increased
operating times. Although endovascular therapy is preferred because of faster
recovery, this preference for improved short-term outcomes will be balanced with 
the superiority and durability of robot-assisted endoscopic methods as comparable
to open surgery.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.02.004 
PMID: 23849652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Can Assoc Radiol J. 2014 Feb;65(1):52-9. doi: 10.1016/j.carj.2013.02.003. Epub
2013 Jul 3.

Inflammatory pseudotumours in the abdomen and pelvis: a pictorial essay.

Sedlic T(1), Scali EP(2), Lee WK(3), Verma S(4), Chang SD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada. (2)Department of Radiology, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Electronic address: elena.scali@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Radiology, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Radiology, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Cincinnati, 
Ohio, USA.

Inflammatory pseudotumours are uncommonly encountered lesions in the abdomen and 
pelvis that often present with variable and nonspecific imaging features. They
may mimic other more common lesions, including malignancy. Within the appropriate
clinical context, inflammatory pseudotumours merit consideration in the
differential diagnosis of soft-tissue masses within the abdomen and pelvis. A
preoperative diagnosis of inflammatory pseudotumour, established through biopsy, 
may help to differentiate this benign entity from malignancy. In this article, we
reviewed the imaging features of inflammatory pseudotumours of the abdomen and
pelvis, including liver, spleen, bowel, retroperitoneum, kidney, bladder, uterus,
and adnexa.

Copyright © 2014 Canadian Association of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carj.2013.02.003 
PMID: 23830343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


312. J Am Coll Radiol. 2013 Sep;10(9):672-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2013.05.012. Epub
2013 Jun 28.

Overview of white papers of the ACR incidental findings committee ii on adnexal, 
vascular, splenic, nodal, gallbladder, and biliary findings.

Berland LL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL
35249, USA. lberland@uabmc.edu

This paper summarizes the background, objectives, and process for developing 4
new white papers on adnexal, vascular, splenic, nodal, gallbladder, and biliary
incidental findings and CT and MRI. This work was performed under the auspices of
the ACR through its Incidental Findings Committee II. This summary should be used
as a reference for definitions of terms used throughout these white papers and
for understanding the structure and color scheme of flowcharts used in 2 of them.

Copyright © 2013 American College of Radiology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2013.05.012 
PMID: 23816427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi. 2013;36(3):162-9.

[Development and pharmacological effects of anti-RANKL monoclonal antibody drug
denosumab].

[Article in Japanese]

Takami M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Dentistry, Showa University.

Denosumab (called RANMARK(®) in Japan), an anti-bone resorptive drug, is a
complete human type monoclonal antibody that targets the osteoclast
differentiation factor receptor activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL). Using advanced
gene-engineering techniques, Amgen Inc. (USA) has developed the drug, and it is
now utilized in Japan for treatment of cancerous bone lesions associated with
multiple myeloma and bone metastasis. On the other hand, denosumab has also shown
inhibitory effects on bone resorption seen in patients with osteoporosis,
rheumatoid arthritis, and Paget's disease, thus its range of use for medical
treatment is expected to widen. Because of its long half-life in the body,
subcutaneous denosumab administrations every 6 months are sufficient to obtain
inhibitory effects on bone resorption, suggesting that this agent is more
efficacious than bisphosphonates, which are presently used as anti-bone
resorptive drugs. However, hypocalcemia might develop in patients with massive
renal dysfunction. Denosumab binds to a specific loop structure of the RANKL
molecule and inhibits its interaction with its receptor RANK. When labeled with
radioactivity, denosumab was detected in lymph nodes and the spleen after
subcutaneous administration, indicating its binding to RANKL expressed in those
tissues. Thus, many medical doctors and investigators are interested in the
inhibitory effects of denosumab on bone resorption as well as its mode of action.


PMID: 23812074  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


314. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Jun 21;19(23):3534-42. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i23.3534.

Liver-spleen axis: intersection between immunity, infections and metabolism.

Tarantino G(1), Scalera A, Finelli C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, Federico II University Medical
School of Naples, 80131 Naples, Italy. tarantin@unina.it

Spleen has been considered a neglected organ so far, even though is strictly
linked to liver. The spleen plays an important role in the modulation of the
immune system and in the maintenance of peripheral tolerance via the clearance of
circulating apoptotic cells, the differentiation and activation of T and B cells 
and production of antibodies in the white pulp. Moreover, splenic macrophages are
able to remove bacteria from the blood and protect from sepsis during systemic
infections. We review the spleen function and its assessment in humans starting
from the description of spleen diseases, ranging from the congenital asplenia to 
secondary hyposplenism. From the literature data it is clear that obesity in
humans affects different compartments of immune system, even thought there are
still few data available on the implicated mechamisms. The intent is to enable
clinicians to evaluate the newly recognized role of metabolic and endocrine
functions of the spleen with special emphasis to obesity and nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease in the context of the available literature. Moreover, understanding
the spleen function could be important to develop appropriate prevention
strategies in order to counteract the pandemia of obesity. In this direction, we 
suggest spleen longitudinal diameter at ultrasonography, as simple, cheap and
largely available tool, be used as new marker for assessing splenic function, in 
the context of the so-called liver-spleen axis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i23.3534 
PMCID: PMC3691032
PMID: 23801854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Infez Med. 2013 Jun;21(2):130-3.

Cat-scratch disease presenting as a solitary splenic abscess in an
immunocompetent adult: case report and literature review.

Anyfantakis D(1), Kastanakis M, Papadomichelakis A, Petrakis G, Bobolakis E.

Author information: 
(1)Primary Health Care Centre of Kissamos, Crete, Greece. danyfantakis@med.uoc.gr

Cat-scratch disease is a common zoonotic infectious disease caused by Bartonella 
henselae. It is generally characterized by regional lymphadenopathy following
exposure to an infected cat. Organ systemic manifestations occur rarely in
atypical forms of the disease. Abscess of the spleen represents a rare,
life-threatening clinical entity. Here we report an unusual case of cat scratch
disease presenting as an isolated splenic abscess in an immunocompetent adult.
Comprehensive social history revealed retrospectively close contact with cats.
Diagnosis of B. henselae infection was confirmed on the basis of positive
serology, skin lesion and imaging findings. Initial efforts at spleen preserving 
management failed to improve clinical symptoms and classical splenectomy was
finally performed. Splenic bartonellosis may become potentially fatal if not
recognized. Since diagnosis is challenging, a high index of clinical suspicion is
required.


PMID: 23774977  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Drugs. 2013 Jun;73(9):919-34. doi: 10.1007/s40265-013-0069-4.

Amphotericin B formulations: a comparative review of efficacy and toxicity.

Hamill RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Michael E. DeBakey
Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Baylor College of Medicine, 2002 Holcombe
Blvd., Houston, TX 77030-4211, USA. rhamill@bcm.edu

Because of the increasing prevalence and changing microbiological spectrum of
invasive fungal infections, some form of amphotericin B still provides the most
reliable and broad spectrum therapeutic alternative. However, the use of
amphotericin B deoxycholate is accompanied by dose-limited toxicities, most
importantly, infusion-related reactions and nephrotoxicity. In an attempt to
improve the therapeutic index of amphotericin B, three lipid-associated
formulations were developed, including amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC),
liposomal amphotericin B (L-AmB), and amphotericin B colloidal dispersion (ABCD).
The lipid composition of all three of these preparations differs considerably and
contributes to substantially different pharmacokinetic parameters. ABLC is the
largest of the lipid preparations. Because of its size, it is taken up rapidly by
macrophages and becomes sequestered in tissues of the mononuclear phagocyte
system such as the liver and spleen. Consequently, compared with the conventional
formulation, it has lower circulating amphotericin B serum concentrations,
reflected in a marked increase in volume of distribution and clearance. Lung
levels are considerably higher than those achieved with other lipid-associated
preparations. The recommended therapeutic dose of ABLC is 5 mg/kg/day. Because of
its small size and negative charge, L-AmB avoids substantial recognition and
uptake by the mononuclear phagocyte system. Therefore, a single dose of L-AmB
results in a much higher peak plasma level (Cmax) than conventional amphotericin 
B deoxycholate and a much larger area under the concentration-time curve. Tissue 
concentrations in patients receiving L-AmB tend to be highest in the liver and
spleen and much lower in kidneys and lung. Recommended therapeutic dosages are
3-6 mg/kg/day. After intravenous infusion, ABCD complexes remain largely intact
and are rapidly removed from the circulation by cells of the macrophage phagocyte
system. On a milligram-to-milligram basis, the Cmax achieved is lower than that
attained by conventional amphotericin B, although the larger doses of ABCD that
are administered produce an absolute level that is similar to amphotericin B.
ABCD exhibits dose-limiting, infusion-related toxicities; consequently, the
administered dosages should not exceed 3-4 mg/kg/day. The few comparative
clinical trials that have been completed with the lipid-associated formulations
have not demonstrated important clinical differences among these agents and
amphotericin B for efficacy, although there are significant safety benefits of
the lipid products. Furthermore, only one published trial has ever compared one
lipid product against another for any indication. The results of these trials are
particularly difficult to interpret because of major heterogeneities in study
design, disease definitions, drug dosages, differences in clinical and
microbiological endpoints as well as specific outcomes examined. Nevertheless, it
is possible to derive some general conclusions given the available data. The most
commonly studied syndrome has been empiric therapy for febrile neutropenic
patients, where the lipid-associated preparations did not appear to provide a
survival benefit over conventional amphotericin B deoxycholate, but did offer a
significant advantage for the prevention of various breakthrough invasive fungal 
infections. For treatment of documented invasive fungal infections that usually
involved hematological malignancy patients, no individual randomized trial has
demonstrated a mortality benefit due to therapy with one of the lipid
formulations. Results from meta-analyses have been contradictory, with one
demonstrating a mortality benefit from all-cause mortality and one that did not
demonstrate a mortality benefit. In the only published study to examine
HIV-infected patients with disseminated histoplasmosis, clinical success and
mortality were significantly better with L-AmB compared with amphotericin B
deoxycholate; there were no differences in microbiological outcomes between
treatment groups. The lipid-associated preparations were not significantly better
than amphotericin B deoxycholate for treatment of AIDS-associated acute
cryptococcal meningitis for either clinical or microbiological outcomes that were
studied. In all of the trials that specifically examined renal toxicity, the
lipid-associated formulations were significantly less nephrotoxic than
amphotericin B deoxycholate. Infusion-related reactions occurred less frequently 
with L-AmB when compared with amphotericin B deoxycholate; however, ABCD had
equivalent or more frequent infusion-related reactions than conventional
amphotericin B, and this resulted in the cessation of at least one clinical
trial. At the present time, this particular lipid formulation is no longer
commercially available. For the treatment of most invasive fungal infections, an 
amphotericin B lipid formulation provides a safer alternative than conventional
amphotericin B, with at least equivalent efficacy. As the cost of therapy with
these agents continues to decline, these drugs will likely maintain their
important role in the antifungal drug armamentarium because of their efficacy and
improved safety profile.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-013-0069-4 
PMID: 23729001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 May 31;(5):CD003425. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD003425.pub2.

Splenectomy versus conservative management for acute sequestration crises in
people with sickle cell disease.

Owusu-Ofori S(1), Hirst C.

Author information: 
(1)Transfusion Medicine Unit, Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital, Kumasi, Ghana.
sowusu_ofori@hotmail.com.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015;(9):CD003425.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2002;(4):CD003425.

BACKGROUND: Acute splenic sequestration crises are a complication of sickle cell 
disease, with high mortality rates and frequent recurrence in survivors of first 
attacks. Splenectomy and blood transfusion, with their consequences, are the
mainstay of long-term management used in different parts of the world.
OBJECTIVES: To assess whether splenectomy (total or partial), to prevent acute
splenic sequestration crises in people with sickle cell disease, improved
survival and decreased morbidity in people with sickle cell disease, as compared 
with regular blood transfusions.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, which comprises of references
identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearching
relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings.Additional trials 
were sought from the reference lists of the trials and reviews identified by the 
search strategy.Date of the most recent search: 06 December 2012.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials
comparing splenectomy (total or partial) to prevent recurrence of acute splenic
sequestration crises with no treatment or blood transfusions in people with
sickle cell disease.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: No trials of splenectomy for acute splenic
sequestration were found.
MAIN RESULTS: No trials of splenectomy for acute splenic sequestration were
found.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Splenectomy, if full, will prevent further sequestration
and if partial, may reduce the recurrence of acute splenic sequestration crises. 
However, there is a lack of evidence from trials showing that splenectomy
improves survival and decreases morbidity in people with sickle cell disease.
There is a need for a well-designed, adequately-powered, randomized controlled
trial to assess the benefits and risks of splenectomy compared to transfusion
programmes, as a means of improving survival and decreasing mortality from acute 
splenic sequestration in people with sickle cell disease.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003425.pub2 
PMID: 23728644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Bosn J Basic Med Sci. 2013 May;13(2):126-8.

Spleen-preserving surgery in treatment of large mesothelial splenic cyst in
children--a case report and review of the literature.

Zvizdić Z(1), Karavdić K.

Author information: 
(1)Clinic of Pediatric Surgery, Clinical Centre of Sarajevo University, Bolnička 
25, 71000 Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. zlatanzvizdic@yahoo.com

The nonparasitic primary splenic cysts are very rare clinical entity. In the
past, splenectomy was the treatment of choice but with the recognition of the
spleen's important immunological function, spleen-preserving surgery is the
preferred treatment modality. We hereby present a case of a large splenic
mesothelial cyst and its treatment with preservation of the remaining splenic
parenchyma. Our case shows that spleen-preserving surgery in treatment of the
large splenic cysts is possible and safe procedure with maintenance of the
splenic function.

© 2013 Association of Basic Medical Sciences of FB&H. All rights reserved.


PMCID: PMC4333933
PMID: 23725510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


319. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Apr 21;2013:321810. doi: 10.1155/2013/321810. Print 
2013.

Splenic anomalies of shape, size, and location: pictorial essay.

Yildiz AE(1), Ariyurek MO, Karcaaltincaba M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, Hacettepe University, 06100
Ankara, Turkey. aelcindr@gmail.com

Spleen can have a wide range of anomalies including its shape, location, number, 
and size. Although most of these anomalies are congenital, there are also
acquired types. Congenital anomalies affecting the shape of spleen are
lobulations, notches, and clefts; the fusion and location anomalies of spleen are
accessory spleen, splenopancreatic fusion, and wandering spleen; polysplenia can 
be associated with a syndrome. Splenosis and small spleen are acquired anomalies 
which are caused by trauma and sickle cell disease, respectively. These anomalies
can be detected easily by using different imaging modalities including
ultrasonography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and also Tc-99m
scintigraphy. In this pictorial essay, we review the imaging findings of these
anomalies which can cause diagnostic pitfalls and be interpreted as pathologic
processes.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/321810 
PMCID: PMC3654276
PMID: 23710135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Can Assoc Radiol J. 2014 Feb;65(1):19-28. doi: 10.1016/j.carj.2012.03.004. Epub
2013 May 22.

The mysterious organ. Spectrum of focal lesions within the splenic parenchyma:
cross-sectional imaging with emphasis on magnetic resonance imaging.

Fasih N(1), Gulati A(2), Ryan J(1), Ramanathan S(3), Prasad Shanbhogue AK(4),
McInnes M(1), Macdonald DB(1), Fraser-Hill MA(1), Walsh C(1), Kielar AZ(1),
Bhagat K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, The Ottawa Hospital, University of Ottawa,
Ontario, Canada. (2)PGIMER (Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and
Research), Chandigarh, India. Electronic address: drajaygulati@rediffmail.com.
(3)PGIMER (Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research),
Chandigarh, India. (4)Department of Radiology, University of Texas Health Science
Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, USA. (5)Religare SRL Limited,
Faridabad, Haryana, India.

Incidental splenic lesions are frequently encountered at imaging performed for
unrelated causes. Splenic cysts, hemangiomas, and lymphomatous involvement are
the most frequently encountered entities. Computed tomography and sonography are 
commonly used for initial evaluation with magnetic resonance imaging reserved as 
a useful problem-solving tool for characterizing atypical and uncommon lesions.
The value of magnetic resonance imaging lies in classifying these lesions as
either benign or malignant by virtue of their signal-intensity characteristics on
T1- and T2-weighted imaging and optimal depiction of internal hemorrhage. Dynamic
contrast-enhanced sequences may improve the evaluation of focal splenic lesions
and allow characterization of cysts, smaller hemangiomas, and hamartomas. Any
atypical or unexplained imaging feature related to an incidental splenic lesion
requires additional evaluation and/or follow-up. Occasionally, biopsy or
splenectomy may be required for definitive assessment given that some of tumours 
may demonstrate uncertain biologic behavior.

Copyright © 2014 Canadian Association of Radiologists. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carj.2012.03.004 
PMID: 23706870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


321. World J Surg Oncol. 2013 May 23;11:106. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-11-106.

Middle-preserving pancreatectomy: report of two cases and review of the
literature.

Cheng K(1), Shen BY, Peng CH, Na LM, Cheng DF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Rui Jin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University
School of Medicine, 197, Ruijin Er Road, Shanghai 200025, China.

BACKGROUND: Middle-preserving pancreatectomy (MPP) is a parenchyma-sparing
surgical procedure which has recently been sporadically reported for the
treatment of multicentric periampullary-pancreatic lesions. However, a
comprehensive recognition of this procedure has not been clearly elucidated.
CASE PRESENTATION: We herein report two patients undergoing MPP due to
synchronous multicentric pancreatic neoplasm. Patient one was a 24-year-old woman
with a multicentric solid pseudopapillary neoplasm (SPN) and patient two was a
36-year-old woman with a multicentric serous cystic neoplasm (SCN). Simultaneous 
atypical pancreaticoduodenectomy and atypical left pancreatectomy were performed 
in patient one; simultaneous standard pancreaticoduodenectomy and atypical left
pancreatectomy with spleen preservation were performed in patient two.
Approximately 6 cm and 5 cm segments of the middle portion of the pancreas were
preserved, respectively. At follow-up at 36 months and 6 months respectively,
patient one had developed diabetes and malabsorption requiring dietary control,
exercise and pancreatic enzyme supplement whereas patient two showed normal
fasting blood glucose without diarrhea. Both patients were disease-free and in
good nutritional condition. We reviewed twenty cases of MPP that were previously 
reported in the literature. Patient characteristics, surgical techniques and
short- and long-term outcomes were analyzed.
CONCLUSION: MPP is mainly beneficial for multicentric noninvasive
periampullary-pancreatic lesions. However, for multicentric
periampullary-pancreatic lesions involving even primary invasive cancers, as long
as the invasive cancers affect only one side of the pancreas (proximal or
distal), MPP could serve as a rational choice in well-selected patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-11-106 
PMCID: PMC3681594
PMID: 23702284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Semin Hematol. 2013 Jan;50 Suppl 1:S58-62. doi:
10.1053/j.seminhematol.2013.03.010.

Chronic immune thrombocytopenia in children: who needs splenectomy?

Schifferli A(1), Kühne T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology/Hematology, University Children's Hospital, Basel,
Switzerland.

In the field of emerging innovative therapies, such as thrombopoietin mimetics,
the question of who needs splenectomy remains highly relevant. Removal of the
spleen is an accepted and potentially curative treatment of immune
thrombocytopenia (ITP) after decades with a favorable economical-effect ratio but
with relevant morbidity particularly in the young patients. ITP is rare and
splenectomy is performed in a minority of children, which makes its research
almost impossible, resulting in a poor standardization of the procedure. Hence,
in children, recommendation and decision for splenectomy is individually based
and rests on expert opinions. Furthermore, local practice and availability of
health products affect the frequency of splenectomy. Current guidelines agree on 
one point: splenectomy should be postponed for at least 12 months after the
initial diagnosis of ITP, due to the high probability of improvement or even
spontaneous remission. However, evidence-based data are lacking and splenectomy
remains controversial. This article reviews the current literature and delineates
controversies and complexities of splenectomy in children with ITP. There is an
urgent need for consensus of this procedure in pediatric patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminhematol.2013.03.010 
PMID: 23664519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Semin Hematol. 2013 Jan;50 Suppl 1:S43-9. doi:
10.1053/j.seminhematol.2013.03.018.

CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ regulatory T cells in the pathophysiology of immune
thrombocytopenia.

Nishimoto T(1), Kuwana M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Regulatory T cells characterized by CD4, CD25, and transcription factor forkhead 
box P3, called Tregs, are a subpopulation of CD4(+) T cells specialized for
immune suppression. Tregs contribute to maintenance of peripheral immune
tolerance, and their defects are thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of
various autoimmune diseases. Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is an autoimmune
disease characterized by increased platelet destruction and reduced platelet
production, resulting in decreased platelet count. Recently, a series of studies 
in adults and children with ITP have found that the frequency of Tregs is reduced
in circulation, bone marrow, and spleen, and Treg function is impaired. Treg
dysregulation is improved after platelet count is recovered by treatment with
dexamethasone, rituximab, or thrombopoietin receptor agonists. In addition, a
critical role of Tregs in preventing the anti-platelet autoimmune response has
been demonstrated in mice deficient in functional Tregs. Thrombocytopenia
observed in Treg-deficient mice is mediated through production of IgG
anti-platelet autoantibodies, which is analogous to human ITP. Further studies
evaluating mechanisms of Treg dysregulation in ITP patients are necessary to
elucidate the pathogenesis of ITP and develop novel therapeutic strategies that
suppress anti-platelet autoimmune response.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminhematol.2013.03.018 
PMID: 23664516  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


324. JOP. 2013 May 10;14(3):261-3. doi: 10.6092/1590-8577/1231.

Intrapancreatic accessory spleen. A case report and review of literature.

Katuchova J(1), Baumohlova H, Harbulak P, Stofcikova M, Svajdler M, Repovsky A,
Radonak J.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Surgery, University Hospital and Safarik University,
Kosice, Slovakia. jana.katuchova@upjs.sk

CONTEXT: Accessory spleen is a congenital focus of healthy splenic tissue that is
separated from the main body of spleen. Although an accessory spleen usually
appears as an isolated asymptomatic abnormality, it may have clinical
significance in some situations.
CASE REPORT: We report the case of 53-year-old woman with a 2-year history of
upper abdominal discomfort after meals and weight loss. The pathologic lesion was
diagnosed by the abdominal sonography and the magnetic resonance tomography in
the pancreatic tail. The patient was operated with suspicion of a solid
pseudopapillary neoplasm or a nonfunctioning islet cell tumor. Histopathological 
examination found an intrapancreatic accessory spleen, which is a congenital
abnormality consisting of normal splenic tissue in ectopic sites.
CONCLUSION: We present possibilities of differential diagnosis of this entity.


PMID: 23669475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Parasite Immunol. 2013 Sep-Oct;35(9-10):295-301. doi: 10.1111/pim.12040.

The use of imaging to detect schistosomes and diagnose schistosomiasis.

Skelly PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Disease and Global Health, Molecular Helminthology
Laboratory, Tufts Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine, North Grafton, MA
01536, USA. patrick.skelly@tufts.edu

Several imaging modalities have been employed to examine schistosomes and monitor
schistosome-induced pathology. Ultrasound is a noninvasive imaging method that
has long been used in the laboratory and in the field to evaluate pathological
changes, notably fibrosis, that arise as a consequence of the host response to
schistosome eggs lodging in a variety of tissues. Ultrasonography has been widely
used to monitor changes in the extent of fibrosis and in spleen/liver enlargement
following chemotherapeutic treatment for schistosomiasis. Imaging methods to
monitor schistosomes themselves in vivo (as opposed to detecting
schistosome-induced pathology) include positron emission tomography and
fluorescence molecular tomography. Both approaches rely on schistosome uptake of 
tracers that are introduced into infected animals and that can be detected
externally. These methods have been used to successfully detect schistosomes in
vivo and to monitor their elimination following chemotherapeutic treatment.
Direct monitoring of live schistosomes in vivo has been achieved using intravital
microscopy, when the infected tissues of anaesthetized animals are exposed.
Finally, schistosome eggs have been visualized by confocal laser scanning
microscopy in infected mice as well as in a human patient with schistosomiasis
hematobium. Further advances in imaging technologies seem likely to provide
greater insight into disease progression and into the biology of schistosomes in 
the most relevant setting-within a live animal.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pim.12040 
PMCID: PMC3766473
PMID: 23647173  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2013 Apr 15;6(5):985-9. Print 2013.

Primary hepatosplenic CD5-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: a case report
with literature review.

Zhang X(1), Sun M, Zhang L, Shao H.

Author information: 
(1)Hematopathology and Laboratory Medicine, H Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and
Research Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.

De novo CD5-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (CD5(+) DLBCL) accounts for
approximately 10% of DLBCL, and is usually associated with aggressive clinical
course. We report a case of CD5(+) DLBCL with primary involvement of the spleen
and liver, and no distinct mass lesions or lymphadenopathy. The patient had stage
IV disease with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma. The lymphoma cells showed
characteristic portal and intrasinusoidal pattern of infiltrate in the liver. The
literature was reviewed and the clinicopathologic features of 7 similar reported 
cases were summarized. All cases share the common features of hepatosplenomegaly 
without mass lesions, exclusive red pulp infiltrate with a diffuse and cordal
pattern in the spleen, portal and intrasinusoidal pattern of infiltrate in the
liver, and stage IV disease with poor response to conventional chemotherapy. This
may represent a distinct subgroup of CD5(+) DLBCL and the diagnosis is important 
for prompt clinical treatment.


PMCID: PMC3638115
PMID: 23638236  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Arch Pediatr. 2013 Jun;20(6):624-8. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2013.03.013. Epub 2013 
Apr 28.

[Osteomyelitis in cat scratch disease: a case report and literature review].

[Article in French]

Dusser P(1), Eyssette-Guerreau S, Koné-Paut I.

Author information: 
(1)Service de pédiatrie générale et rhumatologie pédiatrique, CHU de Bicêtre, 8, 
rue du Général-Leclerc, 94270 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.

Cat scratch disease is the most common zoonosis in humans and its typical
expression is a persistent benign regional adenopathy. In some rare cases, mono- 
or multifocal osteomyelitis is described. In this paper, we report the case of
bone lesions in a 13-year-old girl infected with cat scratch disease. We have
also undertaken a literature review and analyzed 60 other such cases. The
manifestation of a bone lesion associated with cat scratch disease was
characterized by a mono- or multifocal infectious osteomyelitis, fever, and a
general alteration of the patient's health. The most frequent location of
osteomyelitis was in the spine. Magnetic resonance imaging appeared the most
sensitive test to highlight the bone lesions. Serological findings help reinforce
the diagnosis of cat scratch disease caused by Bartonella henselae infection.
Osteomyelitis in cat scratch disease is rare but not exceptional. Therefore, it
is essential to think about this hypothesis in case of osteomyelitis associated
with a general alteration of the patient's health, especially if the lesions are 
multifocal and if there is a known history of cat contact.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2013.03.013 
PMID: 23628125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Surg Radiol Anat. 2013 Dec;35(10):979-81. doi: 10.1007/s00276-013-1122-4. Epub
2013 Apr 26.

Celiacomesenteric trunk: a short report.

Bhatnagar S(1), Rajesh S, Jain VK, Patidar Y, Mukund A, Arora A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Institute of Liver & Biliary Sciences, D-1 Vasant
Kunj, New Delhi, 110070, India, drshorav@yahoo.com.

Comment in
    Surg Radiol Anat. 2014 Mar;36(2):205-7.

The authors describe the case of a 44-year-old male with chronic liver disease in
whom celiacomesenteric trunk (CMT) was incidentally detected on routine
multidetector row computed tomography of abdomen. The CMT (measuring
approximately in diameter 12.3 mm) divided into celiac trunk and superior
mesenteric artery (SMA) (measuring approximately 7.5 and 7.2 mm, respectively).
The celiac trunk further divided into common hepatic, left gastric, and right
inferior phrenic and splenic arteries. The common hepatic artery gave off
gastroduodenal arteries before continuing as hepatic artery proper. The SMA was
seen running down, deep to the neck of the pancreas to supply the midgut. The
incidence and clinical implications of this vascular variation are discussed with
a review of the relevant literature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00276-013-1122-4 
PMID: 23620090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2013 Mar-Apr;108(2):152-60.

Aseptic mesenteric lymph node abscesses. In search of an answer. A new entity?

Brătucu E(1), Lazar A, Marincaş M, Daha C, Zurac S.

Author information: 
(1)University of Medicine and Pharmacy "Carol Davila", Department of Surgery I,
Bucharest Oncology Institute "Al. Trestioreanu", Bucharest, Romania.

Mesenteric lymphadenitis constitutes a frequent cause for abdominal pain and may 
manifest acute abdominal symptoms. Very often, it is difficult to achieve a
differential diagnosis as there are many diseases that can generate mesenteric
lymphadenopathy. Many times, it is impossible to determine the diagnosis of the
disease that has triggered mesenteric lymphadenopathy even after surgical
intervention with biopsy. The failure in determining the precise cause of the
mesenteric lymphadenoapathy, as well as its unresponsiveness to conservative
treatments increases the difficulty in the management of this disease very much. 
In this paper we have reviewed the diseases that can trigger mesenteric
lymphadenitis in detail, with reference to our experience. To the best of our
knowledge, this is the most extensive review on this theme in current specific
literature. The case reported by us, with a history of mesenteric adenitis,
splenic and ganglionic abscesses, vasculitis skin nodules, pseudotumoral ileal
stenosis and remission-recurrence pattern over 25 years, has raised extremely
difficult problems of differential diagnosis. Its enlistment as a Crohn's
disease, vasculitis or aseptic abscess syndrome seems unsatisfactory. The
analysis of the data in this case can raise the legitimacy of the question:
should we recognize and define a new entity?

Celsius.


PMID: 23618562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Int Rev Immunol. 2013 Aug;32(4):358-76. doi: 10.3109/08830185.2013.786711. Epub
2013 Apr 25.

BCR signaling in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and related inhibitors currently in
clinical studies.

Robak T(1), Robak P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, Medical University of Lodz , 93-510 Lodz, Poland.
robaktad@csk.umed.lodz.pl

Normal B lymphocytes receive signals from B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) that are 
triggered by binding of the BCR to an external antigen. Tonic signaling through
the BCR provides growth and signals to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells, 
and plays an important role in the pathogenesis and progression of the disease.
Antigen engagement of BCR is followed by intracellular recruitment and activation
of BCR-associated kinases including spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk), Bruton's
tyrosine kinase (Btk) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3K). Inhibition of
signaling pathways downstream of the BCR induces disruption of chemokine-mediated
CLL cell migration and cell killing. BCR signal transduction inhibitors represent
a promising new strategy for targeted CLL treatment. A number of therapeutic
agents have recently been developed with significant activity in CLL. The
compounds that are currently investigated in patients with CLL include ibrutinib 
-inhibitor of Btk, fostamatinib-inhibitor of Syk and idelalisib (GS-1101) -a
specific isoform of the PI3K (PI3K) inhibitor. The clinical activity of
ibrutinib, GS-1101 and fostamatinib in patients with CLL is associated with
marked lymphocytosis due to release of tumor cells from the lymph nodes into the 
peripheral blood. Further studies are ongoing with single agents and their
combinations with other targeted and conventional therapies. This article will
review the preclinical rationale of BCR signaling inhibitors in the treatment of 
CLL, and the clinical evidence supporting the use of these agents in CLL
patients.

DOI: 10.3109/08830185.2013.786711 
PMID: 23617253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


331. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Apr 21;19(15):2313-8. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i15.2313.

Is it worth investigating splenic function in patients with celiac disease?

Di Sabatino A(1), Brunetti L, Carnevale Maffè G, Giuffrida P, Corazza GR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Celiac Centre, S. Matteo Hospital Foundation,
University of Pavia, 27100 Pavia, Italy. a.disabatino@smatteo.pv.it

Celiac disease, an immune-mediated enteropathy induced in genetically susceptible
individuals by the ingestion of gluten, is the most frequent disorder associated 
with splenic hypofunction or atrophy. Defective splenic function affects more
than one-third of adult patients with celiac disease, and it may predispose to a 
higher risk of infections by encapsulated bacteria and thromboembolic and
autoimmune complications, particularly when celiac patients have concomitant
pre-malignant and malignant complications (refractory celiac disease, ulcerative 
jejunoileitis and enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma). However, the clinical 
management of patients with celiac disease does not take into account the
evaluation of splenic function, and in patients with high degree of hyposplenism 
or splenic atrophy the prophylactic immunization with specific vaccines against
the polysaccharide antigens of encapsulated bacteria is not currently
recommended. We critically re-evaluate clinical and diagnostic aspects of spleen 
dysfunction in celiac disease, and highlight new perspectives in the prophylactic
management of infections in this condition.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i15.2313 
PMCID: PMC3631982
PMID: 23613624  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


332. G Ital Dermatol Venereol. 2013 Apr;148(2):185-96.

Neutrophilic dermatoses and inflammatory bowel diseases.

Marzano AV(1), Menicanti C, Crosti C, Trevisan V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, University of Milan,
Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda, Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Italy.
angelovalerio.marzano@policlinico.mi.it

Pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) and Sweet's Syndrome (SS) are inflammatory skin
diseases caused by the accumulation of neutrophils in the skin and, rarely, in
internal organs, which led to coining the term of neutrophilic dermatoses (ND) to
define these conditions. Recently, ND have been included among the
autoinflammatory diseases, which are forms due to mutations of genes regulating
the innate immune responses. Both PG and SS are frequently associated with
inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), a group of chronic intestinal disorders which 
comprises ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease and whose pathogenesis involves 
both the innate and adaptive immunity in genetically prone individuals. Patients 
with IBD develop PG in 1-3% of cases, while SS is rarer. PG presents with deep
erythematous-to-violaceous painful ulcers with undermined borders, but bullous,
pustular, and vegetative variants can also occur. SS, also known as acute febrile
neutrophilic dermatosis, is characterized by the abrupt onset of fever,
peripheral neutrophilia, tender erythematous skin lesions and a diffuse
neutrophilic dermal infiltrate. In this review that will be focused on PG and SS,
we will describe also the aseptic abscesses syndrome, a new entity within the
spectrum of ND which frequently occurs in association with IBD and is
characterized by deep abscesses mainly involving the spleen and skin and by
polymorphic cutaneous manifestations including PG- and SS-like lesions.


PMID: 23588144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Curr Top Med Chem. 2013;13(6):760-73.

Tyrosine kinase inhibitors for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.

Gomez-Puerta JA(1), Mócsai A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. JGOMEZPUERTA@partners.org

Tyrosine kinases (TK) are enzymes capable of transferring phosphate groups to
tyrosine residues in cytoplasmic proteins or the intracellular domains of
transmembrane receptors. TK play critical roles in diverse biological functions
including cellular processes such as adhesion, motility, proliferation, cell
cycle control, cell death, as well as biological functions at the whole-organism 
level such as growth and development, metabolism or immune defense. TK inhibitors
including spleen TK (fostamatinib) and Janus kinases (tofacitinib) inhibitors are
two novel oral therapies that have demonstrated short-term good clinical
responses in active rheumatoid arthritis patients with and inadequate responses
to methotrexate or other traditional (non-biologic) disease-modifying
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Those responses are comparable to responses rates
from pivotal trials of TNF inhibitors. TK inhibitors are generally well tolerated
but not free of adverse effects. Several side effects had been described
including gastrointestinal symptoms, neutropenia, hypertension, elevated liver
function test and lipid alterations among others. Owing to the limited duration
of follow-up of patients treated with TK inhibitors, the long term safety profile
of these drugs are unknown.


PMCID: PMC3796894
PMID: 23574525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Gene. 2013 Aug 10;525(2):174-81. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.03.098. Epub 2013 Apr
6.

Gene therapy for PIDs: progress, pitfalls and prospects.

Mukherjee S(1), Thrasher AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Immunodeficiency, Molecular Immunology Unit, University College
London Institute of Child Health, 30 Guilford Street, London WC1N1EH, UK.

Substantial progress has been made in the past decade in treating several primary
immunodeficiency disorders (PIDs) with gene therapy. Current approaches are based
on ex-vivo transfer of therapeutic transgene via viral vectors to patient-derived
autologous hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) followed by transplantation back to
the patient with or without conditioning. The overall outcome from all the
clinical trials targeting different PIDs has been extremely encouraging but not
without caveats. Malignant outcomes from insertional mutagenesis have featured
prominently in the adverse events associated with these trials and have warranted
intense pre-clinical investigation into defining the tendencies of different
viral vectors for genomic integration. Coupled with issues pertaining to
transgene expression, the therapeutic landscape has undergone a paradigm shift in
determining safety, stability and efficacy of gene therapy approaches. In this
review, we aim to summarize the progress made in the gene therapy trials
targeting ADA-SCID, SCID-X1, CGD and WAS, review the pitfalls, and outline the
recent advancements which are expected to further enhance favourable risk benefit
ratios for gene therapeutic approaches in the future.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.03.098 
PMCID: PMC3725417
PMID: 23566838  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Urol Int. 2013;91(2):245-8. doi: 10.1159/000346754. Epub 2013 Mar 14.

A giant adrenal pseudocyst mimicking an adrenal cancer: case report and review of
the literature.

Passoni S(1), Regusci L, Peloni G, Brenna M, Fasolini F.

Author information: 
(1)General Surgery Department, Beata Vergine Hospital, Mendrisio, Switzerland.
aydy@libero.it

Adrenal pseudocysts are rare lesions that develop within the adrenal glands,
generally from vessel ectasia or from degenerative adenomas or hematomas. They
are usually non-functional and asymptomatic. The reported potential malignant
transformation of an adrenal cyst is ca. 7% and indicates radical excision of
these masses. We report the case of a 69-year-old man with hypertension, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, and obesity in whom microscopic hematuria was
detected during a routine examination performed by his family doctor. To
investigate the cause of this microscopic hematuria, the patient underwent
computed tomography of the abdomen, which showed a well-defined 12-cm lesion of
the left adrenal gland with calcification and necrotic components that was
compressing the left kidney, pancreas, and spleen. Suspecting adrenal carcinoma, 
after preoperative staging, a left subcostal laparotomy was performed, with
resection of the left adrenal gland, a splenectomy, and resection of the
pancreatic tail. The histology showed an adrenal pseudocyst with a fibrous
capsule containing amorphous eosinophilic material with calcification and
cholesterol crystals. The patient's postoperative course was uneventful, and he
was discharged 12 days after surgery.

© 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000346754 
PMID: 23548497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2013 Apr;137(4):580-5. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2012-0034-RS.

Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and Waldenström macroglobulinemia.

Naderi N(1), Yang DT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, WI 53792-2472, USA.

Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL) is a low-grade, B-cell neoplasm composed of
small lymphocytes, plasmacytoid lymphocytes, and plasma cells that typically
involve the bone marrow, and it is associated with an immunoglobulin M (IgM)
gammopathy. The definition of Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) and its
relationship to LPL has been confusing in the past. In addition, the diagnosis of
LPL itself can be challenging because LPL lacks disease-specific morphologic,
immunophenotypic, and genetic features to differentiate it from other mature
B-cell neoplasms. Accurate diagnosis of LPL/WM rests on recognition of the
differential diagnostic features between LPL and other diagnostic possibilities
and the use of the recently refined definition of WM and its relationship with
LPL: The presence of an IgM monoclonal gammopathy of any level in the setting of 
bone marrow involvement by LPL. This review summarizes the clinical, laboratory, 
and histologic features of LPL/WM, with particular emphasis on unique aspects of 
LPL/WM that may aid in accurate diagnosis.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2012-0034-RS 
PMID: 23544948  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Autoimmun Rev. 2013 Jul;12(9):894-903. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2013.03.009. Epub
2013 Mar 25.

Impairment of regulatory T cells in myasthenia gravis: studies in an experimental
model.

Gertel-Lapter S(1), Mizrachi K, Berrih-Aknin S, Fuchs S, Souroujon MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an antibody mediated, T cell dependent autoimmune
disease characterized by muscle fatigability in which autoantibodies directed to 
the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) impair neuromuscular transmission. The
identification of CD4⁺CD25⁺Foxp3⁺Treg cells as important regulators of tolerance 
opened a major area of investigation raising the possibility that a dysfunction
in the Treg compartment is involved in the etiology and pathogenesis of
autoimmune diseases, including MG. In this paper we summarize shortly Treg
abnormalities that were reported in MG patients and report on our studies of Treg
in experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG). Hopefully these studies would pave the way 
towards the development of novel Treg-based treatment modalities that will
restore self-tolerance in MG and other autoimmune diseases. In our previous
studies in EAMG we have shown that Treg cells transferred from healthy rat donors
to myasthenic rats suppress EAMG. However, Treg cells from sick animals do not
have the same in vivo suppressive activity as those from healthy donors. The
objective of the present study was to further characterize quantitative and
qualitative alterations in Treg cells of rats with EAMG. We found that the
frequency of CD4⁺CD25⁺Foxp3⁺Treg cells within the spleen and PBL was decreased in
EAMG rats as compared to naïve and CFA-immunized healthy controls. Treg cells
from myasthenic rats were less effective than Treg cells from controls in
suppressing the proliferation of CD4⁺T effector cells in response to ConA and of 
B cells in response to LPS. Moreover, CD4⁺CD25⁺ cells from EAMG rats exhibited an
elevated extent of apoptosis and expressed upregulated levels of FAS and of
Th17-associated cytokines. Since EAMG is an induced disease, these quantitative
and qualitative alterations in Treg cells do not reflect predisposing impairments
and seem to be associated with the specific autoimmune response resulting from
AChR immunization.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2013.03.009 
PMID: 23535156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Crit Rev Oncog. 2013;18(3):163-75.

Gaucher disease: a comprehensive review.

Rosenbloom BE(1), Weinreb NJ.

Author information: 
(1)David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA and Cedars-Sinai, the Comprehensive
Gaucher Diagnostic and Treatment Center at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Beverly
Hills, California 90211, USA. rosenbloom@toweroncology.com

Gaucher disease (GD) is an inherited error of metabolism due to a deficiency of
glucocerebrosidase. This leads to excessive storage of glucocerebroside in the
liver, spleen, bone, and bone marrow. Patients develop anemia, thrombocytopenia, 
hepatosplenomegaly, bone infarcts, aseptic necrosis of bone, and osteoporosis.
There are three types of GD; types 2 and 3 have neurological involvement. With
the advent of enzyme replacement therapy and substrate reduction therapy, the
natural history of the disease has been has significantly changed, with a marked 
decrease in morbidity, especially for type 1 patients. This article reviews a
broad spectrum of information regarding Gaucher disease, from the history of the 
disease to newer therapies still in the investigational stage.


PMID: 23510062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Surg Radiol Anat. 2013 Oct;35(8):647-53. doi: 10.1007/s00276-013-1100-x. Epub
2013 Mar 19.

Polysplenia syndrome: a review of the relationship with viscero-atrial situs and 
the spectrum of extra-cardiac anomalies.

Tawfik AM(1), Batouty NM, Zaky MM, Eladalany MA, Elmokadem AH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Faculty of Medicine,
Mansoura University, Mansoura, 35112, Egypt, ahm_m_tawfik@hotmail.com.

Polysplenia syndrome is classified as one of the situs ambiguous or heterotaxy
syndromes and is classically termed left isomerism or bilateral left-sidedness.
However, polysplenia is a controversial and complex entity with no fixed
pathognomonic features but rather a broad spectrum of abnormalities. In many
published case series, polysplenia was neither associated with viscero-atrial
heterotaxy nor with duplication of left-sided structures. The relationship
between polysplenia and viscero-atrial situs is not clear. Several recent case
reports describe the association of polysplenia with situs inversus totalis or
with pancreatic; venous and other anomalies or with several types of malignancy. 
This article provides the reader with a review of the literature as well as our
own experience aiming at better understanding of the polysplenia syndrome, its
relationship with viscero-atrial situs and the spectrum of associated
extra-cardiac anomalies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00276-013-1100-x 
PMID: 23508931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Integr Med. 2013 Mar;11(2):80-9. doi: 10.3736/jintegrmed2013018.

Literature review and analysis of the development of health outcomes assessment
instruments in Chinese medicine.

Liu FB(1), Hou ZK, Yang YY, Zhang ZZ, Xie D, Xie N, Nguyen HT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Spleen-Stomach Diseases, the First Affiliated Hospital,
Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangdong Province, China.
liufb163@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the development of health outcomes assessment instruments 
in Chinese medicine.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search for all published articles in China
National Knowledge Infrastructure Database, Chongqing VIP Database and WANFANG
Data was conducted. The studies that met the inclusion and exclusion criteria
were used to extract information according to a predesigned assessment
instrument.
RESULTS: A total of 97 instruments for health outcome assessment in Chinese
medicine were identified. Of these questionnaires, 7 were generic, 12 were
condition-specific and 78 were disease-specific. All instruments were suitable
for adults, children, and both men and women. These instruments aimed to evaluate
the health-related quality of life, signs and symptoms as well as patient
satisfaction and doctor-reported outcome. However, the descriptions were poorly
constructed for some of the most basic parameters, such as the domains and items,
administrative mode, response options, memory recall periods, burden evaluation, 
format, copyright, content validity, and other properties.
CONCLUSION: The instrument development for health outcomes assessment in Chinese 
medicine is increasing rapidly; however, there are many limitations in current
methodologies and standards, and further studies are needed.

DOI: 10.3736/jintegrmed2013018 
PMID: 23506689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


341. World J Surg Oncol. 2013 Mar 4;11:53. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-11-53.

Spontaneous rupture of primary splenic angiosarcoma: a case report and literature
review.

Duan YF(1), Jiang Y, Wu CX, Zhu F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, 185 Juqian Street, 213000, Changzhou, Jiangsu, China.

BACKGROUND: Primary angiosarcoma of the spleen is a rare mesenchymal malignant
tumor of vascular origin often with a poor prognosis, due to its high metastatic 
potential. This disease often presents with atraumatic rupture and lethal
hemorrhage.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of a 65-year-old man who presented with
abdominal pain, anemia, thrombocytopenia, and palpable abdominal mass with
unstable blood pressure. Laparotomy revealed a huge actively bleeding spleen,
thus splenectomy was performed. Some liver metastasis foci were also found during
the procedure. Histopathology diagnosis of the removed spleen was primary splenic
angiosarcoma. The patient was discharged on the 10th day post operation with no
complication.
CONCLUSIONS: Splenic angiosarcoma should be considered one of the differential
diagnoses in patients with spleen parenchymal lesions. Definitive diagnosis
requires laparotomy followed by splenectomy. In the majority of the patients with
spleen angiosarcoma, metastatic diseases have already occurred at the time of
laparotomy, so splenectomy is an approach more for diagnostic purpose rather than
curative purpose.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-11-53 
PMCID: PMC3599178
PMID: 23497454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Hepatol. 2013 Jun;58(6):1230-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.02.014. Epub 2013 Feb
26.

Cholesteryl ester storage disease: review of the findings in 135 reported
patients with an underdiagnosed disease.

Bernstein DL(1), Hülkova H, Bialer MG, Desnick RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Genetics, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System,
1554 Northern Boulevard, Suite 204, Manhasset, NY 11030, United States.

Cholesteryl ester storage disease (CESD) is caused by deficient lysosomal acid
lipase (LAL) activity, predominantly resulting in cholesteryl ester (CE)
accumulation, particularly in the liver, spleen, and macrophages throughout the
body. The disease is characterized by microvesicular steatosis leading to liver
failure, accelerated atherosclerosis and premature demise. Although CESD is rare,
it is likely that many patients are unrecognized or misdiagnosed. Here, the
findings in 135 CESD patients described in the literature are reviewed. Diagnoses
were based on liver biopsies, LAL deficiency and/or LAL gene (LIPA) mutations.
Hepatomegaly was present in 99.3% of patients; 74% also had splenomegaly. When
reported, most patients had elevated serum total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol,
triglycerides, and transaminases (AST, ALT, or both), while HDL-cholesterol was
decreased. All 112 liver biopsied patients had the characteristic pathology,
which is progressive, and includes microvesicular steatosis, which leads to
fibrosis, micronodular cirrhosis, and ultimately to liver failure. Pathognomonic 
birefringent CE crystals or their remnant clefts were observed in hepatic cells. 
Extrahepatic manifestations included portal hypertension, esophageal varices, and
accelerated atherosclerosis. Liver failure in 17 reported patients resulted in
liver transplantation and/or death. Genotyping identified 31 LIPA mutations in 55
patients; 61% of mutations were the common exon 8 splice-junction mutation
(E8SJM(-1G>A)), for which 18 patients were homozygous. Genotype/phenotype
correlations were limited; however, E8SJM(-1G>A) homozygotes typically had
early-onset, slowly progressive disease. Supportive treatment included
cholestyramine, statins, and, ultimately, liver transplantation. Recombinant LAL 
replacement was shown to be effective in animal models, and recently, a phase
I/II clinical trial demonstrated its safety and indicated its potential metabolic
efficacy.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.02.014 
PMID: 23485521  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Pediatr Surg. 2013 Mar;48(3):e29-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2013.01.003.

Splenic torsion after congenital diaphragmatic hernia repair: case report and
review of the literature.

Mehta A(1), Vana PG, Glynn L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Loyola University Medical Center, Maywood, IL 60153,
USA.

Wandering spleen with torsion, a rare clinical diagnosis, was found to be the
cause of chronic abdominal pain in an 11-year-old female with a history of
congenital diaphragmatic hernia repaired at three days of age. Doppler ultrasound
revealed patent vessels with splenomegaly, and computed tomography (CT) showed an
absence of the spleen in the left subphrenic space with torsion at the splenic
hilum. Due to the chronicity of pain and risk of ischemia from torsion, open
splenopexy with Vicryl mesh was performed. This case report/review of the
literature discusses the rarity of this condition, and the importance of timely
diagnosis and intervention.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2013.01.003 
PMID: 23480945  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2013 Jan-Feb;108(1):99-101.

Spontaneous diaphragmatic rupture: case report and literature review.

Ghidirim G(1), Mishin I, Condratsky E, Zastavnitsky G.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Surgery "N. Anestiadi" and Laboratory of
Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Surgery, Medical University "N. Testemitsanu", National 
Center of Emergency Medicine, Kishinev, Moldova.

Spontaneous diaphragm rupture is extremely rare. Usually a diaphragm rupture is
trauma induced. We describe a case of an 18-year old patient admitted 2 hours
after onset, presenting severe epigastric and left sided chest pain without any
trauma history. Upright chest x-ray revealed displaced stomach and colon into the
left pleural cavity with a collapsed left lung. Surgery for a left-sided
diaphragm rupture with stomach, spleen and colon splenic flexure herniation was
undertaken. We present a brief review regarding the aetiology, diagnostic and
treatment policy of spontaneous diaphragmatic rupture.

Celsius.


PMID: 23464778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


345. HPB (Oxford). 2013 Jun;15(6):403-10. doi: 10.1111/hpb.12003. Epub 2012 Dec 2.

Spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with and without splenic vessel ligation:
a systematic review.

Jain G(1), Chakravartty S, Patel AG.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Minimal Access Surgery, King's College Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Splenic preservation during a distal pancreatectomy (SPDP) may be
performed with splenic vessel ligation, known as Warshaw's Technique (WT) or
splenic vessel preservation (SVP). The consensus on which approach is best is
divided. A systematic review of evidence in the literature was undertaken with
the aim of analysing the merits and disadvantages of both WT and SVP.
METHODS: A systematic search of medical literature from 1985-2011 was undertaken 
to identify all comparative studies and case series on SPDP. Non-English papers, 
series with < 5 patients, technical reports and reviews were excluded. The
remaining articles were reviewed considering the study design, surgical
technique, outcomes and complications.
RESULTS: In 23 relevant studies, 356 patients underwent WT and 572 underwent SVP.
In WT patients, the mean operating time (160 versus 215 min, P < 0.001), mean
estimated blood loss (301 versus 390 ml, P < 0.001) and length of stay (8 versus 
11 days, P < 0.001) was significantly less than the SVP patients, respectively.
Considering complications, splenic infarction and splenectomy occurred more
frequently in WT patients (P < 0.05).
DISCUSSION: WT is technically easier to perform than SVP but has a higher
incidence of subsequent splenectomies. Surgeons should be able to perform both
procedures and tailor the technique according to the patient.

© 2012 International Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association.

DOI: 10.1111/hpb.12003 
PMCID: PMC3664043
PMID: 23458666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Br J Neurosurg. 2013 Oct;27(5):690-3. doi: 10.3109/02688697.2013.771732. Epub
2013 Mar 4.

Opportunistic Fonsecaea pedrosoi brain abscess in a patient with non-cirrhotic
portal fibrosis-induced hypersplenism--a novel association.

Madhugiri VS(1), Singh R, Vyavahare M, Vijayahari R, Sasidharan GM, Kuma VR,
Jacob S, Verma SK, Ananthakrishnan R, Yadav AK, Gundamaneni SK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical
Education and Research, Pondicherry, India. msv000@gmail.com

Non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis, a common cause of splenomegaly in tropical
countries, can lead to hypersplenism and pancytopenia. Hypersplenism in this
setting has not been associated with opportunistic infections. We describe a
patient with hypersplenism secondary to non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis who
developed a Fonsecaea pedrosoi brain abscess and succumbed to the illness despite
aggressive management.

DOI: 10.3109/02688697.2013.771732 
PMID: 23458558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Clin Nephrol. 2014 Oct;82(4):263-7. doi: 10.5414/CN107890.

Identification of perirenal or renal splenosis from undetermined masses: case
report and review of the literature.

Cho SG, Yi JH, Kim MY, Kim YH, Han SW, Kim HJ.

The incidental finding of tumor-llke perirenal or renal splenosis (PRS) creates a
challenge to the renal physicians, because its benign nature has to be
distinguished from a malignancy. This paper describes the case of a 40-year-old
man referred from a local clinic for further evaluation of an incidental finding 
of left abdominal masses by ultrasonogram suspecting neoplasm, but was eventually
confirmed as PRS by obtaining a history of splenectomy that pointed to splenosis 
and subsequently by a fusion image from single photon emission computed
tomography using 99mTc-labelled heat-denatured erythrocytes and computed
tomography (hybrid SPECT/CT). In addition, a review of 27 cases of PRS in a
MEDLINE search including the present case revealed the following: all the masses 
were found incidentally and were associated with a history of previous
splenectomy or splenic injury; the initial impressions were neoplastic tumor/PRS 
(n = 9), PRS (n = 10), and neoplastic tumor without consideration of splenosis (n
= 8); surgical exploration was undertaken in all the 8 cases of suspected
neoplastic tumor only, whereas non-invasive radiological or radionuclide imaging 
confirmed splenosis in the rest of the cases (n = 19). To avoid unnecessary tests
and invasive surgery for undetermined perirenal or renal masses accompanying
previous splenic injury, we stress the paramount importance of careful
history-taking, physical examination, and a high index of suspicion for
splenosis. Also, fusion imaging of hybrid SPECT/CT was reconfirmed as a useful
diagnostic technique for accurately detecting and localizing splenic tissues by
PRS.

DOI: 10.5414/CN107890 
PMID: 23458175  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Ther Umsch. 2013 Mar;70(3):177-84. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000387.

[Traumatic splenic injury].

[Article in German]

Müller TS(1), Sommer C.

Author information: 
(1)Departement Chirurgie, Kantonsspital Graubünden, Chur. thomas.mueller@ksgr.ch

While the management of penetrating as well as blunt splenic injury with
hemodynamic instability is straightforward with immediate operative intervention,
the management of blunt splenic injury with stable hemodynamic underwent a
paradigm shift over the last 3 decades. Nowadays 80 per cent of hemodynamically
stable patients with blunt splenic injury can successfully be treated with a
non-operative management. Angiographic embolization in selected cases is
generally reported to increase the success rates of non-operative management
currently approaching 95 per cent.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000387 
PMID: 23454565  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Ther Umsch. 2013 Mar;70(3):163-9. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000385.

[The spleen in hematologic malignancies].

[Article in German]

Kienle DL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department Innere Medizin, Onkologie/Hämatologie, Kantonsspital Graubünden,
Chur. dirk.kienle@triemli.zuerich.ch

The spleen represents a major lymphatic and hematologic organ and, as such, is
frequently involved in hematologic malignancies. Splenomegaly may constitute the 
first clinical sign leading to the diagnosis of a hematologic malignancy. Vice
versa, the presence, or suspicion of a hematologic malignancy requires
investigation of the spleen. In case of splenomegaly of unknown origin, directed 
history, clinical examination, and laboratory testing including a complete blood 
count with microscopic investigation of a peripheral blood smear, frequently
allow to establish a tentative diagnosis. Whenever possible, further specific
testing should be based on a thorough primary evaluation to avoid unnecessary
diagnostic procedures. In light of the current diagnostic options, diagnostic
splenectomy can usually be avoided to establish definitive diagnosis. Indolent
lymphomas (chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, hairy cell leukaemia, splenic marginal 
zone lymphoma) and myeloproliferative neoplasms (chronic myeloid leukaemia,
polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, primary and secondary
myelofibrosis) are the most prevalent hematologic malignancies associated with
splenomegaly. Therapeutic options are highly differentiated depending on the
underlying disease. Apart from very rare exceptions, therapeutic splenectomy can 
usually be avoided.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000385 
PMID: 23454563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Ther Umsch. 2013 Mar;70(3):157-62. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000384.

[The spleen in non-malignant haematological disorders].

[Article in German]

Rüfer A(1), Wuillemin WA.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Hämatologie und Hämatologisches Zentrallabor, Luzerner
Kantonsspital, Luzern. axel.ruefer@luks.ch

The spleen functions as a filter of the circulating blood, removing aging or
abnormal red blood cells, intraerythrocyte inclusions as well as foreign
particals. As the spleen is composed of lymphocytic tissue, circulatory elements 
and mononuclear phagocytic cells it plays an important role in the nonspecific as
well as the specific immune response. Additionally, the spleen serves as a
reservoir for circulating blood cells, especially platelet sequestration by the
spleen is well do cumented. The spleen produces blood cells during fetal
development and in certain haematological disorders such as myelofibrosis. The
destruction of red blood cells within the splenic cords releases iron in the
circulation, which is recycled and used to manufacture new erythrocytes in the
bone marrow. In several non-malignant haematological disorders antibody-coated
cells are cleared from the circulation by phagocytic cells of the spleen. This
involves erythrocytes in autoimmunhaemolytic anaemias, platelets in
immunthrombocytopenia and neutrophils in Felty syndrome. In hereditary
spherocytosis the spleen destroys the resulting defective, spherical red cells.
In pyruvate kinase deficiency impaired production of adenosine triphosphate leads
to destruction of red blood cells in the spleen or in the liver. In sickle cell
anaemia the defective erythrocytes cause sludging and thrombosis in small vessels
with infarcts for instance in the spleen, which over time can result in
autosplenectomy. In thalassaemia major abnormal haemoglobin forms protein
precipitates in the red cells with development of a severe hypochromic anaemia
with haemolysis and intramedullary inef fective erythropoiesis. Therapeutic
splenectomy can be an option in all of these mentioned non-malignant
haematological disorders. The rationale and the pathophysiology of its role in
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is probably at least well understood. The use
of new and effective drugs such as the monoclonal antibody rituximab or
thrombopoietin agonists in immunthrombocytopenia as well as the option of a
laparoscopic rather than an open splenectomy have changed our view on benefits
and risks of splenectomy in recent years. To minimize these risks such as
overwhelming postsplenectomy infection or abdominal vein thrombosis, prophylactic
vaccination, postoperative thromboembolism prophylaxis and patient education is
mandatory.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000384 
PMID: 23454562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Ther Umsch. 2013 Mar;70(3):152-6. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000383.

[Hypersplenism].

[Article in German]

Jeker R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departement Innere Medizin, Kantonsspital Graubünden. raphael.jeker@ksgr.ch

Hypersplenism is characterized by a significant reduction in one or more of the
cellular elements of the blood in the presence of normocellular or hypercellular 
bone marrow and splenomegaly. The incidence of hypersplenism in patients with
cirrhosis and portal hypertension is high. In rare cases the hyperslenism is
symptomatic with bleeding disorders or hemolytic anemia. In this situation the
splenectomy is the therapy of choice. The arterial partial embolisation is a good
alternative procedure in patients with high risk of operation.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000383 
PMID: 23454561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Surg Today. 2013 Aug;43(8):930-6. doi: 10.1007/s00595-013-0499-3. Epub 2013 Feb
27.

Sclerosing angiomatoid nodular transformation of the spleen related to
IgG4-associated disease: report of a case.

Kim HH(1), Hur YH, Koh YS, Kim JC, Kim HJ, Kim JW, Kim Y, Lee JH, Cho CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Chonnam National University Medical School, 322,
Seoyang-ro, Hwasun-eup, Hwasun-gun, Gwangju, Jeollanam-do, 519-763, Korea.
gskhh@naver.com

Sclerosing angiomatoid nodular transformation (SANT) of the spleen is a rare
benign vascular mass, with fewer than 100 cases documented. It is generally
recognized as a vascular lesion that develops in the red pulp of the spleen;
however, its pathogenesis is not clearly defined. We report a case of SANT of the
spleen, which presents evidence to support the hypothesis that this disease
entity is associated with IgG4-associated disease. Microscopically, the tumor was
composed of multiple vascular structures separated by fibrous connective tissue
and immunohistochemical examination revealed positive staining for CD31, CD34,
factor VIII, and IgG4. Further research based on large number of cases is
warranted to clarify the pathogenesis of this tumor.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-013-0499-3 
PMID: 23440358  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther. 2013 Jan;11(1):79-98. doi: 10.1586/eri.12.148.

Developments in diagnosis and treatment of visceral leishmaniasis during the last
decade and future prospects.

Ejazi SA(1), Ali N.

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Diseases and Immunology Division, Indian Institute of Chemical
Biology, 4 Raja S.C. Mullick Road, Kolkata 700032, India.

Human visceral leishmaniasis (VL) continues to be a life-threatening neglected
tropical disease, with close to 200 million people at risk of infection globally.
Epidemics and resurgence of VL are associated with negligence by the policy
makers, economic decline and population movements. Control of the disease is
hampered by the lack of proficient vaccination, rapid diagnosis in a field
setting and severe side effects of current drug therapies. The diagnosis of VL
relied largely on invasive techniques of detecting parasites in splenic and bone 
marrow aspirates. rK39 and PCR, despite problems related to varying sensitivities
and specificities and field adaptability, respectively, are considered the best
options for VL diagnosis today. No single therapy of VL currently offers
satisfactory efficacy along with safety. The field of VL research only recently
shifted toward actively identifying new drugs for safe and affordable treatment. 
Oral miltefosine and safe AmBisome along with better use of amphotericin B have
been rapidly implemented in the last decade. A combination therapy will
substantially reduce the required dose and duration of drug administration and
reduce the chance of the development of resistance. In addition, identification
of asymptomatic cases, vector control and treatment of post-kala-azar dermal
leishmaniasis would allow new perspectives in VL control and management.

DOI: 10.1586/eri.12.148 
PMID: 23428104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Z Gastroenterol. 2013 Feb;51(2):209-12. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1325556. Epub 2013
Feb 15.

Littoral cell angioma of the spleen.

Cui XW(1), Ignee A, De Molo C, Schreiber-Dietrich D, Woenckhaus M, Dietrich CF.

Author information: 
(1)Caritas-Krankenhaus Bad Mergentheim, Academic Teaching Hospital of the
University of Würzburg, Bad Mergentheim, Germany.

We report for the first time on the contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) features 
of littoral cell angioma of the spleen (LCA). A patient presented with the
incidental finding of splenomegaly which was investigated using modern ultrasound
techniques. B-mode technique revealed heterogenous splenic parenchyma and small
hypoechoic lesions up to 30 mm in size. Colour Doppler imaging revealed no
specific vascularity. CEUS showed arterial hyper- and hypoenhancement with
pronounced demarcation in the late phase. In an assumption of malignancy the
lesions were biopsied using ultrasound guidance. Histology showed LCA. In this
case report we discuss LCA in the light of new ultrasound techniques and present 
a review of the literature.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1325556 
PMID: 23417366  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


355. J R Army Med Corps. 2012 Dec;158(4):288-98.

Management of splenic injury.

Hancock GE(1), Farquharson AL.

Author information: 
(1)Rotherham General Hospital, Moorgate Road, Rotherham S60 2UD, United Kingdom.

Traumatic splenic injury is a potentially life-threatening complication of both
blunt and penetrating trauma to the abdomen and thorax. The spleen is susceptible
to injury in the presence or absence of damage to surrounding viscera and can
lead to haemodynamic instability and hypovolaemic shock. This review examines the
classification, investigation and management of this condition with both
non-operative and operative techniques.


PMID: 23402064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Eur J Med Genet. 2013 Apr;56(4):197-201. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2013.01.010. Epub
2013 Feb 8.

Non-mosaic uniparental trisomy 16 presenting with asplenia syndrome and placental
abruption: a case report and literature review.

Su MT(1), Liang YL, Chen JC, Sun HS, Chang FM, Kuo PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, National Cheng Kung University
Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng-Kung University, Tainan City,
Taiwan. sumeitsz@mail.ncku.edu.tw

Non-mosaic trisomy 16 is rarely seen in later gestation. Herein, we report a
fetus with uniparental complete trisomy 16 manifesting with asplenia syndrome,
left hand deformity (only 3 deformed fingers on the left hand) and a left low-set
ear. The pregnancy ended in severe placental abruption and resultant fetal
demise, and maternal hypovolemic shock at 35 weeks of gestation. Only 3
non-mosaic trisomy 16 fetuses, including this case, have been reported to survive
into the second or third trimester. Furthermore, this fetus would be the first
case of complete trisomy 16 manifesting as asplenia syndrome.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2013.01.010 
PMID: 23395980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Surg Laparosc Endosc Percutan Tech. 2013 Feb;23(1):21-4. doi:
10.1097/SLE.0b013e318277b009.

Laparoscopic approach for isolated splenic metastasis: comprehensive literature
review and report of 6 cases.

Lopez Monclova J(1), Targarona Soler E, Peraza Solis Y, Vidal Gonzalez P, Balague
Ponz C, Rodriguez Luppi C, Trias Folch M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat
Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. juliocesar1701@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Splenic metastases are extremely unusual. The aim of this paper is to
review the world experience to date concerning to laparoscopic approach for
splenic metastasis, and to report ours at the Hospital de Sant Pau.
METHODS: Literature review was carried out and relevant reports on laparoscopic
approach to splenic metastasis were obtained. In addition, we reviewed our
patient's database and retrieved the data of those who underwent laparoscopic
splenectomy due to splenic involvement.
RESULTS: Electronic search yielded 8 relevant articles on open splenectomy and 7 
articles on laparoscopic splenectomy for splenic metastasis. During the study
period, 6 patients were operated on laparoscopically. Primary neoplasms were 3
melanomas, 2 colon carcinomas, and 1 malignant fibrous histiocytoma. None of the 
patients had surgical complications. Outcome ranged from 2-month to 11-year
survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The laparoscopic approach for splenic metastasis is feasible. Of
course, it must be individualized in each case.

DOI: 10.1097/SLE.0b013e318277b009 
PMID: 23386144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2012 Nov;37(22):3361-4.

[Overview of clinical study on traditional Chinese medicine invigorating spleen
and stomach, promoting blood circulation and remove blood stasis in treatment of 
chronic atrophic gastritis].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu M(1), Liu Z.

Author information: 
(1)Guang'anmen Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing
100053, China.

In recent years, traditional Chinese medicines invigorating spleen and stomach,
promoting blood circulation and removing blood stasis have made fruitful
achievements in the treatment of chronic atrophic gastritis (CAG) and remarkable 
curative effects in eliminating clinical signs, enhancing the mucosal barrier,
improving submucosal microcirculation, prompting submucosal atrophic glands and
atypical hyperplasia reversal. This essay summarizes reports and literatures for 
clinical studies on CAG in recent years, and discusses its etiology, pathogenesis
and clinical administration of traditional Chinese medicine and western medicine,
in order to provide ideas and methods for CAG treatment with traditional Chinese 
medicines.


PMID: 23373202  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Neurogastroenterol Motil. 2013 Mar;25(3):208-21. doi: 10.1111/nmo.12076. Epub
2013 Jan 29.

Vagus nerve stimulation: from epilepsy to the cholinergic anti-inflammatory
pathway.

Bonaz B(1), Picq C, Sinniger V, Mayol JF, Clarençon D.

Author information: 
(1)Clinique Universitaire d'Hépato-Gastroentérologie, CHU de Grenoble, Grenoble
Cedex, France. bbonaz@chu-grenoble.fr

BACKGROUND: The brain and the gut communicate bidirectionally through the
autonomic nervous system (ANS). The vagus nerve (VN), a major component of the
ANS, plays a key role in the neuro-endocrine-immune axis to maintain homeostasia 
through its afferents (through the activation of the hypothalamic pituitary
adrenal axis and the central ANS) and through its efferents (i.e. the cholinergic
anti-inflammatory pathway; CAP). The CAP has an anti-TNF effect both through the 
release of acetylcholine at the distal VN acting on macrophages and through the
connection of the VN with the spleen through the splenic sympathetic nerve. Vagus
nerve stimulation (VNS) of vagal afferents at high frequency (20-30 Hz) is used
for the treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy and depression. Low-frequency (5 Hz)
VNS of vagal efferents activates the CAP for an anti-inflammatory effect that is 
as an anti-TNF therapy in inflammatory diseases were TNF is a key cytokine as
represented by experimental sepsis, postoperative ileus, burn-induced intestinal 
barrier injury, colitis. However, both vagal afferents and efferents are
activated by VNS.
PURPOSE: The objective of this review was to explore the following: (i) the
supporting evidence for the importance of VNS in epilepsy (and depression) and
its mechanisms of action, (ii) the anti-inflammatory characteristics of the VN,
(iii) the experimental evidence that VNS impact on inflammatory disorders
focusing on the digestive tract, and (iv) how VNS could potentially be harnessed 
therapeutically in human inflammatory disorders such as inflammatory bowel
diseases, irritable bowel syndrome, postoperative ileus, rheumatoid arthritis as 
an anti-inflammatory therapy.

© 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/nmo.12076 
PMID: 23360102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Harefuah. 2012 Aug;151(8):461-3, 498.

[Spasmodic left waist pain in a six years old child--cat scratch disease].

[Article in Hebrew]

Barkai G(1), Gutman G, Sherr-Lurie N, Hoffmann C, Schpirer Z.

Author information: 
(1)The Edmond and Lily Safra Children's Hospital, Tel Hashomer.
galia.barkai@sheba.health.gov.il

Cat scratch disease is caused by Bartonella henselae, a bacterium transmitted to 
humans from cats through a scratch or by fleas. In 90% of cases, the clinical
presentation is that of classical cat scratch disease where an adjacent lymph
node is infected. Atypical manifestations include prolonged fever, liver and
spleen abscesses, infective endocarditis, central nervous system involvement etc.
We present a 6 years old girl who suffered from L2 vertebral osteomyelitis and
epidural abscess, initially presenting as colic left waist pain, with no back
pain or high fevers. During the process of diagnosis, she recovered without
surgical intervention or antibiotic treatment. A review of the literature
indicates that among the wide spectrum of clinical manifestations of cat scratch 
disease, skeletal involvement is rare. However, in cases of osteomyelitis,
vertebrae are a common site as well as formation of a contiguous phlegmon.
Although no studies have investigated the efficacy of different treatment
regimens, all patients presented were treated with antimicrobial combinations and
recovery rates were high. In view of the patient presented here, it is questioned
whether the high recovery rates are a result of efficient antibiotic treatment or
due to a benign natural course of the disease.


PMID: 23350290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Pediatr Nephrol. 2013 Nov;28(11):2089-96. doi: 10.1007/s00467-012-2384-5. Epub
2013 Jan 24.

From bone abnormalities to mineral metabolism dysregulation in autosomal dominant
polycystic kidney disease.

Mekahli D(1), Bacchetta J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Nephrology, University Hospital of Leuven, Herestraat 
49, 3000, Leuven, Belgium, mekahli_djalila@hotmail.com.

Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common monogenic
cause of kidney failure. It is a systemic disorder, not only affecting the
kidneys, but also associated with cyst formation in other organs such as the
liver, spleen, pancreas, and seminal vesicles. Other extra-renal symptoms may
consist of intracranial arterial aneurysms, cardiac valvular defects, abdominal
and inguinal hernias and colonic diverticulosis. Very little is known regarding
bone involvement in ADPKD; however, recent evidence has revealed the potential
role of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23). FGF23 is an endocrine fibroblast
growth factor acting in the kidney as a phosphaturic hormone and a suppressor of 
active vitamin D with key effects on the bone/kidney/parathyroid axis, and has
been shown to increase in patients with ADPKD, even with normal renal function.
The aim of this review is to provide an overview of bone and mineral
abnormalities found in experimental models and in patients with ADPKD, and to
discuss the possible role of FGF23 in this disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-012-2384-5 
PMID: 23340856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Emerg Radiol. 2013 Aug;20(4):323-32. doi: 10.1007/s10140-013-1103-2. Epub 2013
Jan 15.

Nontraumatic splenic emergencies: cross-sectional imaging findings and triage.

Tonolini M(1), Bianco R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, "Luigi Sacco" University Hospital, Via G.B. Grassi
74, 20157 Milan, Italy. mtonolini@sirm.org

The spleen is commonly involved in a wide spectrum of hematologic, immunologic,
neoplastic, infectious, and vascular systemic disorders. Sometimes overlooked on 
imaging studies outside the trauma setting, the spleen may harbor severe
infections, and occasionally undergoes spontaneous bleeding or rupture. This
pictorial essay reviews common and unusual causes of nontraumatic acute
abnormalities primarily involving the spleen, and their cross-sectional imaging
appearances. Emphasis is placed on multidetector computed tomography (MDCT)
imaging, which represents the modality of choice to comprehensively assess acute 
splenic disorders including partial or complete infarctions, vascular diseases
such as venous thrombosis, abscess collections, bleeding, and rupture.
State-of-the-art magnetic resonance imaging represents a problem-solving
technique. Borrowing from experience with grading abdominal trauma according to
the traditional American Association for the Surgery of Trauma scale, spontaneous
splenic injuries are confidently detected and characterized at MDCT. Furthermore,
MDCT allows to identify or exclude coexistent perisplenic and intraperitoneal
hemorrhage, presence and source of active bleeding, and contained vascular
injury. Occasionally idiopathic, spontaneous splenic injuries should be suspected
when acute abdominal manifestations and signs of hemodynamic compromise occur in 
a background of acute viral infections, endocarditis or sepsis, malaria, immune
suppression, hematological disorders, malignancies, coagulopathy, or therapeutic 
anticoagulation. These uncommon yet life-threatening conditions require prompt
diagnostic evaluation that allows correct triage between conservative, medical,
interventional, and surgical treatment, and may obviate splenectomy. Finally,
MDCT imaging allows differentiation of splenic rupture from other rare causes of 
spontaneous hemoperitoneum, and reliable follow-up of nonsurgically treated
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10140-013-1103-2 
PMID: 23318941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Leuk Res. 2013 Apr;37(4):465-72. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2012.12.006. Epub 2013
Jan 11.

The role of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) in myeloproliferative neoplasms: therapeutic
implications.

Quintás-Cardama A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Leukemia, Division of Cancer Medicine, MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA. aquintas@mdanderson.org

The acquired recurrent mutation, JAK2 V617F, is the most frequent mutation
associated with myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). JAK2 signaling is critical
in normal hematopoiesis. Studies using genetically engineered mouse models
demonstrated a central role of JAK2 V617F in the pathogenesis of MPNs. Data in
animal models showed that JAK2 inhibitors target JAK2 V617F kinase and decrease
disease burden. Clinical trials demonstrated that JAK1/2 inhibitors ameliorate
constitutional symptoms and reduce spleen size in patients with myelofibrosis.
However, JAK2 inhibitors have limited ability to reduce JAK2 V617F allele burden 
or bone marrow fibrosis in humans. JAK2 inhibitor-based combination therapies are
being explored.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2012.12.006 
PMID: 23313046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Arthritis Res Ther. 2012;14 Suppl 4:S1. doi: 10.1186/ar3918. Epub 2012 Nov 2.

B-cell selection and the development of autoantibodies.

Giltiay NV(1), Chappell CP, Clark EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, 1959 NE Pacific Street, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

The clearest evidence that B cells play an important role in human autoimmunity
is that immunotherapies that deplete B cells are very effective treatments for
many autoimmune diseases. All people, healthy or ill, have autoreactive B cells, 
but not at the same frequency. A number of genes influence the level of these
autoreactive B cells and whether they are eliminated or not during development at
a central checkpoint in the bone marrow (BM) or at a later checkpoint in
peripheral lymphoid tissues. These genes include those encoding proteins that
regulate signaling through the B-cell receptor complex such as Btk and PTPN22,
proteins that regulate innate signaling via Toll-like receptors (TLRs) such as
MyD88 and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4, as well as the gene
encoding the activation-induced deaminase (AID) essential for B cells to undergo 
class switch recombination and somatic hypermutation. Recent studies have
revealed that TLR signaling elements and AID function not only in peripheral B
cells to help mediate effective antibody responses to foreign antigens, but also 
in the BM to help remove autoreactive B-lineage cells at a very early point in
B-cell development. Newly arising B cells that leave the BM and enter the blood
and splenic red pulp can express both AID and TLR signaling elements like TLR7,
and thus are fully equipped to respond rapidly to antigens (including
autoantigens), to isotype class switch, and to undergo somatic hypermutation.
These red pulp B cells may thus be an important source of autoantibody-producing 
cells arising particularly in extrafollicular sites, and indeed may be as
significant a source of autoantibody-producing cells as B cells arising from
germinal centers.

DOI: 10.1186/ar3918 
PMCID: PMC3535718
PMID: 23281837  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Clin Microbiol Rev. 2013 Jan;26(1):36-57. doi: 10.1128/CMR.00074-12.

Evidence and implications of mortality associated with acute Plasmodium vivax
malaria.

Baird JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Eijkman-Oxford Clinical Research Unit, Jakarta, Indonesia, and the Centre for 
Tropical Medicine, Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford,
United Kingdom.

Vivax malaria threatens patients despite relatively low-grade parasitemias in
peripheral blood. The tenet of death as a rare outcome, derived from antiquated
and flawed clinical classifications, disregarded key clinical evidence, including
(i) high rates of mortality in neurosyphilis patients treated with vivax malaria;
(ii) significant mortality from zones of endemicity; and (iii) the physiological 
threat inherent in repeated, very severe paroxysms in any patient, healthy or
otherwise. The very well-documented course of this infection, with the exception 
of parasitemia, carries all of the attributes of "perniciousness" historically
linked to falciparum malaria, including severe disease and fatal outcomes. A
systematic analysis of the parasite biomass in severely ill patients that
includes blood, marrow, and spleen may ultimately explain this historic
misunderstanding. Regardless of how this parasite is pernicious, recent data
demonstrate that the infection comes with a significant burden of morbidity and
associated mortality. The extraordinary burden of malaria is not heavily weighted
upon any single continent by a single species of parasite-it is a complex problem
for the entire endemic world, and both species are of fundamental importance.
Humanity must rally substantial resources, intellect, and energy to counter this 
daunting but profound threat.

DOI: 10.1128/CMR.00074-12 
PMCID: PMC3553673
PMID: 23297258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;969:247-74. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-260-5_16.

Mannosylated and histidylated LPR technology for vaccination with tumor antigen
mRNA.

Pichon C(1), Midoux P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Biophysique Moléculaire, CNRS UPR4301, Orléans, France.

mRNA-based vaccines are currently being developed for treating various diseases
including cancers. For this purpose, synthetic or in vitro transcribed (IVT) mRNA
encoding tumor antigen offers several advantages over plasmid DNA encoding tumor 
antigen including better delivery and security. In this chapter, we report the
preparation of mannosylated mRNA nanoparticles termed mannosylated lipopolyplexes
or Man-LPR loaded with mRNA encoding a melanoma antigen. This formulation
enhances the transfection of dendritic cells (DCs) in vivo and the anti-B16F10
melanoma vaccination in mice. The mRNA is formulated with histidylated liposomes 
and a histidylated polymer. Those pH-sensitive vectors promote membrane
destabilization in endosomes upon the protonation of their histidine groups,
allowing nucleic acid delivery in the cytosol. To favor DCs targeting via the
mannose receptor, a mannose lipid is incorporated in the liposomes. Here, we
provide protocols for the preparation of mannosylated liposomes, the synthesis of
mRNA, mice immunization based on systemic injection, measurement of the cellular 
immune response and determination of the number of transfected splenic DC.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-260-5_16 
PMID: 23296939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Mod Pathol. 2013 Jan;26 Suppl 1:S29-41. doi: 10.1038/modpathol.2012.183.

Extranodal and splenic small B-cell lymphoma.

Wotherspoon AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Histopathology, Royal Marsden Hospital, London, UK.
andrew.wotherspoon@rmh.nhs.uk

Although almost any non-Hodgkin lymphoma can involve the spleen or an extranodal 
site as part of more widely disseminated disease, there is a group of small
B-cell lymphomas that specifically arise in these locations. These are important 
to recognise as some appear to have a behaviour and prognosis that is distinct
from their nodal counterparts. In addition, there are entities that are specific 
to extranodal locations (such as extranodal marginal zone lymphoma) and to the
red or white pulp of the spleen. In this review, the characteristics of these
entities will be presented as well as clues to help distinguish lymphoma from
reactive infiltrates in extranodal sites and measure to distinguish between small
B-cell lymphomas encountered in the spleen and at extranodal locations.

DOI: 10.1038/modpathol.2012.183 
PMID: 23281435  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2012 Nov;39(12):2330-2.

[Diagnostic problems in gastric cancer patients with sarcoidosis-case report and 
literature review].

[Article in Japanese]

Konishi H(1), Komatsu S, Ichikawa D, Sougawa A, Okamoto K, Shiozaki A, Fujiwara
H, Murayama Y, Kuriu Y, Ikoma H, Nakanishi M, Ochiai T, Kokuba Y, Otsuji E.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.

Sarcoidosis is an idiopathic systemic disease with non-caseating granuloma that
is reported to occur concomitantly with various malignant tumors. We report here 
a case of advanced gastric cancer with sarcoidosis, for which precise
preoperative diagnosis was difficult. A 69-year-old woman was diagnosed with a
far-advanced gastric cancer because multiple intra-abdominal and intra-thoracic
lymph node swellings and a tumorous lesion in the spleen were detected by
multidetector computed tomography and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission
tomography. However, these multiple changes might be derived from sarcoidosis,
because the multiple lymph node swellings were nonspecific changes for gastric
cancer. With appropriate informed consent, surgery was selected in order to
accurately confirm the stage of progression. Consequently, these changes were
shown to not be metastatic, and curative surgery was performed. In conclusion,
careful examination and a reasonable treatment strategy are important for
avoiding the risk of overdiagnosis in gastric cancer patients with sarcoidosis.


PMID: 23268067  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2013 Oct;36(5):1270-9. doi:
10.1007/s00270-012-0539-1. Epub 2012 Dec 21.

Endovascular treatment of active splenic bleeding after colonoscopy: a systematic
review of the literature.

Corcillo A(1), Aellen S, Zingg T, Bize P, Demartines N, Denys A.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Médecine Interne, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois
(CHUV), Lausanne, Switzerland, antonella.corcillo@chuv.ch.

PURPOSE: Colonoscopy is reported to be a safe procedure that is routinely
performed for the diagnosis and treatment of colorectal diseases. Splenic rupture
is considered to be a rare complication with high mortality and morbidity that
requires immediate diagnosis and management. Nonoperative management (NOM),
surgical treatment (ST), and, more recently, proximal splenic artery embolization
(PSAE) have been proposed as treatment options. The goal of this study was to
assess whether PSAE is safe even in high-grade ruptures.
METHODS: We report two rare cases of post colonoscopy splenic rupture. A
systematic review of the literature from 2002 to 2010 (first reported case of
PSAE) was performed and the three types of treatment compared.
RESULTS: All patients reviewed (77 of 77) presented with intraperitoneal
hemorrhage due to isolated splenic trauma. Splenic rupture was high-grade in most
patients when grading was possible. Six of 77 patients (7.8 %) were treated with 
PSAE, including the 2 cases reported herein. Fifty-seven patients (74 %)
underwent ST. NOM was attempted first in 25 patients with a high failure rate (11
of 25 [44 %]) and requiring a salvage procedure, such as PSAE or ST. Previous
surgery (31 of 59 patients), adhesions (10 of 13), diagnostic colonoscopies (49
of 71), previous biopsies or polypectomies (31 of 57) and female sex (56 of 77)
were identified as risk factors. In contrast, splenomegaly (0 of 77 patients),
medications that increase the risk of bleeding (13 of 30) and difficult
colonoscopies (16 of 51) were not identified as risk factors. PSAE was safe and
effective even in elderly patients with comorbidities and those taking
medications that increase the risk of bleeding, and the length of the hospital
stay was similar to that after ST.
CONCLUSION: We propose a treatment algorithm based on clinical and radiological
criteria. Because of the high failure rate after NOM, PSAE should be the
treatment of choice to manage grade I through IV splenic ruptures after
colonoscopy in hemodynamically stabilized patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-012-0539-1 
PMID: 23262476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2012 Dec 14;2:160. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2012.00160.
eCollection 2012.

Type II secretion in Yersinia-a secretion system for pathogenicity and
environmental fitness.

von Tils D(1), Blädel I, Schmidt MA, Heusipp G.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Biology of Inflammation (ZMBE), Institute of
Infectiology, Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster Münster, Germany.

In Yersinia species, type III secretion (T3S) is the most prominent and best
studied secretion system and a hallmark for the infection process of pathogenic
Yersinia species. Type II secretion (T2S), on the other hand, is less
well-characterized, although all Yersinia species, pathogenic as well as
non-pathogenic, possess one or even two T2S systems. The only Yersinia strain in 
which T2S has so far been studied is the human pathogenic strain Y.
enterocolitica 1b. Mouse infection experiments showed that at least one of the
two T2S systems of Y. enterocolitica 1b, termed Yts1, is involved in
dissemination and colonization of deeper tissues like liver and spleen.
Interestingly, in vitro studies revealed a complex regulation of the Yts1 system,
which is mainly active at low temperatures and high Mg(2+)-levels. Furthermore,
the functional characterization of the proteins secreted in vitro indicates a
role of the Yts1 machinery in survival of the bacteria in an environmental
habitat. In silico analyses identified Yts1 homologous systems in bacteria that
are known as plant symbionts or plant pathogens. Thus, the recent studies point
to a dual function of the Yts1 T2S systems, playing a role in virulence of humans
and animals, as well as in the survival of the bacteria outside of the mammalian 
host. In contrast, the role of the second T2S system, Yts2, remains ill defined. 
Whereas the T3S system and its virulence-mediating role has been intensively
studied, it might now be time to also focus on the T2S system and its role in the
Yersinia lifestyle, especially considering that most of the Yersinia isolates are
not found in infected humans but have been gathered from various environmental
samples.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2012.00160 
PMCID: PMC3521999
PMID: 23248779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Gene. 2013 Dec 10;532(1):1-12. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2012.12.009. Epub 2012 Dec 14.

Regulation of the MIR155 host gene in physiological and pathological processes.

Elton TS(1), Selemon H, Elton SM, Parinandi NL.

Author information: 
(1)Davis Heart and Lung Research Institute, The Ohio State University, Columbus, 
OH, USA; College of Pharmacy, Division of Pharmacology, The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH, USA; Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology,
The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. Electronic address:
terry.elton@osumc.edu.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a family of small nonprotein-coding RNAs, play a critical
role in posttranscriptional gene regulation by acting as adaptors for the
miRNA-induced silencing complex to inhibit gene expression by targeting mRNAs for
translational repression and/or cleavage. miR-155-5p and miR-155-3p are processed
from the B-cell Integration Cluster (BIC) gene (now designated, MIR155 host gene 
or MIR155HG). MiR-155-5p is highly expressed in both activated B- and T-cells and
in monocytes/macrophages. MiR-155-5p is one of the best characterized miRNAs and 
recent data indicate that miR-155-5p plays a critical role in various
physiological and pathological processes such as hematopoietic lineage
differentiation, immunity, inflammation, viral infections, cancer, cardiovascular
disease, and Down syndrome. In this review we summarize the mechanisms by which
MIR155HG expression can be regulated. Given that the pathologies mediated by
miR-155-5p result from the over-expression of this miRNA it may be possible to
therapeutically attenuate miR-155-5p levels in the treatment of several
pathological processes.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2012.12.009 
PMID: 23246696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Blood. 2013 Feb 21;121(8):1285-95. doi: 10.1182/blood-2012-07-442400. Epub 2012
Dec 14.

Mast cell leukemia.

Georgin-Lavialle S(1), Lhermitte L, Dubreuil P, Chandesris MO, Hermine O, Damaj
G.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Référence des Mastocytoses, Faculté de Médecine et Assistance
Publique-Hopitaux de Paris (AP-HP) Necker-Enfants Malades, Paris, France.

Mast cell leukemia (MCL) is a very rare form of aggressive systemic mastocytosis 
accounting for < 1% of all mastocytosis. It may appear de novo or secondary to
previous mastocytosis and shares more clinicopathologic aspects with systemic
mastocytosis than with acute myeloid leukemia. Symptoms of mast cell
activation-involvement of the liver, spleen, peritoneum, bones, and marrow-are
frequent. Diagnosis is based on the presence of ≥ 20% atypical mast cells in the 
marrow or ≥ 10% in the blood; however, an aleukemic variant is frequently
encountered in which the number of circulating mast cells is < 10%. The common
phenotypic features of pathologic mast cells encountered in most forms of
mastocytosis are unreliable in MCL. Unexpectedly, non-KIT D816V mutations are
frequent and therefore, complete gene sequencing is necessary. Therapy usually
fails and the median survival time is < 6 months. The role of combination
therapies and bone marrow transplantation needs further investigation.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2012-07-442400 
PMID: 23243287  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


373. World J Surg. 2013 Mar;37(3):545-50. doi: 10.1007/s00268-012-1880-x.

Wandering spleen: a medical enigma, its natural history and rationalization.

Magowska A(1).

Author information: 
(1)History of Medical Sciences, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, ul.
Przybyszewskiego 37A, 61-111, Poznan, Poland. anitamagowska@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION: Wandering spleen is a rare condition in which the spleen is not
located in the left upper quadrant but is found lower in the abdomen or in the
pelvic region because of the laxity of the peritoneal attachments. Many patients 
with wandering spleen are asymptomatic, hence the condition can be discovered
only by abdominal examination or at a hospital emergency department if a patient 
is admitted to hospital because of severe abdominal pain, vomiting or
obstipation.
METHODS: This article aims to provide a historical overview of wandering spleen
diagnostics and surgical treatment supplemented with an analyses of articles on
wandering spleen included in the PubMed database.
RESULTS: One of the first clinical descriptions of a wandering spleen was written
by Józef Dietl in 1854. The next years of vital importance are 1877 when A.
Martin conducted the first splenectomy and in 1895 when Ludwik Rydygier carried
out the first splenopexy to immobilize a wandering spleen. Since that time
various techniques of splenectomy and splenopexy have been developed.
CONCLUSIONS: Introducing medical technologies was a watershed in the development 
and treatment of wandering spleen, which is confirmed by the PubMed database.
Despite the increased number of publications medical literature shows that a
wandering spleen still remains a misdiagnosed condition, especially among
children.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-012-1880-x 
PMCID: PMC3566390
PMID: 23238797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Pediatr Emerg Care. 2012 Dec;28(12):1377-9. doi: 10.1097/PEC.0b013e318276c78a.

Spontaneous splenic rupture in infectious mononucleosis: case report and review
of the literature.

Rinderknecht AS(1), Pomerantz WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnati
College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH 45229-3039, USA.
Andrea.Rinderknecht@cchmc.org

A 15-year-old previously healthy girl presented in full arrest after 1 week of
flu-like symptoms, recent diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis, and 1 day of
abdominal pain. There was no history of trauma. Focused assessment with
sonography for trauma examination showed free fluid in the abdomen. The patient
died despite aggressive resuscitative management and emergency laparotomy with
splenectomy, which showed grade V splenic laceration. Infectious mononucleosis is
a common viral illness of adolescence. Spontaneous splenic rupture is a rare but 
potentially fatal complication. Anticipatory guidance about the importance of
seeking medical care if abdominal pain develops during infectious mononucleosis
is crucial to early diagnosis and intervention in the case of rupture. We discuss
the current literature surrounding the outpatient follow-up of splenomegaly
associated with infectious mononucleosis, as well as current practice and
treatment options when rupture occurs.

DOI: 10.1097/PEC.0b013e318276c78a 
PMID: 23222107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Annu Rev Immunol. 2013;31:137-61. doi: 10.1146/annurev-immunol-032712-095954.
Epub 2012 Dec 3.

Memory T cell subsets, migration patterns, and tissue residence.

Mueller SN(1), Gebhardt T, Carbone FR, Heath WR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The University of Melbourne,
Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia. smue@unimelb.edu.au

Tissues such as the skin and mucosae are frequently exposed to microbial
pathogens. Infectious agents must be quickly and efficiently controlled by our
immune system, but the low frequency of naive T cells specific for any one
pathogen means dependence on primary responses initiated in draining lymph nodes,
often allowing time for serious infection to develop. These responses imprint
effectors with the capacity to home to infected tissues; this process, combined
with inflammatory signals, ensures the effective targeting of primary immunity.
Upon vaccination or previous pathogen exposure, increased pathogen-specific T
cell numbers together with altered migratory patterns of memory T cells can
greatly improve immune efficacy, ensuring infections are prevented or at least
remain subclinical. Until recently, memory T cell populations were considered to 
comprise central memory T cells (TCM), which are restricted to the secondary
lymphoid tissues and blood, and effector memory T cells (TEM), which broadly
migrate between peripheral tissues, the blood, and the spleen. Here we review
evidence for these two memory populations, highlight a relatively new player, the
tissue-resident memory T cell (TRM), and emphasize the potential differences
between the migratory patterns of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. This new
understanding raises important considerations for vaccine design and for the
measurement of immune parameters critical to the control of infectious disease,
autoimmunity, and cancer.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-immunol-032712-095954 
PMID: 23215646  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Am J Dermatopathol. 2013 May;35(3):319-26. doi: 10.1097/DAD.0b013e318267495f.

Blastic marginal zone lymphoma: a clinical and pathological study of 8 cases and 
review of the literature.

Magro CM(1), Yang A, Fraga G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Weill Medical College of
Cornell University, New York, NY 10065, USA. cym2003@med.cornell.edu

INTRODUCTION: Blastic transformation (BT) of marginal zone lymphoma or
mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma has been mainly reported in the spleen
and stomach. Primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma that undergoes BT is rare
and not well documented. We describe 8 patients with blastic primary cutaneous
marginal zone lymphoma and compare the clinical, pathologic, and molecular
findings of these patients with 10 cases previously reported in the literature.
RESULTS: The cases of blastic marginal zone lymphoma could be categorized into
cases of de novo blastic marginal zone lymphoma and large-cell transformation
arising in a background of a history of biopsy proven marginal zone lymphoma. The
cases of de novo blastic marginal zone lymphoma occurred in elderly patients
without any medical history. In each of the cases, the lesions were radiated, not
treated, or treated with complete excision without any death due to lymphoma nor 
was there any evidence of extracutaneous dissemination. Large-cell transformation
arising in background of marginal zone lymphoma typically occurred in patients
who were younger; 2 of the 4 cases were immunocompromised. The clinical course in
each of the cases was aggressive with 3 of the 4 patients succumbing to
disseminated disease while 1 patient developed extracutaneous nodal disease.
Phenotypically, there was an expression of CD5 in a total of 3 of the 8 cases and
CD23 in 3 of the 8 cases. Commonality of B-cell clones was demonstrated in 2
cases where biopsies were available of both the less aggressive appearing
marginal zone lymphoma and the transformed biopsies. Cytogenetic abnormalities
associated with BT included a deletion of chromosome 7q in all cases tested.
CONCLUSION: Large-cell transformation arising in a patient with a history of
marginal zone lymphoma portends a worse prognosis, including death from
disseminated disease, whereas a de novo presentation of blastic marginal zone
lymphoma may define a clinical course similar to other forms of low-grade
cutaneous B-cell lymphoma. The expression of CD5 and CD23 may define a phenotypic
profile associated with BT. It is possible that marginal zone lymphomas
associated with CD5 and CD23 positivity should be followed more closely and/or
treated with radiation and/or complete excision.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0b013e318267495f 
PMID: 23190506  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


377. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2012 Dec;199(6):W686-93. doi: 10.2214/AJR.11.7896.

CT of splenosis: patterns and pitfalls.

Lake ST(1), Johnson PT, Kawamoto S, Hruban RH, Fishman EK.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

OBJECTIVE: After traumatic splenic injury or splenectomy, small isolated spleens 
may develop. These implants are not limited to the left upper quadrant, and
splenosis in other locations can mimic other pathologic entities. This pictorial 
essay presents the range of appearances of intraabdominal and pelvic splenosis.
CONCLUSION: Radiologists can suggest or establish the correct diagnosis of
splenosis in the appropriate clinical setting, particularly in less typical
cases, to avert unnecessary tissue sampling.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.11.7896 
PMID: 23169741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Hepatogastroenterology. 2013 May;60(123):501-6.

Thermal ablation for partial splenectomy hemostasis, spleen trauma, splenic
metastasis and hypersplenism.

Duan YQ(1), Liang P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrasound, General Hospital of Beijing Military Command,
Beijing, China.

Many studies have been conducted on splenic thermal ablation for partial
splenectomy hemostasis, spleen trauma, splenic metastasis and hypersplenism. In
this article, we review the evolution and current status of radiofrequency and
microwave ablation in the treatment of spleen diseases. All publications from
1990 to 2011 on radiofrequency and microwave ablation for partial splenectomy
hemostasis, spleen trauma, splenic metastasis and hypersplenism were retrieved by
searching PubMed. Thermal ablation in the spleen for partial splenectomy
hemostasis, spleen trauma, splenic metastasis and hypersplenism can preserve part
of the spleen and maintain splenic immunologic function. Thermal ablation for
assisting hemostasis in partial splenectomy minimizes blood loss during
operation. Thermal ablation for spleen trauma reduces the number of splenectomy
and the amount of blood transfusion. Thermal ablation for splenic metastasis is
minimally invasive and can be done under the guidance of an ultrasound, which
helps shorten the recovery time. Thermal ablation for hypersplenism increases
platelet (PLT) and white blood cell (WBC) counts and improves liver function. It 
also helps to maintain splenic immunologic function and even improves splenic
immunologic function in the short-term. In conclusion, thermal ablative
approaches are promising for partial splenectomy hemostasis, spleen trauma,
splenic metastasis and hypersplenism. In order to improve therapeutic effects,
directions for future studies may include standardized therapeutic indications,
prolonged observation periods and enlarged sample sizes.

DOI: 10.5754/hge12853 
PMID: 23159352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Vaccine. 2012 Dec 14;30(52):7652-7. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.10.043. Epub 2012
Nov 8.

Pathogen sensors and chemokine receptors in dendritic cell subsets.

Kaisho T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Immune Regulation, World Premier International Research Center 
Initiative Immunology Frontier Research Center, Osaka University, Yamadaoka 3-1, 
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. tkaisho@ifrec.osaka-u.ac.jp

Pathogen sensors such as Toll-like receptors (TLRs) detect microorganism- or
host-derived conserved molecular structures, including lipids or nucleic acids
and provoke activation of Ag presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DCs).
Several synthetic TLR ligands, especially oligonucleotides, are being developed
as promising vaccines for infectious diseases, cancers or allergies. DCs are
heterogeneous and consist of various subsets, each of which expresses a
subset-specific repertoire of TLRs and responds to the TLR signaling in a
subset-specific manner. Furthermore, each DC subset expresses a set of chemokine 
receptors that regulate its function and behavior. Here I review the functions of
two DC subsets and how chemokine receptors function in these subsets. One is the 
plasmacytoid DC (pDC), which expresses nucleic acid sensing receptors TLR7 and
TLR9 and secretes large amounts of type I interferons in response to TLR7/9
signaling. The other is splenic CD8α(+) conventional DC (cDC). This DC subset
expresses lipid sensors, TLR2 and TLR4, and nucleic acid sensors, TLR3, TLR9 and 
TLR13 and is specialized for antigen crosspresentation. Several chemokine
receptors are differentially expressed on these DC subsets. The homologues of
these murine DC subsets are also found in humans. Understanding how these DC
subsets function and respond to TLR ligands and chemokines should be important
for development of effective vaccines.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.10.043 
PMID: 23142133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Clin Calcium. 2012 Nov;22(11):1747-54. doi: CliCa121117471754.

[Progress in the treatment targeting intracellular signaling in the context of
osteoimmunology].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanaka Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, University of Occupational and Environmental Health,
Japan.

The appropriate intracellular signaling pathways are activated via binding of
receptors on the cell surface to ligands such as cytokines and cell surface
antigens. The tyrosine kinase transduce the first "outside to in" signals to be
phosphorylated following receptor binding to its ligand. Among them, members of
Janus kinase (Jak) family and Spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) family are essential
for the signaling pathways of various cytokines and are implicated in the
pathogenesis of autoimmune inflammatory disease. The development of low molecular
weight kinase inhibitors targeting Jak and Syk appears to be successful for the
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, a representative inflammatory disease. These
inhibitors also succeed to regulate joint destruction. On the other hand,
calcineurin inhibitors such as tacrolimus and vitamin D are also effective for
immune regulation as well as bone metabolism through the inhibition of nuclear
factors. Taken together, regulation of cellular signals functioning on immunity
as well as bone metabolism may have a potential to approach to the treatment of
osteo-immune diseases.

DOI: CliCa121117471754 
PMID: 23103818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Med Mal Infect. 2012 Oct;42(10):517-24. doi: 10.1016/j.medmal.2012.04.003. Epub
2012 Oct 23.

Pneumococcal infections and adult with risk factors.

Chidiac C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service des maladies infectious et tropicales, hôpital de the Croix-Rousse,
Lyon cedex, France. christian.chidiac@univ-lyon1.fr

Streptococcus pneumoniae is an important bacterium in humans, and is a cause of
upper and lower respiratory tract infections, meningitis, bacteremia, and/or
invasive infections. An analysis of literature allows identifying the main risk
factors; spleen dysfunctions, sickle cell anemia, alcohol abuse, chronic liver
disease, cirrhosis, ischemic cardiac diseases, congestive cardiac failure,
diabetes mellitus, obesity, chronic lung disease, immunodeficient patients
including HIV infection, and old age. S. pneumoniae infections are more frequent 
and more severe in these patients. The pathophysiological mechanisms involved may
be associated. These populations at risk should receive anti-pneumococcal
vaccination. The availability of a 13 valent conjugate vaccine for adult opens
new perspectives, but its clinical effectiveness needs to be proved for these
patients at risk.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medmal.2012.04.003 
PMID: 23099069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Clin Nephrol. 2014 Apr;81(4):283-9. doi: 10.5414/CN107542.

Encapsulating peritoneal sclerosis with favorable outcome in hemodialysis: an
unusual case with a literature review.

Sonikian M, Pani I, Lazarou D, Khaldi L, Dounavis A, Lafoyanni S, Vlassopoulos D.

Encapsulating peritoneal sclerosis is a rare condition of a poorly understood
pathogenesis with recognized risk factors, such as medications, surgical
interventions, systemic diseases, and malignancies. In endstage renal disease it 
has been associated with chronic peritoneal dialysis. We hereby report the case
of a 59-year-old male hemodialysis patient, who was never treated with peritoneal
dialysis and developed an unexplained massive ascites 4 months post laparoscopic 
cholecystectomy for gallstones. A second laparoscopy and histological evaluation 
revealed encapsulating peritoneal sclerosis-like findings with parietal
peritoneum and spleen involvement. The patient was successfully treated for 12
months with prednisone and tamoxifen. Possible pathogenetic mechanisms of the
disease in this case are discussed including peritoneal irritation by chronic
cholecystitis, low-grade inflammation of hemodialysis, intraoperative
complications and the hypothetical role of oxidized regenerated cellulose used
for hemostasis. In conclusion, the suspicion of peritoneal sclerosis should be
encountered in cases of unexplained ascites in patients undergoing hemodialysis. 
The early diagnosis includes laparoscopy and histological evaluation and can
result in a good outcome under medical treatment; otherwise, there is a high
possibility of bowel obstruction with fatal outcome.

DOI: 10.5414/CN107542 
PMID: 23073060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Cancer Control. 2012 Oct;19(4 Suppl):4-15.

Advances in the management of myelofibrosis.

Komrokji RS(1), Verstovsek S, Padron E, List AF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Malignant Hematology at the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center &
Research Institute, Tampa, Florida 33617, USA. rami.komrokji@moffitt.org

BACKGROUND: Myelofibrosis (MF) is a rare and serious hematologic malignancy
classified as a Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasm
(MPN). The disease is more common in males and in older individuals. Of the MPNs,
MF presents with the most severe morbidity and greatest mortality. Although the
cause of MF is unknown, it is thought to occur from acquired mutations that
target the hematopoietic stem cell.
METHODS: We reviewed the current literature pertaining to the pathophysiology,
clinical presentation, diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment of MF. The
strengths and limitations of present treatment options as well as the emerging
clinical experience with Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) inhibitors are explored.
RESULTS: Diagnosis is often one of exclusion and is facilitated using the World
Health Organization or International Working Group for Myelofibrosis Research and
Treatment criteria, depending on whether primary or secondary MF is suspected.
Treatment is complicated by a lack of disease familiarity of general
practitioners and the advanced age of presenting patients. Although allogeneic
stem cell transplant offers a potential cure, most treatments for this condition 
are limited to symptomatic management, with little to no effect on survival.
Appropriate patient assessment and risk stratification are essential for
predicting outcomes and allowing treating physicians to tailor therapy
accordingly.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant advances have been made in understanding the
pathophysiology of MF, leading to novel therapeutic approaches. The discovery of 
the JAK2 mutation and the development of JAK2 inhibitors provide clinicians with 
a new effective treatment option. Ruxolitinib is the first JAK1/2 inhibitor
approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of patients 
with intermediate- or high-risk MF. In clinical studies, ruxolitinib produced a
significantly greater reduction in spleen size and improved quality of life
compared with placebo or best available therapy. Several future therapies,
including combination therapies with ruxolitinib, are currently under
investigation.


PMID: 23042420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2012;6:245-50. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S25426. Epub 2012 Sep 21.

Kinase inhibitors: a new class of antirheumatic drugs.

Kyttaris VC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. vkyttari@bidmc.harvard.edu

The outlook for patients with rheumatoid arthritis has improved significantly
over the last three decades with the use of disease-modifying antirheumatic
drugs. However, despite the use of methotrexate, cytokine inhibitors, and
molecules targeting T and B cells, a percentage of patients do not respond or
lose their response over time. The autoimmune process in rheumatoid arthritis
depends on activation of immune cells, which utilize intracellular kinases to
respond to external stimuli such as cytokines, immune complexes, and antigens. In
the past decade, small molecules targeting several kinases, such as p38 MAPK,
Syk, and JAK have been developed. Several p38 MAPK inhibitors proved ineffective 
in treating rheumatoid arthritis. The Syk inhibitor, fostamatinib, proved
superior to placebo in Phase II trials and is currently under Phase III
investigation. Tofacitinib, a JAK1/3 inhibitor, was shown to be efficacious in
two Phase III trials, while VX-509, a JAK3 inhibitor, showed promising results in
a Phase II trial. Fostamatinib and tofacitinib were associated with increased
rates of infection, elevation of liver enzymes, and neutropenia. Moreover,
fostamatinib caused elevations of blood pressure and diarrhea, while tofacitinib 
was associated with an increase in creatinine and elevation of lipid levels.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S25426 
PMCID: PMC3457674
PMID: 23055694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Surg Laparosc Endosc Percutan Tech. 2012 Oct;22(5):e307-11. doi:
10.1097/SLE.0b013e318263a3f3.

Laparoscopic resection of isolated hepatic splenosis mimicking liver tumors: case
report with a literature review.

Liu K(1), Liang Y, Liang X, Yu H, Wang Y, Cai X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, PR China.

Isolated hepatic splenosis is a rare condition in hepatobiliary surgery. In this 
study, we report a case of this condition managed by laparoscopic surgery. A
38-year-old male hepatitis B virus carrier, who had a motorcycle accident and
splenectomy 14 years before the current incident, was hospitalized due to a
hepatic mass. His laboratory tests were consistent with a hyposplenic state,
whereas radiologic images revealed a benign tumor in the left liver lobe located 
in a site difficult to access with preoperative biopsy. Therefore, we performed a
laparoscopic exploration and total resection, which revealed a bluish oval
encapsulated nodule in the narrow gap between the diaphragm, falciform ligament, 
and left hepatic capsule. The pathologic diagnosis was hepatic splenosis. Unlike 
other patients with multiple intraperitoneal lesions and relatively normal
splenism, this is the first case of isolated hepatic splenosis with evident
hyposplenism managed by laparoscopic approach in the English literature.

DOI: 10.1097/SLE.0b013e318263a3f3 
PMID: 23047415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


386. HPB (Oxford). 2012 Nov;14(11):711-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1477-2574.2012.00531.x. Epub
2012 Aug 7.

A systematic review and meta-analysis of studies comparing laparoscopic and open 
distal pancreatectomy.

Jin T(1), Altaf K, Xiong JJ, Huang W, Javed MA, Mai G, Liu XB, Hu WM, Xia Q.

Author information: 
(1)Pancreatic Diseases Research Group, Department of Integrated Traditional and
Western Medicine, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.

OBJECTIVES: Currently, laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy (LDP) is regarded as a 
safe and effective surgical approach for lesions in the body and tail of the
pancreas. This review compares outcomes of the laparoscopic technique with those 
of open distal pancreatectomy (ODP) and assesses the efficacy, safety and
feasibility of each type of procedure.
METHODS: Comparative studies published between January 1996 and April 2012 were
included. Studies were selected based on specific inclusion and exclusion
criteria. Evaluated endpoints were operative outcomes, postoperative recovery and
postoperative complications.
RESULTS: Fifteen non-randomized comparative studies that recruited a total of
1456 patients were analysed. Rates of conversion from LDP to open surgery ranged 
from 0% to 30%. Patients undergoing LDP had less intraoperative blood loss
[weighted mean difference (WMD) -263.36.59 ml, 95% confidence interval (CI)
-330.48 to -196.23 ml], fewer blood transfusions [odds ratio (OR) 0.28, 95% CI
0.11-0.76], shorter hospital stay (WMD -4.98 days, 95% CI -7.04 to -2.92 days), a
higher rate of splenic preservation (OR 2.98, 95% CI 2.18-3.91), earlier oral
intake (WMD -2.63 days, 95% CI -4.23 to 1.03 days) and fewer surgical site
infections (OR 0.37, 95% CI 0.18-0.75). However, there were no differences
between the two approaches with regard to operation time, time to first flatus
and the occurrence of pancreatic fistula and other postoperative complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic resection results in improved operative and
postoperative outcomes compared with open surgery according to the results of the
present meta-analyses. It may be a safe and feasible option for patients with
lesions in the body and tail of the pancreas. However, randomized controlled
trials should be undertaken to confirm the relevance of these early findings.

© 2012 International Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1477-2574.2012.00531.x 
PMCID: PMC3482667
PMID: 23043660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


387. J Med Imaging Radiat Oncol. 2012 Oct;56(5):538-44. doi:
10.1111/j.1754-9485.2012.02397.x. Epub 2012 Jun 25.

Extra-medullary haematopoiesis: a pictorial review of its typical and atypical
locations.

Sohawon D(1), Lau KK, Lau T, Bowden DK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Austin Health, Nursing and Health Sciences Centre for
Green Chemistry, Monash University, Queensland, Australia. raj.sohawon@gmail.com

Comment in
    J Med Imaging Radiat Oncol. 2013 Aug;57(4):462-3.

Extra-medullary haematopoiesis (EMH) occurs in many haematological disorders and 
is secondary to insufficient bone marrow function or ineffective erythropoiesis. 
It usually presents as haematopoietic masses in several typical and atypical body
locations. This pictorial review briefly discusses the common EMH locations
encountered in clinical practice, including the liver, spleen, lymph nodes and
paravertebral regions. Unusual presentation as focal hepatic and splenic masses
is also discussed. Some atypical EMH locations are then presented together with
their pathophysiology and relevant illustrations. These include EMH in the
intra-spinal canal, pre-sacral region, nasopharynx and paranasal sinuses.
Intra-spinal EMH can cause cord compression and present with neurological
symptoms. In these cases, urgent treatment may be required. Haematopoietic masses
in the other atypical locations can present with obstructive symptoms or may be
diagnosed incidentally on imaging. EMH in unusual locations need to be monitored 
with follow-up imaging to ensure their stability. In some circumstances, tissue
biopsy is appropriate to confirm the diagnosis and exclude other sinister
pathology (e.g. malignancy). Treatment is only required where symptoms are
present. Management options include blood transfusion, radiotherapy, hydroxyurea 
or surgical resection in selected cases.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Oncology © 2012 The 
Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Radiologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1754-9485.2012.02397.x 
PMID: 23043573  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Thromb Res. 2012 Oct;130 Suppl 1:S1-3. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2012.08.259.

Clinical approach to splanchnic vein thrombosis: risk factors and treatment.

Riva N(1), Donadini MP, Dentali F, Squizzato A, Ageno W.

Author information: 
(1)Research Center on Thromboembolic Diseases and Antithrombotic Therapies,
Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Insubria, Varese,
Italy.

Splanchnic vein thrombosis (SVT) is an unusual manifestation of venous
thromboembolism which involves one or more abdominal veins (portal, splenic,
mesenteric and supra-hepatic veins). SVT may be associated with different
underlying disorders, either local (abdominal cancer, liver cirrhosis,
intra-abdominal inflammation or surgery) or systemic (hormonal treatment,
thrombophilic conditions). In the last decades, myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN)
emerged as the leading systemic cause of SVT. JAK2 mutation, even in the absence 
of known MPN, showed a strong association with the development of SVT, and SVT
was suggested to be the first clinical manifestation of MPN. Recently, an
association between SVT, in particular supra-hepatic vein thrombosis, and
paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria has also been reported. SVT occurs with
heterogeneous clinical presentations, ranging from incidentally detected events
to extensive thrombosis associated with overt gastrointestinal bleeding, thus
representing a clinical challenge for treatment decisions. In the absence of
major contraindications, anticoagulant therapy is generally recommended for all
patients presenting with acute symptomatic SVT, but there is no consensus about
the use of anticoagulant drugs in chronic or incidentally detected SVT. High
quality evidence on the acute and long-term management is substantially lacking
and the risk to benefit-ratio of anticoagulant therapy in SVT still needs to be
better assessed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2012.08.259 
PMID: 23026649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Mediators Inflamm. 2012;2012:327568. Epub 2012 Sep 13.

Prostaglandin E2 and the suppression of phagocyte innate immune responses in
different organs.

Medeiros A(1), Peres-Buzalaf C, Fortino Verdan F, Serezani CH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, São
Paulo State University (UNESP), Araraquara, 14801-902 São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The local and systemic production of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and its actions 
in phagocytes lead to immunosuppressive conditions. PGE(2) is produced at high
levels during inflammation, and its suppressive effects are caused by the
ligation of the E prostanoid receptors EP(2) and EP(4), which results in the
production of cyclic AMP. However, PGE(2) also exhibits immunostimulatory
properties due to binding to EP(3), which results in decreased cAMP levels. The
various guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) that are coupled to the 
different EP receptors account for the pleiotropic roles of PGE(2) in different
disease states. Here, we discuss the production of PGE(2) and the actions of this
prostanoid in phagocytes from different tissues, the relative contribution of
PGE(2) to the modulation of innate immune responses, and the novel therapeutic
opportunities that can be used to control inflammatory responses.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/327568 
PMCID: PMC3449139
PMID: 23024463  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Infez Med. 2012 Sep;20(3):145-54.

Streptococcus anginosus group disseminated infection: case report and review of
literature.

Giuliano S(1), Rubini G, Conte A, Goldoni P, Falcone M, Vena A, Venditti M,
Morelli S.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica, Università Sapienza, Roma, Italy.

Erratum in
    Infez Med. 2012 Dec;20(4):316. Simone, Giuliano [corrected to Giuliano, Simone]; 
Conti, Andrea [corrected to Conte, Andrea].

Streptococcus anginosus group is widely known for its ability to cause invasive
pyogenic infections. There are very few reports of disseminated infections
sustained by members of this streptococcal group. We report a case of a highly
disseminated infection and analyse previous literature reports. Disseminated
pyogenic infection has been defined as an infection affecting two or more of the 
following organs/systems: central nervous system, lung, liver and spleen. We
performed a PubMed search using the terms: S. milleri, S. anginosus, brain
abscess, pulmonary abscess, hepatic abscess, spleen abscess. We reviewed 12 case 
reports including the one presented in this paper. Underlying conditions such as 
dental infections, malignancy, gastrointestinal and respiratory tract disease
accounted for 42% of cases. No definite endocarditis was encountered, even though
positive blood cultures were found in 67% of patients. Concomitant brain-liver,
brain-lung and brain-spleen involvement occurred in 50%, 42% and 8% of cases
respectively. Ninety-one percent (91%) of patients were treated with β-lactams,
and surgical procedures were performed in 67% of patients. Infections caused by
S. anginosus group members are satisfactorily treated with penicillin G and
cephalosporins. It is very important to associate surgery to antimicrobial
chemotherapy in order to achieve a full or nearly full clinical recovery.


PMID: 22992554  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2012 Sep 5;101(18):1187-92. doi: 10.1024/1661-8157/a001058.

[Diagnosis and management of suspected nephrolithiasis in a primary care
setting].

[Article in German]

Schwarzenbach HR(1), Jenzer S.

Author information: 
(1)FMH Medicina Interna Generale, Melide. Hans-Rudolf.Schwarzenbach@hin.ch

Based on the prevalence of asymptomatic kidney stones (5% in our general ward, in
accordance with the literature) the value of abdominal ultrasonography in the
clinical assessment of a suspected kidney-colic is discussed. The eminent
importance of the stone-analysis is emphasized. In addition, the most common
causes of kidney stone formation (low urine output, mechanical urinary
obstruction in the renal pelvis, hypercalciuria, hyperoxaluria, insufficient
urinary citric acid excretion, hyperuricosuria) are highlighted. The cardinal
symptom of the urolithiasis is the presence of micro/macrohematuria (which is
often absent - according to citations - in 20-80%!). Moreover, the differential
diagnosis of acute flank pain, as neoplastic- or infectious diseases,
reno-vascular and extrarenal causes (retro-peritoneal and mesenteric vascular
processes and rupture of abdominal aneurysms), gynecological problems (e.g.
rotation/rupture of ovarian cysts, ectopic pregnancy), appendicitis,
diverticulitis, and splenic abscess/infarction, as well as
hepato-pancreaticobiliary causes are discussed. Moreover, metabolic syndromes,
e.g. the intermittant porphyria or infectious diseases (e.g, Fitz-Hugh-Curtis
syndrome) and other rare pathologies (such as the «Mediterranean fever») may be
at the origin of acute flank pains. A particular attention is given to possible
diagnostic procedures in a primary care setting: in addition to medical history, 
clinical status and specific laboratory findings the value of diagnostic
ultrasound, with special reference to the color-Doppler application, as the
«twinkling artefact» from kidney stones and the «urinary-jet phenomenon» for the 
assessment of urinary outflow obstruction, is emphasized. In this context we
point out that a lack of dilatation of the kidney pelvis never excludes a
kidney-colic, on the other hand, a dilatation of the kidney pelvis does not
necessarily mean congestion! The conservative treatment strategies (avoidance of 
excessive drinking - an obstructed kidney protects itself - NSAID in combination 
with Tamsulosin, especially in case of prevesical urolithiasis) are discussed.
The critical stone size (≤5 mm) and the absence of «red flags» (especially
obstructive and inflammatory signs) allow a non-specialist medical outpatient
treatment of acute nephro-and ureterolithiasis. The possible complications of the
urolithiasis, especially the urosepsis and the (iatrogenic) fornix rupture are
highlighted, as well as the formation of a renal abscess or hydronephrosis. A
short look is given to the metaphylaxis of the urolithiasis and its «recurrence
rate».

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157/a001113 
PMID: 22945820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


392. BMC Emerg Med. 2012 Aug 14;12:11. doi: 10.1186/1471-227X-12-11.

613 cases of splenic rupture without risk factors or previously diagnosed
disease: a systematic review.

Aubrey-Bassler FK(1), Sowers N.

Author information: 
(1)Primary Healthcare Research Unit, Memorial University of Newfoundland, Health 
Sciences Centre, St, John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, St Johns, Canada.
kaubrey@mun.ca

BACKGROUND: Rupture of the spleen in the absence of trauma or previously
diagnosed disease is largely ignored in the emergency literature and is often not
documented as such in journals from other fields. We have conducted a systematic 
review of the literature to highlight the surprisingly frequent occurrence of
this phenomenon and to document the diversity of diseases that can present in
this fashion.
METHODS: Systematic review of English and French language publications catalogued
in Pubmed, Embase and CINAHL between 1950 and 2011.
RESULTS: We found 613 cases of splenic rupture meeting the criteria above, 327 of
which occurred as the presenting complaint of an underlying disease and 112 of
which occurred following a medical procedure. Rupture appeared to occur
spontaneously in histologically normal (but not necessarily normal size) spleens 
in 35 cases and after minor trauma in 23 cases. Medications were implicated in 47
cases, a splenic or adjacent anatomical abnormality in 31 cases and pregnancy or 
its complications in 38 cases. The most common associated diseases were
infectious (n = 143), haematologic (n = 84) and non-haematologic neoplasms
(n = 48). Amyloidosis (n = 24), internal trauma such as cough or vomiting
(n = 17) and rheumatologic diseases (n = 10) are less frequently reported.
Colonoscopy (n = 87) was the procedure reported most frequently as a cause of
rupture. The anatomic abnormalities associated with rupture include splenic cysts
(n = 6), infarction (n = 6) and hamartomata (n = 5). Medications associated with 
rupture include anticoagulants (n = 21), thrombolytics (n = 13) and recombinant
G-CSF (n = 10). Other causes or associations reported very infrequently include
other endoscopy, pulmonary, cardiac or abdominal surgery, hysterectomy, peliosis,
empyema, remote pancreato-renal transplant, thrombosed splenic vein,
hemangiomata, pancreatic pseudocysts, splenic artery aneurysm, cholesterol
embolism, splenic granuloma, congenital diaphragmatic hernia, rib exostosis,
pancreatitis, Gaucher's disease, Wilson's disease, pheochromocytoma,
afibrinogenemia and ruptured ectopic pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Emergency physicians should be attuned to the fact that rupture of
the spleen can occur in the absence of major trauma or previously diagnosed
splenic disease. The occurrence of such a rupture is likely to be the manifesting
complaint of an underlying disease. Furthermore, colonoscopy should be more
widely documented as a cause of splenic rupture.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-227X-12-11 
PMCID: PMC3532171
PMID: 22889306  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Mol Genet Metab. 2012 Nov;107(3):276-80. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2012.07.020. Epub
2012 Jul 28.

A role for inherited metabolic deficits in persistent developmental stuttering.

Kang C(1), Drayna D.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Stuttering is a common but poorly understood speech disorder. Consistent evidence
for the involvement of genetic factors in stuttering has motivated studies aimed 
at identifying causative genetic variants that could shed light on the underlying
molecular and cellular deficits in this disorder. Such studies have begun to
identify causative genes. The purpose of this review is to summarize the gene
discoveries to date, and to cover the subsequent functional studies that are
beginning to provide insights into how these gene mutations might cause
stuttering. Surprisingly, the first variant genes to be associated with
stuttering are those encoding the lysosomal targeting system, GNPTAB, GNPTG, and 
NAGPA. Although mutations in NAGPA have not been associated with a disorder in
humans, mutations in GNPTAB and GNPTG cause mucolipidosis types II and III, which
are rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorders, associated with
pathology of bone, connective tissue, liver, spleen, and brain. Analysis of
mutations in these genes has so far identified predominantly missense mutations
in stuttering, in contrast to the truncating and other mutations that result in
very low GNPTAB/G enzyme activity and are historically associated with
mucolipidosis. Genetic evidence for the role of lysosomal targeting mutations in 
stuttering has now been buttressed by biochemical studies of the mutant enzymes
found in this disorder. While data on the GlcNAc-phosphotransferase encoded by
GNPTAB/G remains limited and only suggestive, a study of the enzyme encoded by
NAGPA has shown that the mutations found in stuttering reduce the overall
cellular activity of this enzyme by about half, and that they result in deficits 
in intracellular processing and trafficking that lead to a reduced cellular half 
life. How these deficits result in the presumed speech-specific neuropathology
associated with stuttering is not yet known. However these findings have opened
several new lines of inquiry, including studies in mice carrying human stuttering
mutations, that represent promising approaches to this disorder.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2012.07.020 
PMCID: PMC3483359
PMID: 22884963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Chin Med J (Engl). 2012 Jul;125(13):2386-9.

Sclerosing angiomatoid nodular transformation of the spleen: report of five cases
and review of literature.

Wang HL(1), Li KW, Wang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Renji Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University
School of Medicine, Shanghai 200127, China.

Sclerosing angiomatoid nodular transformation (SANT) of the spleen, a newly
defined primary lesion of the spleen, is very rare. Immunohistochemistry is the
only way to confirm the diagnosis of SANT. We present the clinical
characteristics and postoperative outcomes of five SANT cases that underwent
splenectomy from January 2007 to October 2010. Although SANT had specific imaging
findings, differential diagnosis from other splenic tuomrs or malignant lesions
preoperatively was difficult. The hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy was a
useful and effective technique for the management and postoperative diagnosis of 
SANT. All SANT patients had good prognosis without recurrence after splenectomy.


PMID: 22882867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Ultraschall Med. 2012 Jul;33 Suppl 1:S11-21. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1312890. Epub
2012 Jun 21.

EFSUMB guidelines 2011: comments and illustrations.

Dietrich CF(1), Cui XW, Schreiber-Dietrich DG, Ignee A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine 2, Caritas-Krankenhaus Bad Mergentheim,
Academic Teaching Hospital, University of Würzburg. christoph.dietrich@ckbm.de

The European Federation of Societies for Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology
(EFSUMB) introduced the first guidelines on the use of contrast-enhanced
ultrasound (CEUS) in 2004. This EFSUMB document focused mainly on liver
applications. However, new applications extending beyond the liver were
subsequently developed. Therefore, in the update of the clinical recommendations 
on the use of CEUS by the EFSUMB, applications in other organs were also
described and published in 2008. Increased interest in recent years in the CEUS
technique and in the application of CEUS in novel fields has resulted in CEUS
indications and applications for nearly all organ systems. As a result, the
EFSUMB initiated a new update of the guidelines in 2011 to include this
additional knowledge. Some of the indications are established, whereas others are
preliminary. The latter indications are categorized as emergent CEUS applications
since the available evidence is insufficient for general recommendation. This
article focuses on comments, illustrations and examples of the application of
CEUS in the pancreas, spleen, gastrointestinal tract, kidney, adrenals, lymph
nodes, perineum, and hepatobiliary system. The potential for endoscopic
ultrasound to highlight the importance of CEUS in the daily routine is also
addressed.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1312890 
PMID: 22723024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Surg Laparosc Endosc Percutan Tech. 2012 Aug;22(4):e246-9. doi:
10.1097/SLE.0b013e31825b3761.

Laparoscopic resection of an epidermoid cyst within an intrapancreatic accessory 
spleen: a case report and review article.

Harris AC(1), Chaudry MA, Menzies D, Conn PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Southend Hospital, East of England Deanery, Essex, UK. 
harris1983@hotmail.com

CASE REPORT: We report a case of an epidermoid cyst within an intrapancreatic
accessory spleen that was treated by laparoscopic excision. A 39-year-old man
with no abdominal symptoms was incidentally found to have a cystic pancreatic
lesion on computed tomography scan undertaken for suspected deep vein thrombosis.
Further computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging confirmed similar
findings and the laparoscopic resection of the distal pancreas and spleen was
undertaken as malignancy could not be excluded. Microscopic analysis revealed a
well-circumscribed epidermoid cyst within a thin splenic rim in the tail of the
pancreas.
DISCUSSION: Such histologic diagnoses are extremely rare, and this is the 26th
case report to our knowledge in English language journals. These lesions should
be treated surgically to exclude malignancy. This is the first case reported in
the United Kingdom and the first to be excised by pure laparoscopic means, which 
we believe provides effective and successful surgical management.

DOI: 10.1097/SLE.0b013e31825b3761 
PMID: 22874714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Circ J. 2012;76(9):2066-75. Epub 2012 Aug 3.

Human heterotaxy syndrome – from molecular genetics to clinical features,
management, and prognosis – .

Shiraishi I(1), Ichikawa H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular
Center, Suita, Japan. isao@hsp.ncvc.go.jp

Human heterotaxy syndrome is characterized by a wide variety of cardiac and
extracardiac congenital malformations that are primarily induced by disorders of 
the left-right axis determination during early embryonic development. The
cellular and molecular mechanisms of the left-right asymmetry have been
extensively investigated in the past decade and the developmental mechanisms of
the syndrome have been considerably elucidated. Medical and surgical management
and treatment of heterotaxy syndrome have advanced as well. However, prognosis of
the disease still remains unsatisfactory because the syndrome is often associated
with a combination of complicated congenital heart diseases. Management of
heterotaxy patients, particularly those who have undergone the Fontan procedure, 
is now one of the most important issues in pediatric and adult congenital heart
disease clinics. In this review, we focus on the recent advances in knowledge of 
the genetic and molecular pathogenesis of heterotaxy syndrome, as well as its
clinical features, management, and prognosis.


PMID: 22864291  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Intern Med. 2012;51(15):1997-2000. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Culture-negative peritonitis caused by splenic infarction in a continuous
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patient.

Yoon HE(1), Kim I, Kim YW, Chung HW, Shin SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Incheon St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic
University of Korea, Republic of Korea.

A 43-year-old diabetic woman on peritoneal dialysis, developed left upper
abdominal pain and culture-negative cloudy peritoneal dialysate. The dialysate
had WBC counts of 1,532/µL with 90% polymorphonuclear cells. The patient did not 
respond well to anti-bacterial therapy. Abdominal CT scan revealed diffuse
atherosclerosis in the abdominal vessels and wedge-shaped splenic infarction.
Anticoagulation therapy was initiated and an improvement in peritonitis was
observed without peritoneal catheter removal. Thus, in peritoneal dialysis
patients with diffuse atherosclerosis or the risk of systemic embolization,
symptoms of unexplained left upper quadrant pain and culture-negative peritonitis
should be evaluated to rule out splenic infarction.


PMID: 22864125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2012 Dec;47(12):1401-11. doi:
10.3109/00365521.2012.706828. Epub 2012 Aug 6.

Hematological manifestations of celiac disease.

Baydoun A(1), Maakaron JE, Halawi H, Abou Rahal J, Taher AT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology-Oncology Division, American
University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.

Celiac disease, an autoimmune disease once thought to be uncommon, is now being
increasingly identified. Our improved diagnostic modalities have allowed us to
diagnose more and more patients with atypical symptoms who improve on gluten-free
diet (GFD). We discuss here the latest findings regarding the various
hematological manifestations of celiac disease and their management. Anemia
remains the most common hematological manifestation of celiac disease due to many
mechanisms, and can be the sole presenting symptom. Other manifestations include 
thrombocytosis and thrombocythemia, leukopenia, thromboembolism, increased
bleeding tendency, IgA deficiency, splenic dysfunction, and lymphoma. The
diagnosis of celiac disease should always be kept in mind when a patient presents
with unexplained and isolated hematological finding. Once diagnosed, patients
should adhere to GFD and be educated about the potential complications of this
disease. We herein present an algorithm for adequate management and follow-up.

DOI: 10.3109/00365521.2012.706828 
PMID: 22861356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Z Geburtshilfe Neonatol. 2012 Jun;216(3):122-31. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1314808.
Epub 2012 Jun 21.

[Disorders of laterality and heterotaxy in the foetus].

[Article in German]

Gottschalk I(1), Berg C, Heller R.

Author information: 
(1)Pränatale Medizin und Gynäkologische Sonografie, Uniklinik Köln.

Disorders of laterality and heterotaxy syndromes are rare diseases with an
incidence of 1-1.5/10,000 live births. They are associated with numerous
viscerocardiac anomalies and malformations. In particular, heterotaxy syndromes
are associated with complex cardiac and extracardiac malformations that have an
important impact on the prenatal and postnatal course. A prenatal differentiation
between the 2 main variants of heterotaxy--left and right isomerism--is possible 
by assessment of cardiac rhythm, anomalies of caval veins and descending aorta
and concomittant cardiac and extracardiac anomalies. An exact diagnosis is
mandatory for adequate counselling of the parents and planning of postnatal care.
Left isomerism has a high intrauterine mortality, caused by early
atrioventricular block with subsequent cardiac failure and hydrops. In contrast, 
right isomerism has a high postnatal mortality due to the more complex type of
cardiac defects and splenic disorders. The type of associated cardiac and
extracardiac anomalies determines the postnatal morbidity and mortality.
Polysplenia and asplenia may be associated with immunological disorders, that
cannot be ruled out in the prenatal period, and further complicate the postnatal 
course.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1314808 
PMID: 22825760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Acta Neuropathol. 2012 Nov;124(5):599-614. doi: 10.1007/s00401-012-1018-0. Epub
2012 Jul 24.

Brain dendritic cells: biology and pathology.

D'Agostino PM(1), Gottfried-Blackmore A, Anandasabapathy N, Bulloch K.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory of Neuroendocrinology, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY
10065, USA.

Dendritic cells (DC) are the professional antigen-presenting cells of the immune 
system. In their quiescent and mature form, the presentation of self-antigens by 
DC leads to tolerance; whereas, antigen presentation by mature DC, after
stimulation by pathogen-associated molecular patterns, leads to the onset of
antigen-specific immunity. DC have been found in many of the major organs in
mammals (e.g. skin, heart, lungs, intestines and spleen); while the brain has
long been considered devoid of DC in the absence of neuroinflammation.
Consequently, microglia, the resident immune cell of the brain, have been charged
with many functional attributes commonly ascribed to DC. Recent evidence has
challenged the notion that DC are either absent or minimal players in brain
immune surveillance. This review will discuss the recent literature examining DC 
involvement within both the young and aged steady-state brain. We will also
examine DC contributions during various forms of neuroinflammation resulting from
neurodegenerative autoimmune disease, injury, and CNS infections. This review
also touches upon DC trafficking between the central nervous system and
peripheral immune compartments during viral infections, the new molecular
technologies that could be employed to enhance our current understanding of brain
DC ontogeny, and some potential therapeutic uses of DC within the CNS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-012-1018-0 
PMCID: PMC3700359
PMID: 22825593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Hepatogastroenterology. 2012 Sep;59(118):1789-93. doi: 10.5754/hge10810.

Extramedullary hemopoiesis and littoral cell angioma of the spleen: our
experience and review.

Maternini M(1), Misani M, Vanzati A, Romano F, Isimbaldi G, Garancini M, Brenna
A, Uggeri F, Uggeri F.

Author information: 
(1)Surgical Department University of Milano-Bicocca-Ospedale San Gerardo, Monza, 
Italy. matteo.maternini@live.it

Littoral cell angioma (LCA) is a rare primary vascular neoplasm of the spleen. A 
54-year-old man was referred to our emergency department for abdominal pain. A CT
scan showed multiple round hypodense lesions of various sizes throughout the
spleen. The spleen was increased in volume. An MRI confirmed the lesion with a
suspect of multiple angiomas vs. amartomas. The haematologists excluded any
haematological disease. After a collegial discussion, we decided to perform
laparotomic splenectomy. Histologically, the multiple lesions consisted in
anastomosing vascular channels lined by plump cells. There was an increased
number of dysmorphic megakaryocites inside the splenic parenchyma and along the
tumour's border, known signs of extramedullary hemopoiesis, whose etiology in our
patient was unexplained. To the best of our knowledge this is the third
description of the association between littoral cell angioma and extramedullary
hemopoiesis. LCA is a rare primary splenic vascular tumour that originates from
the splenic littoral cells. The diagnosis of littoral cell angioma is confirmed
histologically and on immunohistochemistry. This case report underlines the
rarity of this type of benign splenic neoplams, but since the malignant potential
of LCA, we recommend close clinical follow- up of patients with LCA of the
spleen.

DOI: 10.5754/hge10810 
PMID: 22819901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Semin Pediatr Surg. 2012 Aug;21(3):175-84. doi: 10.1053/j.sempedsurg.2012.05.010.

Biliary atresia: clinical aspects.

Davenport M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery, King's College Hospital, Denmark Hill,
London, United Kingdom. Markdav2@ntlworld.com

Biliary atresia (BA) remains an enigmatic disease with a degree of etiologic
heterogeneity. A number of variants can be defined clinically, and these include 
the syndromic group (typically BA splenic malformation), cystic BA, and
cytomegalovirus (CMV) IgM +ve associated BA. The remainder, and still the largest
group, may be termed isolated BA(.) There is a wide variation in incidence across
the globe from 1 in 5000 in Taiwan to 1 in 20,000 live births in Northern Europe,
although the reasons for such a disparity remain obscure. Management remains
primarily surgical with an attempt to restore bile flow by resection of
extrahepatic biliary remnants and a reconstruction portoenterostomy (the Kasai
procedure), reserving liver transplantation for those where this fails or
complications of chronic liver disease supervene. Clearance of jaundice to normal
values has been achieved in 40%-55% of cases in large series from around the
world, with an expectation of 5-year native liver survival of similar
proportions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.sempedsurg.2012.05.010 
PMID: 22800970  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2012 Aug;46(6):501-3. doi: 10.1177/1538574412453347. Epub
2012 Jul 10.

Splenic artery embolization as a treatment option for chronic pancytopenia
secondary to hypersplenism: a case report and review of literature.

Mousa A(1), Armbruster J, Adongay J, AbuRahma AF.

Author information: 
(1)West Virginia University, Charleston, WV 25304, USA. amousa@hsc.wvu.edu

It is well known that splenectomy is the standard of care in the management of
clinically significant hypersplenism; however, some patients are found to be
unacceptably high risk to tolerate open or even laparoscopic surgery. We present 
a 62-year-old female with significant comorbidities who was declared a very high 
risk for any open surgical intervention. She underwent splenic artery
embolization with remarkable improvement of her platelet count. Her postoperative
course was uneventful and the patient was discharged from the hospital on the
fifth hospital day.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574412453347 
PMID: 22786978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Circ J. 2012;76(8):1811-8. Epub 2012 Jul 30.

Inflammation and vascular injury: basic discovery to drug development.

Simon DI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Harrington Heart & Vascular Institute,
University Hospitals Case Medical Center, Case Western Reserve University School 
of Medicine, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. Daniel.simon@uhhospitals.org

The invited special lecture at the 76(th) Annual Scientific Meeting of the
Japanese Circulation Society focused on the central role of inflammation in
vascular injury and repair. Early studies pioneered the concept that mechanical
injury, such as balloon angioplasty and endovascular stent deployment, elicits an
inflammatory response from the vessel wall. This hypothesis was developed and
substantiated at a time when the prevailing dogma viewed restenosis following
angioplasty as a primarily proliferative smooth muscle cell disease. Antibody
targeting of Mac-1 reduced leukocyte accumulation and limited neointimal
formation following balloon injury or stent implantation. Genetic absence of
Mac-1 resulted in diminished leukocyte accumulation and neointimal thickening
after carotid artery injury in mice. In the course of those studies, our
laboratory made fundamental discoveries regarding the mechanism of leukocyte
recruitment at sites of vascular injury and identified platelet glycoprotein (GP)
Ibα, a component of the GPIb-IX-V complex, as the previously unknown platelet
counter-receptor for Mac-1. Follow-on studies have focused extensively on the
structure, function, and signaling of the leukocyte integrin Mac-1. The binding
site for GPIbα in Mac-1 has been mapped and subsequently showed that leukocyte
engagement of platelet GPIbα via Mac-1 is critical not only for the biological
response to vascular injury, but also for thrombosis, vasculitis,
glomerulonephritis, and multiple sclerosis, thereby advancing the hypothesis that
virtually all inflammation is platelet-dependent. Furthermore, ligand engagement 
of Mac-1 initiates a novel gene program that promotes inflammation by activating 
NFκB and downregulating the expression of the forkhead transcription factor Foxp1
that controls monocyte differentiation. Small molecule inhibitors of Mac-1
function have been pursued, including targeting of Mac-1-GPIbα binding or the
downstream tyrosine kinase spleen tyrosine kinase. Drs Teruo Inoue, Koichi Node, 
Tatsuya Fukotomi, Masashi Sakuma, Toshifumi Morooka, and Kohsuke Nakajima, valued
Japanese collaborators and post-doctoral fellows, have contributed enormously to 
these discoveries.


PMCID: PMC4090145
PMID: 22785436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Br J Haematol. 2012 Aug;158(4):442-52. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2012.09201.x.
Epub 2012 Jul 9.

Dealing with the uncertain risk of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease transmission
by coagulation replacement products.

Millar CM(1), Makris M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Haematology, Imperial College London, London, UK.
c.millar@imperial.ac.uk

The identification of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) in the UK in 1996 
led to significant concerns about the possibility of secondary transmission,
however the prevalence of subclinical vCJD and risks of vCJD transmission by
plasma are not known. In the UK, public health precautions have been implemented 
in all recipients of coagulation factor concentrates manufactured from UK plasma 
pools between 1980 and 2001. The recent demonstration of abnormal prion protein
in a spleen sample at autopsy of a UK haemophilic patient who received
coagulation factor concentrates to which a donor incubating vCJD had contributed 
most likely represents the first case of vCJD transmission by coagulation factor 
concentrates. We review the uncertainties that surround risk of vCJD transmission
by coagulation factor concentrates, the challenges in dealing with undefined
risks, the rationale behind current policies and the implementation of vCJD
surveillance and risk management measures in bleeding disorder patients in the
UK.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2012.09201.x 
PMID: 22775486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Eur J Pediatr. 2013 Apr;172(4):447-58. doi: 10.1007/s00431-012-1771-z. Epub 2012 
Jul 8.

Revised recommendations for the management of Gaucher disease in children.

Kaplan P(1), Baris H, De Meirleir L, Di Rocco M, El-Beshlawy A, Huemer M, Martins
AM, Nascu I, Rohrbach M, Steinbach L, Cohen IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania, 9th Floor,
Colket Translational Research Building, Civic Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA
19104, USA. kaplan@email.chop.edu

Gaucher disease is an inherited pan-ethnic disorder that commonly begins in
childhood and is caused by deficient activity of the lysosomal enzyme
glucocerebrosidase. Two major phenotypes are recognized: non-neuropathic (type 1)
and neuropathic (types 2 and 3). Symptomatic children are severely affected and
manifest growth retardation, delayed puberty, early-onset osteopenia, significant
splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, thrombocytopenia, anemia, severe bone pain, acute
bone crises, and fractures. Symptomatic children with types 1 or 3 should receive
enzyme replacement therapy, which will prevent debilitating and often
irreversible disease progression and allow those with non-neuropathic disease to 
lead normal healthy lives. Children should be monitored every 6 months (physical 
exam including growth, spleen and liver volume, neurologic exam, hematologic
indices) and have one to two yearly skeletal assessments (bone density and
imaging, preferably with magnetic resonance, of lumbar vertebrae and lower
limbs), with specialized cardiovascular monitoring for some type 3 patients.
Response to treatment will determine the frequency of monitoring and optimal dose
of enzyme replacement. Treatment of children with type 2 (most severe)
neuropathic Gaucher disease is supportive. Pre-symptomatic children, usually with
type 1 Gaucher, increasingly are being detected because of affected siblings and 
screening in high-prevalence communities. In this group, annual examinations
(including bone density) are recommended. However, monitoring of asymptomatic
children with affected siblings should be guided by the age and severity of
manifestations in the first affected sibling. Treatment is necessary only if
signs and symptoms develop.CONCLUSION: Early detection and treatment of
symptomatic types 1 and 3 Gaucher disease with regular monitoring will optimize
outcome. Pre-symptomatic children require regular monitoring. Genetic counseling 
is important.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-012-1771-z 
PMID: 22772880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Int J Surg. 2012;10(9):410-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2012.06.001. Epub 2012 Jun 26.

Non-operative management of malarial splenic rupture: the Khartoum experience and
an international review.

Osman MF(1), Elkhidir IM, Rogers SO Jr, Williams M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Toledo Medical Center, Toledo, OH 43614, USA.

Malarial splenic rupture (MSR) occurs in a subset of patients and can be an acute
surgical emergency. MSR is a well-known entity for more than 100 years, yet there
are no well-structured studies in the literature that systematically evaluate
this complication. While it has become increasingly recognized that splenic
salvage can be vital to the long term immunity and health of these patients,
there are few data to guide a safe approach to non-operative management of these 
patients. Current knowledge of spontaneous rupture of the spleen has been gained 
largely though reported cases. We present 2 cases of MSR and a review of the
literature of the management of MSR. We present an algorithm for the management
of MSR. Of the 60 cases of MSR in the literature 31 were managed with
splenectomy, 21 were managed non-operatively, and 8 early deaths occurred during 
initial presentation. The most common presenting symptoms were fever (67%) and
abdominal pain (51%). Seventy-two percent of patients were hypotensive and
tachycardic on presentation. Fifteen (71%) of 21 patients had successful
non-operative management for MSR. Of the six patients that failed non-operative
treatment, 4 patients eventually needed splenectomy, and 2 patients died without 
operation. We recommend that patients presenting with fever, abdominal pain,
hypotension, and spenomegaly receive urgent resuscitation, ultrasonography (where
available) to evaluate for blood in the abdomen, and surgical consultation.
Patients who are hemodynamically stable before or after resuscitation can be
selectively chosen for non-operative management.

Copyright © 2012 Surgical Associates Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2012.06.001 
PMID: 22750513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Cardiovasc Hematol Disord Drug Targets. 2012 Sep;12(1):6-20.

Current and emerging therapies in primary myelofibrosis.

Ayyappan S(1), Janakiram M, Raghupathy R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University Hospitals Seidman Cancer
Center, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Primary myelofibrosis is a clonal hematopoietic disorder characterized by
ineffective hematopoiesis and progressive bone marrow fibrosis. Patients with
high risk myelofibrosis as determined by their advanced age, degree of anemia,
leukocytosis, constitutional symptoms and high percentage of circulating blasts
have a very short median survival of 2 years. In addition quality of life is
significantly compromised due to cytokine induced constitutional symptoms,
frequent transfusion for cytopenias and bulky splenomegaly. Progression to
myelogenous leukemia occurs in about 20% of patients within 10 years of diagnosis
and is often fatal. Allogeneic hematopoietic transplantation is the only curative
therapy but is limited by patient eligibility, transplant related mortality and
graft versus host disease. Androgens, erythropoietin analogues, hydroxyurea,
alkylators and spleen directed therapies have all been used with limited efficacy
and no curative potential. The discovery of mutations in the hematopoietic
progenitors of patients with myelofibrosis, including the JAK2 V617F mutation and
others has greatly improved our understanding of the disease and facilitated
development of newer targeted therapies. Our article will review new discoveries 
in the pathogenesis of myelofibrosis and focus on emerging targeted treatments.
These novel therapies including oral JAK2 inhibitors, immunomodulators, as well
as inhibitors of HDAC and mTOR, in isolation and in combination are likely to
improve outcomes in management of this disease.


PMID: 22746348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


410. J Anesth. 2012 Dec;26(6):892-9. doi: 10.1007/s00540-012-1426-2. Epub 2012 Jun 23.

The effects of estrogen on various organs: therapeutic approach for sepsis,
trauma, and reperfusion injury. Part 2: liver, intestine, spleen, and kidney.

Kawasaki T(1), Chaudry IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL
35294, USA. takasi-k@med.uoeh-u.ac.jp

Several clinical studies show a gender dimorphism of immune and organ
responsiveness in the susceptibility to and morbidity from shock, trauma, and
sepsis. However, there are conflicting reports on the role of gender in outcomes.
Animal studies of shock, trauma, and sepsis have confirmed that alterations in
immune and organ functions are more markedly depressed in adult males and in
ovariectomized and aged females. In this review, we discuss the effect of
estrogen on liver, intestinal, splenic, and renal functions in an experimental
model of sepsis, trauma, and reperfusion injury. To establish the role of gender 
in the outcome of these patients, more studies in clinical and experimental
settings are required to determine whether gender-specific responses are global
across the injuries or are observed in specific injury situations. Studies are
also needed to delineate underlying mechanisms responsible for differences
between males and females. The findings gained from the experimental studies will
help in designing innovative therapeutic approaches for the treatment of sepsis, 
trauma, and reperfusion injury patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00540-012-1426-2 
PMID: 22729228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Emerg Med. 2012 Oct;43(4):758-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2011.10.029. Epub
2012 Jun 21.

Overwhelming post-splenectomy infection (OPSI): a case report and review of the
literature.

Morgan TL(1), Tomich EB.

Author information: 
(1)San Antonio Military Medical Center, San Antonio, Texas 28240, USA.

BACKGROUND: Overwhelming post-splenectomy infection (OPSI) is a serious disease
that can progress from a mild flu-like illness to fulminant sepsis in a short
time period. Although relatively rare, it has a high mortality rate with delayed 
or inadequate treatment, and therefore, it is important for Emergency Physicians 
to be familiar with it. Patients who are asplenic or hyposplenic are at an
increased risk for infection and death from encapsulated organisms and other
dangerous pathogens.
OBJECTIVES: There is an abundance of literature discussing OPSI from the
perspective of hematologists and infectious disease specialists, but an Emergency
Medicine perspective is necessary to truly understand the acute nature of the
disease. The objective of this article is to present a careful examination of the
literature with a focus on early diagnosis and management to provide Emergency
Physicians with the ability to positively affect outcomes of this deadly disease.
CASE REPORT: We present the case of a well-appearing 5-month-old girl with
congenital asplenia who presented to the Emergency Department with fever, and
rapidly progressed to septic shock as a result of OPSI. Aggressive resuscitation 
was initiated, including empiric antibiotics, and after a prolonged hospital
course in the pediatric intensive care unit, the child recovered.
CONCLUSION: Rapid identification of patients at risk for OPSI, followed by
administration of intravenous antibiotics, usually vancomycin and ceftriaxone,
combined with early goal-directed therapy, are the keys to successful treatment. 
If initiated early in the patient's course, the 70% mortality rate can be reduced
to the 10-40% range.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2011.10.029 
PMID: 22726665  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Immunol Rev. 2012 Jul;248(1):140-55. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-065X.2012.01133.x.

An autoimmunity odyssey: how autoreactive T cells infiltrate into the CNS.

Kawakami N(1), Bartholomäus I, Pesic M, Mues M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Neuroimmunology, Ludwig Maximilians University, München,
Germany. kawakami@neuro.mpg.de

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a widely used animal model of 
multiple sclerosis (MS), a human autoimmune disease. To explore how EAE and
ultimately MS is induced, autoantigen-specific T cells were established, were
labeled with fluorescent protein by retroviral gene transfer, and were tracked in
vivo after adoptive transfer. Intravital imaging with two-photon microscopy was
used to record the entire entry process of autoreactive T cells into the CNS: a
small number of T cells first appear in the CNS leptomeninges before onset of
EAE, and crawl on the intraluminal surface of blood vessels, which is integrin α4
and αL dependent. After extravasation, the T cells continue into the perivascular
space, meeting local antigen-presenting cells (APCs), which present endogenous
antigens. This interaction activates the T cells and guides them to penetrate the
CNS parenchyma. As the local APCs in the CNS are not saturated with endogenous
antigens, exogenous antigens stimulate the autoreactive T cells more strongly
and, as a result, exacerbate the clinical outcome. Currently, we are attempting
to visualize T-cell activation in vivo in both rat T-cell-mediated EAE and mouse 
spontaneous EAE models.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-065X.2012.01133.x 
PMID: 22725959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Am J Ther. 2014 Sep-Oct;21(5):395-402. doi: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e31824d622c.

Ouabain--the key to cardioprotection?

Fuerstenwerth H.

Based on a wealth of mechanistic evidence supported by the fact that ouabain
mimics the spleen-liver effect in this article, the hypothesis is established
that the endogenous hormone ouabain not only mimics the effects of ischemic
preconditioning but also may be an ideal drug for the prevention of ischemic
diseases. Moreover, it is argued that the spleen-liver effect may represent a
general protective mechanism for the protection of organisms against oxygen
deficiency. Investigating the spleen-liver mechanism offers a new approach to
decipher the secrets of ischemic conditioning. Preconditioning represents a basic
mechanism to protect a wide variety of cells against stressful stimuli such as
ischemia. The ability to undergo preconditioning is almost ubiquitous in tissues 
and is highly conserved across species. Reinvestigation of the "spleen-liver
mechanism" will allow the study of metabolic inhibitors and hormone mimics that
all could help to transform ischemic preconditioning into a cure of the epidemic 
ischemic heart disease. Ouabain mimics the effects of the spleen factor.
Cardioprotection induced by ouabain is due to the activation of pathways that are
also activated in ischemic preconditioning. Just like ischemic preconditioning,
ouabain activates the reperfusion injury salvage kinase pathway. Activation of
nuclear factor kappa B and other transcription factors contribute to the long
lasting effects of ouabain. The endogenous hormone ouabain just like
preconditioning offers multiorgan protection based on innate mechanisms, which
warrants clinical investigation. Clinical studies with ouabain that correspond to
current standards are warranted.

DOI: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e31824d622c 
PMID: 22713528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


414. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2012 Jul;71(7):604-17. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e31825caf2c.

Update on PML and PML-IRIS occurring in multiple sclerosis patients treated with 
natalizumab.

Kleinschmidt-DeMasters BK(1), Miravalle A, Schowinsky J, Corboy J, Vollmer T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 12631 
E. 17th Avenue Mail Stop C307, Aurora, CO 80045, USA. bk.demasters@ucdenver.edu

The use of natalizumab to treat multiple sclerosis (MS) has been associated with 
the development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), with 242 PML
cases reported as of May 3, 2012. Fortunately, rapid withdrawal of the drug and
administration of plasma exchange has allowed survival in many of these patients,
but a new problem, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), has
emerged after drug withdrawal. This report provides an update on PML in
natalizumab-treated patients and reviews what is currently known about PML-IRIS
in this setting; autopsy findings from a well-studied patient are illustrated.
This patient with relapsing-remitting MS had been treated for 4 years with
natalizumab, with discontinuation of drug after diagnosis of PML by cerebrospinal
fluid polymerase chain reaction testing. Disease was manifested by severe
paraparesis and expressive aphasia, which progressed before and after the
diagnosis of PML. Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome was diagnosed,
comfort care was instituted, but demise did not occur until 9 months later.
Autopsy showed ongoing severe PML-IRIS, with massive cavitary brain lesions
containing abundant perivascular and parenchymal CD8-positive T-cell infiltrates.
Bone marrow and spleen, but not brain, contained monoclonal T-cell populations by
polymerase chain reaction-based gene rearrangement studies, indicating
overstimulation of peripheral T cells; T-cell lymphoma was not identified by
morphological or immunohistochemical criteria.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e31825caf2c 
PMID: 22710964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


415. J Gynecol Obstet Biol Reprod (Paris). 2012 Sep;41(5):489-96. doi:
10.1016/j.jgyn.2012.04.015. Epub 2012 Jun 15.

[Contribution of 3D-ultrasound in the heterotaxy syndromes: about four cases and 
review of the literature].

[Article in French]

El Guindi W(1), Dreyfus M, Carles G, Lambert V, Herlicoviez M, Benoit G.

Author information: 
(1)Service de gynécologie-obstétrique, centre hospitalier de l'Ouest Guyanais, 16
boulevard du Général-Leclerc, BP 245, Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni, Guyana.
welguindi@yahoo.com

The position or location of the organs and vessels is usually classified into
three types: situs solitus, situs inversus, and situs ambigus. Situs solitus is
the usual arrangement of organs and vessels within the body. Only 0.6 to 0.8% of 
patients with situs solitus and levocardia have associated congenital heart
diseases. Situs inversus refers to an anatomic arrangement that is the mirror
image of situs solitus. The incidence of congenital heart disease is increased to
3 to 5% in the patients with situs inversus. The patients with heterotaxy have
congenital heart disease in high incidence, ranging from 50 to nearly 100%. We
present four cases diagnosed in our department in a period of 18 months. With
these four cases and a review in the literature, we explore the definitions and
characteristics of heterotaxy syndromes and we study the role of 3D ultrasound.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgyn.2012.04.015 
PMID: 22704359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2013 Jan;39(1):367-70. doi:
10.1111/j.1447-0756.2012.01920.x. Epub 2012 Jun 13.

Heterotopic simultaneous splenic and intrauterine pregnancy after spontaneous
conception and review of literature.

Julania S(1), Tai R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Joondalup Health Campus, Joondalup,
Australia. julania@gmail.com

A 31-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with sudden onset left 
upper quadrant pain radiating to the left shoulder. Urine β-hCG test was
positive. Transvaginal sonography was suggestive of ruptured ectopic pregnancy
with a large amount of free fluid in the pouch of Douglas. The patient was then
taken for emergency laparoscopy. On laparoscopy, hemoperitoneum was noted but
both the fallopian tubes and ovaries were normal. On further exploration,
bleeding was noted from the spleen so laparotomy was performed and emergency
splenectomy was carried out by a surgeon. The histopathology report of the spleen
confirmed a splenic ectopic pregnancy. On postoperative follow-up, the patient's 
quantitative serum β-hCG started rising again, which raised suspicion of another 
pregnancy. After serial β-hCG and ultrasound, a failed intrauterine pregnancy was
diagnosed. Suction evacuation was performed, with histopathology confirming
products of conception.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Research © 2012 Japan
Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0756.2012.01920.x 
PMID: 22690833  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2012 Jun;25(2):191-200. doi:
10.1016/j.beha.2012.04.001. Epub 2012 Apr 30.

Novel agents in mantle cell lymphoma.

Noel MS(1), Friedberg JW, Barr PM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Rochester Medical Center, James P. Wilmot Cancer Center, 601
Elmwood Avenue, Box 704, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. marcus_noel@urmc.rochester.edu

Mantle cell lymphoma is a mature B cell neoplasm constituting 5-7% of all
non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Overall prognosis with current therapeutics remains poor,
thus numerous novel agents are currently under investigation. In this review we
focus on early phase trials that have demonstrated promise in mantle cell.
Constitutive activation of signaling components downstream of the B cell receptor
play an important role in the pathobiology of mantle cell lymphoma. Targeting of 
this signaling pathway has become a focus with specific agents under development 
including inhibitors of spleen tyrosine kinase, phosphoinositide 3-kinase and
Bruton's tyrosine kinase. Promising data also supports further development of
BH-3 mimetics, a crucial component of anti-apoptotic signaling. Histone
deacetylase inhibitors have an established role in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and 
are now under investigation in mantle cell lymphoma as well. With further
understanding of cellular signaling, the armamentarium of treatment options will 
be enhanced, with the hope of improving the prognosis of this disease.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beha.2012.04.001 
PMCID: PMC3374151
PMID: 22687455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2012 Jun;11(3):234-42.

Vascular resection and reconstruction at pancreatico-duodenectomy: technical
issues.

Lai EC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pedder Clinic, Hong Kong SAR, China. ecslai@hku.hk

BACKGROUND: With the improvement of perioperative management over the years,
pancreatico-duodenectomy has become a safe operation despite its technical
complexity. The presence of concomitant visceral artery occlusion unrelated to
the underlying malignancy and concomitant major venous infiltration by tumor
poses additional hazards to resection which could compromise the postoperative
outcome.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE database search was performed to identify relevant
articles using the key words "median arcuate ligament syndrome", "superior
mesenteric artery", "replaced right hepatic artery", and "portal vein resection".
Additional papers and book chapters were identified by a manual search of the
references from the key articles.
RESULTS: Computed tomography with 3-dimensional reconstruction of the vascular
anatomy provides most key information on the potential vascular problems
encountered during surgery. A trial clamping of the gastroduodenal artery
provides a simple intraoperative assessment for the presence of any significant
visceral arterial occlusion. Depending on the timing of diagnosis, division of
the median arcuate ligament, bypass or endovascular stenting should be
considered. Portal and superior mesenteric vein resection had been used with
increasing frequency and safety. The steps and methods taken to reconstruct the
venous continuity vary with individual surgeons, and the anatomical variations
encountered. With segmental loss of the portal vein, opinions differs with regard
to the preservation of the splenic vein, and when divided, the necessity of
restoring its continuity; source of the autologous vein graft when needed and
whether the use of synthetic graft is a safe alternative.
CONCLUSIONS: During a pancreatico-duodenectomy, images of computed tomography
must be carefully studied to appreciate the changes and variation of vascular
anatomy. Adequate preoperative preparation, acute awareness of the probable
arterial and venous anatomical variation and the availability of expertise,
especially micro-vascular surgery, for vascular reconstruction would help to make
the complex pancreatic resection a safer procedure.


PMID: 22672815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Hematology. 2012 Mar;17(2):106-14. doi: 10.1179/102453312X13221316477336.

Malaria: a haematological disease.

Akinosoglou KS(1), Solomou EE, Gogos CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Patras, Rio, Greece.
k.akinosoglou07@imperial.ac.uk

Plasmodium falciparum malaria remains a major cause of mortality throughout the
tropical world. Haematological abnormalities are considered a hallmark of
malaria, bearing an impact on final outcome and representing indices of
prognostic and follow-up value. These include severe anaemia, coagulation
disturbances, leukocyte numerical or functional changes and spleen involvement.
Anaemia involves red blood cell lysis due to parasite invasion, as well as
mechanisms of intravascular haemolysis and decreased erythropoiesis. Exchange or 
blood transfusion is mainly recommended in the management of these patients.
Haemorrhagic complications in severe malaria are relatively rare despite
prominent thrombocytopenia and dysfunction in the coagulation pathway. Numerical,
as well as functional changes in the white blood cell are less dramatic than
other blood cell series, but still, remain a significant index of disease
progression and ultimate prognosis. Finally, the role of the spleen in severe
malaria is multifactorial. Care and vigilance should be taken against splenic
rupture which is fatal and can occur despite appropriate antimalarial prophylaxis
and treatment.

DOI: 10.1179/102453312X13221316477336 
PMID: 22664049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Swiss Med Wkly. 2012 May 31;142:w13580. doi: 10.4414/smw.2012.13580.

AA amyloidosis: basic knowledge, unmet needs and future treatments.

Obici L(1), Merlini G.

Author information: 
(1)Amyloidosis Research and Treatment Centre, Biotechnology Research
Laboratories, Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy.
l.obici@smatteo.pv.it

Systemic AA amyloidosis is a long-term complication of several chronic
inflammatory disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis,
autoinflammatory syndromes, Crohn's disease, malignancies and conditions
predisposing to recurrent infections. Organ damage results from the extracellular
deposition of proteolytic fragments of the acute-phase reactant serum amyloid A
(SAA) as amyloid fibrils. A sustained high concentration of SAA is the
prerequisite for developing AA amyloidosis. However, only a minority of patients 
with long-standing inflammation actually presents with this complication,
pointing to the existence of disease-modifying factors, the best characterised of
which being SAA1 genotype. The kidneys, liver and spleen are the main target
organs of AA amyloid deposits. In more than 90% of patients proteinuria,
nephrotic syndrome and/or renal dysfunction dominate the clinical picture at
onset. If not effectively treated, this disease invariably leads to end stage
kidney disease and renal replacement therapy, that are still associated with a
poor outcome. Although the incidence of AA in rheumatoid arthritis and other
chronic arthritides has continuously decreased over the past ten years, thanks to
the increasing availability of more effective anti-inflammatory and
immunosuppressive therapies, AA remains a life-threatening disease with several
areas of uncertainty and unmet needs, deserving continuous efforts at prevention 
and effective treatment. The deeper understanding of the molecular mechanisms of 
amyloid formation and regression is now driving the development of novel
treatments targeting different steps in the amyloidogenic cascade. These
therapies will hopefully improve the quality of life and outcome of these
patients in a near future.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2012.13580 
PMID: 22653707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Mech Dev. 2012 Jul;129(5-8):75-97. doi: 10.1016/j.mod.2012.05.005. Epub 2012 May 
26.

How insights from cardiovascular developmental biology have impacted the care of 
infants and children with congenital heart disease.

Chin AJ(1), Saint-Jeannet JP, Lo CW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, United States. chinalvi@mail.med.upenn.edu

To illustrate the impact developmental biology and genetics have already had on
the clinical management of the million infants born worldwide each year with CHD,
we have chosen three stories which have had particular relevance for pediatric
cardiologists, cardiothoracic surgeons, cardiac anesthesiologists, and cardiac
nurses. First, we show how Margaret Kirby's finding of the unexpected
contribution of an ectodermal cell population - the cranial neural crest - to the
aortic arch arteries and arterial pole of the embryonic avian heart provided a
key impetus to the field of cardiovascular patterning. Recognition that a
majority of patients affected by the neurocristopathy DiGeorge syndrome have a
chromosome 22q11 deletion, have also spurred tremendous efforts to characterize
the molecular mechanisms contributing to this pathology, assigning a major role
to the transcription factor Tbx1. Second, synthesizing the work of the last two
decades by many laboratories on a wide gamut of metazoans (invertebrates,
tunicates, agnathans, teleosts, lungfish, amphibians, and amniotes), we review
the >20 major modifications and additions to the ancient circulatory arrangement 
composed solely of a unicameral (one-chambered), contractile myocardial tube and 
a short proximal aorta. Two changes will be discussed in detail - the
interposition of a second cardiac chamber in the circulation and the septation of
the cardiac ventricle. By comparing the developmental genetic data of several
model organisms, we can better understand the origin of the various components of
the multicameral (multi-chambered) heart seen in humans. Third, Martina
Brueckner's discovery that a faulty axonemal dynein was responsible for the
phenotype of the iv/iv mouse (the first mammalian model of human heterotaxy)
focused attention on the biology of cilia. We discuss how even the care of the
complex cardiac and non-cardiac anomalies seen in heterotaxy syndrome, which have
long seemed impervious to advancements in surgical and medical intensive care,
may yet yield to strategies grounded in a better understanding of the cilium. The
fact that all cardiac defects seen in patients with full-blown heterotaxy can
also be seen in patients without obvious laterality defects hints at important
roles for ciliary function not only in left-right axis specification but also in 
cardiovascular morphogenesis. These three developmental biology stories
illustrate how the remaining unexplained mortality and morbidity of congenital
heart disease can be solved.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mod.2012.05.005 
PMCID: PMC3409324
PMID: 22640994  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Hepatogastroenterology. 2012 Oct;59(119):2042-4.

Prophylactic anticoagulation following splenectomy in cirrhotic patients.

Chen P(1), Wang W, Yan L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Liver and Vascular Medicine, West China Hospital of Sichuan
University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The aim of the study is to address the impact of prophylactic
anticoagulation on the incidence of PVT in cirrhotic patients compared with no
prophylactic anticoagulation after splenectomy.
METHODOLOGY: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing prophylactic
anticoagulation and no prophylactic anticoagulation after splenectomy were
included by a systematic literature search. Two authors independently assessed
the trials for inclusion and extracted the data.
RESULTS: A total of 1406 studies were searched and none met our inclusion
criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: Most current studies were not prospective control trials based on
small sample sizes and single center experiences. Therefore, it is hard to draw
the conclusion that prophylactic anticoagulation following splenectomy should be 
recommended in cirrhotic patients. More attention to the problem Is required and 
the administration of routine postoperative anticoagulation needs to be
standardized.

DOI: 10.5754/hge12266 
PMID: 22640915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Leuk Lymphoma. 2012 Dec;53(12):2362-70. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2012.695781.

Targeting the B cell receptor pathway in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Davids MS(1), Brown JR.

Author information: 
(1)CLL Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02215, USA.

The B cell receptor (BCR) pathway plays a crucial role in the survival,
proliferation and trafficking of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells.
Inhibitors of the key kinases in this pathway, including spleen tyrosine kinase
(SYK), mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), phosphoinositide 3'-kinase (PI3K)
and Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK), have been found in preclinical models to
decrease CLL cell viability both directly and indirectly through modulation of
the microenvironment. Recently, oral agents targeting each of these kinases have 
been explored in early phase clinical trials in patients with CLL. BCR pathway
antagonists appear to be highly active in relapsed/refractory CLL, independent of
high-risk disease markers such as del(17p). These agents have shown a unique
pattern of inducing early transient lymphocytosis, which typically is associated 
with nodal response. Here, we review the biology of the BCR, the kinases within
this pathway and their interaction with the CLL microenvironment. We also discuss
data from recent and ongoing clinical trials of BCR antagonists. We address the
development of potential biomarkers for response to these agents such as ZAP-70, 
IGHV status and CCL3, and discuss where these exciting new drugs may fit in the
evolving landscape of CLL therapy.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2012.695781 
PMCID: PMC4557770
PMID: 22616724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Am J Hematol. 2012 Jun;87(6):604-9. doi: 10.1002/ajh.23176.

Mantle cell lymphoma: 2012 update on diagnosis, risk-stratification, and clinical
management.

Vose JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha,
NE 68198-7680, USA. jmvose@unmc.edu

DISEASE OVERVIEW: Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a non-Hodgkin lymphoma
characterized by involvement of the lymph nodes, spleen, blood, and bone marrow
with a short remission duration to standard therapies and a median overall
survival of 4-5 years.
DIAGNOSIS: Diagnosis is based on lymph node, bone marrow, or tissue morphology of
centrocytic lymphocytes, small cell type, or blastoid variant cells. A
chromosomal translocation t(11:14) is the molecular hallmark of MCL, resulting in
the overexpression of cyclin D1. Cyclin D1 is detected by immunohistochemistry in
98% of cases. The absence of SOX-11 or a low Ki-67 may correlate with a more
indolent form of MCL. The differential diagnosis of MCL includes small
lymphocytic lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma.
RISK STRATIFICATION: The mantle cell lymphoma international prognostic index
(MIPI) is the prognostic model most often used and incorporates ECOG performance 
status, age, leukocyte count, and lactic dehydrogenase. A modification of the
MIPI also adds the Ki-67 proliferative index if available. The median overall
survival (OS) for the low-risk group was not reached (5-year OS of 60%). The
median OS for the intermediate risk group was 51 and 29 months for the high-risk 
group.
RISK-ADAPTED THERAPY: For selected indolent, low MIPI MCL patients, initial
observation may be appropriate therapy. For younger patients with intermediate or
high risk MIPI MCL, aggressive therapy with a cytarabine containing regimen ±
autologous stem cell transplantation should be considered. For older MCL patients
with intermediate or high risk MIPI, combination chemotherapy with R-CHOP,
R-Bendamustine, or a clinical trial should be considered. At the time of relapse,
agents directed at activated pathways in MCL cells such as bortezomib (NFkB
inhibitor), BTK inhibitors or CAL-101 (B-cell receptor inhibitors) or
lenalidamide (antiangiogenesis) have clinical activity in MCL patients.
Autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation can also be considered in
young patients.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.23176 
PMID: 22615102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2012 Jul;21(7):921-47. doi:
10.1517/13543784.2012.685650. Epub 2012 May 22.

Tyrosine kinase inhibitors as potential drugs for B-cell lymphoid malignancies
and autoimmune disorders.

Robak T(1), Robak E.

Author information: 
(1)Medical University of Lodz, Department of Hematology, Lodz, Poland.
robaktad@csk.umed.lodz.pl

INTRODUCTION: In the last few years, several tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs)
have been synthesized and become available for preclinical studies and clinical
trials. This article summarizes recent achievements in the mechanism of action,
pharmacological properties, and clinical activity and toxicity, as well as the
emerging role of TKIs in lymphoid malignancies, allergic diseases, and autoimmune
disorders.
AREAS COVERED: A literature review was conducted of the MEDLINE database PubMed
for articles in English. Publications from 2000 through January 2012 were
scrutinized. The search terms used were Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk)
inhibitors, PCI-32765, GDC-0834, LFM-A13, AVL-101, AVL-292, spleen tyrosine
kinase (Syk) inhibitors, R343, R406, R112, R788, fostamatinib, BAY-61-3606, C-61,
piceatannol, Lyn, imatinib, nilotinib, bafetinib, dasatinib, GDC-0834, PP2,
SU6656 in conjunction with lymphoid malignancy, NHL, CLL, autoimmune disease,
allergic disease, asthma, and rheumatoid arthritis. Conference proceedings from
the previous 5 years of the American Society of Hematology, European Hematology
Association, American Society of Clinical Oncology, and ACR/ARHP Annual
Scientific Meetings were searched manually. Additional relevant publications were
obtained by reviewing the references from the chosen articles.
EXPERT OPINION: The use of TKIs, especially inhibitors of Btk, Syk, and Lyn, is a
promising new strategy for targeted treatment of B-cell lymphoid malignancies,
autoimmune disorders and allergic diseases. However, definitive data from ongoing
and future clinical trials will aid in better defining the status of TKIs in the 
treatment of these disorders.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.2012.685650 
PMID: 22612424  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2012 Mar;75(1):3-4.

Splenic metastasis from gastrointestinal neoplasms: a review.

Delaunoit T(1), Peny MO, Mignon M, Dili A.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Jolimont Hospital, Haine-Saint-Paul, Belgium.
thierry.delaunoit@entitejolimontoise.be

Spleen metastases from solid tumours are rather exceptional, especially for those
located in the digestive tract. Although these lesions are usually associated
with multivisceral disease at terminal stage, several cases of isolated lesions
have also been described in the literature. Diagnosis of spleen lesions
associated with multivisceral disease rarely influences patient's outcome. On the
other hand, isolated, only-splenic lesions could be curatively treated, allowing 
physicians to obtain better patient's survival. The aim of this article is
therefore to review and summarize a systematic search of all the literature in
English based on a Medline search (Pubmed) carried out from January 2000 to
February 2011, focusing on only-spleen lesions secondary to digestive tract
cancers, and pointing out diagnostic and treatment challenges medical oncologists
have to face in their clinical practice.


PMID: 22567739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Discov Med. 2012 Apr;13(71):253-65.

Splenic diffuse red pulp small-B cell lymphoma: toward the emergence of a new
lymphoma entity.

Traverse-Glehen A(1), Baseggio L, Salles G, Coiffier B, Felman P, Berger F.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Anatomie Pathologique, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Centre Hospitalier
Lyon Sud, 69495 Pierre Bénite, France. alexandra.traverse-glehen@chu-lyon.fr

Among splenic lymphomas with circulating cells presenting cytoplasmic
projections, a homogeneous clinico-pathological entity has been recently
individualized as Splenic Diffuse Red Pulp Lymphomas (SDRPL) and introduced in
the provisional "unclassifiable splenic lymphoma" category of the current updated
WHO classification until more is known. SDRPL presents characteristic circulating
basophilic villous lymphocytes and diffuse infiltration of the splenic red pulp, 
distinct from Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma (SMZL) and Hairy Cell Leukemia
(HCL), but reminiscent of HCL-Variant (HCL-V). Series of SDRPL remain sparse in
the literature and controversies exist about the relationship with other splenic 
lymphomas. Distinction of these disorders at diagnosis can be difficult, but an
adequate diagnosis is important due to differences in patient management and
clinical outcome. Especially, BRAF mutations have been detected in almost all
patients with HCL that may have implications for pathogenesis, diagnosis, and
targeted therapy. This review will report literature data and discuss the
differential diagnosis, particularly with HCL-V.


PMID: 22541613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Abdom Imaging. 2013 Feb;38(1):154-62. doi: 10.1007/s00261-012-9880-8.

Multi-modality imaging findings of splenic hamartoma: a report of nine cases and 
review of the literature.

Wang JH(1), Ma XL, Ren FY, Zuo CJ, Tian JM, Wang ZF, Zheng JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Ningbo University School
of Medicine, Ningbo No. 2 Hospital, Ningbo, 315010, Zhejiang, China.

PURPOSE: To investigate the presentation of splenic hamartomas (SHs) on
ultrasonography (US), CT and MRI.
METHODS: Nine patients (5 males and 4 females, mean age, 52.8 years) with
pathologically proven SHs were included in this study. US, CT and MRI images were
analyzed retrospectively, and imaging features were correlated with pathological 
findings.
RESULTS: SHs appeared solitary lesion (n = 8) and multiple lesions (n = 1) in the
present study. (1) In 8 cases of solitary lesion, the lesions appeared as solid
nodules or masses with well-defined margins and varying echogenicity (hyperecho =
5, hypoecho = 2, strong echo = 1) on ultrasound. The lesions showed
iso-attenuation (n = 3) or slightly hypo-attenuation (n = 4) on unenhanced CT,
and calcification were revealed in 3 lesions. MRI showed isointensity (n = 3) or 
hypointensity (n = 2) on the T1-weighted image, and heterogeneous hypointensity
(n = 2), slightly hyperintensity (n = 2) and hyperintensity (n = 1) on the
T2-weighted image. The enhanced patterns of SHs showed mild diffuse heterogeneous
enhancement (n = 6) and prominent enhancement (n = 1) during arterial phase and
above 7 lesions were demonstrated progressive enhancement at delayed phase on
enhanced CT. One lesion without any enhancement was revealed in another patient. 
(2) One case of multiple lesions included 1 cystic lesion with irregular
calcification and 7 solid lesions with progressive enhancement on CT images.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination of a variety of imaging modalities could more fully
reflect the pathological characteristics and contribute to the diagnosis of SH.

DOI: 10.1007/s00261-012-9880-8 
PMID: 22539044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Br J Haematol. 2012 Jun;157(6):664-73. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2012.09143.x.
Epub 2012 Apr 25.

Sickle-cell disease and the heart: review of the current literature.

Voskaridou E(1), Christoulas D, Terpos E.

Author information: 
(1)Thalassaemia Centre, Laikon General Hospital, Athens, Greece.
ersi_voskaridou@yahoo.com

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is an inherited chronic haemolytic anaemia whose
clinical manifestations arise from the tendency of the haemoglobin to polymerize 
and deform red blood cells into the characteristic sickle shape due to a single
nucleotide change in the β-globin. Vascular occlusion of small and large vessels 
can lead to chronic damage of multiple organs including brain, lung, bone,
kidney, liver, spleen, and retina. However, the extent to which SCD impacts
myocardial function is not very clear. Cardiovascular manifestations include both
right and left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction, elevated cardiac
output, cardiomegaly and myocardial ischaemia. Progressive heart damage from iron
overload occurs in patients requiring routine transfusion therapy. Pulmonary
hypertension resulting from intravascular haemolysis has also been recognized as 
a major complication that independently correlates with survival. This review
summarizes all available data for the heart complications in SCD to update the
physicians for their appearance, diagnostic procedures and possible management.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2012.09143.x 
PMID: 22530942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Forensic Leg Med. 2012 May;19(4):229-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jflm.2011.12.035. Epub 
2012 Jan 13.

Medico-legal considerations in a case of splenic injury that occurred during
colonoscopy.

Zandonà C(1), Turrina S, Pasin N, De Leo D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Institute of Legal
Medicine, University of Verona, Policlinico G.B. Rossi, P.le L.A. Scuro 10, 37134
Verona, Italy.

Colonoscopy has became the gold standard diagnostic and therapeutic treatment for
rectum and colon diseases. The splenic injury is a rare complication of
colonoscopy and relatively few cases (less than 70) have been reported in the
literature so far. Here we present a case of splenic rupture identified in an 80 
year-old man few hours after an apparently uneventful colonoscopy. Acknowledging 
a causal relationship between the lesion and the diagnostic procedures, we
discuss the possible medico-legal implications with regard to professional
liability considering the exceptional nature of such an event and the stance
recently taken by the Italian law.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd and Faculty of Forensic and Legal Medicine. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jflm.2011.12.035 
PMID: 22520377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Curr Drug Deliv. 2012 Jul;9(4):405-13.

Oral targeting of protein kinase C receptor: promising route for diabetic
retinopathy?

Pathak D(1), Gupta A, Kamble B, Kuppusamy G, Suresh B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, J.S.S. College of Pharmacy, Ooty, T.N.-643001,
India. deepap16@rediffmail.com

In patients with diabetes, hyperglycemia is known to promote high levels of
diacylglycerol which activates protein kinase C (PKC) in the vascular tissues and
leads to the production of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the
retina. PKC activation and increased concentration of VEGF are likely to play a
key role in diabetic microvascular complications, particularly change in vascular
permeability, inflammation, fluid leakage and ischemia in the retina. PKC
comprises a super family of isoenzymes that is activated in response to various
stimuli. The PKC family consists of 12 isomers that possess distinct differences 
in structure, substrate requirement, expression and localization. PKC isomer
selective inhibitors and VEGF trap are likely to be new therapeutics, which can
delay the onset or stop the progression of diabetic vascular disease. A new
promising therapy for diabetic retinopathy is undergoing Phase III trials, in
which they proposed to target PKC βII isomer using Ruboxistaurin by oral
administration. Besides retina, PKC βII isomer is found in higher concentration
in brain, spleen, etc. So, oral targeting may be a questionable approach since
generalized inhibitors may prove toxic in the treatment of diabetic retinopathy
and ocular delivery may be a better alternative approach.


PMID: 22520069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Vet Res. 2012 Apr 13;43:29. doi: 10.1186/1297-9716-43-29.

What have we learned from brucellosis in the mouse model?

Grilló MJ(1), Blasco JM, Gorvel JP, Moriyón I, Moreno E.

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Investigación en Enfermedades Tropicales, Escuela de Medicina
Veterinaria, Universidad Nacional, Heredia, Costa Rica. emoreno@medvet.una.ac.cr.

Brucellosis is a zoonosis caused by Brucella species. Brucellosis research in
natural hosts is often precluded by practical, economical and ethical reasons and
mice are widely used. However, mice are not natural Brucella hosts and the course
of murine brucellosis depends on bacterial strain virulence, dose and inoculation
route as well as breed, genetic background, age, sex and physiological statu of
mice. Therefore, meaningful experiments require a definition of these variables. 
Brucella spleen replication profiles are highly reproducible and course in four
phases: i), onset or spleen colonization (first 48 h); ii), acute phase, from the
third day to the time when bacteria reach maximal numbers; iii), chronic steady
phase, where bacterial numbers plateaus; and iv), chronic declining phase, during
which brucellae are eliminated. This pattern displays clear physiopathological
signs and is sensitive to small virulence variations, making possible to assess
attenuation when fully virulent bacteria are used as controls. Similarly,
immunity studies using mice with known defects are possible. Mutations affecting 
INF-γ, TLR9, Myd88, Tγδ and TNF-β favor Brucella replication; whereas IL-1β,
IL-18, TLR4, TLR5, TLR2, NOD1, NOD2, GM-CSF, IL/17r, Rip2, TRIF, NK or Nramp1
deficiencies have no noticeable effects. Splenomegaly development is also useful:
it correlates with IFN-γ and IL-12 levels and with Brucella strain virulence. The
genetic background is also important: Brucella-resistant mice (C57BL) yield lower
splenic bacterial replication and less splenomegaly than susceptible breeds. When
inoculum is increased, a saturating dose above which bacterial numbers per organ 
do not augment, is reached. Unlike many gram-negative bacteria, lethal doses are 
large (≥ 108 bacteria/mouse) and normally higher than the saturating dose.
Persistence is a useful virulence/attenuation index and is used in vaccine
(Residual Virulence) quality control. Vaccine candidates are also often tested in
mice by determining splenic Brucella numbers after challenging with appropriate
virulent brucellae doses at precise post-vaccination times. Since most live or
killed Brucella vaccines provide some protection in mice, controls immunized with
reference vaccines (S19 or Rev1) are critical. Finally, mice have been
successfully used to evaluate brucellosis therapies. It is concluded that, when
used properly, the mouse is a valuable brucellosis model.

DOI: 10.1186/1297-9716-43-29 
PMCID: PMC3410789
PMID: 22500859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Hong Kong Med J. 2012 Apr;18(2):160-2.

Acute torsion of a wandering spleen.

Lam Y(1), Yuen KK, Chong LC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, United Christian Hospital, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong.
lam_yui@yahoo.com.hk

The 'wandering spleen' is a rare condition due to extreme laxity or absence of
ligaments that fix the organ in its normal anatomical position within the left
upper quadrant. Without early surgical intervention, wandering spleen can lead to
torsion and subsequent splenic infarction or rupture. Clinical suspicion plus
urgent investigation and intervention are important, so as to salvage the spleen 
and prevent complications. We present a case of torsion of a wandering spleen in 
a 21-year-old young woman, who presented with a painful pelvic mass. We also
reviewed the literature on this entity.


PMID: 22477742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


434. J Gastrointest Surg. 2012 Jun;16(6):1225-34. doi: 10.1007/s11605-012-1871-0. Epub
2012 Mar 27.

Splenic injury during colonoscopy--a complication that warrants urgent attention.

Singla S(1), Keller D, Thirunavukarasu P, Tamandl D, Gupta S, Gaughan J, Dempsey 
D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Temple University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
Smit.Singla@tuhs.temple.edu

INTRODUCTION: Colonoscopy is a safe procedure that is performed routinely
worldwide. There is, however, a small but significant risk of splenic injury that
is often under-recognized. Due to a lack of awareness about this injury, the
diagnosis may be delayed, which can lead to an increased risk of morbidity as
well as mortality. This paper presents a comprehensive review of the medical
literature on colonoscopy-associated splenic injury and describes the clinical
presentation and management of this rare but potentially life-threatening
complication.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A comprehensive literature search identified 102 patients 
worldwide, including patients from our experience, with splenic injury during
colonoscopy. A meta-regression analysis was completed using a mixed generalized
linear model for repeated measures to identify risk factors for this rare
complication.
RESULTS: A total of 75 articles were identified and 102 patients were studied.
The majority of the papers were in English (92 %). Only 23.4 % of patients
(26/102) were reported prior to the year 2000. Among the patients reported after 
the year 2000, the majority (84.2 %, 64/76) were reported after 2005. There were 
more females (76.5 %), median age was 65 years (range, 29-90 years), and most of 
the colonoscopies were performed without difficulty (66.6 %). Nearly 67 % of
patients presented within 24 h of colonoscopy with complaints ranging from
abdominal pain to dizziness. The most common symptom was left upper quadrant pain
(58 %), and CT scan was found to be the most sensitive tool for diagnosis.
Seventy-three patients underwent operative intervention; 96 % of these were
treated with splenectomy. Hemoglobin drop of more than 3 gm/dL was identified as 
the only significant predictor of operative intervention. The overall mortality
rate was 5 %.
CONCLUSION: Splenic injury during colonoscopy is rare; however, it is associated 
with significant morbidity and mortality. Splenic injury warrants a high degree
of clinical suspicion critical to prompt diagnosis, and early surgical
consultation is warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s11605-012-1871-0 
PMID: 22450952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2012 Mar;104(3):134-41.

Current management of gastric cancer.

Viudez-Berral A(1), Miranda-Murua C, Arias-de-la-Vega F, Hernández-García I,
Artajona-Rosino A, Díaz-de-Liaño Á, Vera-García R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Complejo Hospitalario de Navarra, Pamplona,
Spain. antonio.viudez.berral@navarra.es

Gastric cancer is a disease with high incidence and mortality in our population. 
The prognosis of patients with this disease is closely related to the neoplasm
stage at diagnosis, including the following characteristics of the tumor:
extension into the gastric wall thickness, spread to locoregional lymph nodes and
the ability to generate distant metastases, as described by the TNM
classification. For localized tumors characterized only by invasion of mucosa or 
submucosa at diagnosis, survival at 5 years is between 70 and 95% with exclusive 
surgical management; however, when extension into the gastric wall is higher
and/or there is locoregional nodal involvement, survival decreases to 20-30% at 5
years. Currently, at high-volume centers, the extent of gastrectomy is
individualized based on several parameters, which in an increasing number of
cases allows a total gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy and preservation of the 
spleen and pancreas. This improved procedure increases the chance of R0 surgery
and improves the relationship between resected and affected lymph nodes,
resulting in a decreased risk of the long-term locoregional recurrence. To
improve these results, different therapeutic strategies combining chemotherapy or
chemoradiotherapy with surgery have been tested. Previously, the Intergroup 0116 
clinical trial, published in 2001, which changed clinical practice in the United 
States, showed that adjuvant chemoradiotherapy improved survival (from 26 to 37
months overall survival) of these patients. In Europe, perioperative chemotherapy
has been considered the standard treatment, since the publication of two
randomized phase III trials showed an increase at 5 years survival in the group
treated with chemotherapy.


PMID: 22449155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Rev Med Chil. 2011 Nov;139(11):1496-502. doi: /S0034-98872011001100017. Epub 2012
Feb 8.

[Detection of Salmonella and Mycobacterium species in seagulls captured in
Talcahuano, Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

López-Martín J(1), Junod T, Riquelme F, Contreras C, González-Acuña D.

Author information: 
(1)Campus Chillán, Depamento de Patología y Medicina Preventiva, Universidad de
Concepción, Chile. jlopez@udec.cl

BACKGROUND: Salmonella can be isolated from the feces of seagulls. Therefore
these birds can be a vector for dissemination of this pathogen.
AIM: To evaluate the possible role of gulls as vectors of two important human and
animal pathogens (My-cobacteria and Salmonella).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: One hundred twenty three Kelp gull (Larus dominicanus) and 
60 Franklin gulls (Leucophaeus pipixcan) captured off the coast of the seaport of
Talcahuano, were analyzed. Using traditional microbiological methods, the
presence of Mycobacteria in cloacal swabs and feet lavages, was analyzed in both 
types of gulls. To detect the presence of Salmonella, feces, fecal and tracheal
swabs, and feet lavage were analyzed from Franklin gulls. Feces, feet lavage,
intestine, spleen, liver, kidney and lung, were examined in Kelp gulls.
RESULTS: All Mycobacteria cultures were negative. Salmonella enterica cultures
were positive in 25 % of Kelp gulls and 6.7 % of Franklin gulls. Four serovars
were identified by serotyping. Enteritidis and Senfteberg serovars were found in 
both types of gulls. Anatum and Infantis serovars were found only in Kelp gulls. 
Feces of gulls captured during the winter had the highest yield of positive
cultures (36.1%).
CONCLUSIONS: Seagulls are an important Salmonella vector in Chile.

DOI: /S0034-98872011001100017 
PMID: 22446658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Head Neck Pathol. 2012 Mar;6(1):111-20. doi: 10.1007/s12105-011-0326-3. Epub 2012
Mar 20.

Crystal-storing histiocytosis: report of a case, review of the literature (80
cases) and a proposed classification.

Dogan S(1), Barnes L, Cruz-Vetrano WP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Ave, New York, NY 10065, USA. dogans@mskcc.org

We report a case of crystal storing histiocytosis (CSH) of the upper lip and
cheek in a 51-year-old woman and review the clinicopathologic features of 80
cases in the literature. These occurred in 41 men and 39 women with a respective 
mean age of 59 and 61 years (range 17-81 years). Forty-six patients (58%) had
localized CSH, and, of these, 16 (35%) occurred in the head and neck, with the
most common site being the eye/orbit. The remaining 34 patients (42%) had
generalized CSH primarily involving bone marrow, liver, lymph nodes, spleen
and/or kidney. Regardless of whether the CSH was localized or generalized, the
vast majority of patients (90%) had an underlying lymphoproliferative or plasma
cell disorder, especially multiple myeloma, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, or
monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. In 7 cases (8.8%), the CSH
was associated with a variety of benign disorders, often with an inflammatory
background, and no evidence of a clonal lymphoproliferative or plasma cell
disorder. Treatment and prognosis varied according to the underlying disease. A
classification of CSH based on etiology and/or associated disease and chemical
composition of the crystal is proposed, rare non-immunoglobulin variants of CSH
are discussed, and a differential diagnosis of other potentially confusing
lesions is provided.

DOI: 10.1007/s12105-011-0326-3 
PMCID: PMC3311947
PMID: 22430767  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Int Immunopharmacol. 2012 May;13(1):28-36. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2012.02.014.
Epub 2012 Mar 14.

Anakinra as an interleukin 1 receptor antagonist, complicated genetics and
molecular impacts--from the point of view of mouse genomics.

Cao Y(1), Jiao Y, Wang L, Huang Y, Postlethwaite A, Stuart J, Kang A, Williams
RW, Gu W.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Kaschin-Beck Disease, Center for Endemic Disease Control, Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, PR China.

IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1rn) is a protein that binds to IL-1 receptors
(IL-1r1) and inhibits the binding of IL-1α and IL-1β. In recent years, IL-1rn has
been implicated to be associated with many human health problems. The effects of 
treatment of several inflammatory disorders with anakinra, which is an
interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist, have also been reported. Both positive 
and negative effects have been described. In this review, we systematically
analyzed the expression, correlation, and regulation of IL-1rn and its 13 partner
genes using available gene expression profiles from a variety of tissues in a
well known transcriptome database, Genenetwork. The 13 partner genes include
IL-1r1, IL-1β, IL-1α, Myd88, Irak1, Irak2, Irak4, Traf6, Tlr4, IL-1rap, Ikbkap,
Nfkb1, and Nfkb2. Gene expression profiles are from 10 tissues including spleen, 
kidney, lung, whole brain, eye, prefrontal cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus,
striatum, and nucleus accumbens. Our analysis indicated that the interactions
among IL-1rn and its partner are complex and different from tissues to tissues,
suggesting a broad spectrum of the effect of IL-1rn on biological and metabolic
pathways. Transcripts and protein sequences resulted from different splicing,
interaction with genomic background of individuals, and environmental factors
affect function of IL-1rn. At present, our knowledge on the function of IL-1rn
and its partner in various tissues or organs is very limited. The long term and
extended effect of anakinra on human health needs further investigations. In the 
future, targeted sequences or oligos of Il-1rn might be ideal for therapeutic
application with less toxic and more specific in the treatment of specific
disease. Detailed study on the molecular function of IL-1rn and its interaction
with other genes and environmental factors is essential for development
therapeutic application using IL-1rn.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2012.02.014 
PMCID: PMC4142626
PMID: 22425556  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Fetal Pediatr Pathol. 2012 Apr;31(2):54-62. doi: 10.3109/15513815.2011.648725.

Splenic cysts in the pediatric population: a report of 21 cases with review of
the literature.

Hodge MG(1), Ricketts RR, Simoneaux SF, Abramowsky CR, Elawabdeh N, Shehata BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA.

Splenic cysts are rare lesions that can occur in parasitic and non-parasitic
forms. Because they are uncommon, the classification, pathogenesis, and
management techniques are still debated. The continual review of splenic cyst
cases in the pediatric population is essential for establishing a clear diagnosis
and course of treatment. This report presents 21 cases of pediatric splenic cysts
observed at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta over an 18 year period (1993-2011). 
The cases include both parasitic and and nonparasitic cysts. The current splenic 
cyst classification and treatment methods are analyzed through a review of the
current theories and based on our experiences.

DOI: 10.3109/15513815.2011.648725 
PMID: 22409406  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Cardiovasc Comput Tomogr. 2012 Mar-Apr;6(2):127-36. doi:
10.1016/j.jcct.2011.10.019. Epub 2012 Jan 28.

Atrial isomerism: a pictorial review.

Balan A(1), Lazoura O, Padley SP, Rubens M, Nicol ED.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Addenbrookes Hospital, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QQ,
United Kingdom. balan.anu@gmail.com

This review describes the broad spectrum of findings found in atrial isomerism,
suggesting a sequential approach to image evaluation, and illustrates the most
common situs disorders, for example, polysplenia and asplenia.

Copyright Â© 2012 Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcct.2011.10.019 
PMID: 22398009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Leg Med (Tokyo). 2012 May;14(3):111-5. doi: 10.1016/j.legalmed.2012.01.007. Epub 
2012 Feb 26.

Autopsy discoveries of death from malaria.

Menezes RG(1), Pant S, Kharoshah MA, Senthilkumaran S, Arun M, Nagesh KR, Bhat
NB, Mahadeshwara Prasad DR, Karki RK, Subba SH, Fazil A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forensic Medicine, Srinivas Institute of Medical Sciences &
Research Centre, Mangalore, India. mangalore971@yahoo.co.in

Malaria inflicts a huge health care burden in terms of mortality and morbidity
worldwide. There has been evidence in the literature where many
unexpected/unexplained deaths turned out to be related to malaria on autopsy. The
aim of this study is to review autopsy diagnosed malaria related deaths in the
literature with due stress to its biologic and forensic aspects. A meticulous
literature search was performed for "sudden malaria death", "malaria death
postmortem diagnosis" and "unexplained death malaria" across PubMed, SCOPUS,
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Allied and Complementary Medicine,
British Nursing Index, CINAHL, EMBASE, Ovid-MEDLINE and Google Scholar. All the
literature was thoroughly reviewed and analyzed with reference to the type of
study, location, travel history, age, gender, circumstance of death, method of
diagnosis, species involved, chemoprophylaxis usage and take home message from
the particular study. Plasmodium falciparum was responsible in most of the cases.
The symptoms mimicked influenza in most of the case reports. Travel to endemic
areas was common to most of the victims. The travelers were from all over the
world including USA, France, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal, Germany and Asia
(China and Japan). Vascular congestion with the presence of malarial pigment
laden RBCs in capillaries of various organs was the major histopathology finding.
Such lesions were found in the brains of all subjects (100%), liver of 78% of the
cases, spleen in 67%, lungs in 56% and myocardium in 43% of the cases. Peripheral
smear and rapid diagnostic test was of great aid to the autopsy in many cases.
PCR was used for diagnosis as well as exclusion of possibility of co-infection
with other species in case of Plasmodium knowlesi related death. The postmortem
and histopathology findings in this case were similar to P. falciparum except for
the fact that brain sections were negative for intracellular adhesion molecule-1.
Chemoprophylaxis was not taken by the victims except for two in whom history of
chloroquine based chemoprophylaxis was mentioned. Given the worldwide prevalence 
of the disease, increasing international travel and rapidly developing drug
resistance, malaria will continue to be an important disease and should be
considered in all cases of unexpected deaths particularly in malaria endemic
regions or in presence of travel history to endemic regions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.legalmed.2012.01.007 
PMID: 22369777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Dig Dis Sci. 2012 Jun;57(6):1672-81. doi: 10.1007/s10620-012-2058-y. Epub 2012
Feb 26.

Performance of platelet count/spleen diameter ratio for diagnosis of esophageal
varices in cirrhosis: a meta-analysis.

Ying L(1), Lin X, Xie ZL, Hu YP, Shi KQ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrasonography, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou
Medical College, Wenzhou, China. ylskq@yahoo.com.cn

Comment in
    Dig Dis Sci. 2012 Sep;57(9):2473; author reply 2473-4.

BACKGROUND: Platelet count/spleen diameter ratio (PSR) is a non-invasive method
for the assessment of esophageal varices (EV), developed as an alternative to
endoscopy.
AIM: To assess the performance of PSR for diagnosis of EV using meta-analysis.
METHODS: PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, ISI web of Knowledge, China
National Knowledge Infrastructure, and article references were searched. We
included studies using endoscopy as a reference standard, with the data necessary
to calculate the true and false positive, true and false negative diagnostic
results of PSR for EV. The quality of the studies was rated with the QUADAS tool.
The hierarchical summary receiver operating characteristic (HSROC) was used to
examine the PSR accuracy for the diagnosis of EV. Heterogeneity was explored
using meta-regression. Clinical utility of PSR for EV was evaluated by a Fagan
plot.
RESULTS: In 20 studies (n = 3,063), the HSROC of the PSR for EV was 0.95 at
various thresholds. At the threshold of 909, the summary sensitivities and
specificities were 0.92 (95% CI, 0.79-0.97) and 0.87 (95% CI, 0.76-0.93),
respectively. The HSROC was also 0.95 at the threshold of 909. If PSR was below
909 for EV ("positive" result), the post-test probability (if pre-test
probability was 50%) was 87%, while if PSR was at or over 909 ("negative"
result), the post-test probability was only 9%. PSR also had a high accuracy in
diagnosis of EV in patients with compensated cirrhosis.
CONCLUSIONS: PSR can identify EV in cirrhosis with a high accuracy. Application
of this index may decrease the need for endoscopy among cirrhotic patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-012-2058-y 
PMID: 22367112  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Mycoses. 2012 May;55(3):e74-84. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0507.2012.02182.x. Epub 2012 
Feb 24.

New insights into hepatosplenic candidosis, a manifestation of chronic
disseminated candidosis.

Rammaert B(1), Desjardins A, Lortholary O.

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris-Descartes, Faculté de Médecine, APHP, Hôpital Necker-Enfants 
Malades, Service des Maladies Infectieuses et Tropicales, Centre d'Infectiologie 
Necker-Pasteur, Institut Imagine, Paris, France.

Chronic disseminated candidosis, often referred to as hepatosplenic candidosis
(HSC), is an infection due to Candida spp. that mainly involves the liver and
spleen. HSC occurs mostly in patients after profound and prolonged neutropenia,
which is more often seen in patients with acute haematological malignancies. The 
incidence of HSC ranges from 3% to 29% in patients suffering from Acute
Leukaemia. However, it is now seen less frequently with the widespread use of
antifungal agents as prophylaxis or as preemptive therapy. Early and adequate
diagnosis and treatment of HSC are crucial, as treatment delays can negatively
affect the prognosis of the underlying condition. The pathogenesis is not well
understood, but it is believed that it may be due to an unbalanced adaptive
immune response that leads to an exacerbated inflammatory reaction, resulting in 
an Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome. In this context, new therapeutic 
approaches such as the use of adjuvant high-dose corticosteroids have been shown 
beneficial. This article will focus on the clinical, diagnostic and therapeutic
aspects of HSC and provide an accurate review of recent pathophysiological data.

© 2012 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0507.2012.02182.x 
PMID: 22360318  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Int J Med Sci. 2012;9(2):174-7. doi: 10.7150/ijms.3983. Epub 2012 Jan 26.

Abdominal multiple splenosis mimicking liver and colon tumors: a case report and 
review of the literature.

Liu Y(1), Ji B, Wang G, Wang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, the First Bethune
Hospital, Jilin University, Jilin 130021, China.

Splenosis is not an uncommon disease. However, it is often misdiagnosed as
malignant tumors, and then the patients underwent unnecessary operations.
Unfortunately, it is very difficult to diagnose it prior to operation. We report 
a rare case of a 49-year-old female patient with liver and colon splenosis,
misdiagnosed as liver and colon tumors, and summarize experience how to diagnose 
it preoperatively according to literatures. We come to conclusion that in
patients who ever underwent splenectomy especially owning to trauma, and were
found mass in abdomen, clinicians must consider the existence of splenosis, and
take some measures, such as scintigraphy with (99m) Tc labelled heat-denatured
erythrocyte rather than biopsy, to diagnose it correctly to prevent unnecessary
operations.

DOI: 10.7150/ijms.3983 
PMCID: PMC3283864
PMID: 22359484  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


445. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2012 Apr;25 Suppl 1:8-11. doi:
10.3109/14767058.2012.664447. Epub 2012 Mar 2.

Inflammation-induced immune suppression of the fetus: a potential link between
chorioamnionitis and postnatal early onset sepsis.

Wolfs TG(1), Jellema RK, Turrisi G, Becucci E, Buonocore G, Kramer BW.

Author information: 
(1)Maastricht University Medical Center, Department of Pediatrics, School of
Oncology and Developmental Biology, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

Chorioamnionitis which results from microbial invasion of the amniotic cavity is 
the most frequent cause of preterm birth. Chorioamnionitis is associated with an 
increased risk of early-onset sepsis but the mechanisms underlying this
association remain largely unknown. We hypothesize that developmental alterations
of fetal organs and the immune system in the course of chorioamnionitis determine
the risk of development of early onset sepsis. The purpose of this review is
therefore to summarize the consequences of chorioamnionitis on fetal development 
and speculate how those antenatal changes might predispose to early onset sepsis.

DOI: 10.3109/14767058.2012.664447 
PMID: 22348330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012 Feb 15;(2):CD001916. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD001916.pub2.

Psychological therapies for sickle cell disease and pain.

Anie KA(1), Green J.

Author information: 
(1)Brent Sickle Cell and Thalassaemia Centre, Imperial College Faculty of
Medicine, London, UK. kofi.anie@nhs.net

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015;(5):CD001916.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2002;(2):CD001916.

BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease comprises a group of genetic blood disorders. It 
occurs when the sickle haemoglobin gene is inherited from both parents. The
effects of the condition are: varying degrees of anaemia which, if severe, can
reduce mobility; a tendency for small blood capillaries to become blocked causing
pain in muscle and bone commonly known as 'crises'; damage to major organs such
as the spleen, liver, kidneys, and lungs; and increased vulnerability to severe
infections. There are both medical and non-medical complications, and treatment
is usually symptomatic and palliative in nature. Psychological interventions for 
individuals with sickle cell disease might complement current medical treatment, 
and studies of their efficacy have yielded encouraging results.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the evidence that psychological interventions improve the 
ability of people with sickle cell disease to cope with their condition.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, which comprises references identified 
from comprehensive electronic database searches and the Internet, handsearches of
relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings.Date of the most
recent search of the Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register: 28 July 2011.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials
comparing psychological interventions with no (psychological) intervention in
people with sickle cell disease.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Both authors independently extracted data and
assessed the risk of bias of the included studies.
MAIN RESULTS: Eleven studies were identified in the searches and six of these
were eligible for inclusion in the review. Four studies, involving 223
participants, provided data for analysis. One study showed that cognitive
behaviour therapy significantly reduced the affective component of pain, mean
difference -3.00 (95% confidence interval -4.63 to -1.37), but not the sensory
component, mean difference 0.00 (95% confidence interval -9.39 to 9.39). One
study of family psycho-education was not associated with a reduction in
depression. Another study evaluating cognitive behavioural therapy had
inconclusive results for the assessment of coping strategies, and showed no
difference between groups assessed on health service utilisation.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Evidence for the efficacy of psychological therapies in
sickle cell disease is currently limited. This systematic review has clearly
identified the need for well-designed, adequately-powered, multicentre randomised
controlled trials assessing the effectiveness of specific interventions in sickle
cell disease.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001916.pub2 
PMID: 22336781  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Clin Rheumatol. 2012 Jun;31(6):1019-25. doi: 10.1007/s10067-011-1934-8. Epub 2012
Feb 11.

Life-threatening spontaneous splenic rupture with systemic lupus erythematosus:
case report and literature review.

Han J(1), Li N, Wang J, Zhou J, Zhang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Tong Ji University Affiliated Shanghai East
Hospital, 150 Ji Mo Road, Shanghai, China. hjgj85528@126.com

Although involvement of the reticuloendothelial system in systemic lupus
erythematosus (SLE) is a well-recognised concomitant of the disease, spontaneous 
splenic rupture is an unusual occurrence. We observed a 54-year-old woman with
SLE who had spontaneous splenic rupture during the late course of the disease and
showed some changes histopathologically. The courses and the clinical
characteristics of such patients are reviewed, and the diagnosis and treatment of
these cases are discussed. Early evaluation for SLE patients with spontaneous
splenic rupture should be considered and included in the differential diagnosis
of acute abdomen, as it may affect follow-up and treatment, although the
condition is rare.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-011-1934-8 
PMID: 22327278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Transpl Infect Dis. 2012 Aug;14(4):403-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-3062.2011.00713.x. 
Epub 2012 Feb 9.

Cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis in renal transplant recipients: report of three 
new cases and literature review.

Moulin C(1), Kanitakis J, Ranchin B, Chauvet C, Gillet Y, Morelon E, Euvrard S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Edouard Herriot Hospital Group, Hospices Civils de 
Lyon, Lyon, France.

Bacillary angiomatosis (BA) is a rare vasculoproliferative disorder due to
Bartonella henselae (BH) or Bartonella quintana. It can involve many organs,
including the skin, and has been mainly reported in patients with acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome. In organ transplant recipients (OTR), this disorder
remains misdiagnosed and therapeutic guidelines are nonexistent. We report 3
cases of BA with skin involvement in OTR and review similar cases from the
literature. BA manifests on the skin with violaceous lesions mimicking Kaposi
sarcoma, and is associated with fever, lymphadenopathy, and liver, spleen, or
lung nodules. Bartonellosis infections in OTR are due to BH, the agent causing
cat-scratch disease (CSD), but BA comprises histologically a prominent vascular
proliferation, which is usually lacking in CSD. Cultures and serologic tests are 
poorly reliable for the diagnosis, which relies on demonstration of BH within the
lesions. A history of cat exposure exists in most cases and pediatric OTR are at 
higher risk. Prevention consists of regular use of a flea-control product in cats
and prompt cleaning of scratches. Our cases highlight several original features
of this rare condition, which could potentially improve the management of BA in
OTR.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3062.2011.00713.x 
PMID: 22316326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Am J Hematol. 2012 Mar;87(3):340-6. doi: 10.1002/ajh.22271. Epub 2012 Feb 3.

Framing the research agenda for sickle cell trait: building on the current
understanding of clinical events and their potential implications.

Goldsmith JC(1), Bonham VL, Joiner CH, Kato GJ, Noonan AS, Steinberg MH.

Author information: 
(1)Blood Diseases Branch, Division of Blood Diseases and Resources, National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892-7950, USA. goldsmithjc@nhlbi.nih.gov

Sickle Cell Trait (HbAS), the heterozygous state for the sickle hemoglobin beta
globin gene is carried by as many as 100 million individuals including up to 25% 
of the population in some regions of the world (World Health Organization,
Provisional agenda item 4.8, EB117/34 (22 December 2005) or World Health
Organization, Provisional agenda item 11.4 (24 April 2006)). Persons with HbAS
have some resistance to falciparum malaria infection in early childhood (Piel FB,
Patil AP, Howes RE, et al., Nat Commun 2010;1104:1-7 and Aidoo M, Terlouw DJ,
Kolczak M, et al., Lancet 2002;359:1311-1312) and as a result individuals with
HbAS living in malarial endemic regions of Africa have a survival advantage over 
individuals with HbAA. Reports from the US emphasize possible health risks for
individuals with HbAS including increased incidence of renal failure and
malignancy, thromboembolic disorders, splenic infarction as a high altitude
complication, and exercise-related sudden death. The National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health convened a workshop in Bethesda,
Maryland on June 3-4, 2010, Framing the Research Agenda for Sickle Cell Trait, to
review the clinical manifestations of HbAS, discuss the exercise-related sudden
death reports in HbAS, and examine the public health, societal, and ethical
implications of policies regarding HbAS. The goal of the workshop was to identify
potential research questions to address knowledge gaps.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.22271 
PMCID: PMC3513289
PMID: 22307997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Hum Pathol. 2012 Jun;43(6):943-51. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2011.10.001. Epub 2012 
Feb 2.

Diffuse reticuloendothelial system involvement in type IV glycogen storage
disease with a novel GBE1 mutation: a case report and review.

Magoulas PL(1), El-Hattab AW, Roy A, Bali DS, Finegold MJ, Craigen WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Glycogen storage disease type IV is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of
glycogen metabolism caused by mutations in the GBE1 gene that encodes the
1,4-alpha-glucan-branching enzyme 1. Its clinical presentation is variable, with 
the most common form presenting in early childhood with primary hepatic
involvement. Histologic manifestations in glycogen storage disease type IV
typically consist of intracytoplasmic non-membrane-bound inclusions containing
abnormally branched glycogen (polyglucosan bodies) within hepatocytes and
myocytes. We report a female infant with classic hepatic form of glycogen storage
disease type IV who demonstrated diffuse reticuloendothelial system involvement
with the spleen, bone marrow, and lymph nodes infiltrated by foamy histiocytes
with intracytoplasmic polyglucosan deposits. Sequence analysis of the GBE1 gene
revealed compound heterozygosity for a previously described frameshift mutation
(c.1239delT) and a novel missense mutation (c.1279G>A) that is predicted to alter
a conserved glycine residue. GBE enzyme analysis revealed no detectable activity.
A review of the literature for glycogen storage disease type IV patients with
characterized molecular defects and deficient enzyme activity reveals most GBE1
mutations to be missense mutations clustering in the catalytic enzyme domain.
Individuals with the classic hepatic form of glycogen storage disease type IV
tend to be compound heterozygotes for null and missense mutations. Although the
extensive reticuloendothelial system involvement that was observed in our patient
is not typical of glycogen storage disease type IV, it may be associated with
severe enzymatic deficiency and a poor outcome.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2011.10.001 
PMID: 22305237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Curr Drug Targets. 2012 May;13(5):644-55.

The Yin and Yang of non-neuronal α7-nicotinic receptors in inflammation and
autoimmunity.

Filippini P(1), Cesario A, Fini M, Locatelli F, Rutella S.

Author information: 
(1)System Approaches and Non-Communicable Disease Lab, IRCCS San Raffaele Pisana,
Rome, Italy.

The alkaloid nicotine, a major addictive component of tobacco, exerts
anti-inflammatory and immunemodulating activities on multiple cell types, such as
T cells, B cells, dendritic cells, mononuclear phagocytes and polymorphonuclear
leukocytes, in lung, spleen, liver, kidney and gastrointestinal tract. In
addition, nicotine may blunt pro-inflammatory cytokine release, with prominent
effects on T helper type 1 (Th1) and Th17 cytokines. The nonneuronal α7-nicotinic
cholinergic receptors are a primary target for nicotine through the JAK2 and
STAT3/NF-κB pathways, ultimately mediating the inhibition of pro-inflammatory
gene transcription. The present paper reviews the growing evidence in favor of
detrimental as well as beneficial effects of nicotine and other α7-nicotininc
receptor agonists in pre-clinical models of organ-specific and systemic
inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. These data may portend favorable
implications for the targeted treatment of chronic and debilitating human
disorders, such as diabetes, arthritis, asthma and inflammatory bowel disease,
with α7-selective ligands.


PMID: 22300039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


452. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2012 Feb;129(2):294-305; quiz 306-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jaci.2011.12.966.

Mendelian traits causing susceptibility to mucocutaneous fungal infections in
human subjects.

Engelhardt KR(1), Grimbacher B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Molecular Pathology, Royal Free Hospital and
University College London, London, United Kingdom.

Mucocutaneous candidiasis and dermatophyte infections occur either in isolation
or alongside other symptoms in patients with various primary immunodeficiency
diseases with diverse genetic defects, which result in impaired IL-17 immunity,
IL-22 immunity, or both. In patients with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis,
disease-associated polymorphisms in DECTIN1 act on the level of fungal
recognition, whereas mutations in caspase recruitment domain-containing protein 9
(CARD9) disturb the subsequent spleen tyrosine kinase 2-CARD9/BCL10/MALT1-driven 
signaling cascade, impairing nuclear factor κB-mediated maturation of
antigen-presenting cells and priming of naive T cells to differentiate into the
T(H)17 cell lineage. T(H)17-priming cytokines signal through the transcription
factor signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3, which in turn
induces the T(H)17 lineage-determining transcription factor retinoic acid-related
orphan receptor γt. Dominant-negative mutations in STAT3 result in reduced
numbers of T(H)17 cells, causing localized candidiasis in patients with hyper-IgE
syndrome. In patients with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, gain-of-function
STAT1 mutations shift the cellular response toward T(H)17 cell-inhibiting
cytokines. T(H)17 cells secrete IL-17 and IL-22, which are cytokines with potent 
antifungal properties, including production of antimicrobial peptides and
activation and recruitment of neutrophils. Neutrophils mediate microbial killing 
through phagocytosis, degranulation, and neutrophil extracellular traps.
Mutations in IL17F and IL17R in patients with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, 
as well as neutralizing autoantibodies against IL-17 and IL-22 in patients with
autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy, directly impair
IL-17 and IL-22 immunity.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2011.12.966 
PMID: 22284928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Clin Ther. 2012 Feb;34(2):259-71. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.12.017. Epub 2012
Jan 20.

Velaglucerase alfa for the management of type 1 Gaucher disease.

Morris JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Riley Hospital for Children at Indiana University
Health, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA. jmorris@iuhealth.org

BACKGROUND: Gaucher disease (GD) is the most common lysosomal storage disease,
(frequency of 1:40,000 to 1:60,000). Ninety-Five percent of patients have type 1 
(nonneuropathic type). Symptomatic patients with type 1 GD are treated with
enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) to improve disease-induced effects on
hemoglobin, platelets, and liver and spleen volume. Currently, several ERTs are
available.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this article was to review the pharmacology, efficacy, and
safety data available for the use of a recently approved ERT, velaglucerase alfa,
for the treatment of type 1 GD in symptomatic pediatric and adult patients.
METHODS: Serial searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases for
English-language, peer-reviewed, clinical data (using the search term
velaglucerase alfa) were completed, with the final search in November 2011. All
identified, peer-reviewed published human data were used for this review. Due to 
minimal peer-reviewed published data, those data reported via clinical trial
registries or in the form of published abstracts were included. The manufacturer 
was contacted and given the opportunity to submit supplemental data for
consideration of inclusion by the author.
RESULTS: Velaglucerase alfa is produced through gene activation technology and is
identical to wild-type enzyme. As with other ERTs for type 1 GD, velaglucerase
alfa targets accumulated glucocerebroside primarily within the lysosome of the
macrophages in the affected organs and systems. When administered at doses of 60 
U/kg intravenously, velaglucerase alfa follows linear pharmacokinetics and is
rapidly eliminated, with a mean (SD) residence time or time for 63% of the dose
to be cleared from systemic circulation of 14 (4) minutes. Four trials and early 
access program data reporting efficacy were identified for this review: 5
peer-reviewed publications, 3 clinical trial registry reports, and 1
abstract-only publication. Phase I/II data with an extension phase (n = 12)
showed significant improvements (all, P < 0.004) in hemoglobin concentrations
(21.7%), platelet counts (157.8%), and hepatic (-42.8%) and spleen (-79.3%)
volumes at 48 months. Bone mineral density data reported out to 69 months for
this extension population noted significant improvements in z score slope for
both lumbar spine (0.14 z score unit per year; P < 0.01) and femoral head (0.08 z
score unit per year; P < 0.01). Benchmarking of 7 patients with complete clinical
datasets at 57 months identified achievement and maintenance of therapeutic goals
set by the International Collaborative Gaucher Group for anemia, platelet counts,
hepatosplenomegaly, and bone mineral density. Thirty-eight patients enrolled in
an open-label, therapy-switch trial who received velaglucerase alfa at doses
consistent with current doses of imiglucerase maintained hemoglobin (-0.101 g/dL 
[95% CI, -0.272 to 0.07]) and platelet counts (7.04% [95% CI, 0.54% to 13.53%])
at 53 weeks after therapy change. Phase III data evaluating 2 dosing regimens of 
velaglucerase alfa 60 and 45 U/kg intravenously every other week reported
significant improvements in most measured clinical parameters at 12 months:
hemoglobin concentrations (60 U/kg, 2.429 [0.324] g/dL [P < 0.0001]; 45 U/kg,
2.438 g/dL [95% CI, 1.488 to 3.389]), platelet counts (60 U/kg, 50.88 × 10(9)/L
[95% CI, 23.97 to 77.78]; 45 U/kg, 40.92 × 10(9)/L [95% CI, 11.2 to 70.64]),
spleen volumes (60 U/kg, -1.92% of body weight [95% CI, -3.04 to -0.79]; 45 U/kg,
-1.87% of body weight [95% CI, -3.17 to -0.57]), and hepatic volumes (60 U/kg,
-0.84% of body weight [95% CI, -1.58 to -0.11]). A subanalysis of the pediatric
population showed clinical improvements at 12 months in both dosing groups:
hemoglobin concentrations (60 U/kg, 1.74 g/dL [95% CI, 0.72 to 2.78]; 45 U/kg,
2.77 g/dL [95% CI, -0.99 to 6.53]), platelet counts (60 U/kg, 49.9 × 10(9)/L [95%
CI, -32.1 to 131.9]; 45 U/kg, 60.3 × 10(9)/L [95% CI, -103.1 to 223.7]), spleen
volumes (60 U/kg, -2.1 cm(3) [95% CI, -5.3 to 1.1]; 45 U/kg, -0.7 cm(3) [95% CI, 
-2.6 to 1.2]), and hepatic volumes (60 U/kg, -0.7 cm(3) [95% CI, -1.4 to 0.0]; 45
U/kg, -0.3 cm(3) [95% CI, -1.7 to 1.1]). Data comparing velaglucerase alfa with
imiglucerase identified similar changes in hemoglobin concentrations at 1.624
g/dL and 1.488 g/dL, respectively, after 9 months of therapy. Safety was reported
in 3 identified studies and in data reported from the early access program: 3
peer-reviewed publications, 3 studies reported in clinical trial registries, and 
1 abstract publication. Patients experienced a minimal number of adverse effects,
and most reactions were mild to moderate in severity; 1 patient developed an
anaphylactoid reaction and was discontinued from the trial. Antibody formation
has been described with velaglucerase alfa but when compared with that of
imiglucerase, seroconversion is less frequent (1% and 23%, respectively). Dosing 
regimens, from 30 to 60 U/kg intravenously every other week, have been assessed. 
Currently, the manufacturer recommends 60 U/kg intravenously every other week;
however, further studies and evaluation of current study dosing regimens are
needed to determine if there is a lower effective dose.
CONCLUSIONS: Although a minimal amount of data are available for this relatively 
new biological agent, velaglucerase alfa reportedly is effective in the
achievement and maintenance of therapeutic goals in type 1 GD in both
treatment-naive and patients previously treated with imiglucerase. This agent has
been reasonably well tolerated in clinical trials and may be considered for use
in symptomatic patients with type 1 GD.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.12.017 
PMID: 22264444  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Curr Opin Hematol. 2012 Mar;19(2):117-23. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0b013e32834ff575.

New generation small-molecule inhibitors in myeloproliferative neoplasms.

Passamonti F(1), Maffioli M, Caramazza D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Ospedale di Circolo e
Fondazione Macchi, Varese, Italy. francesco.passamonti@ospedale.varese.it

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are diseases that carry
the JAK2 (V617F) mutation in about 70% of the patients. The purpose of this
review is to describe the recent advances in the therapy of MPNs with JAK2
inhibitors.
RECENT FINDINGS: Many drugs are now under investigations targeting different
pathways critical for MPN development, such as the JAK-STAT (JAK2 inhibitors:
INCB018424 or ruxolitinib, TG101348 or SAR302503, CYT387, SB1518, CEP701 and
LY2784544) and the PI3K/AKT/mTOR (everolimus) pathways, or act through remodeling
of chromatin with a key role in epigenetics (givinostat, panobinostat and
vorinostat). The most relevant effects were spleen size reduction and relief of
constitutional symptoms.
SUMMARY: Patients who might benefit from JAK2 inhibitors in clinical practice are
mostly those with splenomegaly or with constitutional symptoms. We should alert
patients with lower hemoglobin levels that these therapies might, although
temporarily, favor the need for red blood cell transfusions.

DOI: 10.1097/MOH.0b013e32834ff575 
PMID: 22227528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Rev Diabet Stud. 2012 Winter;9(4):319-27. doi: 10.1900/RDS.2012.9.319. Epub 2012 
Dec 28.

Tolerance strategies employing antigen-coupled apoptotic cells and carboxylated
PLG nanoparticles for the treatment of type 1 diabetes.

Prasad S(1), Xu D, Miller SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology and Interdepartmental Immunobiology
Center, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611, 
USA.

The development of therapies that specifically target autoreactive immune cells
for the prevention and treatment of type 1 diabetes (T1D) without inducing
generalized immunosuppression that often compromises the host's ability to clear 
non-self antigen is highly desired. This review discusses the mechanisms and
potential therapeutic applications of antigen-specific T cell tolerance
techniques using syngeneic apoptotic cellular carriers and synthetic
nanoparticles that are covalently cross-linked to diabetogenic peptides or
proteins through ethylene carbodiimide (ECDI) to prevent and treat T1D.
Experimental models have demonstrated that intravenous injection of autoantigen
decorated splenocytes and biodegradable nanoparticles through ECDI fixation
effectively induce and maintain antigen-specific T cell abortive activation and
anergy by T cell intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms. The putative mechanisms
include, but are not limited to, the uptake and processing of antigen-coupled
nanoparticles or apoptotic cellular carriers for tolerogenic presentation by host
splenic antigen-presenting cells, the induction of regulatory T cells, and the
secretion of immune-suppressive cytokines, such as IL-10 and TGF-β. The safety
profile and efficacy of this approach in preclinical animal models of T1D,
including non-obese diabetic (NOD), BDC2.5 transgenic, and humanized mice, have
been extensively investigated, and will be the focus of this review. Translation 
of this approach to clinical trials of T1D and other T cell-mediated autoimmune
diseases will also be reviewed in this chapter.

DOI: 10.1900/RDS.2012.9.319 
PMCID: PMC3740699
PMID: 23804269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Cell Microbiol. 2012 Mar;14(3):343-55. doi: 10.1111/j.1462-5822.2011.01741.x.
Epub 2012 Feb 2.

The role of the spleen in malaria.

Del Portillo HA(1), Ferrer M, Brugat T, Martin-Jaular L, Langhorne J, Lacerda MV.

Author information: 
(1)Barcelona Centre for International Health Research (CRESIB, Hospital
Clinic-Universitat de Barcelona), Barcelona, Spain.
hernandoa.delportillo@cresib.cat

The spleen is a complex organ that is perfectly adapted to selectively filtering 
and destroying senescent red blood cells (RBCs), infectious microorganisms and
Plasmodium-parasitized RBCs. Infection by malaria is the most common cause of
spleen rupture and splenomegaly, albeit variably, a landmark of malaria
infection. Here, the role of the spleen in malaria is reviewed with special
emphasis in lessons learned from human infections and mouse models.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1462-5822.2011.01741.x 
PMID: 22188297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Clin Pediatr (Phila). 2012 May;51(5):436-41. doi: 10.1177/0009922811430345. Epub 
2011 Dec 8.

Invasive group A streptococcus infection presenting as purulent pericarditis with
multiple splenic abscesses: case report and literature review.

Pemira SM(1), Tolan RW Jr.

Author information: 
(1)The Children's Hospital at Saint Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick,
NJ, USA.

Purulent pericarditis is a localized infection of the pericardium producing an
effusion that is both microscopically and macroscopically purulent. Purulent
pericarditis is most frequently caused by Staphylococcus, although rarely
Streptococcus and other organisms are implicated. This article describes a case
of invasive group A streptococcal disease presenting as purulent pericarditis
with multiple splenic abscesses in a 4-year-old boy.

DOI: 10.1177/0009922811430345 
PMID: 22157427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Microbes Infect. 2012 Mar;14(3):262-7. doi: 10.1016/j.micinf.2011.10.003. Epub
2011 Oct 31.

XCL1 and XCR1 in the immune system.

Lei Y(1), Takahama Y.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology for Infectious Disease, People's Republic 
of China Ministry of Education, Institute for Viral Hepatitis, The Second
Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400010, China.

XCL1, a C class chemokine also known as lymphotactin, is produced by T, NK, and
NKT cells during infectious and inflammatory responses, whereas XCR1, the
receptor of XCL1, is expressed by a dendritic cell subpopulation. The XCL1-XCR1
axis plays an important role in dendritic-cell-mediated cytotoxic immune
response. It has been also shown that XCL1 and XCR1 are constitutively expressed 
in the thymus and regulate the thymic establishment of self-tolerance and the
generation of regulatory T cells. This review summarizes the expression and
function of XCL1 and XCR1 in the immune system.

Copyright © 2011 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micinf.2011.10.003 
PMID: 22100876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Surg Endosc. 2012 Apr;26(4):904-13. doi: 10.1007/s00464-011-2016-3. Epub 2011 Nov
15.

Laparoscopic versus open distal pancreatectomy: a systematic review of
comparative studies.

Jusoh AC(1), Ammori BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Surgery, North Manchester General
Hospital, Delaunays Road, Crumpsall, Manchester, M8 5RB, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The laparoscopic approach to distal pancreatectomy (DP) for benign 
and malignant diseases appears to offer advantages and is replacing open surgery 
in some centers. This review examined the evidence from published data of
comparative studies of laparoscopic versus open DP.
METHODS: The Medline and PubMed databases were searched and relevant English
language publications were systematically retrieved. Data were pooled by two
independent reviewers. The results shown represent mean.
RESULTS: Up to December 2010, 13 comparative studies of laparoscopic versus open 
DP were identified of which two were excluded, leaving 503 and 588 patients
respectively for analysis. The conversion rate was 9.5%. The groups were
comparable for age and sex, whilst open surgery was associated with significantly
higher incidence of malignant pathology (20.1 vs. 15.0%) and larger tumors (3.9
vs. 3.5 cm) compared with laparoscopic surgery. There were no differences between
the two approaches with regard to the operative time (220 vs. 208 min), rate of
postoperative pancreatic fistula (16.1 vs. 19.5%), and mortality (0.6 vs. 0.5%). 
However, the laparoscopic approach was associated with significantly lower
operative blood loss (237 vs. 562 ml), higher spleen preservation rate (37.8 vs. 
8%), lower morbidity (30.5 vs. 38.4%), and shorter postoperative hospital stay
(9.1 vs. 14.7 days).
CONCLUSIONS: The laparoscopic approach to DP offers advantages over open surgery 
with lower operative morbidity, higher spleen preservation rate, and shorter
hospital stay; these benefits are particularly observed in patients with benign
disease and borderline malignancy. The experience with laparoscopic DP for
malignant disease remains limited, and long-term follow-up data are required to
clearly define this role.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-011-2016-3 
PMID: 22083328  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


460. J Pediatr. 2012 Apr;160(4):684-689.e13. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2011.09.030. Epub
2011 Nov 3.

Comparative effectiveness of different types of splenectomy for children with
congenital hemolytic anemias.

Rice HE(1), Crary SE, Langer JC, Kemper AR; Splenectomy in Congenital Hemolytic
Anemia Consortium.

Collaborators: Rice HE, Thornburg CD, Davidoff AM, Ware RE, Oldham KT, Scott J,
Linden B, Heeney MM, Langer JC, Blanchette V, Dutta S, Glader B, Bruch S,
Campbell A, Skinner MA, Crary S, Rescorla FJ, Kumar M, Brown RL, Kalfa T, Holcomb
G, Waldhausen J, Matthews D, Warner BW, Wilson DB, Blakely M, Islam S, Sakhalkar 
VS, Brindle M, Wright N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA. 
rice0017@mc.duke.edu

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness of different types of splenectomy in
children with congenital hemolytic anemias.
STUDY DESIGN: We constructed key questions that addressed outcomes relevant to
clinicians and families on effects of partial or total splenectomy, including
hematologic effect, splenic function, and the risk of adverse events. We
identified from Pubmed and Embase 703 studies that evaluated different types of
splenectomy and accepted 93 studies that satisfied entry criteria. We graded the 
quality of each report and summarized the overall strength of research evidence
for each key question.
RESULTS: We did not identify any randomized clinical trials. All types of
splenectomy have favorable clinical outcomes in most diseases. We did not
identify any hematologic advantage of laparoscopy compared with laparotomy.
Adverse events are uncommon in most studies and are minimized with use of
laparoscopy.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a need for randomized clinical trials and improved data
collection of different types of splenectomy in congenital hemolytic anemias.
Outcomes studied should address the concerns of families and clinicians to assess
the risks and benefits of various treatments.

Copyright Â© 2012 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2011.09.030 
PMID: 22050869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2012 Aug;83(2):283-92. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.10.001. Epub 2011 Nov 1.

Hepatosplenic gamma-delta T-cell lymphoma.

Ferreri AJ(1), Govi S, Pileri SA.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Lymphoid Malignancies, Department of Onco-Hematology, San Raffaele
Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy. andres.ferreri@hsr.it

Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTL) is a rare and aggressive extranodal lymphoma
derived mostly from cytotoxic γδ T-cells. The peak incidence is in adolescents
and young adults, and is more common in males. Up to 20% of HSTL arise in the
setting of chronic immune suppression, most commonly solid organ transplantation 
or prolonged antigenic stimulation. Patients present with systemic symptoms
(fever), abdominal pain, weakness, and marked hepatosplenomegaly in the absence
of lymphadenopathy. Patients usually manifest marked thrombocytopenia, often with
anaemia and leucopenia, a leukemic phase, and bone marrow involvement in 80% of
cases. Lactate dehydrogenase levels are usually markedly elevated. HSTL exhibits 
a marked chemoresistance to currently used regimens, a rapidly progressive
behavior, and dismal prognosis. Patients with post-transplant HSTL exhibit an
especially poor outcome. Standard treatment has yet to be established.
Anthracycline-based chemotherapy is associated with a satisfactory response in
two thirds of patients, but poor long-term results. Complete remission is
extremely uncommon, and most patients die from lymphoma within two years of
diagnosis. A prognostic correlation between outcome and degree of
thrombocytopenia has been reported. Relapsing disease is usually chemorefractory 
and fast growing, and patients' performance status and clinical conditions are
poor. These aspects, as well as the lack of drugs with proven activity against
HSTL, render salvage treatment almost impossible. A few cases of HSTL
successfully treated with autologous or allogeneic stem-cell transplantation have
been reported. The use of 2'-deoxycoformycin and other targeted therapies, such
as alemtuzumab, anti-γδ TCR monoclonal antibodies, and anti-CD44 therapy, have
shown promising results in anecdotal reports.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.10.001 
PMID: 22047938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Microbes Infect. 2012 Feb;14(2):97-118. doi: 10.1016/j.micinf.2011.08.016. Epub
2011 Sep 8.

New insights into the biological effects of anthrax toxins: linking cellular to
organismal responses.

Guichard A(1), Nizet V, Bier E.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of California, San
Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0349, USA.

The anthrax toxins lethal toxin (LT) and edema toxin (ET) are essential virulence
factors produced by Bacillus anthracis. These toxins act during two distinct
phases of anthrax infection. During the first, prodromal phase, which is often
asymptomatic, anthrax toxins act on cells of the immune system to help the
pathogen establish infection. Then, during the rapidly progressing (or fulminant)
stage of the disease bacteria disseminate via a hematological route to various
target tissues and organs, which are typically highly vascularized. As bacteria
proliferate in the bloodstream, LT and ET begin to accumulate rapidly reaching a 
critical threshold level that will cause death even when the bacterial
proliferation is curtailed by antibiotics. During this final phase of infection
the toxins cause an increase in vascular permeability and a decrease in function 
of target organs including the heart, spleen, kidney, adrenal gland, and brain.
In this review, we examine the various biological effects of anthrax toxins,
focusing on the fulminant stage of the disease and on mechanisms by which the two
toxins may collaborate to cause cardiovascular collapse. We discuss normal
mechanisms involved in maintaining vascular integrity and based on recent studies
indicating that LT and ET cooperatively inhibit membrane trafficking to cell-cell
junctions we explore several potential mechanisms by which the toxins may achieve
their lethal effects. We also summarize the effects of other potential virulence 
factors secreted by B. anthracis and consider the role of toxic factors in the
evolutionarily recent emergence of this devastating disease.

Copyright © 2011 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micinf.2011.08.016 
PMCID: PMC3743078
PMID: 21930233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Updates Surg. 2012 Jun;64(2):157-60. doi: 10.1007/s13304-011-0088-1. Epub 2011
Jun 10.

Splenic localization of the peritoneal mesothelioma: case report and literature
revue.

D'Abbicco D(1), Conversano A, Epifania BR, Indellicato R, Margari A.

Author information: 
(1)U.O. di Chirurgia Generale G. Marinaccio, Policlinico-Bari, Università degli
Studi di Bari, Bari, Italy. dabbicco@chirurgiamarinaccio.uniba.it

Peritoneal mesothelioma is a rare form of malignant mesothelioma, making up <30% 
of diagnosed mesothelioma cases. Because of a lack of specific symptoms
(abdominal pain, abdominal swelling), normally it is diagnosed in advanced
stages, sometimes in a surgical emergency (intestinal obstruction, severe
ascites) and occasionally during image procedures or laparoscopy which can show a
mass developing from peritoneal mesothelium surfaces, or an accumulation of small
irregularities that may be tumors or plaques. The reported case refers to a
particular localization of a peritoneal mesothelioma, the spleen, discovered only
after a splenectomy, due to the clinical and radiological suspect of a rupture.

DOI: 10.1007/s13304-011-0088-1 
PMID: 21660615  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2012 Feb;26(1):63-71. doi:
10.1111/j.1472-8206.2011.00955.x. Epub 2011 Jun 1.

Physicochemical and biological aspects of macrophage-mediated drug targeting in
anti-microbial therapy.

Kunjachan S(1), Jose S, Thomas CA, Joseph E, Kiessling F, Lammers T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Cheruvandoor
campus, Ettumanoor, Kerala, India. skunjachan@ukaachen.de

Macrophages are important drug targets as they mediate a wide variety of
infectious diseases. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), schistosomiasis, brucellosis,
and salmonellosis are some of the well-known infectious diseases in which
macrophages play a prominent pathophysiological role. For instance, VL parasites 
exclusively house in the macrophages of liver and spleen. They are resistant to
lysosomal degradation by unknown mechanisms, they survive and thrive safely
within macrophages, they multiply, and they ultimately affect visceral organs,
leading to severe pathological and sometimes even fatal conditions. The majority 
of routinely used drugs administered in free form distribute all over the body
via systemic circulation, leading to relatively low therapeutic activity and a
certain degree of toxicity. Unlike for nonmicrobial diseases, targeting parasites
procuring resistance and ineffective therapeutic outcome can be obviously
speculated in case of infectious disease. The preferential uptake by macrophages,
intended to improve the balance between efficacy and toxicity, can be achieved by
the use of nanomedicines, i.e. submicron-sized macromolecular or particulate drug
delivery systems. This insight has stimulated researchers to use
nanomedicines--which tend to be recognized by macrophages as 'foreign' and
consequently are taken up by the intended target cells much more effectively than
their free drug counterparts--to improve the treatment of infectious diseases.
The literature reports extensively on such approaches; however, there are several
constraints that limit the application of nanomedicine in macrophage-mediated
drug targeting. Here, we briefly describe the strategies that are used to achieve
effective drug targeting to macrophages, using VL as a model disease, and we also
put forth an understanding of the most important limiting factors. Various
physicochemical and biological factors used by researchers as reported in the
literature are addressed, and the most important mechanisms and modes by which
macrophage-specific drug targeting can be achieved are summarized. Based on the
evidence obtained to date, it can be concluded that targeting macrophages is a
valuable and validated strategy for improving the treatment of infectious
diseases.

© 2011 The Authors Fundamental and Clinical Pharmacology © 2011 Société Française
de Pharmacologie et de Thérapeutique.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-8206.2011.00955.x 
PMID: 21631585  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Br J Pharmacol. 2012 Feb;165(3):622-32. doi: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.2011.01369.x.

Resistin: functional roles and therapeutic considerations for cardiovascular
disease.

Jamaluddin MS(1), Weakley SM, Yao Q, Chen C.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Surgeon Research Center, Division of Vascular Surgery and
Endovascular Therapy, Michael E. DeBakey Department of Surgery, Baylor College of
Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Resistin, originally described as an adipocyte-specific hormone, has been
suggested to be an important link between obesity, insulin resistance and
diabetes. Although its expression was initially defined in adipocytes,
significant levels of resistin expression in humans are mainly found in
mononuclear leukocytes, macrophages, spleen and bone marrow cells. Increasing
evidence indicates that resistin plays important regulatory roles apart from its 
role in insulin resistance and diabetes in a variety of biological processes:
atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease (CVD), non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease, autoimmune disease, malignancy, asthma, inflammatory bowel disease and
chronic kidney disease. As CVD accounts for a significant amount of morbidity and
mortality in patients with diabetes and without diabetes, it is important to
understand the role that adipokines such as resistin play in the cardiovascular
system. Evidence suggests that resistin is involved in pathological processes
leading to CVD including inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, thrombosis,
angiogenesis and smooth muscle cell dysfunction. The modes of action and
signalling pathways whereby resistin interacts with its target cells are
beginning to be understood. In this review, the current knowledge about the
functions and pathophysiological implications of resistin in CVD development is
summarized; clinical translations, therapeutic considerations and future
directions in the field of resistin research are discussed.LINKED ARTICLES: This 
article is part of a themed section on Fat and Vascular Responsiveness. To view
the other articles in this section visit
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/bph.2012.165.issue-3.

© 2011 The Authors. British Journal of Pharmacology © 2011 The British
Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.2011.01369.x 
PMCID: PMC3315035
PMID: 21545576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

