
1. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2016 Apr-Jun;120(2):288-92.

CORTICOSTEROID TREATMENT IN THE SETTING OF DECOMPENSATED LIVER CIRRHOSIS WITH
RELATIVE ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY: A CASE REPORT AND A BRIEF REVIEW OF THE
LITERATURE.

Chiriac S, Stanciu C, Trifan A.

Relative adrenal insufficiency (RAI) is the term used to describe inadequate
production or action of glucocorticoids with respect to the severity of the
illness. RAI is frequently found in critically ill patients particularly with
septic complications and it is also present in both critically ill and stable
patients with liver cirrhosis. In the following study a case report of a patient 
with decompensated cirrhosis and RAI is presented followed by a brief review of
the literature. A 65-year-old male with liver cirrhosis of alcoholic etiology was
admitted to hospital with bilateral leg edema, ascites, and marked weakness. At
admission, his blood pressure was 82/52 mmHg and he had sinus tachycardia of
130/min. Laboratory analysis revealed hyponatremia (122 mmol/L), while ascites
fluid analysis showed no infection. During the first 48 hours of hospitalization 
the patient remained persistently hypotensive despite adequate vascular filling
and the addition of noradrenaline. A standard-dose short synacthen test was
performed which revealed a poor cortisol response, which is a compatible
criterion for the diagnosis of RAI. Intravenous hydrocortisone therapy was
initiated, which resulted in a rapid improvement in patient's general condition, 
and increase in blood pressure. As the patient became hemodynamically stable
without the need of noradrenaline, the hydrocortisone dose was weaned
progressively, and he was discharged after 18 days of hospitalization in a stable
condition.


PMID: 27483706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Adolesc Med State Art Rev. 2016 Spring;27(1):93-108.

Gastrointestinal Conditions in the Obese Patient.

Taylor SA, Himes R, Hastings E, Garland B.

Obesity in adolescents presents many challenges for the patient, family, and
physician. The myriad problems involving the GI tract will be managed more
effectively when the treating physician has an understanding of the
presentations, pathophysiology, appropriate laboratory evaluation, and approaches
to treatment for these complications. In addition to being familiar with the
pharmacotherapeutic options available, having an approach to behavioral change,
such as MI, can be an extremely useful tool.


PMID: 27363235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Orv Hetil. 2016 Jun 19;157(25):987-94. doi: 10.1556/650.2016.30425.

[Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma - 2016].

[Article in Hungarian]

Pár A(1), Pár G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Klinikai Központ, I. Belgyógyászati Klinika, Pécsi Tudományegyetem, Általános 
Orvostudományi Kar Pécs, Ifjúság útja 13., 7624.

In the past decade non-alcoholic liver disease became the most frequently
diagnosed liver disease in developed countries. At the same time, the dramatic
rise in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma is attributed to this common
metabolic disorder, and mainly to its severe form, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.
The risk factors of these associated diseases are genetic predisposition, obesity
and diabetes as well as chronic low grade necro-infammation, which often leads to
liver fibrosis. Free fatty acids, cytokines, lipotoxicity, insulin resistance,
microRNS dysregulation and alteration in intestinal microbiota play a pivotal
role in the pathogenesis. Treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease - weight
reduction and physical exercise in obesity, metformin in diabetes, statins in
dyslipidemia and, as a new option, obeticholic acid - may diminish the risk of
the hepatocellular carcinoma related to this metabolic disease.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2016.30425 
PMID: 27287838  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Alcohol Res. 2016;38(1):7-15.

Alcohol Consumption in Demographic Subpopulations: An Epidemiologic Overview.

Delker E(1), Brown Q(2), Hasin DS(3).

Author information: 
(1)New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, New York. (2)Department of
Epidemiology, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New 
York. (3)Columbia University Medical Center/New York State Psychiatric Institute,
New York, New York.

Alcohol consumption is common across subpopulations in the United States.
However, the health burden associated with alcohol consumption varies across
groups, including those defined by demographic characteristics such as age, race/
ethnicity, and gender. Large national surveys, such as the National Epidemiologic
Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions and the National Survey on Drug Use and 
Health, found that young adults ages 18-25 were at particularly high risk of
alcohol use disorder and unintentional injury caused by drinking. These surveys
furthermore identified significant variability in alcohol consumption and its
consequences among racial/ethnic groups. White respondents reported the highest
prevalence of current alcohol consumption, whereas alcohol abuse and dependence
were most prevalent among Native Americans. Native Americans and Blacks also were
most vulnerable to alcohol-related health consequences. Even within ethnic
groups, there was variability between and among different subpopulations. With
respect to gender, men reported more alcohol consumption and binge drinking than 
women, especially in older cohorts. Men also were at greater risk of alcohol
abuse and dependence, liver cirrhosis, homicide after alcohol consumption, and
drinking and driving. Systematic identification and measurement of the
variability across demographics will guide prevention and intervention efforts,
as well as future research.


PMCID: PMC4872616
PMID: 27159807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nutr J. 2016 Apr 23;15:43. doi: 10.1186/s12937-016-0166-9.

Pathophysiological role of host microbiota in the development of obesity.

Kobyliak N(1), Virchenko O(2), Falalyeyeva T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bogomolets National Medical University, T. Shevchenko Boulevard, 13, Kyiv,
01601, Ukraine. nazariikobyliak@gmail.com. (2)Taras Shevchenko National
University of Kyiv, Volodymyrska Str., 64/13, Kyiv, 01601, Ukraine.

Overweight and obesity increase the risk for a number of diseases, namely,
cardiovascular diseases, type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, premature death,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease as well as different types of cancer.
Approximately 1.7 billion people in the world suffer from being overweight, most 
notably in developed countries. Current research efforts have focused on host and
environmental factors that may affect energy balance. It was hypothesized that a 
microbiota profile specific to an obese host with increased energy-yielding
behavior may exist. Consequently, the gut microbiota is becoming of significant
research interest in relation to obesity in an attempt to better understand the
aetiology of obesity and to develop new methods of its prevention and treatment. 
Alteration of microbiota composition may stimulate development of obesity and
other metabolic diseases via several mechanisms: increasing gut permeability with
subsequent metabolic inflammation; increasing energy harvest from the diet;
impairing short-chain fatty acids synthesis; and altering bile acids metabolism
and FXR/TGR5 signaling. Prebiotics and probiotics have physiologic functions that
contribute to the health of gut microbiota, maintenance of a healthy body weight 
and control of factors associated with obesity through their effects on
mechanisms that control food intake, body weight, gut microbiota and inflammatory
processes.

DOI: 10.1186/s12937-016-0166-9 
PMCID: PMC4841968
PMID: 27105827  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Apr 14;17(4):562. doi: 10.3390/ijms17040562.

NAFLD and Chronic Kidney Disease.

Marcuccilli M(1), Chonchol M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Renal Diseases and Hypertension, University of Colorado Hospital, 
Aurora, CO 80045, USA. morgan.marcuccilli@ucdenver.edu. (2)Division of Renal
Diseases and Hypertension, University of Colorado Denver, 13199 East Montview
Boulevard, Suite 495, Aurora, CO 80045, USA. michel.chonchol@ucdenver.edu.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in developed countries and it is now considered a risk factor for
cardiovascular disease. Evidence linking NAFLD to the development and progression
of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is emerging as a popular area of scientific
interest. The rise in simultaneous liver-kidney transplantation as well as the
significant cost associated with the presence of chronic kidney disease in the
NAFLD population make this entity a worthwhile target for screening and
therapeutic intervention. While several cross-sectional and case control studies 
have been published to substantiate these theories, very little data exists on
the underlying cause of NAFLD and CKD. In this review, we will discuss the most
recent publications on the diagnosis of NAFLD as well new evidence regarding the 
pathophysiology of NAFLD and CKD as an inflammatory disorder. These mechanisms
include the role of obesity, the renin-angiotensin system, and dysregulation of
fructose metabolism and lipogenesis in the development of both disorders. Further
investigation of these pathways may lead to novel therapies that aim to target
the NAFLD and CKD. However, more prospective studies that include information on 
both renal and liver histology will be necessary in order to understand the
relationship between these diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17040562 
PMCID: PMC4849018
PMID: 27089331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2016 May;18(5):24. doi: 10.1007/s11894-016-0498-9.

Pediatric Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Uppal V(1,)(2), Mansoor S(1,)(2), Furuya KN(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department
of Pediatrics, Alfred I duPont Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE, USA. (2)The
Sidney Kimmel Medical College at Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA,
USA. (3)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition,
Department of Pediatrics, Alfred I duPont Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE, 
USA. kfuruya@nemours.org. (4)The Sidney Kimmel Medical College at Thomas
Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA, USA. kfuruya@nemours.org.

Childhood obesity has reached epidemic proportions, and by 2012, more than one
third of American children were overweight or obese. As a result, increasingly,
children are developing complications of obesity including liver disease. In
fact, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is the most common form of chronic liver 
disease seen in children today. Recently, there has been a burgeoning literature 
examining the pathogenesis, genetic markers, and role of the microbiome in this
disease. On the clinical front, new modalities of diagnosing hepatic steatosis
and hepatic fibrosis are being developed to provide non-invasive methods of
surveillance in children. Lastly, the mainstay of treatment of pediatric
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been largely through lifestyle
interventions, namely, dieting and exercise. Currently, there are a number of
clinical trials examining novel lifestyle and drug therapies for NAFLD that are
registered with the US National Institutes of Health ClinicalTrials.gov website.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-016-0498-9 
PMID: 27086005  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Apr 12;17(4):548. doi: 10.3390/ijms17040548.

Role of Serum Uric Acid and Ferritin in the Development and Progression of NAFLD.

Lombardi R(1), Pisano G(2), Fargion S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, IRCCS "Ca' Granda" IRCCS
Foundation, Poiliclinico Hospital, University of Milan, Centro delle Malattie
Metaboliche del Fegato, Milan 20122, Italy. rosalombardi@hotmail.it.
(2)Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, IRCCS "Ca' Granda" IRCCS
Foundation, Poiliclinico Hospital, University of Milan, Centro delle Malattie
Metaboliche del Fegato, Milan 20122, Italy. pinaz81@hotmail.com. (3)Department of
Pathophysiology and Transplantation, IRCCS "Ca' Granda" IRCCS Foundation,
Poiliclinico Hospital, University of Milan, Centro delle Malattie Metaboliche del
Fegato, Milan 20122, Italy. silvia.fargion@unimi.it.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), tightly linked to the metabolic
syndrome (MS), has emerged as a leading cause of chronic liver disease worldwide.
Since it is potentially progressive towards non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) 
and hepatic fibrosis, up to cirrhosis and its associated complications, the need 
for predictive factors of NAFLD and of its advanced forms is mandatory. Despite
the current "gold standard" for the assessment of liver damage in NAFLD being
liver biopsy, in recent years, several non-invasive tools have been designed as
alternatives to histology, of which fibroscan seems the most promising. Among the
different serum markers considered, serum uric acid (SUA) and ferritin have
emerged as possible predictors of severity of liver damage in NAFLD. In fact, as 
widely described in this review, they share common pathogenetic pathways and are 
both associated with hepatic steatosis and MS, thus suggesting a likely
synergistic action. Nevertheless, the power of these serum markers seems to be
too low if considered alone, suggesting that they should be included in a wider
perspective together with other metabolic and biochemical parameters in order to 
predict liver damage.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17040548 
PMCID: PMC4849004
PMID: 27077854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):638-44. doi: 10.1042/BST20150235.

Blood triacylglycerols: a lipidomic window on diet and disease.

Sanders F(1), McNally B(1), Griffin JL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Nutrition Research, 120 Fulbourn Road,
Cambridge CB1 9NL, U.K. Department of Biochemistry, Tennis Court Road, University
of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1GA, U.K. (2)Medical Research Council Human Nutrition
Research, 120 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NL, U.K. Department of Biochemistry, 
Tennis Court Road, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1GA, U.K.
jules.griffin@mrc-hnr.cam.ac.uk jlg40@cam.ac.uk.

Although the measurement of triacylglycerols (TAGs) by clinical chemistry has
been used in the diagnosis of a range of metabolic diseases, such approaches
ignore the different species of TAGs that contribute to the total concentration. 
With the advent of LC and direct infusion forms of MS it is now possible to
profile the individual TAGs in blood plasma or tissue extracts. This mini review 
surveys the information that is obtainable from the lipidomic profiling of TAGs
in following metabolic diseases such as type 2 diabetes (T2DM), cardiovascular
disease (CVD) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, as well as the development
of insulin resistance and obesity.

© 2016 Authors; published by Portland Press Limited.

DOI: 10.1042/BST20150235 
PMID: 27068982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Intern Med J. 2016 Apr;46(4):404-12. doi: 10.1111/imj.13025.

Assessment of adult patients with chronic liver failure for liver transplantation
in 2015: who and when?

McCaughan GW(1,)(2,)(3), Crawford M(1), Sandroussi C(1), Koorey DJ(1,)(2), Bowen 
DG(1,)(2,)(3), Shackel NA(1,)(2,)(3), Strasser SI(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Australian National Liver Transplantation Unit, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (2)AW Morrow Gastroenterology and Liver
Centre, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Liver Injury and Cancer Group, Centenary Institute, University of Sydney,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

In 2015, there are a few absolute contraindications to liver transplantation. In 
adult patients, survival post-liver transplant is excellent, with 1-year survival
rate >90% and 5-year survival rates >80% and predicted median allograft survival 
beyond 20 years. Patients with a Child-Turcotte Pugh score ≥9 or a model for
end-stage liver disease (MELD) score >15 should be referred for liver
transplantation, with patients who have a MELD score >17 showing a 1-year
survival benefit with liver transplantation. A careful selection of
hepatocellular cancer patients results in excellent outcomes, while consideration
of extra-hepatic disease (reversible vs irreversible) and social support
structures are crucial to patient assessment. Alcoholic liver disease remains a
challenge, and the potential to cure hepatitis C virus infection together with
the emerging issue of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease-associated chronic liver 
failure will change the landscape of the who in the years ahead. The when will
continue to be determined largely by the severity of liver disease based on the
MELD score for the foreseeable future.

© 2016 Royal Australasian College of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/imj.13025 
PMID: 27062203  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1365-74. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4153-y.

Lifestyle and Dietary Interventions in the Management of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver
Disease.

Hannah WN Jr(1), Harrison SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, San Antonio Military Medical Center, 3551 Roger Brooke
Drive, JBSA - Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, TX, 78234-4504, USA. (2)Division of 
Gastroenterology, San Antonio Military Medical Center, 3551 Roger Brooke Drive,
JBSA - Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, TX, 78234-4504, USA.
stephen.a.harrison.mil@mail.mil.

NAFLD is the leading cause of chronic liver disease in the Western world with an 
estimated prevalence of 20-30 %. Lifestyle interventions targeted at weight loss 
through dietary interventions and exercise are the most effective treatment, but 
only a minority of patients are able to achieve and sustain the necessary
intervention targets. Weight loss of 3-5 % has been associated with a reduction
of hepatic steatosis while weight loss of ≥5-7 % has correlated with resolution
of NASH in some studies. Greater reductions in weight loss (≥10 %) may improve
hepatic fibrosis. In the absence of weight loss, no specific diet has
demonstrated superiority. Physical activity can improve hepatic steatosis and
metabolic indices even without weight loss. Diet coupled with exercise can
produce significant weight loss and may improve histologic components of the
NAFLD activity score. While formal guidelines for diet and exercise in NAFLD are 
lacking, adherence to diet and exercise recommendations similar to those from the
American Diabetes Association for diabetic care seems reasonable. Dietary
supplementation with vitamin E in non-diabetics with biopsy-proven NASH has been 
shown to improve NAFLD activity score. The role for other macronutrients,
micronutrients, antioxidants, and probiotics in the treatment of NAFLD remains
limited.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4153-y 
PMID: 27052013  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Apr 2;17(4):490. doi: 10.3390/ijms17040490.

Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Metabolic Syndrome after Liver Transplant.

Gitto S(1), Villa E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria and
University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Via del Pozzo 1, 41124 Modena, Italy.
stefano.gitto@studio.unibo.it. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, Azienda
Ospedaliero-Universitaria and University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Via del
Pozzo 1, 41124 Modena, Italy. erica.villa@unimore.it.

Liver transplant is the unique curative therapy for patients with acute liver
failure or end-stage liver disease, with or without hepatocellular carcinoma.
Increase of body weight, onset of insulin resistance and drug-induced alterations
of metabolism are reported in liver transplant recipients. In this context,
post-transplant diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and arterial hypertension can 
be often diagnosed. Multifactorial illnesses occurring in the post-transplant
period represent significant causes of morbidity and mortality. This is
especially true for metabolic syndrome. Non-alcoholic steatosis and
steatohepatitis are hepatic manifestations of metabolic syndrome and after liver 
transplant both recurrent and de novo steatosis can be found. Usually,
post-transplant steatosis shows an indolent outcome with few cases of fibrosis
progression. However, in the post-transplant setting, both metabolic syndrome and
steatosis might play a key role in the stratification of morbidity and mortality 
risk, being commonly associated with cardiovascular disease. The single
components of metabolic syndrome can be treated with targeted drugs while
lifestyle intervention is the only reasonable therapeutic approach for transplant
patients with non-alcoholic steatosis or steatohepatitis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17040490 
PMCID: PMC4848946
PMID: 27049380  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2016 Feb;30(1):133-42. doi:
10.1016/j.bpg.2016.02.004. Epub 2016 Feb 9.

Intestinal microbiota in liver disease.

Haque TR(1), Barritt AS 4th(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address: tanvir.haque@unchealth.unc.edu.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address: barritt@med.unc.edu.

The intestinal microbiota have emerged as a topic of intense interest in
gastroenterology and hepatology. The liver is on the front line as the first
filter of nutrients, toxins and bacterial metabolites from the intestines and we 
are becoming increasingly aware of interactions among the gut, liver and immune
system as important mediators of liver health and disease. Manipulating the
microbiota with therapeutic intent is a rapidly expanding field. In this review, 
we will describe what is known about the contribution of intestinal microbiota to
liver homeostasis; the role of dysbiosis in the pathogenesis of liver disease
including alcoholic and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma; and the therapeutic manifestations of altering
intestinal microbiota via antibiotics, prebiotics, probiotics and fecal
microbiota transplantation.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2016.02.004 
PMID: 27048904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Clin Mol Hepatol. 2016 Mar;22(1):1-6. doi: 10.3350/cmh.2016.22.1.1. Epub 2016 Mar
28.

Acute-on-chronic liver failure: a new syndrome in cirrhosis.

Moreau R(1,)(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, U1149, Centre de Recherche sur l'Inflammation (CRI), Clichy and Paris,
France. (2)UMRS1149, Université Paris Diderot-Paris 7, Paris, France.
(3)Département Hospitalo-Universitaire (DHU) UNITY, Service d'Hépatologie,
Hôpital Beaujon, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Clichy, France.
(4)Laboratoire d'Excellence Inflamex, ComUE Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.

Patients with cirrhosis who are hospitalized for an acute decompensation (AD) and
also have organ failure(s) are at high risk of short-term death. These patients
have a syndrome called Acute-on-Chronic Liver Failure (ACLF). ACLF is now
considered as a new syndrome that it is distinct from "mere" AD not only because 
of the presence of organ failure(s) and high short-term mortality but also
because of younger age, higher prevalence of alcoholic etiology of cirrhosis,
higher prevalence of some precipitants (such as bacterial infections, active
alcoholism), and more intense systemic inflammatory response. ACLF is a new
syndrome also because severe sepsis or severe alcoholic hepatitis do not account 
for 100% of the observed cases; in fact, almost 50% of the cases are of "unknown"
origin. In other words, severe sepsis, severe alcoholic hepatitis and ACLF of
"unknown origin" are subcategories of the syndrome.

DOI: 10.3350/cmh.2016.22.1.1 
PMCID: PMC4825167
PMID: 27044760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Apr 1;17(4):481. doi: 10.3390/ijms17040481.

Diet, Microbiota, Obesity, and NAFLD: A Dangerous Quartet.

Machado MV(1,)(2), Cortez-Pinto H(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gastrenterologia, Hospital de Santa Maria, Centro Hospitalar
Lisboa Norte (CHLN), 1649-035 Lisbon, Portugal. mverdelhomachado@gmail.com.
(2)Laboratório de Nutrição, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, Universidade de
Lisboa, Alameda da Universidade, 1649-004 Lisboa, Portugal.
mverdelhomachado@gmail.com. (3)Departamento de Gastrenterologia, Hospital de
Santa Maria, Centro Hospitalar Lisboa Norte (CHLN), 1649-035 Lisbon, Portugal.
hlcortezpinto@netcabo.pt. (4)Laboratório de Nutrição, Faculdade de Medicina de
Lisboa, Universidade de Lisboa, Alameda da Universidade, 1649-004 Lisboa,
Portugal. hlcortezpinto@netcabo.pt.

Recently, the importance of the gut-liver-adipose tissue axis has become evident.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic disease of a systemic
metabolic disorder that radiates from energy-surplus induced adiposopathy. The
gut microbiota has tremendous influences in our whole-body metabolism, and is
crucial for our well-being and health. Microorganisms precede humans in more than
400 million years and our guest flora evolved with us in order to help us face
aggressor microorganisms, to help us maximize the energy that can be extracted
from nutrients, and to produce essential nutrients/vitamins that we are not
equipped to produce. However, our gut microbiota can be disturbed, dysbiota, and 
become itself a source of stress and injury. Dysbiota may adversely impact
metabolism and immune responses favoring obesity and obesity-related disorders
such as insulin resistance/diabetes mellitus and NAFLD. In this review, we will
summarize the latest evidence of the role of microbiota/dysbiota in diet-induced 
obesity and NAFLD, as well as the potential therapeutic role of targeting the
microbiota in this set.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17040481 
PMCID: PMC4848937
PMID: 27043550  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1375-86. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4126-1. Epub 2016
Apr 4.

Lifestyle Interventions Including Nutrition, Exercise, and Supplements for
Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Children.

Africa JA(1,)(2), Newton KP(1,)(2), Schwimmer JB(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department of
Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego School of Medicine, La Jolla, CA,
USA. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, Rady Children's Hospital San Diego, San
Diego, CA, USA. (3)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition,
Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego School of Medicine,
La Jolla, CA, USA. jschwimmer@ucsd.edu. (4)Department of Gastroenterology, Rady
Children's Hospital San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA. jschwimmer@ucsd.edu.
(5)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department of
Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego, 3020 Children's Way, MC 5030,
San Diego, CA, 92123, USA. jschwimmer@ucsd.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of liver
disease among children. Lifestyle interventions, such as diet and exercise, are
frequently recommended. Children with NAFLD have a distinct physiology that is
different from obesity alone and has the potential to influence lifestyle
treatments. Studies of diet alone in the treatment of pediatric NAFLD have
focused on sugar and carbohydrate, but did not indicate any one dietary approach 
that was superior to another. For children who are obese and have NAFLD, weight
loss may have a beneficial effect regardless of the diet used. Exercise is widely
believed to improve NAFLD because a sedentary lifestyle, poor aerobic fitness,
and low muscle mass are all risk factors for NAFLD. However, there have been no
randomized controlled trials of exercise as a treatment for children with NAFLD. 
Studies of the combination of diet and exercise suggest a potential for
improvement in serum alanine aminotransferase activity and/or magnetic resonance 
imaging liver fat fraction with intervention. There is also enthusiasm for the
use of dietary supplements; however, studies in children have shown inconsistent 
effects of vitamin E, fish oil, and probiotics. This review presents the
available data from studies of lifestyle intervention and dietary supplements
published to date and highlights challenges that must be addressed in order to
advance the evidence base for the treatment of pediatric NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4126-1 
PMCID: PMC4848041 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 27041377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1214-25. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4143-0. Epub 2016
Apr 1.

Global Epidemiology of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Perspectives on US
Minority Populations.

Sherif ZA(1,)(2), Saeed A(3), Ghavimi S(4,)(5), Nouraie SM(4,)(5), Laiyemo
AO(4,)(6,)(5), Brim H(7,)(3,)(8), Ashktorab H(4,)(3,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Howard University, 520 W
Street NW, Washington, DC, 20059, USA. zaki.sherif@howard.edu. (2)College of
Medicine, Howard University, Washington, DC, USA. zaki.sherif@howard.edu.
(3)Cancer Center, Howard University, Washington, DC, USA. (4)Department of
Medicine, Howard University, Washington, DC, USA. (5)Howard University Hospital, 
Howard University, Washington, DC, USA. (6)Division of Gastroenterology, Howard
University, Washington, DC, USA. (7)Department of Pathology, Howard University,
Washington, DC, USA. (8)College of Medicine, Howard University, Washington, DC,
USA.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a clinical syndrome
predicted to be the next global epidemic affecting millions of people worldwide. 
The natural course of this disease including its subtype, non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), is not clearly defined especially in the African-American
segment of the US population.
AIMS: To conduct a review of the global epidemiology of NAFLD with emphasis on US
minority populations.
METHODS: A thorough search of evidence-based literature was conducted using the
Pubmed database and commercial web sources such as Medscape and Google Scholar.
RESULTS: NAFLD and its subtype NASH are becoming the principal cause of chronic
liver disease across the world. In the US, Hispanics are the most
disproportionately affected ethnic group with hepatic steatosis, and elevated
aminotransferase levels, whereas African-Americans are the least affected.
Genetic disparities involved in lipid metabolism seem to be the leading
explanation for the lowest incidence and prevalence of both NAFLD and NASH in
African-Americans.
CONCLUSIONS: The unprecedented rise in the prevalence of NAFLD globally requires 
an initiation of population cohort studies with long-term follow-up to determine 
the incidence and natural history of NAFLD and its underrepresentation in
African-Americans. Future studies should also focus on the delineation of the
interplay between genetic and environmental factors that trigger the development 
of NAFLD and NASH.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4143-0 
PMCID: PMC4838529 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 27038448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Mar 25;17(4):447. doi: 10.3390/ijms17040447.

Gut Microbiota and Lifestyle Interventions in NAFLD.

Houghton D(1), Stewart CJ(2), Day CP(3,)(4), Trenell M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 
6BE, UK. david.houghton@ncl.ac.uk. (2)Alkek Center for Metagenomics and
Microbiome Research, Department of Molecular Virology and Microbiology, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Christopher.Stewart@bcm.edu.
(3)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 
6BE, UK. chris.day@newcastle.ac.uk. (4)Liver Unit, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals 
NHS Trust, Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne NE7 7DN, UK.
chris.day@newcastle.ac.uk. (5)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle
University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 6BE, UK. michael.trenell@newcastle.ac.uk.

The human digestive system harbors a diverse and complex community of
microorganisms that work in a symbiotic fashion with the host, contributing to
metabolism, immune response and intestinal architecture. However, disruption of a
stable and diverse community, termed "dysbiosis", has been shown to have a
profound impact upon health and disease. Emerging data demonstrate dysbiosis of
the gut microbiota to be linked with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
Although the exact mechanism(s) remain unknown, inflammation, damage to the
intestinal membrane, and translocation of bacteria have all been suggested.
Lifestyle intervention is undoubtedly effective at improving NAFLD, however, not 
all patients respond to these in the same manner. Furthermore, studies
investigating the effects of lifestyle interventions on the gut microbiota in
NAFLD patients are lacking. A deeper understanding of how different aspects of
lifestyle (diet/nutrition/exercise) affect the host-microbiome interaction may
allow for a more tailored approach to lifestyle intervention. With gut microbiota
representing a key element of personalized medicine and nutrition, we review the 
effects of lifestyle interventions (diet and physical activity/exercise) on gut
microbiota and how this impacts upon NAFLD prognosis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17040447 
PMCID: PMC4848903
PMID: 27023533  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1356-64. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4079-4. Epub 2016
Mar 26.

Fibrosis Assessment in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) in 2016.

Kaswala DH(1), Lai M(1), Afdhal NH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Center, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Beth Israel
Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, 110 Francis St #8e, Boston, 
MA, 0221, USA. (2)Liver Center, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, 110 Francis St
#8e, Boston, MA, 0221, USA. nafdhal@bidmc.harvard.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a spectrum of liver pathologies
characterized by hepatic steatosis with a history of little to no alcohol
consumption or secondary causes of hepatic steatosis. The prevalence of NAFLD is 
20-25 % of the general population in the Western countries and is associated with
metabolic risk factors such as obesity, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia. The 
spectrum of disease ranges from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis,
fibrosis, and cirrhosis. Advanced fibrosis is the most significant predictor of
mortality in NAFLD. It is crucial to assess for the presence and degree of
hepatic fibrosis in order to make therapeutic decisions and predict clinical
outcomes. Liver biopsy, the current gold standard to assess the liver fibrosis,
has a number of drawbacks such as invasiveness, sampling error, cost, and
inter-/intra-observer variability. There are currently available a number of
noninvasive tests as an alternative to liver biopsy for fibrosis staging. These
noninvasive fibrosis tests are increasingly used to rule out advanced fibrosis
and help guide disease management. While these noninvasive tests perform
relatively well for ruling out advanced fibrosis, they also have limitations.
Understanding the strengths and limitations of liver biopsy and the noninvasive
tests is necessary for deciding when to use the appropriate tests in the
evaluation of patients with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4079-4 
PMID: 27017224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Mar 9;17(3):355. doi: 10.3390/ijms17030355.

Type 2 Diabetes in Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Hepatitis C Virus
Infection--Liver: The "Musketeer" in the Spotlight.

Ballestri S(1), Nascimbeni F(2,)(3), Romagnoli D(4), Baldelli E(5), Targher G(6),
Lonardo A(7).

Author information: 
(1)Operating Unit Internal Medicine, Pavullo General Hospital, Azienda USL
Modena, ViaSuore di San Giuseppe Benedetto Cottolengo, 5, Pavullo, 41026 Modena, 
Italy. stefanoballestri@tiscali.it. (2)Outpatient Liver Clinic and Operating Unit
Internal Medicine, NOCSAE, Azienda USL Modena, Via P. Giardini, 1355, 41126
Modena, Italy. fabio.nascimbeni@libero.it. (3)Department of Biomedical, Metabolic
and Neural Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Via P. Giardini,
1355, 41126 Modena, Italy. fabio.nascimbeni@libero.it. (4)Outpatient Liver Clinic
and Operating Unit Internal Medicine, NOCSAE, Azienda USL Modena, Via P.
Giardini, 1355, 41126 Modena, Italy. danter1@alice.it. (5)Department of
Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio
Emilia, Via P. Giardini, 1355, 41126 Modena, Italy. enrica.baldelli@unimore.it.
(6)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
University and Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Piazzale
Stefani, 1, 37126 Verona, Italy. giovanni.targher@univr.it. (7)Outpatient Liver
Clinic and Operating Unit Internal Medicine, NOCSAE, Azienda USL Modena, Via P.
Giardini, 1355, 41126 Modena, Italy. a.lonardo@libero.it.

The pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes (T2D) involves chronic hyperinsulinemia due
to systemic and hepatic insulin resistance (IR), which if uncorrected, will lead 
to progressive pancreatic beta cell failure in predisposed individuals.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a spectrum of fatty (simple
steatosis and steatohepatitis) and non-fatty liver changes (NASH-cirrhosis with
or without hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)) that are commonly observed among
individuals with multiple metabolic derangements, notably including visceral
obesity, IR and T2D. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is also often associated
with both hepatic steatosis and features of a specific HCV-associated
dysmetabolic syndrome. In recent years, the key role of the steatotic liver in
the development of IR and T2D has been increasingly recognized. Thus, in this
comprehensive review we summarize the rapidly expanding body of evidence that
links T2D with NAFLD and HCV infection. For each of these two liver diseases with
systemic manifestations, we discuss the epidemiological burden, the
pathophysiologic mechanisms and the clinical implications. To date, substantial
evidence suggests that NAFLD and HCV play a key role in T2D development and that 
the interaction of T2D with liver disease may result in a "vicious circle",
eventually leading to an increased risk of all-cause mortality and liver-related 
and cardiovascular complications. Preliminary evidence also suggests that
improvement of NAFLD is associated with a decreased incidence of T2D. Similarly, 
the prevention of T2D following HCV eradication in the era of direct-acting
antiviral agents is a biologically plausible result. However, additional studies 
are required for further clarification of mechanisms involved.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17030355 
PMCID: PMC4813216
PMID: 27005620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1398-405. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4128-z. Epub 2016
Mar 22.

Novel Pharmacotherapy Options for NASH.

Ratziu V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cardiometabolism and Nutrition (ICAN), Hôpital Pitié
Salpêtrière, Service d'hépatogastroentérologie, Université Pierre et Marie Curie,
47-83 Bd de l'Hôpital, 75013, Paris, France. vlad.ratziu@upmc.fr.

While simple to recommend, diet and lifestyle measures as a first-line therapy
for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are hardly a model of successful therapy,
as most clinicians can testify. They can be complex to implement, hard to
sustain, and of limited efficacy in advanced stages of the disease. The need for 
specific pharmacotherapy is now acknowledged by practitioners, the pharmaceutical
industry, and regulators and is largely expected by patients. The result is a
clear move away from products developed second hand for NASH (such as
pioglitazone or metformin) or from generic, non-specific hepatoprotectors (such
as pentoxifylline, ursodeoxycholic acid, or antioxidants) toward molecules
developed and tested specifically for NASH that aim to correct one or several of 
the pathways of liver injury in this disease. The two most advanced molecules,
obeticholic acid and elafibranor, have shown encouraging data on improving
hepatic histology. Both compounds appear to clear NASH, with obeticholic acid
improving liver fibrosis and elafibranor improving the glycemic and lipid
profile. Much larger trials, currently ongoing, will need to confirm these
preliminary data and better characterize the safety and tolerability profile.
Meanwhile, other compounds are being tested, a few in phase 2b studies
(cenicriviroc, aramchol for NASH, and simtuzumab for NASH fibrosis) and many more
in earlier, smaller trials. Most of these drug candidates target different
pathways, which speaks to the diversity and dynamism of the NASH pipeline.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4128-z 
PMID: 27003143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1226-33. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4095-4. Epub 2016
Mar 22.

Natural History of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Goh GB(1,)(2), McCullough AJ(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Singapore General Hospital,
Singapore, Singapore. (2)Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore, Singapore. 
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 Euclid
Avenue/A30, Cleveland, OH, 44195, USA. mcculla@ccf.org. (4)Department of
Pathobiology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, USA. mcculla@ccf.org.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains among the most common liver
diseases worldwide, with increasing prevalence in concert with the obesity and
metabolic syndrome epidemic. The evidence on the natural history, albeit with
some ambiguity, suggests the potential for some subsets of NAFLD to progress to
cirrhosis, liver-related complications and mortality with fibrosis being the most
important predictor of hard long-term endpoints such as mortality and liver
complications. In this setting, NAFLD proves to be a formidable disease entity,
with considerable clinical burden, for both the present and the future. Our
understanding of the natural history of NAFLD is constantly evolving, with
nascent data challenging current dogma. Further clarification of the natural
history is required with well-designed, well-defined studies using prospectively 
collected data. Identifying the predictors of long-term outcomes should be used
to direct development of clinical trial endpoints in NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4095-4 
PMID: 27003142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Int J Obes (Lond). 2016 Mar;40 Suppl 1:S1-5. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2016.7.

Sweeteners and health: findings from recent research and their impact on obesity 
and related metabolic conditions.

Rippe JM(1,)(2,)(3), Tappy L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Rippe Lifestyle Institute, Shrewsbury, MA, USA. (2)Rippe Lifestyle Research
Institute of Florida, Celebration, FL, USA. (3)University of Central Florida,
Orlando, FL, USA. (4)Department of Physiology, Lausanne University School of
Biology and Medicine, Lausanne, Switzerland.

Few topics in nutrition engender more controversy than added sugars in general,
and fructose-containing sugars in particular. Some investigators have argued that
added sugars are associated with increased risk of obesity, cardiovascular
disease, diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and even sugar 'addiction'. 
Other investigators have questioned the scientific basis for all of these
assertions. This debate has extended far beyond the scientific community into
various media outlets including the internet and other non-refereed venues often 
with heated rhetoric and little science. Against this backdrop, a group of
experts and researchers in the metabolism and health effects of added sugars
presented a symposium 'Sweeteners and Health: Findings from Recent Research and
their Impact on Obesity and Related Metabolic Conditions' at the European
Congress on Obesity on 7 May 2015. The papers in this supplement are based on the
presentations made at this meeting. The current article is intended to serve as
an Introduction to this supplement.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2016.7 
PMID: 27001641  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Mar 15;17(3):383. doi: 10.3390/ijms17030383.

Telomeres, NAFLD and Chronic Liver Disease.

Donati B(1), Valenti L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, Università degli Studi di
Milano, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Policlinico Milano, 20122 Milano,
Italy. benedetta.donati@unimi.it. (2)Department of Pathophysiology and
Transplantation, Università degli Studi di Milano, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda
Ospedale Policlinico Milano, 20122 Milano, Italy. luca.valenti@unimi.it.

Telomeres consist of repeat DNA sequences located at the terminal portion of
chromosomes that shorten during mitosis, protecting the tips of chromosomes.
During chronic degenerative conditions associated with high cell replication
rate, progressive telomere attrition is accentuated, favoring senescence and
genomic instability. Several lines of evidence suggest that this process is
involved in liver disease progression: (a) telomere shortening and alterations in
the expression of proteins protecting the telomere are associated with cirrhosis 
and hepatocellular carcinoma; (b) advanced liver damage is a feature of a
spectrum of genetic diseases impairing telomere function, and inactivating
germline mutations in the telomerase complex (including human Telomerase Reverse 
Transcriptase (hTERT) and human Telomerase RNA Component (hTERC)) are enriched in
cirrhotic patients independently of the etiology; and (c) experimental models
suggest that telomerase protects from liver fibrosis progression. Conversely,
reactivation of telomerase occurs during hepatocarcinogenesis, allowing the
immortalization of the neoplastic clone. The role of telomere attrition may be
particularly relevant in the progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver, an emerging
cause of advanced liver disease. Modulation of telomerase or shelterins may be
exploited to prevent liver disease progression, and to define specific treatments
for different stages of liver disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17030383 
PMCID: PMC4813240
PMID: 26999107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Mar 15;17(3):281. doi: 10.3390/ijms17030281.

Mitochondrial Molecular Pathophysiology of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: A
Proteomics Approach.

Nuño-Lámbarri N(1), Barbero-Becerra VJ(2), Uribe M(3), Chávez-Tapia NC(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Traslational Research Unit, Médica Sur Clinic &amp; Foundation, Mexico City
14050, Mexico. nnunol@medicasur.org.mx. (2)Traslational Research Unit, Médica Sur
Clinic &amp; Foundation, Mexico City 14050, Mexico. vbarberob@medicasur.org.mx.
(3)Obesity and Digestive Diseases Unit, Médica Sur Clinic &amp; Foundation,
Mexico City 14050, Mexico. muribe@medicasur.org.mx. (4)Traslational Research
Unit, Médica Sur Clinic &amp; Foundation, Mexico City 14050, Mexico.
nchavezt@medicasur.org.mx. (5)Obesity and Digestive Diseases Unit, Médica Sur
Clinic &amp; Foundation, Mexico City 14050, Mexico. nchavezt@medicasur.org.mx.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver condition that can
progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, cirrhosis and cancer. It is considered 
an emerging health problem due to malnourishment or a high-fat diet (HFD) intake,
which is observed worldwide. It is well known that the hepatocytes' apoptosis
phenomenon is one of the most important features of NAFLD. Thus, this review
focuses on revealing, through a proteomics approach, the complex network of
protein interactions that promote fibrosis, liver cell stress, and apoptosis.
According to different types of in vitro and murine models, it has been found
that oxidative/nitrative protein stress leads to mitochondrial dysfunction, which
plays a major role in stimulating NAFLD damage. Human studies have revealed the
importance of novel biomarkers, such as retinol-binding protein 4, lumican,
transgelin 2 and hemoglobin, which have a significant role in the disease. The
post-genome era has brought proteomics technology, which allows the determination
of molecular pathogenesis in NAFLD. This has led to the search for biomarkers
which improve early diagnosis and optimal treatment and which may effectively
prevent fatal consequences such as cirrhosis or cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17030281 
PMCID: PMC4813145
PMID: 26999105  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Mar 14;17(3):376. doi: 10.3390/ijms17030376.

Extracellular Vesicles: A New Frontier in Biomarker Discovery for Non-Alcoholic
Fatty Liver Disease.

Ban LA(1), Shackel NA(2), McLennan SV(3).

Author information: 
(1)Greg Brown Diabetes and Endocrine Laboratory, Charles Perkins Centre,
University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. linda.ban@sydney.edu.au. (2)Liver Cell
Biology Laboratory, Centenary Institute of Cancer Medicine and Cell Biology,
Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia. n.shackel@centenary.usyd.edu.au. (3)Greg Brown
Diabetes and Endocrine Laboratory, Charles Perkins Centre, University of Sydney, 
NSW 2006, Australia. sue.mclennan@sydney.edu.au.

In recent years, the global burden of obesity and diabetes has seen a parallel
rise in other metabolic complications, such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease 
(NAFLD). This condition, once thought to be a benign accumulation of hepatic fat,
is now recognized as a serious and prevalent disorder that is conducive to
inflammation and fibrosis. Despite the rising incidence of NAFLD, there is
currently no reliable method for its diagnosis or staging besides the highly
invasive tissue biopsy. This limitation has resulted in the study of novel
circulating markers as potential candidates, one of the most popular being
extracellular vesicles (EVs). These submicron membrane-bound structures are
secreted from stressed and activated cells, or are formed during apoptosis, and
are known to be involved in intercellular communication. The cargo of EVs depends
upon the parent cell and has been shown to be changed in disease, as is their
abundance in the circulation. The role of EVs in immunity and epigenetic
regulation is widely attested, and studies showing a correlation with disease
severity have made these structures a favorable target for diagnostic as well as 
therapeutic purposes. This review will highlight the research that is available
on EVs in the context of NAFLD, the current limitations, and projections for
their future utility in a clinical setting.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17030376 
PMCID: PMC4813235
PMID: 26985892  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2016 Feb;24(2):92-5. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1007-3418.2016.02.004.

[Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in the elderly].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang B(1), Liu L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Elderly Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of China
Medical University, Shengyang 110001, China.

Along with the aging process, the spectrum of liver disease changes greatly.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in elderly people lead to low liver
function and is also the major cause of extrahepatic diseases, such as
cardiovascular disease and malignant tumor. This review provides an overview of
the morphological structure and function of the liver in aged people, and
discusses the characteristics of weakness, malnutrition and limited movement in
the elderly, as well as the current status of multiple diseases and multiple drug
use. Finally, this article puts forward some appropriate regimens for the
diagnosis and treatment of NAFLD in elderly people to provide a reference for
clinical practice.


PMID: 26983474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2016 Feb;24(2):89-91. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1007-3418.2016.02.003.

[Studies on association between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and
hyperuricemia: current status and future prospects].

[Article in Chinese]

Li Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, the First Affiliated Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310003, China.

Uric acid is the end-product of purine metabolism. It has been widely accepted
that the increase in the level of uric acid significantly raises the risks of
gout, cardiovascular disease, and type 2 diabetes. The studies in recent years
have shown that hyperuricemia is closed related to nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD). This review summarizes the research advances in the association 
between hyperuricemia and NAFLD and related mechanisms based on the author's
recent research findings.


PMID: 26983473  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Toxicol Sci. 2016 Apr;150(2):261-8. doi: 10.1093/toxsci/kfw018. Epub 2016 Mar 15.

Tipping the Balance: Hepatotoxicity and the 4 Apical Key Events of Hepatic
Steatosis.

Angrish MM(1), Kaiser JP(2), McQueen CA(1), Chorley BN(3).

Author information: 
(1)*National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory, Office of
Research and Development (ORD), United States Environmental Protection Agency (US
EPA), Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709; (2)United States
Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), National Center for Environmental
Assessment, Office of Research and Development (ORD), Cincinnati, Ohio 45268.
(3)*National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory, Office of
Research and Development (ORD), United States Environmental Protection Agency (US
EPA), Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709; chorley.brian@epa.gov.

Hepatic steatosis is a condition were fat accumulates in the liver and it is
associated with extra-hepatic diseases related to metabolic syndrome and systemic
energy metabolism. If not reversed, steatosis can progress to steatohepatitis and
irreversible stages of liver disease including fibrosis, cirrhosis,
hepatocellular carcinoma, and death. From a public health standpoint, identifying
chemical exposures that may be factors in steatosis etiology are important for
preventing hepatotoxicity and liver disease progression. It is therefore
important to identify the biological events that are key for steatosis pathology 
mediated by chemical exposure. In this review, we give a current overview of the 
complex biological cascades that can disrupt lipid homeostasis in hepatocytes in 
the context of 4 apical key events central to hepatic lipid retention: hepatic
fatty acid (FA) uptake,de novoFA and lipid synthesis, FA oxidation, and lipid
efflux. Our goal is to review these key cellular events and visually summarize
them using a network for application in pathway-based toxicity testing. This
effort provides a foundation to improve next-generation chemical screening
efforts that may be used to prevent and ultimately reverse the growing incidence 
of fatty liver disease in our population.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society of Toxicology 2016.
This work is written by US Government employees and is in the public domain in
the US.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/kfw018 
PMID: 26980302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Mar 11;17(3):367. doi: 10.3390/ijms17030367.

Bidirectional Relationships and Disconnects between NAFLD and Features of the
Metabolic Syndrome.

Wainwright P(1), Byrne CD(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Biochemistry, University Hospital Southampton, Tremona Road,
Southampton SO16 6YD, UK. patrick.wainwright@uhs.nhs.uk. (2)Nutrition and
Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, Tremona Road,
Southampton SO16 6YD, UK. C.D.Byrne@soton.ac.uk. (3)Southampton National
Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital
Southampton, Tremona Road, Southampton SO16 6YD, UK. C.D.Byrne@soton.ac.uk.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a wide spectrum of liver
disease from simple steatosis, to steatohepatitis, (both with and without liver
fibrosis), cirrhosis and end-stage liver failure. NAFLD also increases the risk
of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and both HCC and end stage liver disease may
markedly increase risk of liver-related mortality. NAFLD is increasing in
prevalence and is presently the second most frequent indication for liver
transplantation. As NAFLD is frequently associated with insulin resistance,
central obesity, dyslipidaemia, hypertension and hyperglycaemia, NAFLD is often
considered the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. There is growing 
evidence that this relationship between NAFLD and metabolic syndrome is
bidirectional, in that NAFLD can predispose to metabolic syndrome features, which
can in turn exacerbate NAFLD or increase the risk of its development in those
without a pre-existing diagnosis. Although the relationship between NAFLD and
metabolic syndrome is frequently bidirectional, recently there has been much
interest in genotype/phenotype relationships where there is a disconnect between 
the liver disease and metabolic syndrome features. Such potential examples of
genotypes that are associated with a dissociation between liver disease and
metabolic syndrome are patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein-3
(PNPLA3) (I148M) and transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 protein (TM6SF2)
(E167K) genotypes. This review will explore the bidirectional relationship
between metabolic syndrome and NAFLD, and will also discuss recent insights from 
studies of PNPLA3 and TM6SF2 genotypes that may give insight into how and why
metabolic syndrome features and liver disease are linked in NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17030367 
PMCID: PMC4813227
PMID: 26978356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Lipids Health Dis. 2016 Mar 10;15:53. doi: 10.1186/s12944-016-0221-8.

Gene polymorphisms associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and coronary
artery disease: a concise review.

Li XL(1), Sui JQ(2), Lu LL(3,)(4), Zhang NN(1), Xu X(1), Dong QY(1), Xin
YN(5,)(6,)(7), Xuan SY(8,)(9,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Dalian Medical
University, Qingdao, 266011, China. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, Qingdao
Municipal Hospital, Qingdao, 266011, China. (3)Digestive Disease Key Laboratory
of Qingdao, Qingdao, 266071, China. (4)Central Laboratories, Qingdao Municipal
Hospital, Qingdao, 266071, China. (5)Department of Gastroenterology, Qingdao
Municipal Hospital, Dalian Medical University, Qingdao, 266011, China.
xinyongning@163.com. (6)Department of Gastroenterology, Qingdao Municipal
Hospital, Qingdao, 266011, China. xinyongning@163.com. (7)Digestive Disease Key
Laboratory of Qingdao, Qingdao, 266071, China. xinyongning@163.com. (8)Department
of Gastroenterology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Dalian Medical University,
Qingdao, 266011, China. xuansydxy@163.com. (9)Department of Gastroenterology,
Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao, 266011, China. xuansydxy@163.com.
(10)Digestive Disease Key Laboratory of Qingdao, Qingdao, 266071, China.
xuansydxy@163.com.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common chronic liver disease which
represents a wide spectrum of hepatic damage. Several studies have reported that 
NAFLD is a strong independent risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD). And 
patients with NAFLD are at higher risk and suggested undergoperiodic
cardiovascular risk assessment. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is responsible for
the main cause of death in patients with NAFLD, and is mostly influenced by
genetic factors. Both NAFLD and CAD are heterogeneous disease. Common pathways
involved in the pathogenesis of NAFLD and CAD includes insulin resistance (IR),
atherogenic dyslipidemia, subclinical inflammation, oxidative stress, etc.
Genomic characteristics of these two diseases have been widely studied, further
research about the association of these two diseases draws attention. The gene
polymorphisms of adiponectin-encoding gene (ADIPOQ), leptin receptor (LEPR),
apolipoprotein C3 (APOC3), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR),
sterol regulatory elementbinding proteins (SREBP), transmembrane 6 superfamily
member 2 (TM6SF2), microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP), tumor
necrosis factors-alpha (TNF-α) and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) have
been reported to be related to NAFLD and CAD. In this review, we aimed to provide
an overview of recent insights into the genetic basis of NAFLD and CAD.

DOI: 10.1186/s12944-016-0221-8 
PMCID: PMC4785616
PMID: 26965314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nutrients. 2016 Mar 5;8(3):147. doi: 10.3390/nu8030147.

The Potential Protective Action of Vitamin D in Hepatic Insulin Resistance and
Pancreatic Islet Dysfunction in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.

Leung PS(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong, China. psleung@cuhk.edu.hk.

Vitamin D deficiency (i.e., hypovitaminosis D) is associated with increased
insulin resistance, impaired insulin secretion, and poorly controlled glucose
homeostasis, and thus is correlated with the risk of metabolic diseases,
including type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The liver plays key roles in glucose
and lipid metabolism, and its dysregulation leads to abnormalities in hepatic
glucose output and triglyceride accumulation. Meanwhile, the pancreatic islets
are constituted in large part by insulin-secreting β cells. Consequently, islet
dysfunction, such as occurs in T2DM, produces hyperglycemia. In this review, we
provide a critical appraisal of the modulatory actions of vitamin D in hepatic
insulin sensitivity and islet insulin secretion, and we discuss the potential
roles of a local vitamin D signaling in regulating hepatic and pancreatic islet
functions. This information provides a scientific basis for establishing the
benefits of the maintenance, or dietary manipulation, of adequate vitamin D
status in the prevention and management of obesity-induced T2DM and non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.3390/nu8030147 
PMCID: PMC4808876
PMID: 26959059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1387-97. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4083-8. Epub 2016
Mar 4.

Medical and Surgical Treatment Options for Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis.

Corey KE(1,)(2), Rinella ME(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, Liver Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. kcorey@partners.org. (2)Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. kcorey@partners.org. (3)Gastrointestinal Unit, Liver 
Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. 
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Northwestern University
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of liver
disease in the USA with a growing prevalence worldwide. Nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), progressive form of NAFLD, can lead to the development of
cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, and the need for liver transplantation.
Treatment of NASH may decrease the risk of progressive disease. Treatment for
NAFLD should center around weight loss and exercise. Pharmacotherapy with vitamin
E and pioglitazone should be considered for those with NASH, especially those
with fibrosis. Weight loss surgery is also an effective treatment for NASH in
individuals with other indications for surgery. In this review, we will discuss
the currently available therapies for NASH including lifestyle, pharmacologic,
and surgical options.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4083-8 
PMCID: PMC4838504 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 26942734  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Mar 2;3:CD011602. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD011602.pub2.

Ultrasonography for diagnosis of alcoholic cirrhosis in people with alcoholic
liver disease.

Pavlov CS(1), Casazza G, Semenistaia M, Nikolova D, Tsochatzis E, Liusina E,
Ivashkin VT, Gluud C.

Author information: 
(1)The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group, Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical 
Intervention Research, Department 7812, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University
Hospital, Blegdamsvej 9, Copenhagen, Denmark, DK-2100.

BACKGROUND: Heavy alcohol consumption causes alcoholic liver disease and is a
causal factor of many types of liver injuries and concomitant diseases. It is a
true systemic disease that may damage the digestive tract, the nervous system,
the heart and vascular system, the bone and skeletal muscle system, and the
endocrine and immune system, and can lead to cancer. Liver damage in turn, can
present as multiple alcoholic liver diseases, including fatty liver,
steatohepatitis, fibrosis, alcoholic cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma,
with presence or absence of hepatitis B or C virus infection. There are three
scarring types (fibrosis) that are most commonly found in alcoholic liver
disease: centrilobular scarring, pericellular fibrosis, and periportal fibrosis. 
When liver fibrosis progresses, alcoholic cirrhosis occurs. Hepatocellular
carcinoma occurs in 5% to 15% of people with alcoholic cirrhosis, but people in
whom hepatocellular carcinoma has developed are often co-infected with hepatitis 
B or C virus.Abstinence from alcohol may help people with alcoholic disease in
improving their prognosis of survival at any stage of their disease; however, the
more advanced the stage, the higher the risk of complications, co-morbidities,
and mortality, and lesser the effect of abstinence. Being abstinent one month
after diagnosis of early cirrhosis will improve the chance of a seven-year life
expectancy by 1.6 times. Liver transplantation is the only radical method that
may change the prognosis of a person with alcoholic liver disease; however,
besides the difficulties of finding a suitable liver transplant organ, there are 
many other factors that may influence a person's survival.Ultrasound is an
inexpensive method that has been used for years in clinical practice to diagnose 
alcoholic cirrhosis. Ultrasound parameters for assessing cirrhosis in people with
alcoholic liver disease encompass among others liver size, bluntness of the liver
edge, coarseness of the liver parenchyma, nodularity of the liver surface, size
of the lymph nodes around the hepatic artery, irregularity and narrowness of the 
inferior vena cava, portal vein velocity, and spleen size.Diagnosis of cirrhosis 
by ultrasound, especially in people who are asymptomatic, may have its advantages
for the prognosis, motivation, and treatment of these people to decrease their
alcohol consumption or become abstinent.Timely diagnosis of alcoholic cirrhosis
in people with alcoholic liver disease is the cornerstone for evaluation of
prognosis or choosing treatment strategies.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasonography for detecting
the presence or absence of cirrhosis in people with alcoholic liver disease
compared with liver biopsy as reference standard.To determine the diagnostic
accuracy of any of the ultrasonography tests, B-mode or echo-colour Doppler
ultrasonography, used singly or combined, or plus ultrasonography signs, or a
combination of these, for detecting hepatic cirrhosis in people with alcoholic
liver disease compared with liver biopsy as a reference standard, irrespective of
sequence.
SEARCH METHODS: We performed searches in The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group
Controlled Trials Register, The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Diagnostic Test
Accuracy Studies Register, The Cochrane Library (Wiley), MEDLINE (OvidSP), EMBASE
(OvidSP), and the Science Citation Index Expanded to 8 January 2015. We applied
no language limitations.We screened study references of the retrieved studies to 
identify other potentially relevant studies for inclusion in the review and read 
abstract and poster publications.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Three review authors independently identified studies for
possible inclusion in the review. We excluded references not fulfilling the
inclusion criteria of the review protocol. We sent e-mails to study authors.The
included studies had to evaluate ultrasound in the diagnosis of hepatic cirrhosis
using only liver biopsy as the reference standard.The maximum time interval of
investigation with liver biopsy and ultrasonography should not have exceeded six 
months. In addition, ultrasonography could have been performed before or after
liver biopsy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We followed the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic
Reviews of Diagnostic Test Accuracy.
MAIN RESULTS: The review included two studies that provided numerical data
regarding alcoholic cirrhosis in 205 men and women with alcoholic liver disease. 
Although there were no applicability concerns in terms of participant selection, 
index text, and reference standard, we judged the two studies at high risk of
bias. Participants in both studies had undergone both liver biopsy and
ultrasonography investigations. The studies shared only a few comparable clinical
signs and symptoms (index tests).We decided to not perform a meta-analysis due to
the high risk of bias and the high degree of heterogeneity of the included
studies.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: As the accuracy of ultrasonography in the two included
studies was not informative enough, we could not recommend the use of
ultrasonography as a diagnostic tool for liver cirrhosis in people with alcoholic
liver disease. In order to be able to answer the review questions, we need
diagnostic ultrasonography prospective studies of adequate sample size, enrolling
only participants with alcoholic liver disease.The design and report of the
studies should follow the Standards for Reporting of Diagnostic Accuracy. The
sonographic features, with validated cut-offs, which may help identify clinical
signs used for diagnosis of fibrosis in alcoholic liver disease, should be
carefully selected to achieve maximum diagnostic accuracy on ultrasonography.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011602.pub2 
PMID: 26934429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Clin Calcium. 2016 Mar;26(3):363-7. doi: CliCa1603363367.

[Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) /non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) 
and nutrition].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishii KA(1), Takamura T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Kanazawa University Graduate
School of Medical Sciences, Japan. (2)Department of Disease Control and
Homeostasis, Kanazawa University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Japan.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by excessive fat
accumulation in the form of triglycerides in the hepatocytes. A more severe form 
of NAFLD with necrosis, inflammation, and fibrosis is called non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). The liver is located in the center of the body's organ
network and acts as a coordinator of glucose and lipid metabolism. Therefore, it 
is important to perform nutritional therapy of patients with NAFLD/NASH while
maintaining the energy balance in the entire body.

DOI: CliCa1603363367 
PMID: 26923972  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Adv Ther. 2016 Mar;33(3):291-319. doi: 10.1007/s12325-016-0306-9. Epub 2016 Feb
26.

The Role of Nuclear Receptors in the Pathophysiology, Natural Course, and Drug
Treatment of NAFLD in Humans.

Ballestri S(1), Nascimbeni F(2,)(3), Romagnoli D(2), Baldelli E(3), Lonardo A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Pavullo Hospital, Azienda USL Modena, Modena, Italy. (2)NOCSAE, Outpatient
Liver Clinic and Operating Unit Internal Medicine, Azienda USL Modena, Modena,
Italy. (3)University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy. (4)NOCSAE,
Outpatient Liver Clinic and Operating Unit Internal Medicine, Azienda USL Modena,
Modena, Italy. a.lonardo@libero.it.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) describes steatosis, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis with or without fibrosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma, namely
the entire alcohol-like spectrum of liver disease though observed in the
nonalcoholic, dysmetabolic, individual free of competing causes of liver disease.
NAFLD, which is a major public health issue, exhibits intrahepatic triglyceride
storage giving rise to lipotoxicity. Nuclear receptors (NRs) are transcriptional 
factors which, activated by ligands, are master regulators of metabolism and also
have intricate connections with circadian control accounting for cyclical
patterns in the metabolic fate of nutrients. Several transcription factors, such 
as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors, liver X receptors, farnesoid X
receptors, and their molecular cascades, finely regulate energetic fluxes and
metabolic pathways. Dysregulation of such pathways is heavily implicated in those
metabolic derangements characterizing insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome
and in the histogenesis of progressive NAFLD forms. We review the role of
selected NRs in NAFLD pathogenesis. Secondly, we analyze the role of NRs in the
natural history of human NAFLD. Next, we discuss the results observed in humans
following administration of drug agonists or antagonists of the NRs
pathogenically involved in NAFLD. Finally, general principles of treatment and
lines of research in human NAFLD are briefly examined.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-016-0306-9 
PMID: 26921205  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1234-45. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4085-6. Epub 2016
Feb 26.

Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Obesity, Type 2 Diabetes, and NAFLD.

Reeves HL(1), Zaki MY(2), Day CP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Northern Institute for Cancer Research, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
H.L.Reeves@ncl.ac.uk. (2)Northern Institute for Cancer Research, Newcastle upon
Tyne, UK. (3)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon
Tyne, NE2 4HH, UK.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the second commonest cause of cancer death
worldwide. Rather than falling as a result of prevention and treatments for viral
hepatitis, an increase is evident in developed nations consequent to the rising
prevalence of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)-the two major risk
factors for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The majority of patients
with HCC complicating these conditions present with advanced disease as the tools
for surveillance are inadequate, and the "at-risk" population is not well
characterized. This review will summarize the epidemiological evidence linking
obesity, T2DM, and NAFLD with HCC, what is known about the pathogenic mechanisms 
involved, as well as their relevance for clinicians managing patients at risk.
There will also be an overview of the "unmet needs" surrounding this topic, with 
suggestions for the direction translational research should take in order to
prevent progression of NAFLD to HCC, to improve early detection of HCC in those
with NAFLD, as well as to improve outcomes for those affected.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4085-6 
PMID: 26921078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2016 Mar;18(3):11. doi: 10.1007/s11894-016-0485-1.

Targeting Lifestyle Behavior Change in Adults with NAFLD During a 20-min
Consultation: Summary of the Dietary and Exercise Literature.

Hallsworth K(1), Avery L(2), Trenell MI(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, MoveLab, 4th Floor
William Leech Building, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 4HH, UK.
kate.hallsworth@ncl.ac.uk. (2)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle
University, MoveLab, 4th Floor William Leech Building, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2
4HH, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is largely linked to poor diet, lack of
physical activity/exercise, and being overweight. In the absence of approved
pharmaceutical agents, lifestyle modification, encompassing dietary change and
increased physical activity/exercise to initiate weight loss, is the recommended 
therapy for NAFLD. Despite this, the use of lifestyle therapy within clinical
settings is lacking with limited guidance available about what it should involve,
how it should be delivered, and whether it can be feasibly delivered as part of
standard care. This paper highlights the evidence for the use of lifestyle
modification in NAFLD. While there is evidence to support use of behavioral
strategies to support lifestyle behavior change in other clinical populations,
these are yet to be assessed in people with NAFLD. However, there is sufficient
evidence to suggest that behavioral intervention targeting diet and physical
activity to promote weight loss in general is effective and a number of practical
strategies are presented on how this could be achieved.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-016-0485-1 
PMCID: PMC4764638
PMID: 26908279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 Apr;13(4):196-205. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2016.3. Epub 2016 Feb 24.

Management of NAFLD: a stage-based approach.

Rinella ME(1), Sanyal AJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Department of Internal
Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 676 N. St. Clair Street,
Arkes Pavillion, 14-005, Chicago, Illinois 60527, USA. (2)Virginia Commonwealth
University, 1200 East Broad Street, MCV BOX 980341, Richmond, Virginia
23298-0341, USA.

NAFLD is the most prevalent form of liver disease in the USA, affecting an
estimated 30% of the population. The condition is associated with increased
mortality related to cardiovascular disease, malignancy and liver disease.
Identification of patients who might be at increased risk of adverse outcomes is 
critical as it is not feasible to screen all patients with suspected NAFLD.
Patients with NASH, the progressive subtype of NAFLD, should be targeted for
treatment, especially if they have concomitant fibrosis because such patients are
more likely than those without fibrosis to have adverse outcomes. Treatment goals
in patients with NAFLD vary depending on the disease stage owing to differential 
risk of progression and the particularities of an individual's comorbid disease. 
Lifestyle intervention is important for all patients irrespective of disease
stage, but other therapies should be targeted to those most likely to benefit. In
this Review, we highlight risk factors for disease progression and offer a
stage-based treatment approach for patients with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2016.3 
PMID: 26907882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1268-81. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4045-1. Epub 2016
Feb 22.

Gut Microbiota of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Abdou RM(1), Zhu L(2,)(3), Baker RD(2), Baker SS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Digestive Diseases and Nutrition Center, Department of Pediatrics, Women and
Children's Hospital of Buffalo, The State University of New York at Buffalo, 219 
Bryant Street, Buffalo, NY, 14222, USA. rabdou@upa.chob.edu. (2)Digestive
Diseases and Nutrition Center, Department of Pediatrics, Women and Children's
Hospital of Buffalo, The State University of New York at Buffalo, 219 Bryant
Street, Buffalo, NY, 14222, USA. (3), 3435 Main Street, 413 Biomedical Research
Building, Buffalo, NY, 14214, USA.

The prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease has been rapidly increasing
worldwide. It has become a leading cause of liver transplantation. Accumulating
evidence suggests a significant role for gut microbiota in its development and
progression. Here we review the effect of gut microbiota on developing hepatic
fatty infiltration and its progression. Current literature supports a possible
role for gut microbiota in the development of liver steatosis, inflammation and
fibrosis. We also review the literature on possible interventions for NAFLD that 
target the gut microbiota.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4045-1 
PMID: 26898658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


41. J Nutr Biochem. 2016 Mar;29:1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2015.08.024. Epub 2015
Oct 23.

Nutritional therapy for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Dongiovanni P(1), Lanti C(2), Riso P(3), Valenti L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine and Metabolic Diseases, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale
Maggiore Policlinico, 20122 Milano, Italy. (2)Department of Food, Environmental
and Nutritional Sciences (DeFENS), Division of Human Nutrition, Università degli 
Studi di Milano, 20133 Milano, Italy. (3)Department of Food, Environmental and
Nutritional Sciences (DeFENS), Division of Human Nutrition, Università degli
Studi di Milano, 20133 Milano, Italy. Electronic address: Patrizia.riso@unimi.it.
(4)Internal Medicine and Metabolic Diseases, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale
Maggiore Policlinico, 20122 Milano, Italy; Department of Pathophysiology and
Transplantation (DEPT), Università degli Studi di Milano, 20122 Milano, Italy.

Following the epidemics of obesity, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has 
become the leading cause of liver disease in western countries. NAFLD is the
hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome and may progress to cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma. To date, there are no approved drugs for the treatment 
of NAFLD, and the main clinical recommendation is lifestyle modification,
including increase of physical activity and the adoption of a healthy eating
behavior. In this regard, studies aimed to elucidate the effect of dietary
interventions and the mechanisms of action of specific food bioactives are
urgently needed. The present review tries to summarize the most recent data
evidencing the effects of nutrients and dietary bioactive compounds intake (i.e.,
long-chain PUFA, Vitamin E, Vitamin D, minerals and polyphenols) on the
modulation of molecular mechanisms leading to fat accumulation, oxidative stress,
inflammation and liver fibrosis in NAFLD patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2015.08.024 
PMID: 26895659  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2016 May;73(10):1969-87. doi: 10.1007/s00018-016-2161-x. Epub 
2016 Feb 19.

Pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Liu W(1), Baker RD(2), Bhatia T(2), Zhu L(2), Baker SS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Digestive Diseases and Nutrition Center, Women and
Children's Hospital of Buffalo, The State University of New York at Buffalo (SUNY
Buffalo), 3435 Main Street, 422 BRB, Buffalo, NY, 14214, USA. wl11@buffalo.edu.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Digestive Diseases and Nutrition Center, Women and
Children's Hospital of Buffalo, The State University of New York at Buffalo (SUNY
Buffalo), 3435 Main Street, 422 BRB, Buffalo, NY, 14214, USA. (3)Department of
Pediatrics, Digestive Diseases and Nutrition Center, Women and Children's
Hospital of Buffalo, The State University of New York at Buffalo (SUNY Buffalo), 
3435 Main Street, 422 BRB, Buffalo, NY, 14214, USA. sbaker@upa.chob.edu.

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a severe form of nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease and a risk factor for cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The
pathological features of NASH include steatosis, hepatocyte injury, inflammation,
and various degrees of fibrosis. Steatosis reflects disordered lipid metabolism. 
Insulin resistance and excessive fatty acid influx to the liver are two important
contributing factors. Steatosis is also likely associated with lipotoxicity and
cellular stresses such as oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress,
which result in hepatocyte injury. Inflammation and fibrosis are frequently
triggered by various signals such as proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines,
released by injuried hepatocytes and activated Kupffer cells. Although much
progress has been made, the pathogenesis of NASH is not fully elucidated. The
purpose of this review is to discuss the current understanding of NASH
pathogenesis, mainly focusing on factors contributing to steatosis, hepatocyte
injury, inflammation, and fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-016-2161-x 
PMID: 26894897  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2016 Mar 18;471(4):391-5. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.02.034. Epub 2016 Feb 15.

The molecular mechanisms between metabolic syndrome and breast cancer.

Chen Y(1), Wen YY(1), Li ZR(1), Luo DL(1), Zhang XH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery (Breast, Thyroid and Vascular Suerery), Daping
Hospital of the Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, 400042, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery (Breast, Thyroid and Vascular Suerery), Daping
Hospital of the Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, 400042, China.
Electronic address: xiaohua_zhang2012@126.com.

Metabolic syndrome, which is extremely common in developed and some developing
countries, is a clustering of at least three of five of the following medical
conditions: abdominal obesity, elevated blood pressure, elevated fasting plasma
glucose, high serum triglycerides, and low high-density lipoprotein levels. It
has been proved that there is a strong association between metabolic syndrome and
breast cancer. Metabolic syndrome could increase the risk of breast cancer and
influence the prognosis of the breast cancer patients. Some characteristic of
metabolic syndrome such as obesity and lack of physical exercise are all risk
factors for developing breast cancer. The metabolic syndrome mainly include
obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypercholesterolemia and nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease, and each of them impacts the risk of breast cancer and the prognosis of 
the breast cancer patients in different ways. In this Review, we focus on
recently uncovered aspects of the immunological and molecular mechanisms that are
responsible for the development of this highly prevalent and serious disease.
These studies bring new insight into the complex associations between metabolic
syndrome and breast cancer and have led to the development of novel therapeutic
strategies that might enable a personalized approach in the management of this
disease.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.02.034 
PMID: 26891869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2016;2016:3928714. doi: 10.1155/2016/3928714. Epub 2016 Jan
5.

Ion Channels and Oxidative Stress as a Potential Link for the Diagnosis or
Treatment of Liver Diseases.

Ramírez A(1), Vázquez-Sánchez AY(1), Carrión-Robalino N(2), Camacho J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Centro de Investigación y de Estudios Avanzados
del Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Avenida Instituto Politécnico Nacional 2508, 
07360 Mexico City, DF, Mexico. (2)Department of Pharmacology, Centro de
Investigación y de Estudios Avanzados del Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Avenida
Instituto Politécnico Nacional 2508, 07360 Mexico City, DF, Mexico; Departamento 
de Ciencias de la Vida, Universidad de las Fuerzas Armadas, ESPE, Avenida General
Rumiñahui, 171-5-231-B Sangolquí, Ecuador.

Oxidative stress results from a disturbed balance between oxidation and
antioxidant systems. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species 
(RNS) may be either harmful or beneficial to the cells. Ion channels are
transmembrane proteins that participate in a large variety of cellular functions 
and have been implicated in the development of a variety of diseases. A
significant amount of the available drugs in the market targets ion channels.
These proteins have sulfhydryl groups of cysteine and methionine residues in
their structure that can be targeted by ROS and RNS altering channel function
including gating and conducting properties, as well as the corresponding
signaling pathways associated. The regulation of ion channels by ROS has been
suggested to be associated with some pathological conditions including liver
diseases. This review focuses on understanding the role and the potential
association of ion channels and oxidative stress in liver diseases including
fibrosis, alcoholic liver disease, and cancer. The potential association between 
ion channels and oxidative stress conditions could be used to develop new
treatments for major liver diseases.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/3928714 
PMCID: PMC4736365
PMID: 26881024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Pediatr Ann. 2016 Feb;45(2):e54-8. doi: 10.3928/00904481-20160113-01.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Pediatrics.

Duncan M, Zong W, Biank VF, Hageman JR.

A 16-year-old Hispanic girl with an elevated body mass index in an otherwise
normal state of health presented for her well-child examination. She had signs of
metabolic syndrome and insulin resistance including increased waist circumference
and acanthosis nigricans. Laboratory results revealed elevated transaminases with
otherwise normal hepatic function. Based on the physical examination and
laboratory results, she was diagnosed with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD). After further evaluation, she eventually underwent a liver biopsy. The
biopsy revealed nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with stage 2 fibrosis. This
article reviews the definition of NAFLD and NASH, an increasingly prevalent cause
of pediatric chronic liver disease associated with obesity and metabolic
syndrome. The article also outlines the epidemiology, risk factors, and natural
history of NAFLD, which may help identify and prevent high-risk pediatric
patients from progressing to irreversible liver disease. Understanding the
diagnostic and treatment options offers the best chance at preventing and
reversing the early stages of this disease.

Copyright 2016, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/00904481-20160113-01 
PMID: 26878184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1348-55. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4062-0. Epub 2016
Feb 13.

Histological Assessment of NAFLD.

Bedossa P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Beaujon, Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Université
Paris-Diderot, Paris, France. pierre.bedossa@aphp.fr.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) covers a spectrum of histological
lesions ranging from steatosis to a complex pattern with hepatocyte injury and
inflammation in an appropriate clinical context. The disease has been
artificially dichotomized into NAFL (steatosis) and NASH (steatosis with
hepatocellular injury and inflammation), but it is increasingly clear that
intermediate patterns may exist. More than NASH, the stage of fibrosis was shown 
to govern prognosis, and for such evaluation, a liver biopsy of adequate size and
width is needed. Like for any other chronic liver diseases, semi-quantitative
histologic scores have been proposed. They are not useful in clinical practice
but concur to categorize homogeneous group of patients according to their
histology. Pediatric NAFLD is a growing concern. While a subgroup of children may
harbor different but characteristic histological patterns, most of them display a
mixed pattern or features similar to the adults. Today, liver histology is the
mainstay for clinical trials. Biopsy is used both for enrollment and for
assessing benefit of clinical trials. End points such as reversion of NASH or
regression of fibrosis are acceptable but require a clear histological
definition.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4062-0 
PMID: 26874689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Semin Liver Dis. 2016 Feb;36(1):69-86. doi: 10.1055/s-0036-1571296. Epub 2016 Feb
12.

Nuclear Receptor Modulation for the Treatment of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver
Disease.

Fuchs CD(1), Traussnigg SA(1), Trauner M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hans Popper Laboratory of Molecular Hepatology, Division of Gastroenterology
and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine III, Medical University of
Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Nuclear receptors (NRs) are ligand-activated transcriptional regulators of
several key metabolic processes including hepatic lipid and glucose metabolism,
bile acid homeostasis, and energy expenditure as well as inflammation, fibrosis, 
and cellular proliferation in the liver. Dysregulation of these processes
contributes to the pathogenesis and progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD). This places NRs at the forefront of novel therapeutic approaches
for NAFLD. Some NRs are already pharmacologically targeted in metabolic disorders
such as hyperlipidemia (peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor α [PPARα],
fibrates) and diabetes (PPARγ, glitazones) with potential applications for NAFLD.
Other NRs with potential therapeutic implications are the vitamin D receptor
(VDR) and xenobiotic sensors such as constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) and
pregnane X receptor (PXR). Further new perspectives include combined ligands for 
NR isoforms such as PPARα/δ ligands. Other novel key players represent the
nuclear bile acid receptor farnesoid X receptor (FXR; targeted by synthetic FXR
ligands such as obeticholic acid) and RAR-related orphan receptor gamma two
(RORγt). In this review the authors provide an overview of the preclinical and
clinical evidence of current and future treatment strategies targeting NRs in
metabolism, inflammation, and fibrogenesis of NAFLD.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0036-1571296 
PMID: 26870934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Semin Liver Dis. 2016 Feb;36(1):56-68. doi: 10.1055/s-0036-1571297. Epub 2016 Feb
12.

Therapeutic Strategies for the Treatment of Alcoholic Hepatitis.

Singal AK(1), Shah VH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama. (2)Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota.

Acute alcoholic hepatitis is a unique clinical syndrome among patients with
chronic and active heavy alcohol use. Presenting with acute or chronic liver
failure, a severe episode has a potential for 30 to 40% mortality at 1 month from
presentation, if not recognized and left untreated. Alcoholic hepatitis patients 
need supportive therapy for abstinence and nutritional supplementation for those 
patients with markedly reduced caloric intake. Results of the recently published 
STOPAH (Steroids or Pentoxifylline for Alcoholic Hepatitis) Study showed only a
benefit of corticosteroids on short-term mortality without any benefit of
pentoxifylline. Neither of these two drugs impacts medium- and long-term
mortality, which is mainly driven by abstinence from alcohol. With the emerging
data on the benefits of liver transplantation, liver transplantation could be an 
important salvage option for a very highly select group of AH patients. More data
are needed on the use of liver transplantation in AH as the basis for deriving
protocols for selecting cases and for posttransplant management. Currently, many 
clinical trials are examining the efficacy and safety of new or repurposed
compounds in severe AH. These drugs are targeted at various pathways in the
pathogenesis of AH: the gut-liver axis, the inflammatory cascade, and liver
injury. With increasing interest of researchers and clinicians, supported by
funding from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the future
seems promising for the development of effective and safe pharmacological
interventions for severe AH.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0036-1571297 
PMID: 26870933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Semin Liver Dis. 2016 Feb;36(1):37-47. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1571276. Epub 2016 Feb
12.

Targeting Dysbiosis for the Treatment of Liver Disease.

Anand G(1), Zarrinpar A(1), Loomba R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of California
at San Diego, La Jolla, California.

The gut microbiome is composed of a vast number of microbes in the
gastrointestinal tract, which benefit host metabolism, aid in digestion, and
contribute to normal immune function. Alterations in microbial composition can
result in intestinal dysbiosis, which has been implicated in several diseases
including obesity, inflammatory bowel disease, and liver diseases. Over the past 
several years, significant interactions between the intestinal microbiota and
liver have been discovered, with possible mechanisms for the development as well 
as progression of liver disease and promising therapeutic targets to either
prevent or halt the progression of liver disease. In this review the authors
examine mechanisms of dysbiosis-induced liver disease; highlight current
knowledge regarding the role of dysbiosis in nonalcoholic liver disease,
alcoholic liver disease, and cirrhosis; and discuss potential therapeutic
targets.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1571276 
PMID: 26870931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Semin Liver Dis. 2016 Feb;36(1):27-36. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1571272. Epub 2016 Feb
12.

Targeting Cell Death and Sterile Inflammation Loop for the Treatment of
Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis.

Wree A(1), Mehal WZ(2), Feldstein AE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California San Diego (UCSD), and Rady 
Children's Hospital, San Diego, California. (2)Yale University, and West Haven
Veterans Medical Center, New Haven, Connecticut.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease represents a wide spectrum of conditions and is 
currently the most common form of chronic liver disease affecting both adults and
children in the United States and many other parts of the world. Great effort has
been focused on the development of novel therapies for those patients with the
more advanced forms of the disease, in particular those with nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) and liver fibrosis that can be associated with significant
morbidity and mortality. In this review, the authors focus on the role of cell
death and sterile inflammatory pathways as well as the self-perpetuating
deleterious cycle they may trigger as novel therapeutic targets for the treatment
of fibrotic NASH.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1571272 
PMCID: PMC4955833
PMID: 26870930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2016 Mar;24(3):556-67. doi: 10.1002/oby.21443. Epub 2016
Feb 12.

Normal weight dyslipidemia: Is it all about the liver?

Højland Ipsen D(1), Tveden-Nyborg P(1), Lykkesfeldt J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Disease Biology, Faculty of Health and Medical
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: The liver coordinates lipid metabolism and may play a vital role in
the development of dyslipidemia, even in the absence of obesity. Normal weight
dyslipidemia (NWD) and patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) who
do not have obesity constitute a unique subset of individuals characterized by
dyslipidemia and metabolic deterioration. This review examined the available
literature on the role of the liver in dyslipidemia and the metabolic
characteristics of patients with NAFLD who do not have obesity.
METHODS: PubMed was searched using the following keywords: nonobese,
dyslipidemia, NAFLD, NWD, liver, and metabolically obese/unhealthy normal weight.
Additionally, article bibliographies were screened, and relevant citations were
retrieved. Studies were excluded if they had not measured relevant biomarkers of 
dyslipidemia.
RESULTS: NWD and NAFLD without obesity share a similar abnormal metabolic
profile. When compared with patients with NAFLD who have obesity, the metabolic
abnormalities of NAFLD without obesity are similar or less severe. Furthermore,
hepatic lesions develop independent of obesity, and the extent of dyslipidemia
seems comparable.
CONCLUSIONS: NAFLD may impair hepatic lipid handling, causing faulty lipid
homeostasis, and serves as a likely starting point for initiation and propagation
of dyslipidemia along with associated comorbidities in patients without obesity.

© 2016 The Obesity Society.

DOI: 10.1002/oby.21443 
PMID: 26868960  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Curr Opin Organ Transplant. 2016 Apr;21(2):107-10. doi:
10.1097/MOT.0000000000000285.

Acute alcoholic hepatitis as indication for liver transplantation.

Jesudian AB(1), Brown RS Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Weill Cornell Medical College,
New York, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Until recently, severe acute alcoholic hepatitis that is
refractory to medical therapy was a disease with extremely high mortality and no 
viable treatment options. A landmark trial of early liver transplantation in
highly selected patients demonstrated a clear survival benefit and favorable
posttransplant outcomes. Since then, new findings regarding medical therapy for
alcoholic hepatitis, outcomes of early transplant, and ethical considerations as 
well as public perception of this intervention have been published.
RECENT FINDINGS: Glucocorticoids remain the best initial medical therapy for
severe acute alcoholic hepatitis, but liver transplantation can be an acceptable 
and effective therapy for those who fail to respond to steroids. Recurrence of
harmful drinking is a valid concern, and has been observed in long-term follow-up
of patients transplanted for alcoholic liver disease. Public perception of early 
liver transplant for severe acute alcoholic hepatitis is overall positive.
SUMMARY: Liver transplantation for refractory severe acute alcoholic hepatitis is
a life-saving intervention and should be judiciously employed in highly selected 
individuals who are at low risk of recidivism.

DOI: 10.1097/MOT.0000000000000285 
PMID: 26867048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Feb 5;17(2):217. doi: 10.3390/ijms17020217.

Relationship between Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Psoriasis: A Novel
Hepato-Dermal Axis?

Mantovani A(1), Gisondi P(2), Lonardo A(3), Targher G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
University and Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Piazzale
Stefani, 1, Verona 37126, Italy. alessandro.mantovani24@gmail.com. (2)Section of 
Dermatology, Department of Medicine, University and Azienda Ospedaliera
Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Piazzale Stefani, 1, Verona 37126, Italy.
paolo.gisondi@univr.it. (3)Outpatient Liver Clinic and Division of Internal
Medicine-Department of Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural Sciences, NOCSAE,
University of Modena and Reggio Emilia and Azienda USL Modena, Baggiovara, Modena
41126, Italy. a.lonardo@libero.it. (4)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes and
Metabolism, Department of Medicine, University and Azienda Ospedaliera
Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Piazzale Stefani, 1, Verona 37126, Italy.
giovanni.targher@univr.it.

Over the past 10 years, it has become increasingly evident that nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a multisystem disease that affects multiple
extra-hepatic organ systems and interacts with the regulation of several
metabolic and immunological pathways. In this review we discuss the rapidly
expanding body of clinical and epidemiological evidence supporting a strong
association between NAFLD and chronic plaque psoriasis. We also briefly discuss
the possible biological mechanisms underlying this association, and discuss
treatment options for psoriasis that may influence NAFLD development and
progression. Recent observational studies have shown that the prevalence of NAFLD
(as diagnosed either by imaging or by histology) is remarkably higher in
psoriatic patients (occurring in up to 50% of these patients) than in matched
control subjects. Notably, psoriasis is associated with NAFLD even after
adjusting for metabolic syndrome traits and other potential confounding factors. 
Some studies have also suggested that psoriatic patients are more likely to have 
the more advanced forms of NAFLD than non-psoriatic controls, and that psoriatic 
patients with NAFLD have more severe psoriasis than those without NAFLD. In
conclusion, the published evidence argues for more careful evaluation and
surveillance of NAFLD among patients with psoriasis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17020217 
PMCID: PMC4783949
PMID: 26861300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1282-93. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4054-0. Epub 2016
Feb 8.

Role of Dietary Fructose and Hepatic De Novo Lipogenesis in Fatty Liver Disease.

Softic S(1,)(2), Cohen DE(3), Kahn CR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Section on Integrative Physiology and Metabolism, Joslin Diabetes Center, One 
Joslin Place, Boston, MA, 02215, USA. (2)Department of Gastroenterology,
Hepatology and Nutrition, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. (4)Section on Integrative
Physiology and Metabolism, Joslin Diabetes Center, One Joslin Place, Boston, MA, 
02215, USA. c.ronald.kahn@joslin.harvard.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a liver manifestation of metabolic
syndrome. Overconsumption of high-fat diet (HFD) and increased intake of
sugar-sweetened beverages are major risk factors for development of NAFLD. Today 
the most commonly consumed sugar is high fructose corn syrup. Hepatic lipids may 
be derived from dietary intake, esterification of plasma free fatty acids (FFA)
or hepatic de novo lipogenesis (DNL). A central abnormality in NAFLD is enhanced 
DNL. Hepatic DNL is increased in individuals with NAFLD, while the contribution
of dietary fat and plasma FFA to hepatic lipids is not significantly altered. The
importance of DNL in NAFLD is further established in mouse studies with knockout 
of genes involved in this process. Dietary fructose increases levels of enzymes
involved in DNL even more strongly than HFD. Several properties of fructose
metabolism make it particularly lipogenic. Fructose is absorbed via portal vein
and delivered to the liver in much higher concentrations as compared to other
tissues. Fructose increases protein levels of all DNL enzymes during its
conversion into triglycerides. Additionally, fructose supports lipogenesis in the
setting of insulin resistance as fructose does not require insulin for its
metabolism, and it directly stimulates SREBP1c, a major transcriptional regulator
of DNL. Fructose also leads to ATP depletion and suppression of mitochondrial
fatty acid oxidation, resulting in increased production of reactive oxygen
species. Furthermore, fructose promotes ER stress and uric acid formation,
additional insulin independent pathways leading to DNL. In summary, fructose
metabolism supports DNL more strongly than HFD and hepatic DNL is a central
abnormality in NAFLD. Disrupting fructose metabolism in the liver may provide a
new therapeutic option for the treatment of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4054-0 
PMCID: PMC4838515 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 26856717  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2016 Jun;1860(6):1098-106. doi:
10.1016/j.bbagen.2016.02.001. Epub 2016 Feb 2.

Betaine chemistry, roles, and potential use in liver disease.

Day CR(1), Kempson SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Receptor Biology and Gene Expression,Center for Cancer Research,
National Cancer Institute,NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. (2)Department of Cellular
and Integrative Physiology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
IN 46202-5120, USA. Electronic address: skempson@iupui.edu.

BACKGROUND: Betaine is the trimethyl derivative of glycine and is normally
present in human plasma due to dietary intake and endogenous synthesis in liver
and kidney. Betaine is utilized in the kidney primarily as an osmoprotectant,
whereas in the liver its primary role is in metabolism as a methyl group donor.
In both organs, a specific betaine transporter mediates cellular uptake of
betaine from plasma. The abundance of both betaine and the betaine transporter in
liver greatly exceeds that of other organs.
SCOPE OF REVIEW: The remarkable contributions of betaine to normal human and
animal health are summarized together with a discussion of the mechanisms and
potential beneficial effects of dietary betaine supplements on liver disease.
MAJOR CONCLUSIONS: A significant amount of data from animal models of liver
disease indicates that administration of betaine can halt and even reverse
progression of the disruption of liver function. Betaine is well-tolerated,
inexpensive, effective over a wide range of doses, and is already used in
livestock feeding practices.
GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: The accumulated data indicate that carefully controlled
additional investigations in humans are merited. The focus should be on the
long-term use of betaine in large patient populations with liver diseases
characterized by development of fatty liver, especially non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease and alcoholic liver disease.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbagen.2016.02.001 
PMID: 26850693  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Postgrad Med J. 2016 Apr;92(1086):235-9. doi: 10.1136/postgradmedj-2015-133755.
Epub 2016 Feb 5.

Cardiac manifestations in alcoholic liver disease.

Milić S(1), Lulić D(2), Štimac D(1), Ružić A(2), Zaputović L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Internal Medicine Clinic, University Hospital 
Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia. (2)Department of Cardiovascular Disease, Internal
Medicine Clinic, University Hospital Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia.

Alcoholic liver disease is the most prevalent cause of progressive liver disease 
in Europe. Alcoholic cirrhosis occurs in 8%-20% of cases of alcoholic liver
disease. It has significant influence on cardiovascular system and haemodynamics 
through increased heart rate, cardiac output, decreased systemic vascular
resistance, arterial pressure and plasma volume expansion. Cirrhotic
cardiomyopathy is characterised by systolic and diastolic dysfunction and
electrophysiological abnormalities, if no other underlying cardiac disease is
present. It is often unmasked only during pharmacological or physiological
stress, when compensatory mechanisms of the heart become insufficient to maintain
adequate cardiac output. Low-to-moderate intake of alcohol can be
cardioprotective. However, heavy drinking is associated with an increased risk of
cardiovascular diseases, such as alcoholic cardiomyopathy, arterial hypertension,
atrial arrhythmias as well as haemorrhagic and ischaemic stroke. Alcoholic
cardiomyopathy is characterised by dilated left ventricle (LV), increased LV
mass, normal or reduced LV wall thickness and systolic dysfunction.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/postgradmedj-2015-133755 
PMID: 26850503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1337-47. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4037-1. Epub 2016
Feb 5.

Quantitative Imaging Biomarkers of NAFLD.

Kinner S(1,)(2), Reeder SB(3), Yokoo T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University Hospital
Essen, Essen, Germany. (3)Department of Radiology, Medical Physics, Biomedical
Engineering, Medicine, Emergency Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, 
USA. (4)Department of Radiology and Advanced Imaging Research Center, University 
of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 2201 Inwood Road, NE2.210B, Dallas, TX,
75390-9085, USA. Takeshi.Yokoo@UTSouthwestern.edu.

Conventional imaging modalities, including ultrasonography (US), computed
tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance (MR), play an important role in the
diagnosis and management of patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) by allowing noninvasive diagnosis of hepatic steatosis. However,
conventional imaging modalities are limited as biomarkers of NAFLD for various
reasons. Multi-parametric quantitative MRI techniques overcome many of the
shortcomings of conventional imaging and allow comprehensive and objective
evaluation of NAFLD. MRI can provide unconfounded biomarkers of hepatic fat,
iron, and fibrosis in a single examination-a virtual biopsy has become a clinical
reality. In this article, we will review the utility and limitation of
conventional US, CT, and MR imaging for the diagnosis NAFLD. Recent advances in
imaging biomarkers of NAFLD are also discussed with an emphasis in
multi-parametric quantitative MRI.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4037-1 
PMCID: PMC4854639
PMID: 26848588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2016 Feb;40(2):246-55. doi: 10.1111/acer.12956.

Alcoholic Hepatitis: Risk Factors, Pathogenesis, and Approach to Treatment.

Yeluru A(1), Cuthbert JA(2), Casey L(2), Mitchell MC(2).

Author information: 
(1)UT Southwestern Medical Center , Dallas, Texas. (2)Division of Digestive and
Liver Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, UT Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, Texas.

BACKGROUND: Alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is an inflammatory disorder of the liver
characterized clinically by jaundice, hepatomegaly, and abdominal pain, and
histologically by macrovesicular steatosis and necroinflammation.
METHODS: This clinical review will cover what is known about the pathogenesis,
clinical presentation, current treatments, and novel therapies for AH.
RESULTS: The pathogenesis and treatment of AH remain areas of active research.
Although abstinence is the cornerstone of therapy for all stages of alcoholic
liver disease, corticosteroids have shown modest short-term benefits in treatment
of severe AH.
CONCLUSIONS: Improved understanding of the pathogenesis of AH has expanded the
range of potential treatments for this devastating disease. Several novel
therapies are also currently in various stages of testing through clinical
trials.

Copyright © 2016 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12956 
PMID: 26842243  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1294-303. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4049-x. Epub 2016
Feb 3.

Innate Immunity and Inflammation in NAFLD/NASH.

Arrese M(1), Cabrera D(1,)(2), Kalergis AM(3), Feldstein AE(4,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Departmento de Gastroenterología, Escuela de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad 
Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile. (2)Departamento de Ciencias Químicas y
Biológicas, Facultad de Salud, Universidad Bernardo O Higgins, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Millenium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Departamento de Genética 
Molecular y Microbiología, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile. (4)Department of Pediatrics,
University of California San Diego (UCSD), San Diego, CA, USA.
afeldstein@ucsd.edu. (5)Rady Children's Hospital, San Diego, CA, USA.
afeldstein@ucsd.edu. (6)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and
Nutrition, UCSD, 3020 Children's Way, MC 5030, San Diego, CA, 92103-8450, USA.
afeldstein@ucsd.edu.

Inflammation and hepatocyte injury and death are the hallmarks of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), the progressive form of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 
(NAFLD), which is a currently burgeoning public health problem. Innate immune
activation is a key factor in triggering and amplifying hepatic inflammation in
NAFLD/NASH. Thus, identification of the underlying mechanisms by which immune
cells in the liver recognize cell damage signals or the presence of pathogens or 
pathogen-derived factors that activate them is relevant from a therapeutic
perspective. In this review, we present new insights into the factors promoting
the inflammatory response in NASH including sterile cell death processes
resulting from lipotoxicity in hepatocytes as well as into the altered gut-liver 
axis function, which involves translocation of bacterial products into portal
circulation as a result of gut leakiness. We further delineate the key immune
cell types involved and how they recognize both damage-associated molecular
patterns or pathogen-associated molecular patterns through binding of
surface-expressed pattern recognition receptors, which initiate signaling
cascades leading to injury amplification. The relevance of modulating these
inflammatory signaling pathways as potential novel therapeutic strategies for the
treatment of NASH is summarized.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4049-x 
PMCID: PMC4948286 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 26841783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 Mar;13(3):131-49. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2015.219. Epub 2016 Feb 3.

Acute-on-chronic liver failure: terminology, mechanisms and management.

Sarin SK(1), Choudhury A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatology, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, D-1, Vasant
Kunj, New Delhi 110070, India.

Acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) is a distinct clinical entity and differs
from acute liver failure and decompensated cirrhosis in timing, presence of acute
precipitant, course of disease and potential for unaided recovery. The definition
involves outlining the acute and chronic insults to include a homogenous patient 
group with liver failure and an expected outcome in a specific timeframe. The
pathophysiology of ACLF relates to persistent inflammation, immune dysregulation 
with initial wide-spread immune activation, a state of systematic inflammatory
response syndrome and subsequent sepsis due to immune paresis. The disease
severity and outcome can be predicted by both hepatic and extrahepatic organ
failure(s). Clinical recovery is expected with the use of nucleoside analogues
for hepatitis B, and steroids for severe alcoholic hepatitis and, possibly,
severe autoimmune hepatitis. Artificial liver support systems help remove toxins 
and metabolites and serve as a bridge therapy before liver transplantation.
Hepatic regeneration during ongoing liver failure, although challenging, is
possible through the use of growth factors. Liver transplantation remains the
definitive treatment with a good outcome. Pre-emptive antiviral agents for
hepatitis B before chemotherapy to prevent viral reactivation and caution in
using potentially hepatotoxic drugs can prevent the development of ACLF.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2015.219 
PMID: 26837712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Am J Pathol. 2016 Apr;186(4):748-60. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.12.003. Epub 2016
Feb 1.

Murine Models of Acute Alcoholic Hepatitis and Their Relevance to Human Disease.

Wilkin RJ(1), Lalor PF(2), Parker R(2), Newsome PN(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Health Research Birmingham Liver Biomedical Research
Unit and Centre for Liver Research, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United 
Kingdom; Liver Unit, University Hospital Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust,
Birmingham, United Kingdom. Electronic address: wilkinr@bham.ac.uk. (2)National
Institute for Health Research Birmingham Liver Biomedical Research Unit and
Centre for Liver Research, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom; 
Liver Unit, University Hospital Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham,
United Kingdom. (3)National Institute for Health Research Birmingham Liver
Biomedical Research Unit and Centre for Liver Research, University of Birmingham,
Birmingham, United Kingdom; Liver Unit, University Hospital Birmingham NHS
Foundation Trust, Birmingham, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
p.n.newsome@bham.ac.uk.

Alcohol-induced liver damage is a major burden for most societies, and murine
studies can provide a means to better understand its pathogenesis and test new
therapies. However, there are many models reported with widely differing
phenotypes, not all of which fully regenerate the spectrum of human disease.
Thus, it is important to understand the implications of these variations to
efficiently model human disease. This review critically appraises key articles in
the field, detailing the spectrum of liver damage seen in different models, and
how they relate to the phenotype of disease seen in patients. A range of
different methods of alcohol administration have been studied, ranging from ad
libitum consumption of alcohol and water to modified diets (eg, Lieber deCarli
liquid diet). Other feeding regimens have taken more invasive routes using
intragastric feeding tubes to infuse alcohol directly into the stomach. Notably, 
models using wild-type mice generally produce a milder phenotype of liver damage 
than those using genetically modified mice, with the exception of the chronic
binge-feeding model. We recommend panels of tests for consideration to
standardize end points for the evaluation of the severity of liver damage-key for
comparison of models of injury, testing of new therapies, and subsequent
translation of findings into clinical practice.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.12.003 
PMID: 26835538  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Curr Opin Organ Transplant. 2016 Apr;21(2):99-106. doi:
10.1097/MOT.0000000000000283.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver: optimizing pretransplant selection and posttransplant
care to maximize survival.

Malhi H(1), Allen AM, Watt KD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, William J. von Liebig Center for 
Transplantation and Clinical Regeneration, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota,
USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is projected to become the
most common indication for liver transplantation in the near future. NASH
recipients have concurrent obesity, metabolic, and cardiovascular risks, which
directly impact patient selection, posttransplant morbidity and potentially
long-term outcomes. The purpose of this review is to highlight strategies to
optimize pretransplant selection, outcomes, and posttransplant risk modification 
to optimize patient and graft survival.
RECENT FINDINGS: NASH recipients are at risk for pretransplant cardiovascular
disease, diabetes mellitus, and related renovascular complications. Stringent
selection criteria identify those patients most likely to benefit from liver
transplantation without adverse cardiovascular events yet, the incidence of these
events remains high in NASH recipients. High BMI imparts postoperative morbidity 
because of infections, wound complications, and longer lengths of hospital stay. 
Aggressive management of modifiable risk factors such as obesity, hyperlipidemia,
diabetes mellitus, and hypertension is recommended.
SUMMARY: Although patient and graft survival in NASH recipients is excellent,
long-term reduction in healthcare utilization and outcomes in these patients
would benefit from risk factor modification. Periodic reassessment of coronary
artery disease and early consideration of bariatric surgery is recommended in
this population.

DOI: 10.1097/MOT.0000000000000283 
PMCID: PMC4786445 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 26825357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2015 Nov 1;8(11):15350-5. eCollection 2015.

Hepatocellular carcinoma in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease mimicking benign
hemangioma: two case reports and literature review.

Tan H(1), Xu L(1), Liu X(1), Si S(1), Sun Y(1), Liu L(1), Zhou W(1), Yang Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, China-Japan Friendship Hospital 
Beijing 100029, P. R. China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the clinical features of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD)-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
METHODS: The clinical manifestations, imaging features, pathological subtypes and
treatment outcome of two cases with NAFLD-associated HCC were analyzed.
RESULTS: In these two cases, both were young, obese male patients, with contrast 
enhanced CT scan of hemangioma-like features. They had undergone surgical
resection and both were reported as well-differentiated HCC pathologically. They 
were followed-up respectively up to 46 and 36 months post-operatively with no
evidence of recurrence or metastasis.
CONCLUSIONS: NAFLD-associated HCC has different radiological presentations from
typical HCC. Incidental finding of any liver occupying lesions in NAFLD patients 
should raise immediate clinical attention.


PMCID: PMC4713679
PMID: 26823893  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Eur J Clin Invest. 2016 Apr;46(4):349-61. doi: 10.1111/eci.12596. Epub 2016 Mar
12.

The rationale for targeting TGF-β in chronic liver diseases.

Giannelli G(1), Mikulits W(2), Dooley S(3), Fabregat I(4), Moustakas A(5), ten
Dijke P(6), Portincasa P(1), Winter P(7), Janssen R(8), Leporatti S(9), Herrera
B(10), Sanchez A(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Human Oncology, University of Bari
Medical School, Bari, Italy. (2)Department of Medicine I, Institute of Cancer
Research, Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna,
Austria. (3)Department of Medicine II, Medical Faculty, Mannheim Heidelberg
University, Heidelberg, Germany. (4)Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute
(IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet, Barcelona, Spain. (5)Department of Medical Biochemistry 
and Microbiology and Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, Biomedical Center,
Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. (6)Department of Molecular Cell Biology,
Cancer Genomics Centre Netherlands, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the
Netherlands. (7)GenXPro GmbH, Frankfurt, Germany. (8)Galapagos, Leiden, the
Netherlands. (9)CNR NANOTEC - Institute of Nanotechnology, Lecce, Italy. (10)Dep.
Bioquímica y Biología Molecular II, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del
Hospital Clínico San Carlos (IdISSC), Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Transforming growth factor (TGF)-β is a pluripotent cytokine that
displays several tissue-specific biological activities. In the liver, TGF-β is
considered a fundamental molecule, controlling organ size and growth by limiting 
hepatocyte proliferation. It is involved in fibrogenesis and, therefore, in
worsening liver damage, as well as in triggering the development of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). TGF-β is known to act as an oncosuppressor and
also as a tumour promoter in HCC, but its role is still unclear.
DESIGN: In this review, we discuss the potential role of TGF-β in regulating the 
tumoural progression of HCC, and therefore the rationale for targeting this
molecule in patients with HCC.
RESULTS: A considerable amount of experimental preclinical evidence suggests that
TGF-β is a promising druggable target in patients with HCC. To support this
hypothesis, a phase II clinical trial is currently ongoing using a TGF-β pathway 
inhibitor, and results will soon be available.
CONCLUSIONS: The identification of new TGF-β related biomarkers will help to
select those patients most likely to benefit from therapy aimed at inhibiting the
TGF-β pathway. New formulations that may provide a more controlled and sustained 
delivery of the drug will improve the therapeutic success of such treatments.

© 2016 Stichting European Society for Clinical Investigation Journal Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/eci.12596 
PMID: 26823073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Sci Transl Med. 2016 Jan 27;8(323):323rv1. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aad8390.

The intersection of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and obesity.

Woo Baidal JA(1), Lavine JE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department
of Pediatrics, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(2)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department
of Pediatrics, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY 10032, USA.
jl3553@cumc.columbia.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease
worldwide and recently emerged as the most rapidly increasing indication for
liver transplant. Although obesity is a risk factor for NAFLD, overlap between
these two entities is incompletely understood. We highlight recent insights into 
the pathogenesis of human NAFLD in relation to obesity and discuss advances in
the diagnosis and treatment of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2016, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aad8390 
PMID: 26819197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Eksp Klin Gastroenterol. 2015;(7):85-96.

[NONALCOHOLIC FATTY LIVER DISEASE: DIAGNOSTIC, SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT. GUIDELINES
WERE APPROVED BY THE XV GASTROENTEROLOGICAL SCIENTIFIC SOCIETY OF RUSSIA IN
2015].

[Article in Russian]

Lazebnik LB, Radchenko VG, Golovanova EV, Zvenigorodskaya LA, Konev YV,
Seliverstov PV, Sitkin SI, Tkachenko EI, Aylamazayn EK, Vlasov NN, Kornienko EA, 
Novikova VP, Horoshinina LP, Zhestkova NV, Oreshko LS, Dudanova OP, Dobrica VP,
Turyeva LV, Tirikova OV, Kozlova NM, Eliseev SM, Gumerov RR, Vencak EV.

According to the World Health Organization, it is recorded steady growth of the
number of chronic liver diseases, including nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD), in recent years. As an independent nosological entity, NAFLD is one of
the risk factors for cardiovascular diseases, associated with abdominal-visceral 
obesity, peripheral insulin resistance (IR), and is regarded as the hepatic
component of Metabolic syndrome (MS). Nowadays there are no generally accepted
national standards for diagnosis and treatment of NAFLD for physicians, gen- eral
practitioners, gastroenterologists in Russia. This was the essential reason in
their development. The main reason of The guidelines development is the absence
of generally accepted national standards for diagnosis and treatment of NAFLD for
physicians, general practitioners, gastroenterologists in Russia. These
guidelines are based on the global and local data of treatment experience of
NAFLD, recently published in reviews, analytical studies in the literature.
Guidelines are intended for physicians, general practitioners,
gastroenterologists and contain the description of the preferred approaches to
the provision of diagnostic, curative and preventive care of patients NAFLD. The 
quality of recommendations was grading according to the GRADE approach.


PMID: 26817127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1406-16. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4035-3. Epub 2016
Jan 27.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Key Considerations Before and After Liver
Transplantation.

Patel YA(1), Berg CL(1), Moylan CA(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Duke University School
of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, 905 South LaSalle Street, DUMC 3256,
GSRB1, Durham, NC, 27710, USA. (2)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of
Medicine, Duke University School of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, 905
South LaSalle Street, DUMC 3256, GSRB1, Durham, NC, 27710, USA.
cynthia.moylan@duke.edu. (3)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine,
Durham Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Durham, NC, 27705, USA.
cynthia.moylan@duke.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common etiology of chronic
liver disease in developed countries and is on trajectory to become the leading
indication for liver transplantation in the USA and much of the world. Patients
with NAFLD cirrhosis awaiting liver transplant face unique challenges and
increased risk for waiting list stagnation and dropout due to burdensome
comorbidities including obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and kidney
disease. Thus far, patients transplanted for NAFLD cirrhosis have excellent mid- 
and long-term patient and graft survival, but concerns regarding short-term
morbidity and mortality continue to exist. Post-liver transplantation, NAFLD
occurs as both a recurrent and de novo manifestation, each with unique outcomes. 
NAFLD in the donor population is of concern given the growing demand for liver
transplantation and mounting pressure to expand the donor pool. This review
addresses key issues surrounding NAFLD as an indication for transplantation,
including its increasing prevalence, unique patient demographics, outcomes
related to liver transplantation, development of post-liver transplantation
NAFLD, and NAFLD in the liver donor population. It also highlights exciting areas
where further research is needed, such as the role of bariatric surgery and
preconditioning of marginal donor grafts.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4035-3 
PMID: 26815171  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Int Rev Cell Mol Biol. 2016;321:29-88. doi: 10.1016/bs.ircmb.2015.10.001. Epub
2015 Oct 31.

Phosphatidylethanolamine Metabolism in Health and Disease.

Calzada E(1), Onguka O(1), Claypool SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA.

Phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) is the second most abundant glycerophospholipid in 
eukaryotic cells. The existence of four only partially redundant biochemical
pathways that produce PE, highlights the importance of this essential
phospholipid. The CDP-ethanolamine and phosphatidylserine decarboxylase pathways 
occur in different subcellular compartments and are the main sources of PE in
cells. Mammalian development fails upon ablation of either pathway. Once made, PE
has diverse cellular functions that include serving as a precursor for
phosphatidylcholine and a substrate for important posttranslational
modifications, influencing membrane topology, and promoting cell and organelle
membrane fusion, oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial biogenesis, and
autophagy. The importance of PE metabolism in mammalian health has recently
emerged following its association with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
nonalcoholic liver disease, and the virulence of certain pathogenic organisms.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.ircmb.2015.10.001 
PMCID: PMC4778737
PMID: 26811286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1246-67. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4040-6. Epub 2016
Jan 25.

Cardiovascular Disease and Myocardial Abnormalities in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver
Disease.

Mantovani A(1), Ballestri S(2), Lonardo A(3), Targher G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
University and Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata, Piazzale Stefani, 1, 
37126, Verona, Italy. (2)Division of Internal Medicine, Pavullo Hospital, Azienda
USL of Modena, Pavullo, Italy. (3)Outpatient Liver Clinic and Division of
Internal Medicine, Department of Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural Sciences,
NOCSAE, Baggiovara, Azienda USL, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, 
Italy. (4)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of
Medicine, University and Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata, Piazzale
Stefani, 1, 37126, Verona, Italy. giovanni.targher@univr.it.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in many developed countries, affecting an estimated 30 % of the
adult population. In this updated clinical review, we summarize the current
knowledge regarding the strong association between NAFLD and the risk of coronary
heart disease (CHD) and other functional, structural, and arrhythmic cardiac
complications (e.g., left ventricular dysfunction, heart valve diseases and
atrial fibrillation). We also briefly discuss the putative biological mechanisms 
linking NAFLD with these important extra-hepatic complications. To date, a large 
body of evidence has suggested that NAFLD is not simply a marker of CHD and other
functional, structural, and arrhythmic cardiac complications, but also may play a
part in the development and progression of these cardiac complications. The
clinical implication of these findings is that patients with NAFLD may benefit
from more intensive surveillance and early treatment interventions aimed at
decreasing the risk of CHD and other cardiac and arrhythmic complications.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4040-6 
PMID: 26809873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Mar;43(5):562-74. doi: 10.1111/apt.13523. Epub 2016 
Jan 25.

Systematic review with meta-analysis: coffee consumption and the risk of
cirrhosis.

Kennedy OJ(1), Roderick P(1), Buchanan R(1), Fallowfield JA(2), Hayes PC(2),
Parkes J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Primary Care & Population Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Southampton, Southampton, UK. (2)MRC Centre for Inflammation Research, University
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND: Liver cirrhosis is a large burden on global health, causing over one 
million deaths per year. Observational studies have reported an inverse
association between coffee and cirrhosis.
AIMS: To perform a systematic review and meta-analysis to characterise the
relationship between coffee consumption and cirrhosis.
METHODS: We searched for studies published until July 2015 that reported odds
ratios, relative risks (RR) or hazard ratios for cirrhosis stratified by coffee
consumption. We calculated RRs of cirrhosis for an increase in daily coffee
consumption of two cups for each study and overall. We performed analyses by
study design, type of cirrhosis and mortality. We assessed the risk of bias in
each study and the overall quality of evidence for the effect of coffee on
cirrhosis.
RESULTS: We identified five cohort studies and four case-control studies
involving 1990 cases and 432 133 participants. We observed a dose-response in
most studies and overall. The pooled RR of cirrhosis for a daily increase in
coffee consumption of two cups was 0.56 (95% CI 0.44-0.68; I(2) 83.3%). The RR
pooled from cohort studies for a daily increase of two cups was 0.58 (95% CI
0.41-0.76; I(2) 91.1%) and from case-control studies it was 0.52 (95% CI
0.40-0.63; I(2) 0.0%). The pooled RR of alcoholic cirrhosis for a daily increase 
of two cups was 0.62 (95% CI 0.51-0.73; I(2) 0%) and of death from cirrhosis it
was 0.55 (95% CI 0.35-0.74; I(2) 90.3%).
CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis suggests that increasing coffee consumption may
substantially reduce the risk of cirrhosis.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.13523 
PMID: 26806124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2016 Apr;15(4):249-74. doi: 10.1038/nrd.2015.3. Epub 2016
Jan 22.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis: emerging molecular targets and therapeutic
strategies.

Musso G(1), Cassader M(2), Gambino R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, Corso Regina Margherita 8, 10132 Turin, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, Corso A.M. Dogliotti 14, 
10126, Turin, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease - the most common chronic liver disease -
encompasses a histological spectrum ranging from simple steatosis to
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Over the next decade, NASH is projected to 
be the most common indication for liver transplantation. The absence of an
effective pharmacological therapy for NASH is a major incentive for research into
novel therapeutic approaches for this condition. The current focus areas for
research include the modulation of nuclear transcription factors; agents that
target lipotoxicity and oxidative stress; and the modulation of cellular energy
homeostasis, metabolism and the inflammatory response. Strategies to enhance
resolution of inflammation and fibrosis also show promise to reverse the advanced
stages of liver disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nrd.2015.3 
PMID: 26794269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Mar;43(5):575-85. doi: 10.1111/apt.13524. Epub 2016 
Jan 20.

Systematic review with meta-analysis: diagnostic accuracy of transient
elastography for staging of fibrosis in people with alcoholic liver disease.

Pavlov CS(1,)(2), Casazza G(1,)(3), Nikolova D(1), Tsochatzis E(4), Gluud C(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group, Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical 
Intervention Research, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Clinic of Internal Diseases Propedeutics, Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Moscow, Russia.
(3)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche e Cliniche "L. Sacco", Università degli
Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy. (4)Sheila Sherlock Liver Centre, Royal Free
Hospital and the UCL Institute of Liver and Digestive Health, London, UK.

Comment in
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2016 May;43(9):1015-6.
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2016 May;43(9):1014-5.

BACKGROUND: The progression of hepatic fibrosis into cirrhosis is a main
prognostic factor for survival in people with alcoholic liver disease. The range 
of cut-off values characterising the stage of hepatic fibrosis seems to be
dependent on the aetiology of the liver disease.
AIMS: To determine the diagnostic accuracy of transient elastography (the index
test) for diagnosis of fibrosis in alcoholic liver disease when compared with
liver biopsy (the reference standard), using the METAVIR scoring system. To
establish the optimal cut-off values for the hepatic fibrosis stages.
METHODS: We followed Cochrane Methodology for diagnostic test accuracy reviews.
We identified 14 studies. Among the study participants with alcoholic liver
disease, 834 provided numerical data for analysis (August 2014). Only half of the
studies were monoaetiology studies. We used the bivariate model and estimated the
summary sensitivities and summary specificities. Hence, we calculated the summary
likelihood ratios (LRs) to rule in or rule out hepatic fibrosis. We investigated 
pre-defined sources of heterogeneity.
RESULTS: Severe fibrosis (F3 or worse): summary (95% CI) sensitivity
0.92(0.89-0.96) and specificity 0.70(0.61-0.79); LR+ 3.1(2.1-4.1), LR- 0.11(95%
CI 0.06-0.16). Cirrhosis (F4): summary (95% CI) sensitivity of 0.95(0.87-0.98)
and specificity 0.71(0.56-0.82); LR+ 3.3(2.1-5.0); LR- 0.07(0.03-0.19).
CONCLUSIONS: Transient elastography may be used as a diagnostic method to exclude
cirrhosis or severe fibrosis when the test is negative. Cut-off values of around 
12.5 kPa for cirrhosis may be used in clinical practice, but caution is needed,
as the values reported in the review are not yet prospectively validated.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.13524 
PMID: 26791825  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2016 Mar;12(3):177-83. doi: 10.1038/nrendo.2015.226. Epub
2016 Jan 18.

The Framingham Heart Study--67 years of discovery in metabolic disease.

Long MT(1), Fox CS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Boston Medical Center, Boston University School 
of Medicine, 7th Floor, 85 East Concord Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02118, USA.
(2)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Framingham Heart Study,
Framingham, Massachusetts 01702-5827, USA.

The Framingham Heart Study (FHS), initiated in 1948, is the longest running
prospective cohort study in the USA. Through >65 years of discovery, the FHS has 
contributed to our understanding of obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus and
prediabetes mellitus, the metabolic syndrome and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD), and to how these conditions relate to our overall and
cardiovascular-related mortality. This Timeline gives an overview of the
substantial role the FHS has played in advancing the understanding of obesity,
diabetes mellitus and NAFLD, and considers the direction the FHS will take in the
years to come.

DOI: 10.1038/nrendo.2015.226 
PMID: 26775764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Adv Nutr. 2016 Jan 15;7(1):5-13. doi: 10.3945/an.114.007955. Print 2016 Jan.

Choline, Its Potential Role in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease, and the Case for
Human and Bacterial Genes.

Sherriff JL(1), O'Sullivan TA(2), Properzi C(2), Oddo JL(2), Adams LA(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Public Health, Curtin Health Innovation Research Institute-Metabolic
Health, Curtin University, Bentley, Australia; J.Sherriff@curtin.edu.au.
(2)School of Exercise and Health Science, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup,
Australia; (3)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, The University of Western
Australia, Nedlands, Australia; and Liver Transplant Unit, Sir Charles Gairdner
Hospital, Nedlands, Australia.

Our understanding of the impact of poor hepatic choline/phosphatidylcholine
availability in promoting the steatosis characteristic of human nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has recently advanced and possibly relates to
phosphatidylcholine/phosphatidylethanolamine concentrations in various, membranes
as well as cholesterol dysregulation. A role for choline/phosphatidylcholine
availability in the progression of NAFLD to liver injury and serious hepatic
consequences in some individuals requires further elucidation. There are many
reasons for poor choline/phosphatidylcholine availability in the liver, including
low intake, estrogen status, and genetic polymorphisms affecting, in particular, 
the pathway for hepatic de novo phosphatidylcholine synthesis. In addition to
free choline, phosphatidylcholine has been identified as a substrate for
trimethylamine production by certain intestinal bacteria, thereby reducing host
choline bioavailability and providing an additional link to the increased risk of
cardiovascular disease faced by those with NAFLD. Thus human choline requirements
are highly individualized and biomarkers of choline status derived from
metabolomics studies are required to predict those at risk of NAFLD induced by
choline deficiency and to provide a basis for human intervention trials.

© 2016 American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.3945/an.114.007955 
PMCID: PMC4717871
PMID: 26773011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Jan 13;17(1). pii: E97. doi: 10.3390/ijms17010097.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Pros and Cons of Histologic Systems of
Evaluation.

Brunt EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, Campus Box 8118, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. ebrunt@wustl.edu.

The diagnostic phenotype of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)--in
particular, the most significant form in terms of prognosis, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH)--continues to rely on liver tissue evaluation, in spite of
remarkable advances in non-invasive algorithms developed from serum-based tests
and imaging-based or sonographically-based tests for fibrosis or liver stiffness.
The most common tissue evaluation remains percutaneous liver biopsy;
considerations given to the needle size and the location of the biopsy have the
potential to yield the most representative tissue for evaluation. The
pathologist's efforts are directed to not only global diagnosis, but also
assessment of severity of injury. Just as in other forms of chronic liver
disease, these assessments can be divided into necroinflammatory activity, and
fibrosis with parenchymal remodeling, in order to separately analyze potentially 
reversible (grade) and non-reversible (stage) lesions. These concepts formed the 
bases for current methods of evaluating the lesions that collectively comprise
the phenotypic spectra of NAFLD. Four extant methods have specific applications; 
there are pros and cons to each, and this forms the basis of the review.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17010097 
PMCID: PMC4730339
PMID: 26771611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Diabetes Res. 2016;2016:4597246. doi: 10.1155/2016/4597246. Epub 2015 Dec 7.

Nutrition and Physical Activity in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Oliveira CP(1), de Lima Sanches P(2), de Abreu-Silva EO(3), Marcadenti A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, School of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo
(USP), 255 Dr. Enéas de Carvalho Aguiar Avenue, Cerqueira César, 05403-900 Sao
Paulo, SP, Brazil. (2)Postgraduate Program in Nutrition, Federal University of
Sao Paulo (UNIFESP), 630 Marselhesa Street, Vila Clementino, 04020-060 Sao Paulo,
SP, Brazil. (3)Division of Interventional Cardiology and Postgraduate Program in 
Cardiology, Federal University of Sao Paulo (UNIFESP), 715 Napoleao de Barros
Street, Vila Clementino, 04024-002 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil. (4)Department of
Nutrition, Federal University of Health Sciences of Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), 245
Sarmento Leite Street, Centro Histórico, 90050-170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil;
Postgraduate Program in Health Sciences: Cardiology, Institute of Cardiology of
Rio Grande do Sul (IC/FUC), 395 Princesa Isabel Avenue, Santana, 90040-371 Porto 
Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease
worldwide and it is associated with other medical conditions such as diabetes
mellitus, metabolic syndrome, and obesity. The mechanisms of the underlying
disease development and progression are not completely established and there is
no consensus concerning the pharmacological treatment. In the gold standard
treatment for NAFLD weight loss, dietary therapy, and physical activity are
included. However, little scientific evidence is available on diet and/or
physical activity and NAFLD specifically. Many dietary approaches such as
Mediterranean and DASH diet are used for treatment of other cardiometabolic risk 
factors such as insulin resistance and type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), but on
the basis of its components their role in NAFLD has been discussed. In this
review, the implications of current dietary and exercise approaches, including
Brazilian and other guidelines, are discussed, with a focus on determining the
optimal nonpharmacological treatment to prescribe for NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/4597246 
PMCID: PMC4685119
PMID: 26770987  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Clin Mol Hepatol. 2015 Dec;21(4):326-43. doi: 10.3350/cmh.2015.21.4.326. Epub
2015 Dec 24.

Imaging findings of mimickers of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Kim TK(1), Lee E(2), Jang HJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Imaging, Toronto General Hospital, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. (2)Department of Radiology, Seoul National
University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.

Radiological imaging plays a crucial role in the diagnosis of hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC) as the noninvasive diagnosis of HCC in high-risk patients by
typical imaging findings alone is widely adopted in major practice guidelines for
HCC. While imaging techniques have markedly improved in detecting small liver
lesions, they often detect incidental benign liver lesions and non-hepatocellular
malignancy that can be misdiagnosed as HCC. The most common mimicker of HCC in
cirrhotic liver is nontumorous arterioportal shunts that are seen as focal
hypervascular liver lesions on dynamic contrast-enhanced cross-sectional imaging.
Rapidly enhancing hemangiomas can be easily misdiagnosed as HCC especially on MR 
imaging with liver-specific contrast agent. Focal inflammatory liver lesions
mimic HCC by demonstrating arterial-phase hypervascularity and subsequent washout
on dynamic contrast-enhanced imaging. It is important to recognize the suggestive
imaging findings for intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (CC) as the management of CC
is largely different from that of HCC. There are other benign mimickers of HCC
such as angiomyolipomas and focal nodular hyperplasia-like nodules. Recognition
of their typical imaging findings can reduce false-positive HCC diagnosis.

DOI: 10.3350/cmh.2015.21.4.326 
PMCID: PMC4712159
PMID: 26770920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1314-24. doi: 10.1007/s10620-015-4002-4. Epub 2016
Jan 14.

Role of MicroRNAs in NAFLD/NASH.

Szabo G(1), Csak T(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, LRB215,
364 Plantation Street, Worcester, MA, 01605, USA. gyongyi.szabo@umassmed.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, LRB215,
364 Plantation Street, Worcester, MA, 01605, USA. (3)Brookdale University
Hospital and Medical Center, 1 Brookdale Plaza, Brooklyn, NY, 11212, USA.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are highly conserved, small, 18-25 nucleotide, non-coding RNAs
that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. Each miRNA can
regulate hundreds of target genes, and vice versa each target gene can be
regulated by numerous miRNAs, suggesting a very complex network and explaining
how miRNAs play pivotal roles in fine-tuning essentially all biological processes
in all cell types in the liver. Here, we summarize the current knowledge on the
role of miRNAs in the pathogenesis and diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with an outlook to the
broader aspects of metabolic syndrome. Furthermore, we discuss the role of miRNAs
as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets in NAFLD/NASH.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-015-4002-4 
PMID: 26769057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Biomolecules. 2016 Jan 6;6(1):1. doi: 10.3390/biom6010001.

Alcoholic Liver Disease: Update on the Role of Dietary Fat.

Kirpich IA(1,)(2), Miller ME(3), Cave MC(4,)(5,)(6), Joshi-Barve S(7,)(8),
McClain CJ(9,)(10,)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of
Medicine, University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY 40202, USA.
I0kirp01@louisville.edu. (2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University
of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY 40202, USA.
I0kirp01@louisville.edu. (3)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and
Nutrition, Department of Medicine, University of Louisville School of Medicine,
Louisville, KY 40202, USA. millerm25@udayton.edu. (4)Division of
Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of Medicine, University of
Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY 40202, USA.
matt.cave@louisville.edu. (5)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology,
University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY 40202, USA.
matt.cave@louisville.edu. (6)Robley Rex Veterans Medical Center, Louisville, KY
40202, USA. matt.cave@louisville.edu. (7)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology
and Nutrition, Department of Medicine, University of Louisville School of
Medicine, Louisville, KY 40202, USA. swati.joshi-barve@louisville.edu.
(8)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Louisville School of 
Medicine, Louisville, KY 40202, USA. swati.joshi-barve@louisville.edu.
(9)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of
Medicine, University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY 40202, USA.
craig.mcclain@louisville.edu. (10)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology,
University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY 40202, USA.
craig.mcclain@louisville.edu. (11)Robley Rex Veterans Medical Center, Louisville,
KY 40202, USA. craig.mcclain@louisville.edu.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) spans a spectrum of liver pathology, including
fatty liver, alcoholic steatohepatitis, and cirrhosis. Accumulating evidence
suggests that dietary factors, including dietary fat, as well as alcohol, play
critical roles in the pathogenesis of ALD. The protective effects of dietary
saturated fat (SF) and deleterious effects of dietary unsaturated fat (USF) on
alcohol-induced liver pathology are well recognized and documented in
experimental animal models of ALD. Moreover, it has been demonstrated in an
epidemiological study of alcoholic cirrhosis that dietary intake of SF was
associated with a lower mortality rates, whereas dietary intake of USF was
associated with a higher mortality. In addition, oxidized lipids (dietary and in 
vivo generated) may play a role in liver pathology. The understanding of how
dietary fat contributes to the ALD pathogenesis will enhance our knowledge
regarding the molecular mechanisms of ALD development and progression, and may
result in the development of novel diet-based therapeutic strategies for ALD
management. This review explores the relevant scientific literature and provides 
a current understanding of recent advances regarding the role of dietary lipids
in ALD pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.3390/biom6010001 
PMCID: PMC4808795
PMID: 26751488  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Hepatol Int. 2016 May;10(3):448-61. doi: 10.1007/s12072-015-9695-0. Epub 2016 Jan
7.

Fibrosis assessment: impact on current management of chronic liver disease and
application of quantitative invasive tools.

Wang Y(1), Hou JL(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Guangdong Provincial Key
Laboratory of Viral Hepatitis Research, Department of Infectious Diseases and
Hepatology Unit, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, No. 1838
Guangzhou Dadao Bei Avenue, Guangzhou, 510515, China. yanwang@smu.edu.cn.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Guangdong Provincial Key
Laboratory of Viral Hepatitis Research, Department of Infectious Diseases and
Hepatology Unit, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, No. 1838
Guangzhou Dadao Bei Avenue, Guangzhou, 510515, China.

Fibrosis, a common pathogenic pathway of chronic liver disease (CLD), has long
been indicated to be significantly and most importantly associated with severe
prognosis. Nowadays, with remarkable advances in understanding and/or treatment
of major CLDs such as hepatitis C, B, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, there
is an unprecedented requirement for the diagnosis and assessment of liver
fibrosis or cirrhosis in various clinical settings. Among the available
approaches, liver biopsy remains the one which possibly provides the most direct 
and reliable information regarding fibrosis patterns and changes in the
parenchyma at different clinical stages and with different etiologies. Thus, many
endeavors have been undertaken for developing methodologies based on the strategy
of quantitation for the invasive assessment. Here, we analyze the impact of
fibrosis assessment on the CLD patient care based on the data of recent clinical 
studies. We discuss and update the current invasive tools regarding their
technological features and potentials for the particular clinical applications.
Furthermore, we propose the potential resolutions with application of
quantitative invasive tools for some major issues in fibrosis assessment, which
appear to be obstacles against the nowadays rapid progress in CLD medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s12072-015-9695-0 
PMID: 26742762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Cell Death Dis. 2015 Dec 31;6:e2037. doi: 10.1038/cddis.2015.381.

Obesity and cancer, a case for insulin signaling.

Poloz Y(1), Stambolic V(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Signaling Biology, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre/University
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (2)Department of Medical Biophysics,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Obesity is a worldwide epidemic, with the number of overweight and obese
individuals climbing from just over 500 million in 2008 to 1.9 billion in 2014.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D), cardiovascular disease and non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease have long been associated with the obese state, whereas cancer is quickly
emerging as another pathological consequence of this disease. Globally, at least 
2.8 million people die each year from being overweight or obese. It is estimated 
that by 2020 being overweight or obese will surpass the health burden of tobacco 
consumption. Increase in the body mass index (BMI) in overweight (BMI>25 kg/m(2))
and obese (BMI>30 kg/m(2)) individuals is a result of adipose tissue (AT)
expansion, which can lead to fat comprising >50% of the body weight in the
morbidly obese. Extensive research over the last several years has painted a very
complex picture of AT biology. One clear link between AT expansion and etiology
of diseases like T2D and cancer is the development of insulin resistance (IR) and
hyperinsulinemia. This review focuses on defining the link between obesity, IR
and cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2015.381 
PMCID: PMC4720912
PMID: 26720346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Mol Med Rep. 2016 Feb;13(2):1455-62. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2015.4749. Epub 2015 Dec
30.

bZIP transmembrane transcription factor CREBH: Potential role in non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (Review).

Wang M(1), Zhao S(1), Tan M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan 410000, P.R. China.

The cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-responsive element-binding protein H
(CREBH) is a transcription factor localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
membrane. Previous studies have demonstrated that CREBH is activated by ER
stress, hepatic glucose and lipid metabolism signaling, and inflammation. Thus,
it may be critical in the regulation of various physiological functions
associated with the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD),
which results from inflammation and disorder of hepatic glucose and lipid
metabolism. Therefore, CREBH may have potential as a pharmacological target for
NAFLD. This review summarizes recent scientific developments and the biological
actions of CREBH with a particular focus on its involvement in NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2015.4749 
PMID: 26718596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Alcohol Res. 2015;37(2):251-62.

Macrophages and Alcohol-Related Liver Inflammation.

Ju C, Mandrekar P.

Recent studies have suggested that macrophages have a critical role in the
development of alcohol-induced inflammation in the liver. To define the precise
pathogenic function of these cells during alcoholic liver disease (ALD), it is
extremely important to conduct extensive studies in clinical settings that
further elucidate the phenotypic diversity of macrophages In the context of ALD. 
Research to date already has identified several characteristics of macrophages
that underlie the cells' actions, including macrophage polarization and their
phenotypic diversity. Other analyses have focused on the contributions of
resident versus infiltrating macrophages/monocytes, as well as on the roles of
macrophage mediators, in the development of ALD. Findings point to the potential 
of macrophages as a therapeutic target in alcoholic liver injury. Future studies 
directed toward understanding how alcohol affects macrophage phenotypic switch in
the liver and other tissues, whether the liver microenvironment determines
macrophage function in ALO and if targeting of macrophages alleviates alcoholic
liver injury, will provide promising strategies to manage patients with alcoholic
hepatitis.


PMCID: PMC4590621
PMID: 26717583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Dig Liver Dis. 2016 Feb;48(2):112-9. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.11.013. Epub 2015
Nov 24.

Celiac disease-related hepatic injury: Insights into associated conditions and
underlying pathomechanisms.

Marciano F(1), Savoia M(2), Vajro P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology, University of
Naples "Federico II", Naples, Italy. Electronic address:
francescamarciano@virgilio.it. (2)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical
Biotechnology, University of Naples "Federico II", Naples, Italy. Electronic
address: marcella.savoia@unina.it. (3)Department of Medicine and Surgery,
Pediatrics Section, University of Salerno, Baronissi, Italy; ELFID, University of
Naples "Federico II", Naples, Italy. Electronic address: pvajro@unisa.it.

BACKGROUND: Celiac disease (CD) is the most common autoimmune enteropathy.
Clinical manifestations may range from a typical malabsorption syndrome to
several apparently unrelated extra-intestinal symptoms.
AIM: Here we specifically focus on the spectrum of CD-related liver disorders and
the underlying pathomechanisms.
METHODS: A computer-based search up to August 2015 was completed using
appropriate keywords. References from selected papers were also reviewed and used
if relevant.
RESULTS: An unexplained hypertransaminasemia with nonspecific histologic hepatic 
changes is the most common hepatic presentation. CD however can coexist with a
number of liver disorders such as Autoimmune Hepatitis, Autoimmune Cholangitis,
Primary Biliary Cirrhosis and Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis requiring a specific
treatment in addition to gluten-free diet. CD has also been associated with Viral
Hepatitis, Fatty Liver, Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis and some severe cryptogenic
hepatopaties in the liver transplantation list. Pathomechanisms underlying
hepatic injury in CD are multiple, appear still not completely defined and may
probably co-occur.
CONCLUSIONS: An ever-increasing number of CD-related liver injuries exist,
probably representing a continuum of a same disorder where genetic
predisposition, timing, and duration of previous gluten exposure might influence 
the reversibility of liver damage. Evidences, although not conclusive, support
therefore testing for CD also in cryptogenic hepatobiliary conditions where the
relationship with CD has not yet been fully investigated.

Copyright © 2015 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.11.013 
PMID: 26711682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2016 Jan 1;21:683-95.

Inflammasomes in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Xiao J(1), Tipoe GL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Institute of Tissue Transplantation and
Immunology. (2)Department of Immunobiology, Institute of Tissue Transplantation
and Immunology, tgeorge@hku.hk.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a leading liver disorder in the
world. Inflammation is one of the most important pathological events during the
development of NAFLD and also represents the hallmark between simple steatosis
and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Inflammasomes are novel protein complex
platforms assembled in response to pattern-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) 
and damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). Currently, there are several
identified inflammasomes, including nod-like receptor protein (NLRP)-1, 2, 3, 6, 
10, 12, NLRC4 and absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2) inflammasomes. In the liver,
inflammasomes are primarily expressed in immune cells. However, increasing
evidence suggests that their expressions in other types of cells in the liver are
also present. In general, inflammasomes are up-regulated in various liver
diseases. In NAFLD, it is reported that the levels of inflammasome components
(e.g. NLRPs, caspase-1, IL-1beta and IL-18) are elevated. Silence of these
components attenuates hepatic injury. Collectively, the main purposes of this
review are to examine the recent progress of hepatic inflammasome research and to
discuss possible directions of therapeutic strategy and development against
NAFLD.


PMID: 26709799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Eur J Intern Med. 2016 Apr;29:3-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2015.11.026. Epub 2015 Dec
15.

Uric acid in metabolic syndrome: From an innocent bystander to a central player.

Kanbay M(1), Jensen T(2), Solak Y(3), Le M(2), Roncal-Jimenez C(2), Rivard C(2), 
Lanaspa MA(2), Nakagawa T(4), Johnson RJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, Koc University School of
Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey. Electronic address: mkanbay@ku.edu.tr. (2)Division of
Renal Diseases and Hypertension, University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, Sakarya Training and Research 
Hospital, Sakarya, Turkey. (4)TMK Project, Medical Innovation Center, Kyoto
University, Kyoto, Japan. (5)Division of Renal Diseases and Hypertension,
University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, USA; Division of Nephrology, Eastern Colorado
Health Care System, Department of Veteran Affairs, Denver, CO, USA.

Uric acid, once viewed as an inert metabolic end-product of purine metabolism,
has been recently incriminated in a number of chronic disease states, including
hypertension, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,
and chronic kidney disease. Several experimental and clinical studies support a
role for uric acid as a contributory causal factor in these conditions. Here we
discuss some of the major mechanisms linking uric acid to metabolic and
cardiovascular diseases. At this time the key to understanding the importance of 
uric acid in these diseases will be the conduct of large clinical trials in which
the effect of lowering uric acid on hard clinical outcomes is assessed. Elevated 
uric acid may turn out to be one of the more important remediable risk factors
for metabolic and cardiovascular diseases.

Copyright © 2015 European Federation of Internal Medicine. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2015.11.026 
PMCID: PMC4826346
PMID: 26703429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2016 Feb;27(2):84-95. doi: 10.1016/j.tem.2015.11.008.
Epub 2015 Dec 17.

The Role of Cholesterol in the Pathogenesis of NASH.

Ioannou GN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System,
Seattle, WA, USA; Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Veterans 
Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA, USA; University of
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address:
georgei@medicine.washington.edu.

Lipotoxicity drives the development of progressive hepatic inflammation and
fibrosis in a subgroup of patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD),
causing nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and even progression to cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). While the underlying molecular mechanisms
responsible for the development of inflammation and fibrosis that characterize
progressive NASH remain unclear, emerging evidence now suggests that hepatic free
cholesterol (FC) is a major lipotoxic molecule critical in the development of
experimental and human NASH. In this review, we examine the effects of excess FC 
in hepatocytes, Kupffer cells (KCs), and hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), and the
subcellular mechanisms by which excess FC can induce cellular toxicity or
proinflammatory and profibrotic effects in these cells.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tem.2015.11.008 
PMID: 26703097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2016 Feb;23(1):66-71. doi:
10.1097/MED.0000000000000221.

Fatty liver disease and obesity in youth.

Della Corte C(1), Mazzotta AR, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Hepatometabolic Department and Liver Research Unit, 'Bambino Gesù' Children's 
Hospital, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this short review is to summarize recent
developments in the understanding of pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD), focusing on novel findings in pathogenetic mechanisms and the
therapeutic armamentarium.
RECENT FINDINGS: As a result of the increasing prevalence of pediatric obesity,
NAFLD has rapidly become the most common cause of chronic hepatopathies in
children. Lifestyle modification and diet remain the mainstay of treatment of
pediatric obesity and NAFLD, but with disappointing results because of the
difficulty in obtaining sustained long-term results. Considering the risk of
progression of liver damage to cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease, in the last
decades scientific research in this field has been directed to the identification
of pathogenetic mechanisms and possible therapeutic strategies for NAFLD.
SUMMARY: We describe the therapeutic options for the management of pediatric
NAFLD, focusing on emerging alternative strategies, including surgical approaches
and new drugs directed against novel potential molecular targets.

DOI: 10.1097/MED.0000000000000221 
PMID: 26702852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Dig Liver Dis. 2016 Mar;48(3):333-42. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.10.027. Epub 2015
Nov 14.

A "systems medicine" approach to the study of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Petta S(1), Valenti L(2), Bugianesi E(3), Targher G(4), Bellentani S(5), Bonino
F(6); Special Interest Group on Personalised Hepatology of the Italian
Association for the Study of the Liver (AISF); Special Interest Group on
Personalised Hepatology of Italian Association for Study of Liver AISF.

Collaborators: Ferrannini E, Loguercio C, Lonardo A, Marra F, Mancini M, Miele L,
Nobili V, Svegliati Baroni G, Alessandro F, Ballestri S, Brunetto MR, Coco B,
Grieco A, Fargion S, Kondili L, Nascimbeni F, Prinster A, Romagnoli D, Taddei S, 
Vanni E, Vella S.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Gastroenterology, Di.Bi.M.I.S Policlinico Paolo Giaccone Hospital, 
University of Palermo, Italy. (2)Internal Medicine, Foundation IRCCS Ca' Granda
Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation,
University of Milan, Italy. (3)Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of
Medical Sciences, Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino Hospital,
University of Turin, Italy. (4)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism,
Department of Medicine, University Hospital of Verona, Italy. (5)Shrewsbury and
Telford NHS Trust, Department of Gastroenterology, Shrewsbury, UK; Fondazione
Italiana Fegato, Bassovizza, Trieste, Italy. (6)General Medicine 2, Department of
Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University Hospital of Pisa, Italy.
Electronic address: ferruccio.bonino@unipi.it.

The prevalence of fatty liver (steatosis) in the general population is rapidly
increasing worldwide. The progress of knowledge in the physiopathology of fatty
liver is based on the systems biology approach to studying the complex
interactions among different physiological systems. Similarly, translational and 
clinical research should address the complex interplay between these systems
impacting on fatty liver. The clinical needs drive the applications of systems
medicine to re-define clinical phenotypes, assessing the multiple nature of
disease susceptibility and progression (e.g. the definition of risk, prognosis,
diagnosis criteria, and new endpoints of clinical trials). Based on this premise 
and in light of recent findings, the complex mechanisms involved in the pathology
of fatty liver and their impact on the short- and long-term clinical outcomes of 
cardiovascular, metabolic liver diseases associated with steatosis are presented 
in this review using a new "systems medicine" approach. A new data set is
proposed for studying the impairments of different physiological systems that
have an impact on fatty liver in different subsets of subjects and patients.

Copyright © 2015 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.10.027 
PMID: 26698409  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Alcohol Res. 2015;37(2):159-70.

Alcohol's Effect on Host Defense.

Szabo G(1), Saha B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
Massachusetts.

Alcohol affects many organs, including the immune system, with even moderate
amounts of alcohol influencing immune responses. Although alcohol can alter the
actions of all cell populations involved in the innate and adaptive immune
responses, the effect in many cases is a subclinical immunosuppression that
becomes clinically relevant only after a secondary insult (e.g., bacterial or
viral infection or other tissue damage). Alcohol's specific effects on the innate
immune system depend on the pattern of alcohol exposure, with acute alcohol
inhibiting and chronic alcohol accelerating inflammatory responses. The
proinflammatory effects of chronic alcohol play a major role in the pathogenesis 
of alcoholic liver disease and pancreatitis, but also affect numerous other
organs and tissues. In addition to promoting proinflammatory immune responses,
alcohol also impairs anti-inflammatory cytokines. Chronic alcohol exposure also
interferes with the normal functioning of all aspects of the adaptive immune
response, including both cell-mediated and humoral responses. All of these
effects enhance the susceptibility of chronic alcoholics to viral and bacterial
infections and to sterile inflammation.


PMCID: PMC4590613
PMID: 26695755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Alcohol Res. 2015;37(2):237-50.

The Role of Innate Immunity in Alcoholic Liver Disease.

Nagy LE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Pathobiology at Cleveland Clinic
Foundation, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland, Ohio.

The innate immune system represents the first-line response to invading microbes,
tissue damage, or aberrant cell growth. Many of the proteins and cells involved
in innate immunity are produced by, and reside in, the liver. This abundance in
immune cells and proteins reflects the liver's adaptation to various immune
challenges but also makes the organ particularly vulnerable to alcohol's effects.
Heavy alcohol consumption may produce leakage of microbes and microbial products 
from the gastrointestinal tract, which quickly reach the liver via the portal
vein. Exposure to these immune challenges and to alcohol and its breakdown
products dysregulates the liver's normally fine-tuned immune signaling pathways, 
leading to activation of various cellular sensors of pathogen- or
damage-associated molecular patterns. The ensuing expression of pro-inflammatory 
cytokines (e.g., tumor necrosis factor a [TNFα], interleukin [IL]-8, and IL-1b)
results in cellular dysfunction that contributes to alcoholic liver disease
(ALD). Investigations into the roles of the various components of liver innate
immunity in ALD have begun to uncover the molecular basis of this disease.
Further progress in this area may help inform the development of interventions
targeting the innate system to augment current treatments of ALD. These
treatments could include antibodies against pro-inflammatory cytokines, use of
anti-inflammatory cytokines, or suppression of alcohol-induced epigenetic
regulators of innate immunity.


PMCID: PMC4590620
PMID: 26695748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Alcohol Res. 2015;37(2):223-36.

The Gastrointestinal Microbiome: Alcohol Effects on the Composition of Intestinal
Microbiota.

Engen PA(1), Green SJ(1), Voigt RM(1), Forsyth CB(1), Keshavarzian A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois. (2)Utrecht Institute for
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

The excessive use of alcohol is a global problem causing many adverse
pathological health effects and a significant financial health care burden. This 
review addresses the effect of alcohol consumption on the microbiota in the
gastrointestinal tract (GIT). Although data are limited in humans, studies
highlight the importance of changes in the intestinal microbiota in
alcohol-related disorders. Alcohol-induced changes in the GIT microbiota
composition and metabolic function may contribute to the well-established link
between alcohol-induced oxidative stress, intestinal hyperpermeability to luminal
bacterial products, and the subsequent development of alcoholic liver disease
(ALD), as well as other diseases. In addition, clinical and preclinical data
suggest that alcohol-related disorders are associated with quantitative and
qualitative dysbiotic changes in the intestinal microbiota and may be associated 
with increased GIT inflammation, intestinal hyperpermeability resulting in
endotoxemia, systemic inflammation, and tissue damage/organ pathologies including
ALD. Thus, gut-directed interventions, such as probiotic and synbiotic modulation
of the intestinal microbiota, should be considered and evaluated for prevention
and treatment of alcohol-associated pathologies.


PMCID: PMC4590619
PMID: 26695747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Alcohol Res. 2015;37(2):185-97.

Impact of Alcohol Abuse on the Adaptive Immune System.

Pasala S(1), Barr T(1), Messaoudi I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biomedical Sciences, School of Medicine, University of California,
Riverside, Riverside, California.

Alcohol exposure, and particularly chronic heavy drinking, affects all components
of the adaptive immune system. Studies both in humans and in animal models
determined that chronic alcohol abuse reduces the number of peripheral T cells,
disrupts the balance between different T-cell types, influences T-cell
activation, impairs T-cell functioning, and promotes T-cell apoptosis. Chronic
alcohol exposure also seems to cause loss of peripheral B cells, while
simultaneously inducing increased production of immunoglobulins. In particular,
the levels of antibodies against liver-specific autoantigens are increased in
patients with alcoholic liver disease and may promote alcohol-related liver
damage. Finally, chronic alcohol exposure in utero interferes with normal T-cell 
and B-cell development, which may increase the risk of infections during both
childhood and adulthood. Alcohol's impact on T cells and B cells increases the
risk of infections (e.g., pneumonia, HIV infection, hepatitis C virus infection, 
and tuberculosis), impairs responses to vaccinations against such infections,
exacerbates cancer risk, and interferes with delayed-type hypersensitivity. In
contrast to these deleterious effects of heavy alcohol exposure, moderate alcohol
consumption may have beneficial effects on the adaptive immune system, including 
improved responses to vaccination and infection. The molecular mechanisms
underlying ethanol's impact on the adaptive immune system remain poorly
understood.


PMCID: PMC4590616
PMID: 26695744  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Hepatol Int. 2016 May;10(3):394-406. doi: 10.1007/s12072-015-9689-y. Epub 2015
Dec 18.

Genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of NASH.

Eslam M(1), George J(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Storr Liver Centre, Westmead Millennium Institute, Westmead Hospital,
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. (2)Storr Liver Centre, Westmead
Millennium Institute, Westmead Hospital, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
Australia. jacob_george@wmi.usyd.edu.au. (3)Department of Medicine, Westmead
Hospital, Westmead, NSW, 2145, Australia. jacob_george@wmi.usyd.edu.au.

Along with the obesity epidemic, the prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) has increased exponentially. The histological disease spectrum of
NAFLD ranges from bland fatty liver (hepatic steatosis), to the concomitant
presence of inflammation and ballooning which defines nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). The latter can progress in a subset to fibrosis, leading 
ultimately to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The past decade has seen
tremendous advances in our understanding of the genetic and epigenetic bases of
NAFLD, mainly through the application of high end technology platforms including 
genome-wide association studies (GWAS). These have helped to define common gene
variants (minor allele frequency >5 %) that contribute to the NAFLD phenotype.
Looking to the future, these discoveries are expected to lead to improved
diagnostics, the personalization of medicine, and a better understanding of the
pathophysiological underpinnings that drive the transition from NAFLD to
steatohepatitis and fibrosis, leading to the identification of novel therapeutic 
targets. In this review, we summarize data on the current state of knowledge with
regard to the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms for the development of NASH.

DOI: 10.1007/s12072-015-9689-y 
PMID: 26683320  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Endocr Dev. 2016;30:29-36. doi: 10.1159/000439324. Epub 2015 Dec 10.

Docosahexaenoic Acid and Its Role in G-Protein-Coupled Receptor 120 Activation in
Children Affected by Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Della Corte C, Mosca A, Ionata A, Nobili V.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most important causes of
chronic liver disease in children and adults. Recently, therapeutic
supplementation with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) showed an anti-inflammatory and
insulin-sensitizing effect in children with NAFLD. The anti-inflammatory effects 
of DHA depend on its ability to alter phospholipid composition of the cell
membrane, to disrupt lipid rafts and to hamper the transcriptional activity of
nuclear factor-x03BA;B that controls the expression of proinflammatory cytokines.
These effects of DHA are due to the interaction with the G-protein-coupled
receptor 120 (GRP120), a lipid-sensing receptor highly expressed in activated
macrophages. In fact, DHA may activate GPR120 expression in macrophages causing
anti-inflammatory effects, and insulin-sensitizing and antidiabetic effects in
vivo. Recently, it has been shown that GPR120 is also expressed by the Kupffer
cells of the liver. A diet low in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, as well as the
presence of genetic factors, may induce a reduction in the GRP120 signal and the 
activation of Kupffer cells and inflammation during NAFLD. Therefore, it is
conceivable that DHA/GRP120 may play a key role in slowing the progression of
liver damage in patients with NAFLD.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000439324 
PMID: 26683215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Nov;35(4):375-91. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1567870. Epub 2015
Dec 16.

Insights from Genome-Wide Association Analyses of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver
Disease.

Kahali B(1), Halligan B(1), Speliotes EK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Department of
Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is caused by hepatic steatosis, which
can progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, fibrosis/cirrhosis, and
hepatocellular carcinoma in the absence of excessive alcohol consumption.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease will become the number one cause of liver
disease worldwide by 2020. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is correlated albeit 
imperfectly with obesity and other metabolic diseases such as diabetes,
hyperlipidemia, and cardiovascular disease, but exactly how having one of these
diseases contributes to the development of other metabolic diseases is only now
being elucidated. Development of NAFLD and related metabolic diseases is
genetically influenced in the population, and recent genome-wide association
studies (GWASs) have discovered genetic variants that associate with these
diseases. These GWAS-associated variants cannot only help us to identify
individuals at high risk of developing NAFLD, but also to better understand its
pathophysiology so that we can develop more effective treatments for this disease
and related metabolic diseases in the future.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1567870 
PMCID: PMC4941959
PMID: 26676813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Nov;35(4):361-74. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1567832. Epub 2015
Dec 16.

Genetics of Alcoholic Liver Disease.

Anstee QM(1), Daly AK(1), Day CP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Group, Institute of Cellular Medicine, The Medical School,
Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, United Kingdom.

Excess alcohol consumption with consequent alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a
common cause of liver dysfunction and liver-related mortality worldwide. However,
although the majority of heavy drinkers will develop steatosis, only a minority
progress to advanced liver disease and cirrhosis. Thus, ALD is a complex disease 
where subtle interpatient genetic variations and environmental factors interact
to determine disease progression. One genome-wide association study specifically 
addressing genetic modifiers of ALD has been published. However, most of our
understanding is based on studies conducted on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. 
Translation of candidates from these studies into ALD has established a role for 
variants in genes including PNPLA3 and potentially TM6SF2 across the disease
spectrum from steatosis, through cirrhosis to hepatocellular carcinoma. Here the 
authors review the current status of the field with a particular focus on recent 
advances.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1567832 
PMID: 26676812  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


98. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Dec 14;21(46):12989-95. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i46.12989.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and hepatic cirrhosis: Comparison with viral
hepatitis-associated steatosis.

Haga Y(1), Kanda T(1), Sasaki R(1), Nakamura M(1), Nakamoto S(1), Yokosuka O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yuki Haga, Tatsuo Kanda, Reina Sasaki, Masato Nakamura, Shingo Nakamoto, Osamu
Yokosuka, Department of Gastroenterology and Nephrology, Chiba University,
Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba 260-8670, Japan.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) is globally increasing and has become a world-wide health problem. Chronic
infection with hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus (HCV) is associated with
hepatic steatosis. Viral hepatitis-associated hepatic steatosis is often caused
by metabolic syndrome including obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus and/or
dyslipidemia. It has been reported that HCV genotype 3 exerts direct metabolic
effects that lead to hepatic steatosis. In this review, the differences between
NAFLD/NASH and viral hepatitis-associated steatosis are discussed.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i46.12989 
PMCID: PMC4674717
PMID: 26675364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Vnitr Lek. 2015 Nov;61 Suppl 4:4s6-12.

[Approach to patients with liver diseases].

[Article in Czech]

Brůha R.

In recent years the most frequent cause of chronic liver diseases in western
countries has become Non-alcoholic hepatic steatosis/steatohepatitis
(NAFLD/NASH). It is part or immediate manifestation of metabolic syndrome. A
crucial task for the future is to diagnose this hepatic injury to a greater
extent and cooperate with other internal medicine physicians in the care of
patients with NAFLD. It has been clearly proven that it is not a benign disease, 
as assumed in the past. Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis can have serious
consequences for the patient and it needs to be actively searched for. The still 
prevalent notion that normal liver tests in patients with hepatic steatosis
eliminate a more serious liver injury has also been disproved. On the contrary,
this condition is common in patients with NAFLD. Also the patients with normal
liver test results can have advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis. It is needed to target
identification of a liver injury in a patient with the detected metabolic
syndrome with the same intensity as the other diabetes complications are searched
for today. All patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2T) should undergo
ultrasound examination of the liver and it is further recommended to check the
liver tests in annual intervals at least. The cause of liver lesions should be
found in all diabetics who had higher liver test values established even once.
The liver injury needs to be further regularly followed in these patients.
Regarding the patients without the metabolic syndrome anamnesis with the NAFLD
signs, it is needed to actively search for the components of the metabolic
syndrome (hypertension, dyslipidemia, impaired glucose tolerance, diabetes).


PMID: 26667615  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Annu Rev Physiol. 2016;78:181-205. doi: 10.1146/annurev-physiol-021115-105331.
Epub 2015 Nov 30.

Pathophysiology and Mechanisms of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Haas JT(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Francque S(5,)(6), Staels B(1,)(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)European Genomic Institute for Diabetes (EGID), FR 3508, F-59000 Lille,
France; email: joel.haas@pasteur-lille.fr , bart.staels@pasteur-lille.fr.
(2)Université de Lille, F-59000 Lille, France. (3)INSERM UMR 1011, F-59000 Lille,
France. (4)Institut Pasteur de Lille, F-59000 Lille, France. (5)Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Antwerp University Hospital, 2650 Antwerp,
Belgium; email: sven.francque@uza.be. (6)Laboratory of Experimental Medicine and 
Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp, 2610
Antwerp, Belgium.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a spectrum of liver
disorders characterized by abnormal hepatic fat accumulation, inflammation, and
hepatocyte dysfunction. Importantly, it is also closely linked to obesity and the
metabolic syndrome. NAFLD predisposes susceptible individuals to cirrhosis,
hepatocellular carcinoma, and cardiovascular disease. Although the precise
signals remain poorly understood, NAFLD pathogenesis likely involves actions of
the different hepatic cell types and multiple extrahepatic signals. The
complexity of this disease has been a major impediment to the development of
appropriate metrics of its progression and effective therapies. Recent clinical
data place increasing importance on identifying fibrosis, as it is a strong
indicator of hepatic disease-related mortality. Preclinical modeling of the
fibrotic process remains challenging, particularly in the contexts of obesity and
the metabolic syndrome. Future studies are needed to define the molecular
pathways determining the natural progression of NAFLD, including key determinants
of fibrosis and disease-related outcomes. This review covers the evolving
concepts of NAFLD from both human and animal studies. We discuss recent clinical 
and diagnostic methods assessing NAFLD diagnosis, progression, and outcomes;
compare the features of genetic and dietary animal models of NAFLD; and highlight
pharmacological approaches for disease treatment.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-physiol-021115-105331 
PMID: 26667070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2015 Nov 1;15(19):1-58. eCollection 2015.

Transient Elastography and Controlled Attenuation Parameter for Diagnosing Liver 
Fibrosis and Steatosis in Ontario: An Economic Analysis.

Thavorn K, Coyle D.

BACKGROUND: Liver fibrosis is characterized by a buildup of connective tissue due
to chronic liver damage. Steatosis is the collection of excessive amounts of fat 
inside liver cells. Liver biopsy remains the gold standard for the diagnosis of
liver fibrosis and steatosis, but its use as a diagnostic tool is limited by its 
invasive nature and high cost.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness and budget impact of transient
elastography (TE) with and without controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) for the
diagnosis of liver fibrosis or steatosis in patients with hepatitis B, hepatitis 
C, alcoholic liver disease, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
DATA SOURCES: An economic literature search was performed using computerized
databases. For primary economic and budget impact analyses, we obtained data from
various sources, such as the Health Quality Ontario evidence-based analysis,
published literature, and the Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of existing TE cost-effectiveness studies was
conducted, and a primary economic evaluation was undertaken from the perspective 
of the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care. Decision analytic models
were used to compare short-term costs and outcomes of TE compared to liver
biopsy. Outcomes were expressed as incremental cost per correctly diagnosed cases
gained. A budget impact analysis was also conducted.
RESULTS: We included 10 relevant studies that evaluated the cost-effectiveness of
TE compared to other noninvasive tests and to liver biopsy; no cost-effectiveness
studies of TE with CAP were identified. All studies showed that TE was less
expensive but associated with a decrease in the number of correctly diagnosed
cases. TE also improved quality-adjusted life-years in patients with hepatitis B 
and hepatitis C. Our primary economic analysis suggested that TE led to cost
savings but was less effective than liver biopsy in the diagnosis of liver
fibrosis. TE became more economically attractive with a higher degree of liver
fibrosis. TE with CAP was also less expensive and less accurate than liver
biopsy.
LIMITATIONS: The model did not take into account long-term costs and consequences
associated with TE and liver biopsy and did not include costs to patients and
their families, or patient preferences related to diagnostic information.
CONCLUSIONS: TE showed potential cost savings compared to liver biopsy. Further
investigation is needed to determine the long-term impacts of TE on morbidity and
mortality in Canada and the optimal diagnostic modality for liver fibrosis and
steatosis.


PMCID: PMC4664940
PMID: 26664666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2015 Nov 1;15(18):1-45. eCollection 2015.

Transient Elastography for Assessment of Liver Fibrosis and Steatosis: An
Evidence-Based Analysis.

Brener S.

BACKGROUND: Liver fibrosis is a sign of advanced liver disease and is often an
indication for treatment. The current standard for diagnosing liver fibrosis and 
steatosis is biopsy, but noninvasive alternatives are available; one of the most 
common is transient elastography (FibroScan).
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this analysis was to assess the diagnostic accuracy 
and clinical utility of transient elastography alone for liver fibrosis and with 
controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) for steatosis in patients with hepatitis C
virus, hepatitis B virus, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, alcoholic liver
disease, or cholestatic diseases. The analysis also aimed to compare the
diagnostic accuracy of transient elastography with two alternative noninvasive
technologies: FibroTest and acoustic force radiation impulse (ARFI).
DATA SOURCES: Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In-Process, Ovid Embase, and all EBM
databases were searched for all studies published prior to October 2, 2014.
REVIEW METHODS: An overview of reviews was conducted using a systematic search
and assessment approach. The results of the included systematic reviews were
summarized, analyzed, and reported for outcomes related to diagnostic accuracy
and clinical utility as a measure of impact on diagnoses, therapeutic decisions, 
and patient outcomes.
RESULTS: Fourteen systematic reviews were included, summarizing more than 150
studies. The reviews demonstrated that transient elastography (with or without
CAP) has good diagnostic accuracy compared to biopsy for the assessment of liver 
fibrosis and steatosis. Acoustic force radiation impulse and FibroTest were not
superior to transient elastography.
LIMITATIONS: None of the included systematic reviews reported on the clinical
utility of transient elastography.
CONCLUSIONS: Transient elastography (with or without CAP) offers a noninvasive
alternative to biopsy for the assessment of liver fibrosis and steatosis, given
its comparable diagnostic accuracy.


PMCID: PMC4664937
PMID: 26664664  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2015 Dec;14(6):572-81.

Gut microbiota and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Gkolfakis P(1), Dimitriadis G, Triantafyllou K.

Author information: 
(1)Hepatogastroenterology Unit, Second Department of Internal Medicine and
Research Institute, Attikon University General Hospital, Medical School, Athens
University, 124 62 Athens, Greece. ktriant@med.uoa.gr.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common disorder with
poorly understood pathogenesis. Beyond environmental and genetic factors,
cumulative data support the causative role of gut microbiota in disease
development and progression.
DATA SOURCE: We performed a PubMed literature search with the following key
words: "non-alcoholic fatty liver disease", "non-alcoholic steatohepatitis",
"fatty liver", "gut microbiota" and "microbiome", to review the data implicating 
gut microbiota in NAFLD development and progression.
RESULTS: Recent metagenomic studies revealed differences in the phylum and genus 
levels between patients with fatty liver and healthy controls. While
bacteroidetes and firmicutes remain the dominant phyla among NAFLD patients,
their proportional abundance and genera detection vary among different studies.
New techniques indicate a correlation between the methanogenic archaeon
(methanobrevibacter smithii) and obesity, while the bacterium akkermanshia
municiphila protects against metabolic syndrome. Among NAFLD patients, small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth detected by breath tests might induce gut
microbiota and host interactions, facilitating disease development.
CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence that gut microbiota participates in NAFLD
development through, among others, obesity induction, endogenous ethanol
production, inflammatory response triggering and alterations in choline
metabolism. Further studies with emerging techniques are needed to further
elucidate the microbiome and host crosstalk in NAFLD pathogenesis.


PMID: 26663004  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Gastroenterology. 2016 Mar;150(3):574-80. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2015.11.043. Epub
2015 Dec 2.

Circadian Clock Control of Liver Metabolic Functions.

Reinke H(1), Asher G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Faculty, Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Diagnostics,
University of Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany; IUF-Leibniz Research Institute for
Environmental Medicine, Düsseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
hans.reinke@med.uni-duesseldorf.de. (2)Department of Biological Chemistry,
Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel. Electronic address:
gad.asher@weizmann.ac.il.

The circadian clock is an endogenous biological timekeeping system that
synchronizes physiology and behavior to day/night cycles. A wide variety of
processes throughout the entire gastrointestinal tract and notably the liver
appear to be under circadian control. These include various metabolic functions
such as nutrient uptake, processing, and detoxification, which align organ
function to cycle with nutrient supply and demand. Remarkably, genetic or
environmental disruption of the circadian clock can cause metabolic diseases or
exacerbate pathological states. In addition, modern lifestyles force more and
more people worldwide into asynchrony between the external time and their
circadian clock, resulting in a constant state of social jetlag. Recent evidence 
indicates that interactions between altered energy metabolism and disruptions in 
the circadian clock create a downward spiral that can lead to diabetes and other 
metabolic diseases. In this review, we provide an overview of rhythmic processes 
in the liver and highlight the functions of circadian clock genes under
physiological and pathological conditions; we focus on their roles in regulation 
of hepatic glucose as well as lipid and bile acid metabolism and detoxification
and their potential effects on the development of fatty liver and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis.

Copyright © 2016 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2015.11.043 
PMID: 26657326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016;10(3):393-403. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2016.1110485. Epub 2015 Dec 14.

Recent advances in understanding the role of adipocytokines during non-alcoholic 
fatty liver disease pathogenesis and their link with hepatokines.

Panera N(1), Della Corte C(2), Crudele A(1), Stronati L(3), Nobili V(2), Alisi
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Liver Research Unit , 'Bambino Gesù' Children's Hospital, IRCCS , Rome ,
Italy. (2)b Hepato-Metabolic Disease Unit , 'Bambino Gesù' Children's Hospital,
IRCCS , Rome , Italy. (3)c Department of Radiobiology and Human Health , ENEA ,
Rome , Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is currently considered the main cause 
of chronic liver disease worldwide. Mechanisms leading to the development and
progression of this disease are topics of great interest for researchers and
clinicians. The current multi-hit hypothesis has thrown the crosstalk between
liver and adipose tissue into sharp focus. It is well known that adipose tissue
produces circulating factors, known as adipocytokines, which exert several
effects on liver cells, promoting the onset of NAFLD and its progression to
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis in obese subjects. In a similar way, hepatocytes
may also respond to obesogenic stimuli by producing and releasing hepatokines
into the circulation. Here, the authors provide an overview of recent advances in
our understanding of the role of the most relevant adipocytokines and hepatokines
in NAFLD pathogenesis, highlighting their possible molecular and functional
interactions.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2016.1110485 
PMID: 26654761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Curr Drug Metab. 2016;17(4):401-9.

Indole-3-Carbinol (I3C) and its Major Derivatives: Their Pharmacokinetics and
Important Roles in Hepatic Protection.

Wang SQ, Cheng LS, Liu Y, Wang JY, Jiang W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, 180
Fenglin Road, Shanghai 200032, China. jiang.wei@zs-hospital.sh.cn.

BACKGROUND: Indoles, including indole-3-carbinol (I3C) and its derivatives, are
the products of glucosinolate hydrolysis catalyzed by the enzyme myrosinase.
Under acidic conditions, I3C polymerizes into 3, 3- diindolylmethane (DIM),
[2-(indol-3-ylmethyl)-indol-3-yl]indol-3-ylmethane (LTr1), 1-(3-hydroxymethyl)-
indolyl-3-indolylmethane (HI-IM) and indolo[3,2b]carbazole (ICZ). Recently, I3C
and its dimer DIM have shown pleiotropic protective effects on chronic liver
injuries, including viral hepatitis, hepatic steatosis, hepatic cirrhosis,
hepatocellular carcinoma, and so on.
METHODS: We reviewed the published papers about the pharmacokinetics of I3C and
its derivatives in vitro and in vivo, and summarized their multiple protective
roles in the processes of chronic liver diseases.
RESULTS: Indoles not only regulate transcriptional factors and their respective
signaling pathways, but also relieve oxidative stress and inhibit the synthesis
of DNA to influence the activation, proliferation and apoptosis of target cells. 
Moreover, indoles modulate the enzymes that are relevant to hepatitis viral
replication, lipogenesis, and the metabolism of ethanol and some hepatotoxic
substances to protect the liver. Currently, the immunomodulatory biofunction of
indoles contributes to improving non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. In addition,
indoles also function as the inhibitors of pro-inflammatory cytokines and
chemokines to reduce microbial-induced liver injures.
CONCLUSION: Indoles, especially I3C and DIM as phytochemicals, exert
anti-fibrosis, anti-tumor, anti-oxidant, immunomodulatory, detoxification and
anti-inflammation effects on hepatic protection through pleiotropic mechanism.


PMID: 26651978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2015 Dec;29(6):919-28. doi:
10.1016/j.bpg.2015.09.007. Epub 2015 Sep 10.

Changing epidemiology of hepatocellular carcinoma in Asia.

Goh GB(1), Chang PE(2), Tan CK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Singapore General Hospital,
Singapore; Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore. Electronic address:
george.goh.b.b@sgh.com.sg. (2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Singapore General Hospital, Singapore; Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School,
Singapore. Electronic address: jason.chang@sgh.com.sg. (3)Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore; Duke-NUS 
Graduate Medical School, Singapore. Electronic address: tan.chee.kiat@sgh.com.sg.

Hepatocellular carcinoma is a major problem in Asia because of the presence of
multiple risk factors in the region such as endemicity of hepatitis B and
significant contamination of foodstuff by aflatoxin in some areas. Another risk
factor for HCC, chronic hepatitis C infection, in Asia is most significant in
Japan, the only Asian country with more HCV than HBV-related hepatocellular
carcinoma. As these risk factors can and are being modified by measures such as
universal hepatitis B immunisation, successful treatment of HCV infections,
reduction and improved surveillance of aflatoxin contamination of foodstuff, it
is not surprising that the epidemiology of HCC in Asia is changing. All these are
offset by the rising importance of NAFLD and NASH as chronic liver diseases and
risk factors for HCC which contributes to the changing epidemiology of HCC in
Asia.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2015.09.007 
PMID: 26651253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Curr Drug Targets. 2016;17(7):783-99.

Biology, Epidemiology, Clinical Aspects of Hepatocellular Carcinoma and the Role 
of Sorafenib.

Mazzoccoli G(1), Miele L, Oben J, Grieco A, Vinciguerra M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, Division of Internal Medicine and
Chronobiology Unit, IRCCS "Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza", Opera di Padre Pio da
Pietrelcina, Cappuccini Av., San Giovanni Rotondo (FG), 71013, Italy.
g.mazzoccoli@operapadrepio.it.

Sorafenib is a small molecular inhibitor of intracellular tyrosine and
serine/threonine protein kinases (VEGFR, PDGFR, CRAF and BRAF), and is thought
also to induce autophagy, a chief mechanism influencing tumor growth. Sorafenib
shows efficacy in the management of non-resectable hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC), which is refractory to other chemotherapeutic drugs. HCC represents a
major end point of chronic liver diseases and the third leading cause of
cancer-related death. In HCC patients Sorafenib increases overall survival
compared to placebo. The most common chronic liver disease affecting up to 30% of
the population in Western countries is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD),
an intra-hepatic amassing of triglycerides deemed as the hepatic manifestation of
insulin resistance and obesity. NAFLD encompasses a range of disorders with
grades of liver damage varying from steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), hallmarked by hepatocellular injury/inflammation in the presence or not
of fibrosis. NAFLD patients progress to NASH in 10% of cases, which may progress 
to cirrhosis and HCC. Recent exciting studies uncovered a potential therapeutic
role for Sorafenib that goes beyond HCC, and extends to cirrhotic portal
hypertensive syndrome during cirrhosis, and to selective anti-fibrotic effects
mediated through direct inhibition of activated hepatic stellate cells (HSC), the
cellular mediators of intra-hepatic matrix deposition. The aim of this review is 
to concisely summarize our current knowledge of the biology, epidemiology and
clinical aspects of HCC, as well as the previously under-appreciated therapeutic 
efficacy of Sorafenib beyond HCC. The review therefore utilizes data along the
spectrum of liver diseases, including from experimental via pre-clinical to
clinical.


PMID: 26648069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016;10(2):229-42. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2016.1110018. Epub 2015 Dec 5.

The role of insulin resistance in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and liver disease 
development--a potential therapeutic target?

Dongiovanni P(1), Rametta R(1), Meroni M(1), Valenti L(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation , Università degli Studi
di Milano, and Internal Medicine and Metabolic Diseases, Fondazione IRCCS Ca'
Granda Ospedale Policlinico Milano , Milano , Italy.

Insulin resistance (IR) is defined by the inability of insulin to exert its
metabolic actions, due to impaired activation of intracellular insulin signaling.
This condition is caused by genetic defects or by environmental conditions, among
which the most common is obesity. Systemic IR determines the development of
hepatic fat accumulation, which can progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis,
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, and is a major determinant of liver
disease independently of coexisting factors. Therefore, insulin-sensitizing drugs
are currently under evaluation to improve steatohepatitis. Indeed, manipulation
of nuclear hormone receptors is already under scrutiny for liver disease
prevention by amelioration of IR, whereas NOTCH signaling inhibition represents a
novel approach. Nevertheless, further research is warranted to better understand 
the mechanism linking IR to progressive fibrogenesis in the absence of
inflammation and to identify novel drug targets.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2016.1110018 
PMID: 26641143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016;10(2):243-53. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2016.1111758. Epub 2015 Dec 3.

The role of immune mechanisms in alcoholic and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: a
2015 update.

Sutti S(1), Bruzzì S(1), Albano E(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Health Sciences and Interdisciplinary Research Centre for
Autoimmune Diseases , University "Amedeo Avogadro" of East Piedmont , Novara ,
Italy.

So far, innate immune mechanisms have been recognized as the main responsible for
the evolution of both alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH) and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). However, increasing evidence points toward the possible
role of adaptive immune responses, as an additional factor in promoting hepatic
inflammation in steatohepatitis. In this article, we discuss recent data
involving circulating antibodies and lymphocyte-mediated responses in sustaining 
the progression of ASH and NASH to fibrosis, as well as the possible mechanisms
implicated in favoring the onset of adaptive immunity in the setting of
steatohepatitis.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2016.1111758 
PMID: 26634783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Clin Med (Lond). 2015 Dec;15 Suppl 6:s77-82. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.15-6-s77.

An overview of the genetics, mechanisms and management of NAFLD and ALD.

Rowell RJ(1), Anstee QM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cellular Medicine, The Medical School, Newcastle University,
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. (2)Institute of Cellular Medicine, The Medical School,
Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK quentin.anstee@newcastle.ac.uk.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and, increasingly, non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) are common causes of advanced liver disease in many developed
countries including the UK. Both diseases share parallel natural histories,
progressing from steatosis, to steatohepatitis and fibrosis/cirrhosis; and are
characterised by substantial interindividual variation in disease outcome. This
article will provide an overview of disease mechanisms, genetic modifiers and
management, focusing principally on NAFLD, while drawing parallels between the
two conditions where appropriate.

© Royal College of Physicians 2015. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7861/clinmedicine.15-6-s77 
PMID: 26634687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Nutrients. 2015 Dec 1;7(12):9834-46. doi: 10.3390/nu7125501.

The Emerging Role of Disturbed CoQ Metabolism in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease
Development and Progression.

Botham KM(1), Napolitano M(2), Bravo E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College,
Royal College St., London NW1-0TU, UK. kbotham@rvc.ac.uk. (2)Department of
Haematology, Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome 
00161, Italy. mariarosaria.napolitano@iss.it. (3)Department of Haematology,
Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome 00161, Italy.
elena.bravo@iss.it.

Although non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), characterised by the
accumulation of triacylglycerol in the liver, is the most common liver disorder, 
the causes of its development and progression to the more serious non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) remain incompletely understood. Oxidative stress has been 
implicated as a key factor in both these processes, and mitochondrial dysfunction
and inflammation are also believed to play a part. Coenzyme Q (CoQ) is a powerful
antioxidant found in all cell membranes which has an essential role in
mitochondrial respiration and also has anti-inflammatory properties. NAFLD has
been shown to be associated with disturbances in plasma and liver CoQ
concentrations, but the relationship between these changes and disease
development and progression is not yet clear. Dietary supplementation with CoQ
has been found to be hepatoprotective and to reduce oxidative stress and
inflammation as well as improving mitochondrial dysfunction, suggesting that it
may be beneficial in NAFLD. However, studies using animal models or patients with
NAFLD have given inconclusive results. Overall, evidence is now emerging to
indicate that disturbances in CoQ metabolism are involved in NAFLD development
and progression to NASH, and this highlights the need for further studies with
human subjects to fully clarify its role.

DOI: 10.3390/nu7125501 
PMCID: PMC4690053
PMID: 26633474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Biomarkers. 2016;21(2):102-14. doi: 10.3109/1354750X.2015.1118542. Epub 2015 Dec 
3.

Candidate proteomic biomarkers for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (steatosis
and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) discovered with mass-spectrometry: a
systematic review.

Lădaru A(1,)(2), Bălănescu P(3,)(4), Stan M(1,)(2), Codreanu I(1,)(2), Anca
IA(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a University of Medicine and Pharmacy "Carol Davila" , Pediatrics Chair ,
Bucharest , Romania . (2)b Institute for Mother and Child Care "Alfred Rusescu" ,
Bucharest , Romania . (3)c Department of Clinical Immunology , CDPC Colentina
Clinical Hospital , Bucharest , Romania , and. (4)d Clinical Research Unit RECIF 
(Réseau D' Epidémiologie Clinique International Francophone) , Bucharest ,
Romania.

CONTEXT: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by lipid
accumulation in the liver which is accompanied by a series of metabolic
deregulations. There are sustained research efforts focusing upon biomarker
discovery for NAFLD diagnosis and its prognosis in order investigate and
follow-up patients as minimally invasive as possible.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to critically review proteomic studies 
that used mass spectrometry techniques and summarize relevant proteomic NAFLD
candidate biomarkers.
METHODS: Medline and Embase databases were searched from inception to December
2014.
RESULTS: A final number of 22 records were included that identified 251 candidate
proteomic biomarkers. Thirty-three biomarkers were confirmed - 14 were found in
liver samples, 21 in serum samples, and two from both serum and liver samples.
CONCLUSION: Some of the biomarkers identified have already been extensively
studied regarding their diagnostic and prognostic capacity. However, there are
also more potential biomarkers that still need to be addressed in future studies.

DOI: 10.3109/1354750X.2015.1118542 
PMID: 26632636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Lipids Health Dis. 2015 Dec 3;14:158. doi: 10.1186/s12944-015-0141-z.

Research advances in the relationship between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
and atherosclerosis.

Xu X(1,)(2), Lu L(2,)(3), Dong Q(1,)(2), Li X(1,)(2), Zhang N(1,)(2), Xin
Y(4,)(5,)(6), Xuan S(7,)(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Dalian Medical
University, Qingdao, China. (2)Digestive Disease Key Laboratory of Qingdao,
Qingdao, China. (3)Central Laboratories, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao,
China. (4)Department of Gastroenterology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Dalian
Medical University, Qingdao, China. xinyongning@163.com. (5)Digestive Disease Key
Laboratory of Qingdao, Qingdao, China. xinyongning@163.com. (6)Central
Laboratories, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao, China. xinyongning@163.com.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Dalian Medical
University, Qingdao, China. xuansydxy@163.com. (8)Digestive Disease Key
Laboratory of Qingdao, Qingdao, China. xuansydxy@163.com. (9)Central
Laboratories, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao, China. xuansydxy@163.com.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a metabolic stress-induced liver
disease that is closely related not only to genetic susceptibility but also to
insulin resistance and highly linked with metabolic syndrome. In recent years,
the prevalence of NAFLD has increased rapidly, paralleling the epidemic of type 2
diabetes mellitus and obesity leading to cardiovascular disease. It has been
demonstrated that NAFLD is highly associated with atherosclerosis. With recently 
gained knowledge, it appears that NAFLD may induce insulin resistance,
dyslipidemia, oxidative stress, inflammation, and fluctuation of adipokines
associated with atherosclerosis. In this review, we aimed to summarize recent
discoveries related to both NAFLD and atherosclerosis, and to identify possible
mechanisms linking them.

DOI: 10.1186/s12944-015-0141-z 
PMCID: PMC4668687
PMID: 26631018  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Dig Dis Sci. 2016 May;61(5):1325-36. doi: 10.1007/s10620-015-3977-1. Epub 2015
Dec 1.

Animal Models of Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis: Eat, Delete, and Inflame.

Ibrahim SH(1), Hirsova P(2), Malhi H(2), Gores GJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW,
Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. (3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo
Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. gores.gregory@mayo.edu.

With the obesity epidemic, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become a 
public health problem with increasing prevalence. The mechanism of disease
progression remains obscure and effective therapy is lacking. Therefore, there is
a need to understand the pathogenic mechanisms responsible for disease
development and progression in order to develop innovative therapies. To
accomplish this goal, experimental animal models that recapitulate the human
disease are necessary, especially, since causative mechanistic studies of NAFLD
are more difficult or unethical to perform in humans. A large number of studies
regarding the pathophysiology and treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) have been undertaken in mice to model human NAFLD and NASH. This review
discusses the known dietary, genetic, and inflammation-based animal models of
NASH described in recent years, with a focus on the major advances made in this
field.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-015-3977-1 
PMCID: PMC4838538
PMID: 26626909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Mymensingh Med J. 2015 Oct;24(4):873-80.

Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD)--A Review.

Karim MF(1), Al-Mahtab M, Rahman S, Debnath CR.

Author information: 
(1)Dr Md Fazal Karim, Associate Professor, Department of Hepatology, Sir
Salimullah Medical College & Mitford Hospital, Dhaka, Bangladesh; E-mail:
drfazalkarim@gmail.com.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an emerging problem in Hepatology
clinics. It is closely related to the increased frequency of overweight or
obesity. It has recognised association with metabolic syndrome. Central obesity, 
diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia are commonest risk factors. Association with
hepatitis C genotype 3 is also recognised. NAFLD is an important cause of
cyptogenic cirrhosis of liver. It affects all populations and all age groups.
Most patients with NAFLD are asymptomatic or vague upper abdominal pain. Liver
function tests are mostly normal or mild elevation of aminotranferases.
Histological features almost identical to those of alcohol-induced liver damage
and can range from mild steatosis to cirrhosis. Two hit hypothesis is prevailing 
theory for the development of NAFLD. Diagnosis is usually made by imaging tools
like ultrasonogram which reveal a bright liver while liver biopsy is gold
standard for diagnosis as well as differentiating simple fatty liver and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Prognosis is variable. Simple hepatic
steatosis generally has a benign long-term prognosis. However, one to two third
of NASH progress to fibrosis or cirrhosis and may have a similar prognosis as
cirrhosis from other liver diseases. Treatment is mostly control of underlying
disorders and dietary advice, exercise, insulin sensitizers, antioxidants, or
cytoprotective agents. The prevalence of NAFLD is increasing. So it needs more
research to address this problem.


PMID: 26620035  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Radiologe. 2015 Dec;55(12):1057-66. doi: 10.1007/s00117-015-0032-3.

[Functional MR imaging of the liver].

[Article in German]

Wibmer A(1), Nolz R(2), Trauner M(3), Ba-Ssalamah A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinik für Radiodiagnostik und Nuklearmedizin, Medizinische
Universität Wien, Allgemeines Krankenhaus der Stadt Wien, Währinger Gürtel 18-20,
1090, Wien, Österreich. andreas.wibmer@meduniwien.ac.at. (2)Universitätsklinik
für Radiodiagnostik und Nuklearmedizin, Medizinische Universität Wien,
Allgemeines Krankenhaus der Stadt Wien, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, 1090, Wien,
Österreich. (3)Universitätsklinik für Innere Medizin III, Klinische Abteilung für
Gastroenterologie und Hepatologie, Medizinische Universität Wien, Wien,
Österreich.

The diagnostics of diffuse liver disease traditionally rely on liver biopsies and
histopathological analysis of tissue specimens. However, a liver biopsy is
invasive and carries some non-negligible risks, especially for patients with
decreased liver function and those requiring repeated follow-up examinations.
Over the last decades, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has developed into a
valuable tool for the non-invasive characterization of focal liver lesions and
diseases of the bile ducts. Recently, several MRI methods have been developed and
clinically evaluated that also allow the diagnostics and staging of diffuse liver
diseases, e.g. non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, hepatitis, hepatic fibrosis,
liver cirrhosis, hemochromatosis and hemosiderosis. The sequelae of diffuse liver
diseases, such as a decreased liver functional reserve or portal hypertension,
can also be detected and quantified by modern MRI methods. This article provides 
the reader with the basic principles of functional MRI of the liver and discusses
the importance in a clinical context.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-015-0032-3 
PMID: 26610680  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Biomolecules. 2015 Nov 20;5(4):3309-38. doi: 10.3390/biom5043309.

Role of microRNAs in Alcohol-Induced Multi-Organ Injury.

Natarajan SK(1), Pachunka JM(2), Mott JL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Nebraska
Medical Center, 985870 Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198, USA.
s.natarajan@unmc.edu. (2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
University of Nebraska Medical Center, 985870 Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198, USA. joseph.pachunka@unmc.edu. (3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 985870 Nebraska Medical Center,
Omaha, NE 68198, USA. justin.mott@unmc.edu.

Alcohol consumption and its abuse is a major health problem resulting in
significant healthcare cost in the United States. Chronic alcoholism results in
damage to most of the vital organs in the human body. Among the alcohol-induced
injuries, alcoholic liver disease is one of the most prevalent in the United
States. Remarkably, ethanol alters expression of a wide variety of microRNAs that
can regulate alcohol-induced complications or dysfunctions. In this review, we
will discuss the role of microRNAs in alcoholic pancreatitis, alcohol-induced
liver damage, intestinal epithelial barrier dysfunction, and brain damage
including altered hippocampus structure and function, and neuronal loss,
alcoholic cardiomyopathy, and muscle damage. Further, we have reviewed the role
of altered microRNAs in the circulation, teratogenic effects of alcohol, and
during maternal or paternal alcohol consumption.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5043309 
PMCID: PMC4693280
PMID: 26610589  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2016;20(5):615-26. doi: 10.1517/14728222.2016.1125883. 
Epub 2016 Jan 22.

Pathophysiological mechanisms and therapeutic potentials of macrophages in
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Wu R(1), Nakatsu G(1), Zhang X(1), Yu J(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Institute of Digestive Disease and the Department of Medicine and
Therapeutics, State Key Laboratory of Digestive Disease, Li Ka Shing Institute of
Health Sciences , CUHK-Shenzhen Research Institute, The Chinese University of
Hong Kong , Shatin , Hong Kong.

INTRODUCTION: Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a hepatic manifestation of
metabolic syndrome, is a major cause of morbidity and healthcare burden
worldwide. While the molecular pathogenesis of NASH remains unclear and
therapeutic options are limited, inflammation is recognized as an essential
factor for NASH development. Factors that link NASH to inflammation are
macrophages and their secreted cytokines.
AREAS COVERED: This review summarizes the current knowledge of
macrophage-mediated molecular pathways in NASH to shed insights on potential
pharmacotherapeutic applications.
EXPERT OPINION: Macrophages are not only known for their role of phagocytosis in 
innate immunity, but also for both extrinsic and intrinsic regulation of
inflammatory functions of many cytokines. Recent advances have revealed the
effects of macrophage recruitment and polarization on the development of NASH. We
and others have shown that the proliferation of hepatic macrophages and the
subsequent production of pro-inflammatory cytokines initiates inflammatory
cascades, orchestrates activities of transcription factors involved in lipid
metabolism/translocation, and modulates programmed cell death. Together, these
findings support the pathophysiological role of macrophages in the pathogenesis
of NASH. Thus, evaluating potential therapeutic targets against the infiltration 
and/or polarization of specific macrophage subtypes is of clinical interest for
alleviation of early-stage NASH, with the goal of halting disease progression.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2016.1125883 
PMID: 26609894  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016;10(2):161-3. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2016.1125290. Epub 2015 Dec 15.

Circulating microRNAs in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

DiStefano JK(1), Gerhard GS(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Center for Genes, Environment, and Health, National Jewish Health , Denver ,
CO , USA. (2)b Department of Medical Genetics and Molecular Biochemistry , Temple
University School of Medicine , Philadelphia , PA , USA.

Liver biopsy is currently recognized as the most accurate method for diagnosing
and staging nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, this procedure is 
typically performed when disease has progressed to clinically significant stages,
thereby limiting early diagnosis of patients who are at high risk for development
of liver- and cardiovascular-related morbidity and mortality. Recently, microRNAs
(miRNAs), short, noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression, have been
associated with histological features of NAFLD and are readily detected in the
circulation. As such, miRNAs are emerging as potentially useful noninvasive
markers with which to follow the progression of NAFLD. In this article, we
present the evidence linking circulating miRNAs with NAFLD and discuss the
potential value of circulating miRNA profiles in the development of improved
methods for NAFLD diagnosis and clinical monitoring of disease progression.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2016.1125290 
PMCID: PMC4924611
PMID: 26606259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Nov 25;16(12):28014-21. doi: 10.3390/ijms161226085.

Does Lysosomial Acid Lipase Reduction Play a Role in Adult Non-Alcoholic Fatty
Liver Disease?

Baratta F(1), Pastori D(2), Polimeni L(3), Tozzi G(4), Violi F(5), Angelico F(6),
Del Ben M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialities and Department of
Anatomical, Histological, Forensic Medicine and Orthopedics Sciences-Sapienza
University, Rome 00185, Italy. francesco.baratta@uniroma1.it. (2)Department of
Internal Medicine and Medical Specialities and Department of Anatomical,
Histological, Forensic Medicine and Orthopedics Sciences-Sapienza University,
Rome 00185, Italy. daniele.pastori@uniroma1.it. (3)Department of Internal
Medicine and Medical Specialities and Department of Anatomical, Histological,
Forensic Medicine and Orthopedics Sciences-Sapienza University, Rome 00185,
Italy. licia.polimeni@uniroma1.it. (4)Unit for Neuromuscular and
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Children's Hospital and Research Institute "Bambino
Gesù", Rome 00165, Italy. giulia.tozzi@opbg.net. (5)Department of Internal
Medicine and Medical Specialities, Sapienza University, Rome 00185, Italy.
francesco.violi@uniroma1.it. (6)Department of Public Health and Infectious
Diseases, Sapienza University, Policlinico Umberto I, I Clinica Medica, Viale del
Policlinico 155, Rome 00161, Italy. francesco.angelico@uniroma1.it. (7)Department
of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialities, Sapienza University, Rome 00185,
Italy. maria.delben@uniroma1.it.

Lysosomal Acid Lipase (LAL) is a key enzyme involved in lipid metabolism,
responsible for hydrolysing the cholesteryl esters and triglycerides. Wolman
Disease represents the early onset phenotype of LAL deficiency rapidly leading to
death. Cholesterol Ester Storage Disease is a late onset phenotype that occurs
with fatty liver, elevated aminotransferase levels, hepatomegaly and
dyslipidaemia, the latter characterized by elevated LDL-C and low HDL-C. The
natural history and the clinical manifestations of the LAL deficiency in adults
are not well defined, and the diagnosis is often incidental. LAL deficiency has
been suggested as an under-recognized cause of dyslipidaemia and fatty liver.
Therefore, LAL activity may be reduced also in non-obese patients presenting
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), unexplained persistently elevated
liver transaminases or with elevation in LDL cholesterol. In these patients, it
could be indicated to test LAL activity. So far, very few studies have been
performed to assess LAL activity in representative samples of normal subjects or 
patients with NAFLD. Moreover, no large study has been carried out in adult
subjects with NAFLD or cryptogenic cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms161226085 
PMCID: PMC4691032
PMID: 26602919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Liver Int. 2016 Mar;36(3):317-24. doi: 10.1111/liv.13031. Epub 2015 Dec 25.

The story of HCC in NAFLD: from epidemiology, across pathogenesis, to prevention 
and treatment.

Margini C(1,)(2), Dufour JF(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hepatology, Department of Clinical Research, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland. (2)University Clinic for Visceral Surgery and Medicine, Inselspital,
University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of
cancer-related death worldwide. An increasing number of reports describe HCC in
the setting of obesity and diabetes, two major risk factors for non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The increasing incidence of these conditions and the
emerging evidence of HCC in non-cirrhotic NAFLD prioritize a better understanding
of NAFLD-related HCC epidemiology and pathogenesis in order to target screening
policies and develop preventive-therapeutic strategies. In this review, we focus 
on the epidemiological impact of this condition, suggesting a possible link
between HCC in cryptogenic cirrhosis and NAFLD. Furthermore, we analyse the
suggested pathogenic mechanisms and the possible preventive-therapeutic
strategies.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.13031 
PMID: 26601627  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Obes Rev. 2016 Jan;17(1):68-80. doi: 10.1111/obr.12333. Epub 2015 Nov 24.

Association of recently described adipokines with liver histology in
biopsy-proven non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a systematic review.

Bekaert M(1), Verhelst X(2), Geerts A(2), Lapauw B(1), Calders P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Ghent University Hospital,
Ghent, Belgium. (3)Revalidation Science and Physiotherapy, Ghent University
Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.

The prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is rising, as is the 
prevalence of obesity and type 2 diabetes. It is increasingly recognized that an 
impaired pattern in adipokine secretion could play a pivotal role in the
development of NAFLD. We performed a systematic review to evaluate the potential 
link between newly described adipokines and liver histology in biopsy-proven
NAFLD patients. A computerized literature search was performed in PubMed, EMBASE 
and Web of Science electronic databases. Thirty-one cross-sectional studies were 
included, resulting in a total of seven different investigated adipokines.
Studies included in this review mainly had a good methodological quality. Most
adipokines were suggested to be involved in the inflammatory response that
develops within the context of NAFLD, either at hepatic or systemic level, and/or
hepatic insulin resistance. Based on literature, clinical studies suggest that
chemerin, resistin and adipocyte-fatty-acid-binding protein potentially are
involved in NAFLD pathogenesis and/or progression. However, major inconsistency
still exists, and there is a high need for larger studies, together with the need
of standardized assays to determine adipokine levels.

© 2015 World Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/obr.12333 
PMID: 26597657  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nutrients. 2015 Nov 13;7(11):9453-74. doi: 10.3390/nu7115475.

The Subtle Balance between Lipolysis and Lipogenesis: A Critical Point in
Metabolic Homeostasis.

Saponaro C(1,)(2), Gaggini M(3,)(4), Carli F(5), Gastaldelli A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiometabolic Risk Unit, Institute of Clinical Physiology, CNR, via Moruzzi,
1 56124 Pisa, Italy. chiara.saponaro@gmail.com. (2)Dipartimento di Biotecnologie,
Chimica e Farmacia, Università di Siena, 53100 Siena, Italy.
chiara.saponaro@gmail.com. (3)Cardiometabolic Risk Unit, Institute of Clinical
Physiology, CNR, via Moruzzi, 1 56124 Pisa, Italy. melania.gaggini@alice.it.
(4)Dipartimento di Patologia Chirurgica, Molecolare Medica e di Area Critica,
Università di Pisa, 56126 Pisa, Italy. melania.gaggini@alice.it.
(5)Cardiometabolic Risk Unit, Institute of Clinical Physiology, CNR, via Moruzzi,
1 56124 Pisa, Italy. fabrycarli@hotmail.it. (6)Cardiometabolic Risk Unit,
Institute of Clinical Physiology, CNR, via Moruzzi, 1 56124 Pisa, Italy.
amalia@ifc.cnr.it.

Excessive accumulation of lipids can lead to lipotoxicity, cell dysfunction and
alteration in metabolic pathways, both in adipose tissue and peripheral organs,
like liver, heart, pancreas and muscle. This is now a recognized risk factor for 
the development of metabolic disorders, such as obesity, diabetes, fatty liver
disease (NAFLD), cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC). The causes for lipotoxicity are not only a high fat diet but also
excessive lipolysis, adipogenesis and adipose tissue insulin resistance. The aims
of this review are to investigate the subtle balances that underlie lipolytic,
lipogenic and oxidative pathways, to evaluate critical points and the
complexities of these processes and to better understand which are the metabolic 
derangements resulting from their imbalance, such as type 2 diabetes and non
alcoholic fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.3390/nu7115475 
PMCID: PMC4663603
PMID: 26580649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


125. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Nov 14;21(42):11914-23. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i42.11914.

Noninvasive assessment of alcoholic liver disease using unidimensional transient 
elastography (Fibroscan(®)).

Lupsor-Platon M(1), Badea R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Monica Lupsor-Platon, Radu Badea, Department of Medical Imaging, Regional
Institute of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Prof. Dr. Octavian Fodor, Iuliu
Hatieganu University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 400162 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

Unidimensional transient elastography (TE) is a noninvasive technique, which has 
been increasingly used in the assessment of diffuse liver diseases. This paper
focuses on reviewing the existing data on the use of TE in the diagnosis of
fibrosis and in monitoring disease progression in alcoholic liver disease, on the
factors that may influence the result of fibrosis prediction, and last but not
least, on its potential use in assessing the steatosis degree. Therefore, this
field is far from being exhausted and deserves more attention. Further studies
are required, on large groups of biopsied patients, in order to find answers to
all the remaining questions in this field.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i42.11914 
PMCID: PMC4641113
PMID: 26576080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


126. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Nov 14;21(42):11904-13. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i42.11904.

Immune dysfunction in acute alcoholic hepatitis.

Dhanda AD(1), Collins PL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ashwin D Dhanda, Peter L Collins, School of Clinical Sciences, University of
Bristol, BS2 8HW Bristol, United Kingdom.

Acute alcoholic hepatitis (AAH) is a serious complication of alcohol misuse and
has high short term mortality. It is a clinical syndrome characterised by
jaundice and coagulopathy in a patient with a history of recent heavy alcohol use
and is associated with profound immune dysfunction with a primed but ineffective 
immune response against pathogens. Here, we review the current knowledge of the
pathogenesis and immune defects of AAH and identify areas requiring further
study. Alcohol activates the immune system primarily through the disruption of
gut tight junction integrity allowing the escape of pathogen-associated molecular
particles (PAMPs) into the portal venous system. PAMPs stimulate cells expressing
toll-like receptors (mainly myeloid derived cells) and initiate a network of
intercellular signalling by secretion of many soluble mediators including
cytokines and chemokines. The latter coordinates the infiltration of neutrophils,
monocytes and T cells and results in hepatic stellate cell activation, cellular
damage and hepatocyte death by necrosis or apoptosis. On the converse of this
immune activation is the growing evidence of impaired microbial defence.
Neutrophils have reduced phagocytic capacity and oxidative burst and there is
recent evidence that T cell exhaustion plays a role in this.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i42.11904 
PMCID: PMC4641112
PMID: 26576079  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


127. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Nov 14;21(42):11893-903. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i42.11893.

Advances in alcoholic liver disease: An update on alcoholic hepatitis.

Liang R(1), Liu A(1), Perumpail RB(1), Wong RJ(1), Ahmed A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Randy Liang, Department of Medicine, Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, San
Jose, CA 95128, United States.

Alcoholic hepatitis is a pro-inflammatory chronic liver disease that is
associated with high short-term morbidity and mortality (25%-35% in one month) in
the setting of chronic alcohol use. Histopathology is notable for micro- and
macrovesicular steatosis, acute inflammation with neutrophil infiltration,
hepatocellular necrosis, perivenular and perisinusoidal fibrosis, and Mallory
hyaline bodies found in ballooned hepatocytes. Other findings include the
characteristic eosinophilic fibrillar material (Mallory's hyaline bodies) found
in ballooned hepatocytes. The presence of focal intense lobular infiltration of
neutrophils is what typically distinguishes alcoholic hepatitis from other forms 
of hepatitis, in which the inflammatory infiltrate is primarily composed of
mononuclear cells. Management consists of a multidisciplinary approach including 
alcohol cessation, fluid and electrolyte correction, treatment of alcohol
withdrawal, and pharmacological therapy based on the severity of the disease.
Pharmacological treatment for severe alcoholic hepatitis, as defined by Maddrey's
discriminant factor ≥ 32, consists of either prednisolone or pentoxifylline for a
period of four weeks. The body of evidence for corticosteroids has been greater
than pentoxifylline, although there are higher risks of complications. Recently
head-to-head trials between corticosteroids and pentoxifylline have been
performed, which again suggests that corticosteroids should strongly be
considered over pentoxifylline.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i42.11893 
PMCID: PMC4641111
PMID: 26576078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Drug Metab Rev. 2015;47(4):470-519. doi: 10.3109/03602532.2015.1101131. Epub 2015
Nov 16.

Impact of physiological, pathological and environmental factors on the expression
and activity of human cytochrome P450 2D6 and implications in precision medicine.

He ZX(1), Chen XW(2), Zhou ZW(3), Zhou SF(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Guizhou Provincial Key Laboratory for Regenerative Medicine, Stem Cell and
Tissue Engineering Research Center & Sino-US Joint Laboratory for Medical
Sciences, Guizhou Medical University , Guiyang , Guizhou , China . (2)b
Department of General Surgery , The First People's Hospital of Shunde, Southern
Medical University , Shunde , Foshan , Guangdong , China , and. (3)c Department
of Pharmaceutical Science , College of Pharmacy, University of South Florida ,
Tampa , FL , USA.

With only 1.3-4.3% in total hepatic CYP content, human CYP2D6 can metabolize more
than 160 drugs. It is a highly polymorphic enzyme and subject to marked
inhibition by a number of drugs, causing a large interindividual variability in
drug clearance and drug response and drug-drug interactions. The expression and
activity of CYP2D6 are regulated by a number of physiological, pathological and
environmental factors at transcriptional, post-transcriptional, translational and
epigenetic levels. DNA hypermethylation and histone modifications can repress the
expression of CYP2D6. Hepatocyte nuclear factor-4α binds to a directly repeated
element in the promoter of CYP2D6 and thus regulates the expression of CYP2D6.
Small heterodimer partner represses hepatocyte nuclear factor-4α-mediated
transactivation of CYP2D6. GW4064, a farnesoid X receptor agonist, decreases
hepatic CYP2D6 expression and activity while increasing small heterodimer partner
expression and its recruitment to the CYP2D6 promoter. The genotypes are key
determinants of interindividual variability in CYP2D6 expression and activity.
Recent genome-wide association studies have identified a large number of genes
that can regulate CYP2D6. Pregnancy induces CYP2D6 via unknown mechanisms. Renal 
or liver diseases, smoking and alcohol use have minor to moderate effects only on
CYP2D6 activity. Unlike CYP1 and 3 and other CYP2 members, CYP2D6 is resistant to
typical inducers such as rifampin, phenobarbital and dexamethasone.
Post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation of CYP2D6 Ser135 have
been observed, but the functional impact is unknown. Further functional and
validation studies are needed to clarify the role of nuclear receptors,
epigenetic factors and other factors in the regulation of CYP2D6.

DOI: 10.3109/03602532.2015.1101131 
PMID: 26574146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Biochemistry (Mosc). 2015 Oct;80(10):1217-26. doi: 10.1134/S0006297915100028.

Molecular Mechanisms of Latent Inflammation in Metabolic Syndrome. Possible Role 
of Sirtuins and Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Type γ.

Stafeev IS(1), Menshikov MY, Tsokolaeva ZI, Shestakova MV, Parfyonova YV.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Cardiology, Russian Cardiological Research and
Production Complex, Moscow, 121552, Russia. yuristafeev@gmail.com.

The problem of metabolic syndrome is one of the most important in medicine today.
The main hazard of metabolic syndrome is development of latent inflammation in
adipose tissue, which promotes atherosclerosis, non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease, myocarditis, and a number of other illnesses. Therefore, understanding
of molecular mechanisms of latent inflammation in adipose tissue is very
important for treatment of metabolic syndrome. Three main components that arise
during hypertrophy and hyperplasia of adipocytes underlie such inflammation:
endoplasmic reticulum stress, oxidative stress, and hypoxia. Each of these
components mediates activation in different ways of the key factor of
inflammation - NF-κB. For metabolic syndrome therapy, it is suggested to
influence a number of inflammatory signaling components by activating other cell 
factors to suppress development of inflammation. Such potential factors are
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors type γ that suppress transcription
factor NF-κB through direct contact or via kinase of a NF-κB inhibitor (IKK), and
also the antiinflammatory transcription factor AP-1. Other possible targets are
type 3 NAD+-dependent histone deacetylases (sirtuins). There are mutually
antagonistic relationships between NF-κB and sirtuin type 1 that prevent
development of inflammation in metabolic syndrome. Moreover, sirtuin type 1
inhibits the antiinflammatory transcription factor AP-1. Study of the influence
of these factors on the relationship between macrophages and adipocytes,
macrophages, and adipose tissue-derived stromal cells can help to understand
mechanisms of signaling and development of latent inflammation in metabolic
syndrome.

DOI: 10.1134/S0006297915100028 
PMID: 26567565  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Adv Nutr. 2015 Nov 13;6(6):694-702. doi: 10.3945/an.115.009423. Print 2015 Nov.

Potential for dietary ω-3 fatty acids to prevent nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
and reduce the risk of primary liver cancer.

Jump DB(1), Depner CM(2), Tripathy S(2), Lytle KA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Program, School of Biological and Population Health Sciences, Linus 
Pauling Institute, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR
donald.jump@oregonstate.edu. (2)Nutrition Program, School of Biological and
Population Health Sciences, Linus Pauling Institute, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, OR.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has increased in parallel with central
obesity, and its prevalence is anticipated to increase as the obesity epidemic
remains unabated. NAFLD is now the most common cause of chronic liver disease in 
developed countries and is defined as excessive lipid accumulation in the liver, 
that is, hepatosteatosis. NAFLD ranges in severity from benign fatty liver to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and NASH is characterized by hepatic injury,
inflammation, oxidative stress, and fibrosis. NASH can progress to cirrhosis, and
cirrhosis is a risk factor for primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The
prevention of NASH will lower the risk of cirrhosis and NASH-associated HCC. Our 
studies have focused on NASH prevention. We developed a model of NASH by using
mice with the LDL cholesterol receptor gene ablated fed the Western diet (WD).
The WD induces a NASH phenotype in these mice that is similar to that seen in
humans and includes robust induction of hepatic steatosis, inflammation,
oxidative stress, and fibrosis. With the use of transcriptomic, lipidomic, and
metabolomic approaches, we examined the capacity of 2 dietary ω-3 (n-3)
polyunsaturated fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5ω-3; EPA) and
docosahexaenoic acid (22:6ω-3; DHA), to prevent WD-induced NASH. Dietary DHA was 
superior to EPA at attenuating WD-induced changes in plasma lipids and hepatic
injury and at reversing WD effects on hepatic metabolism, oxidative stress, and
fibrosis. The outcome of these studies suggests that DHA may be useful in
preventing NASH and reducing the risk of HCC.

© 2015 American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.3945/an.115.009423 
PMCID: PMC4642422
PMID: 26567194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


131. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Nov 7;21(41):11597-608. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i41.11597.

Gut microbiota and host metabolism in liver cirrhosis.

Usami M(1), Miyoshi M(1), Yamashita H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Makoto Usami, Makoto Miyoshi, Hayato Yamashita, Division of Nutrition and
Metabolism, Department of Biophysics, Kobe University Graduate School of Health
Sciences, Kobe 654-0142, Japan.

The gut microbiota has the capacity to produce a diverse range of compounds that 
play a major role in regulating the activity of distal organs and the liver is
strategically positioned downstream of the gut. Gut microbiota linked compounds
such as short chain fatty acids, bile acids, choline metabolites, indole
derivatives, vitamins, polyamines, lipids, neurotransmitters and neuroactive
compounds, and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hormones have many biological 
functions. This review focuses on the gut microbiota and host metabolism in liver
cirrhosis. Dysbiosis in liver cirrhosis causes serious complications, such as
bacteremia and hepatic encephalopathy, accompanied by small intestinal bacterial 
overgrowth and increased intestinal permeability. Gut dysbiosis in cirrhosis and 
intervention with probiotics and synbiotics in a clinical setting is reviewed and
evaluated. Recent studies have revealed the relationship between gut microbiota
and host metabolism in chronic metabolic liver disease, especially, non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease, alcoholic liver disease, and with the gut microbiota
metabolic interactions in dysbiosis related metabolic diseases such as diabetes
and obesity. Recently, our understanding of the relationship between the gut and 
liver and how this regulates systemic metabolic changes in liver cirrhosis has
increased. The serum lipid levels of phospholipids, free fatty acids,
polyunsaturated fatty acids, especially, eicosapentaenoic acid, arachidonic acid,
and docosahexaenoic acid have significant correlations with specific fecal flora 
in liver cirrhosis. Many clinical and experimental reports support the
relationship between fatty acid metabolism and gut-microbiota. Various blood
metabolome such as cytokines, amino acids, and vitamins are correlated with gut
microbiota in probiotics-treated liver cirrhosis patients. The future evaluation 
of the gut-microbiota-liver metabolic network and the intervention of these
relationships using probiotics, synbiotics, and prebiotics, with sufficient
nutrition could aid the development of treatments and prevention for liver
cirrhosis patients.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i41.11597 
PMCID: PMC4631963
PMID: 26556989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


132. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Nov 7;21(41):11552-66. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i41.11552.

Genetic, metabolic and environmental factors involved in the development of liver
cirrhosis in Mexico.

Ramos-Lopez O(1), Martinez-Lopez E(1), Roman S(1), Fierro NA(1), Panduro A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Omar Ramos-Lopez, Erika Martinez-Lopez, Sonia Roman, Nora A Fierro, Arturo
Panduro, Department of Molecular Biology in Medicine, Civil Hospital of
Guadalajara, "Fray Antonio Alcalde", Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico and Health
Sciences Center, University of Guadalajara, Guadalajara, Jalisco 44280, Mexico.

Liver cirrhosis (LC) is a chronic illness caused by inflammatory responses and
progressive fibrosis. Globally, the most common causes of chronic liver disease
include persistent alcohol abuse, followed by viral hepatitis infections and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. However, regardless of the etiological factors,
the susceptibility and degree of liver damage may be influenced by genetic
polymorphisms that are associated with distinct ethnic and cultural backgrounds. 
Consequently, metabolic genes are influenced by variable environmental lifestyle 
factors, such as diet, physical inactivity, and emotional stress, which are
associated with regional differences among populations. This Topic Highlight will
focus on the genetic and environmental factors that may influence the metabolism 
of alcohol and nutrients in the setting of distinct etiologies of liver disease. 
The interaction between genes and environment in the current-day admixed
population, Mestizo and Native Mexican, will be described. Additionally, genes
involved in immune regulation, insulin sensitivity, oxidative stress and
extracellular matrix deposition may modulate the degree of severity. In
conclusion, LC is a complex disease. The onset, progression, and clinical outcome
of LC among the Mexican population are influenced by specific genetic and
environmental factors. Among these are an admixed genome with a heterogenic
distribution of European, Amerindian and African ancestry; a high score of
alcohol consumption; viral infections; a hepatopathogenic diet; and a high
prevalence of obesity. The variance in risk factors among populations suggests
that intervention strategies directed towards the prevention and management of LC
should be tailored according to such population-based features.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i41.11552 
PMCID: PMC4631960
PMID: 26556986  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


133. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Nov 7;21(41):11522-41. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i41.11522.

Inflammatory status in human hepatic cirrhosis.

Martínez-Esparza M(1), Tristán-Manzano M(1), Ruiz-Alcaraz AJ(1),
García-Peñarrubia P(1).

Author information: 
(1)María Martínez-Esparza, María Tristán-Manzano, Antonio J Ruiz-Alcaraz, Pilar
García-Peñarrubia, Departamento de Bioquímica, Biología Molecular (B) e
Inmunología, Facultad de Medicina, IMIB, Regional Campus of International
Excellence "Campus Mare Nostrum", Universidad de Murcia, 30100 Murcia, Spain.

This review focuses on new findings about the inflammatory status involved in the
development of human liver cirrhosis induced by the two main causes, hepatitis C 
virus (HCV) infection and chronic alcohol abuse, avoiding results obtained from
animal models. When liver is faced to a persistent and/or intense local damage
the maintained inflammatory response gives rise to a progressive replacement of
normal hepatic tissue by non-functional fibrotic scar. The imbalance between
tissue regeneration and fibrosis will determine the outcome toward health
recovery or hepatic cirrhosis. In all cases progression toward liver cirrhosis is
caused by a dysregulation of mechanisms that govern the balance between
activation/homeostasis of the immune system. Detecting differences between the
inflammatory status in HCV-induced vs alcohol-induced cirrhosis could be useful
to identify specific targets for preventive and therapeutic intervention in each 
case. Thus, although survival of patients with alcoholic cirrhosis seems to be
similar to that of patients with HCV-related cirrhosis (HCV-C), there are
important differences in the altered cellular and molecular mechanisms implicated
in the progression toward human liver cirrhosis. The predominant features of
HCV-C are more related with those that allow viral evasion of the immune
defenses, especially although not exclusively, inhibition of interferons
secretion, natural killer cells activation and T cell-mediated cytotoxicity. On
the contrary, the inflammatory status of alcohol-induced cirrhosis is determined 
by the combined effect of direct hepatotoxicity of ethanol metabolites and
increases of the intestinal permeability, allowing bacteria and bacterial
products translocation, into the portal circulation, mesenteric lymph nodes and
peritoneal cavity. This phenomenon generates a stronger pro-inflammatory response
compared with HCV-related cirrhosis. Hence, therapeutic intervention in
HCV-related cirrhosis must be mainly focused to counteract HCV-immune system
evasion, while in the case of alcohol-induced cirrhosis it must try to break the 
inflammatory loop established at the gut-mesenteric lymph
nodes-peritoneal-systemic axis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i41.11522 
PMCID: PMC4631958
PMID: 26556984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Nutrients. 2015 Nov 5;7(11):9127-38. doi: 10.3390/nu7115454.

Nutritional Modulation of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Insulin
Resistance.

Yki-Järvinen H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Helsinki, and Minerva Foundation
Institute for Medical Research, Haartmaninkatu 8, 00290 Helsinki, Finland.
Hannele.Yki-Jarvinen@helsinki.fi.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) covers a spectrum of disorders ranging 
from simple steatosis (non-alcoholic fatty liver, NAFL) to non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) and cirrhosis. NAFL increases the risk of liver fibrosis. 
If the liver is fatty due to causes of insulin resistance such as obesity and
physical inactivity, it overproduces glucose and triglycerides leading to
hyperinsulinemia and a low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol
concentration. The latter features predispose to type 2 diabetes and
cardiovascular disease (CVD). Understanding the impact of nutritional modulation 
of liver fat content and insulin resistance is therefore of interest for
prevention and treatment of NAFLD. Hypocaloric, especially low carbohydrate
ketogenic diets rapidly decrease liver fat content and associated metabolic
abnormalities. However, any type of caloric restriction seems effective
long-term. Isocaloric diets containing 16%-23% fat and 57%-65% carbohydrate lower
liver fat compared to diets with 43%-55% fat and 27%-38% carbohydrate. Diets rich
in saturated (SFA) as compared to monounsaturated (MUFA) or polyunsaturated
(PUFA) fatty acids appear particularly harmful as they increase both liver fat
and insulin resistance. Overfeeding either saturated fat or carbohydrate
increases liver fat content. Vitamin E supplementation decreases liver fat
content as well as fibrosis but has no effect on features of insulin resistance.

DOI: 10.3390/nu7115454 
PMCID: PMC4663582
PMID: 26556368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 Feb;28(2):132-8. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000507.

Hyperuricemia and risk of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a systematic review
and meta-analysis.

Gong S(1), Song J, Wang L, Zhang S, Wang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of aEndocrinology bGastroenterology, Affiliated Hospital of
Qingdao University, Qingdao cDepartment of Nursing, Yeda Hospital of Yantai City,
Yantai, China.

Comment in
    Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 May;28(5):609-10.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have suggested a possible association between
hyperuricemia and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), but the risk of NAFLD
in individuals with hyperuricemia had not been fully quantified. A systematic
review and meta-analysis of relevant studies was carried out to estimate the
influence of hyperuricemia on the risk of NAFLD.
METHODS: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and Wanfang databases were searched for 
cohort or cross-sectional studies assessing the association between hyperuricemia
and NAFLD. Relative risks (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were
pooled using a random-effects model to estimate the impact of hyperuricemia on
the risk of NAFLD.
RESULTS: Thirteen studies from 12 articles were finally included in the
meta-analysis. There were a total of 117,712 participants and 28,446 (24.2%)
NAFLD cases. Individuals with hyperuricemia had an obviously increased risk of
NAFLD compared with those without hyperuricemia (RR=1.79, 95% CI 1.55-2.07,
P<0.001). Increased risk of NAFLD was obviously associated with hyperuricemia in 
both men (RR=1.26, 95% CI 1.15-1.37, P<0.001) and women (RR=2.01, 95% CI
1.58-2.56, P<0.001). Subgroup analyses further identified the robustness of the
association between hyperuricemia and NAFLD.
CONCLUSION: Hyperuricemia is associated with an increased risk of NAFLD in Asian 
populations. Further prospective cohort studies are needed to assess the impact
of hyperuricemia on the risk of NAFLD in Western countries.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000507 
PMID: 26545082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Biomolecules. 2015 Nov 2;5(4):2978-86. doi: 10.3390/biom5042978.

Update on Alcoholic Hepatitis.

Torok NJ(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, UC Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA
95817, USA. njtorok@ucdavis.edu. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Northern
California VA System, Mather, CA 95655, USA. njtorok@ucdavis.edu.

Alcoholic liver disease is one of the most prevalent liver diseases worldwide,
and a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Alcoholic hepatitis is a severe
form of liver injury in patients with alcohol abuse, can present as an acute on
chronic liver failure associated with a rapid decline in liver synthetic
function, and consequent increase in mortality. Despite therapy, about 30%-50% of
patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis eventually die. The pathogenic pathways 
that lead to the development of alcoholic hepatitis are complex and involve
oxidative stress, gut dysbiosis, and dysregulation of the innate and adaptive
immune system with injury to the parenchymal cells and activation of hepatic
stellate cells. As accepted treatment approaches are currently limited, a better 
understanding of the pathophysiology would be required to generate new approaches
that improve outcomes. This review focuses on recent advances in the diagnosis,
pathogenesis of alcoholic hepatitis and novel treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5042978 
PMCID: PMC4693265
PMID: 26540078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Nov 2;16(11):26087-124. doi: 10.3390/ijms161125942.

The Role of Oxidative Stress and Antioxidants in Liver Diseases.

Li S(1), Tan HY(2), Wang N(3), Zhang ZJ(4), Lao L(5), Wong CW(6), Feng Y(7).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chinese Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. lishasl0308@163.com. (2)School of Chinese Medicine, 
Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
hoeytan@connect.hku.hk. (3)School of Chinese Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of
Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. ckwang@hku.hk. (4)School
of Chinese Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China. zhangzj@hku.hk. (5)School of Chinese Medicine, Li Ka
Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
lxlao1@hku.hk. (6)School of Chinese Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine,
The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. vcwwong@hku.hk. (7)School of
Chinese Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong, China. yfeng@hku.hk.

A complex antioxidant system has been developed in mammals to relieve oxidative
stress. However, excessive reactive species derived from oxygen and nitrogen may 
still lead to oxidative damage to tissue and organs. Oxidative stress has been
considered as a conjoint pathological mechanism, and it contributes to initiation
and progression of liver injury. A lot of risk factors, including alcohol, drugs,
environmental pollutants and irradiation, may induce oxidative stress in liver,
which in turn results in severe liver diseases, such as alcoholic liver disease
and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Application of antioxidants signifies a
rational curative strategy to prevent and cure liver diseases involving oxidative
stress. Although conclusions drawn from clinical studies remain uncertain, animal
studies have revealed the promising in vivo therapeutic effect of antioxidants on
liver diseases. Natural antioxidants contained in edible or medicinal plants
often possess strong antioxidant and free radical scavenging abilities as well as
anti-inflammatory action, which are also supposed to be the basis of other
bioactivities and health benefits. In this review, PubMed was extensively
searched for literature research. The keywords for searching oxidative stress
were free radicals, reactive oxygen, nitrogen species, anti-oxidative therapy,
Chinese medicines, natural products, antioxidants and liver diseases. The
literature, including ours, with studies on oxidative stress and anti-oxidative
therapy in liver diseases were the focus. Various factors that cause oxidative
stress in liver and effects of antioxidants in the prevention and treatment of
liver diseases were summarized, questioned, and discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms161125942 
PMCID: PMC4661801
PMID: 26540040  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Physiology (Bethesda). 2015 Nov;30(6):428-37. doi: 10.1152/physiol.00016.2015.

Integration of ChREBP-Mediated Glucose Sensing into Whole Body Metabolism.

Baraille F(1), Planchais J(1), Dentin R(1), Guilmeau S(2), Postic C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Inserm U1016 Institut Cochin, Paris, France; CNRS UMR 8104, Paris, France; and
Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France. (2)Inserm U1016 Institut Cochin,
Paris, France; CNRS UMR 8104, Paris, France; and Université Paris Descartes,
Paris, France sandra.guilmeau@inserm.fr.

Since glucose is the principal energy source for most cells, many organisms have 
evolved numerous and sophisticated mechanisms to sense glucose and respond to it 
appropriately. In this context, cloning of the carbohydrate responsive element
binding protein has unraveled a critical molecular link between glucose
metabolism and transcriptional reprogramming induced by glucose. In this review, 
we detail major findings that have advanced our knowledge of glucose sensing.

©2015 Int. Union Physiol. Sci./Am. Physiol. Soc.

DOI: 10.1152/physiol.00016.2015 
PMID: 26525342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Rinsho Byori. 2015 Jan;63(1):78-83.

[Possibility of Using ELF Score as Index for Hepatic Fibrosis Evaluation].

[Article in Japanese]

Asano H.

Liver fibrosis, most commonly caused by hepatitis virus (such as HBV and HCV)
infections, excessive alcohol consumption, and obesity-induced steatosis, is
characterized by the excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix proteins
(including collagen) and an increase in connective-tissue (liver fibrogenesis) in
the human liver. Today, while the reference standard for detecting and assessing 
liver fibrosis is needle biopsy of the liver, this invasive procedure can cause
physical and emotional distress for patients. On the other hand, medical imaging 
systems and various blood markers have been developed and become available for
routine laboratory practices. These non-invasive procedures, as well as
pathological biopsy, have significantly contributed to assessing liver fibrosis. 
The Enhanced Liver Fibrosis (ELF) test is a simple blood test to create an ELF
score by combining three markers: hyaluronic acid (HA), amino-terminal propeptide
of type III procollagen (PIIINP), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1
(TIMP-1). The ELF test is one of the promising techniques for diagnosing patients
with liver fibrosis.


PMID: 26524882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016;10(1):129-39. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2016.1103179. Epub 2015 Nov 2.

The role of chronic inflammation in the development of gastrointestinal cancers: 
reviewing cancer prevention with natural anti-inflammatory intervention.

Lee HJ(1), Park JM(2), Han YM(2), Gil HK(2), Kim J(2), Chang JY(2), Jeong M(2),
Go EJ(2), Hahm KB(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratory of Chemoprevention, Lee Gil Ya Cancer and Diabetes Institute ,
Gachon University , Incheon , Korea. (2)b CHA Cancer Prevention Research Center ,
CHA Cancer Institute, CHA University , Seongnam , Korea. (3)c Digestive Disease
Center , CHA University Bundang Medical Center , Seongnam , Korea.

Inflammatory mediators alter the local environment of tumors, known as the tumor 
microenvironment. Mechanistically, chronic inflammation induces DNA damage, but
understanding this hazard may help in the search for new chemopreventive agents
for gastrointestinal (GI) cancer which attenuate inflammation. In the clinic, GI 
cancer still remains a major cause of cancer-associated mortality,
chemoprevention with anti-inflammatory agents is thought to be a realistic
approach to reduce GI cancer. Proton pump inhibitors, monoclonal antibodies
targeting tumor necrosis factor-alpha, anti-sense targeted smad7 and
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents have been investigated for their potential
to prevent inflammation-based GI cancer. Besides these, a wide variety of natural
products have also shown potential for the prevention of GI cancer. In this
review, the authors will provide insights to explain the mechanistic connection
between inflammation and GI cancer, as well as describe a feasible cancer
prevention strategy based on anti-inflammatory treatments.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2016.1103179 
PMID: 26524133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Clin Mol Hepatol. 2015 Sep;21(3):212-9. doi: 10.3350/cmh.2015.21.3.212. Epub 2015
Sep 30.

Managing alcoholic liver disease.

Shah VH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Research Unit, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

Alcoholic liver disease continues to be a significant cause of liver-related
morbidity and mortality throughout the world. A number of diagnostic and
prognostic models have been developed in the management of this condition,
although specific roles for liver biopsy still remain particularly in the setting
of alcoholic hepatitis. Despite a large number of recent treatment trials, the
ideal pharmacotherapy approach remains undefined. Most essential is the
supportive care and focus on abstinence and nutrition. Owing in part to a great
deal of attention from governmental funding sources, a number of new treatment
approaches are undergoing rigorous evaluation, hopefully providing future
treatment options in this very severe condition.

DOI: 10.3350/cmh.2015.21.3.212 
PMCID: PMC4612281
PMID: 26523266  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Biochem Soc Trans. 2015 Oct;43(5):1108-11. doi: 10.1042/BST20150115.

The TRIB3 Q84R polymorphism, insulin resistance and related metabolic
alterations.

Prudente S(1), Trischitta V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Mendel Laboratory, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza, 71013 San Giovanni
Rotondo, Italy s.prudente@css-mendel.it Vincenzo.Trischitta@uniroma1.it.
(2)Mendel Laboratory, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza, 71013 San Giovanni
Rotondo, Italy Research Unit of Diabetes and Endocrine Diseases, IRCCS Casa
Sollievo della Sofferenza, 71013 San Giovanni Rotondo, Italy Department of
Experimental Medicine, Sapienza University, 00161 Rome, Italy
s.prudente@css-mendel.it Vincenzo.Trischitta@uniroma1.it.

Insulin resistance is pathogenic for many prevalent disorders including type 2
diabetes mellitus (T2DM), cardiovascular disease (CVD), polycystic ovary
syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases
and several cancers. Unravelling molecular abnormalities of insulin resistance
may therefore pave the way for tackling such heavy weight on healthcare systems. 
This review will be focused on studies addressing the role of genetic variability
of TRIB3, an inhibitor of insulin signalling at the AKT level on insulin
resistance and several related abnormalities. Studies carried out in several
cultured cells clearly report that the TRIB3 Q84R missense polymorphism, is a
gain-of-function amino acid substitution, with the Arg(84) variant being a
stronger inhibitor of insulin-mediated AKT activation as compared with the more
frequent Gln(84) variant. Given the key role of AKT in modulating not only
insulin signalling but also insulin secretion, it was not surprising that β-cells
and human pancreatic islets carrying the Arg(84) variant showed also impaired
insulin secretion. Also, of note is that in human vein endothelial cells carrying
the Arg(84) variant showed a reduced insulin-induced nitric oxide release, an
established early atherosclerotic step. Accordingly with in vitro studies,
in vivo studies indicate that TRIB3 Arg(84) is associated with insulin
resistance, T2DM and several aspects of atherosclerosis, including overt CVD. In 
all, several data indicate that the TRIB3 Arg(84) variant plays a role on several
aspects of glucose homoeostasis and atherosclerotic processes, thus unravelling
new molecular pathogenic mechanisms of highly prevalent disorders such as T2DM
and CVD.

© 2015 Authors; published by Portland Press Limited.

DOI: 10.1042/BST20150115 
PMID: 26517932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Biochem Soc Trans. 2015 Oct;43(5):1079-84. doi: 10.1042/BST20150101.

Tribbles-1: a novel regulator of hepatic lipid metabolism in humans.

Bauer RC(1), Yenilmez BO(2), Rader DJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA rcbauer@mail.med.upenn.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. (3)Department of Medicine, Perelman
School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA
Department of Genetics, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

The protein tribbles-1, encoded by the gene TRIB1, is increasingly recognized as 
a major regulator of multiple cellular and physiological processes in humans.
Recent human genetic studies, as well as molecular biological approaches, have
implicated this intriguing protein in the aetiology of multiple human diseases,
including myeloid leukaemia, Crohn's disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD), dyslipidaemia and coronary artery disease (CAD). Genome-wide association
studies (GWAS) have repeatedly identified variants at the genomic TRIB1 locus as 
being significantly associated with multiple plasma lipid traits and
cardiovascular disease (CVD) in humans. The involvement of TRIB1 in hepatic lipid
metabolism has been validated through viral-mediated hepatic overexpression of
the gene in mice; increasing levels of TRIB1 decreased plasma lipids in a
dose-dependent manner. Additional studies have implicated TRIB1 in the regulation
of hepatic lipogenesis and NAFLD. The exact mechanisms of TRIB1 regulation of
both plasma lipids and hepatic lipogenesis remain undetermined, although multiple
signalling pathways and transcription factors have been implicated in tribbles-1 
function. Recent reports have been aimed at developing TRIB1-based lipid
therapeutics. In summary, tribbles-1 is an important modulator of human energy
metabolism and metabolic syndromes and worthy of future studies aimed at
investigating its potential as a therapeutic target.

© 2015 Authors; published by Portland Press Limited.

DOI: 10.1042/BST20150101 
PMCID: PMC4613491
PMID: 26517927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Biochem Soc Trans. 2015 Oct;43(5):1063-8. doi: 10.1042/BST20150094.

The role of TRIB1 in lipid metabolism; from genetics to pathways.

Iwamoto S(1), Boonvisut S(2), Makishima S(2), Ishizuka Y(2), Watanabe K(2),
Nakayama K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Genetics, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, Tochigi 329-0498, Japan siwamoto@jichi.ac.jp. (2)Division of Human
Genetics, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical University, Tochigi
329-0498, Japan.

The plasma concentration of lipids is a heritable risk factor for the development
of atherosclerosis and related coronary artery diseases (CAD). Mammalian tribbles
homologue 1 (TRIB1) is a human locus, the downstream linkage disequilibrium (LD) 
block of which affects plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-associated
cholesterol, triglyceride (TG) levels and CAD across multiple ethnic groups. In
addition, association of TRIB1 with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has
also been shown. A regulatory sequence that enhances TRIB1 promoter activity was 
identified in the LD block and the minor allele of a single nt polymorphism (SNP,
rs6982502) in this regulatory sequence reduces the activity of the TRIB1
promoter. The minor allele of rs6982502 is a risk allele for increasing plasma
lipid levels and NAFLD. Trib1 deficiency increases plasma cholesterol and TGs in 
mice and overexpression of TRIB1 in mouse liver reduces these factors. Expression
of rate-limiting lipogenic enzymes is increased in Trib1-knockout mouse liver and
decreased with overexpression. Recently, carbohydrate-responsive element-binding 
protein (ChREBP) emerged as a novel binding partner of TRIB1. Furthermore, novel 
binding partner, Sin3A (Swi-independent 3A)-associated protein, 18 kDa, was
identified, which activates microsomal TG transfer protein (MTTP) expression by
binding with MTTP regulatory elements in co-ordination with mSin3A and TRIB1.
Very recently, a small molecular compound that up-regulates TRIB1 expression in
HepG2 cells has been discovered. Further exploration of the binding partners of
TRIB1 and their involvement in lipid metabolism may aid discovery of novel
pharmacological targets for the management of dyslipidaemia and steatosis.

© 2015 Authors; published by Portland Press Limited.

DOI: 10.1042/BST20150094 
PMID: 26517924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Exp Cell Res. 2016 Jan 15;340(2):187-92. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2015.10.021. Epub
2015 Oct 26.

Pathophysiology of lipid droplet proteins in liver diseases.

Carr RM(1), Ahima RS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Gastroenterology and Hepatology Division, Perelman
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic
address: rotonya.carr@uphs.upenn.edu. (2)Department of Medicine, Division of
Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, University of Pennsylvania, Perelman
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Cytosolic lipid droplets (LDs) are present in most cell types, and consist of a
core comprising neutral lipids, mainly triglycerides and sterol esters,
surrounded by a monolayer of phospholipids. LDs are heterogeneous in their
structure, chemical composition, and tissue distribution. LDs are coated by
several proteins, including perilipins and other structural proteins, lipogenic
enzymes, lipases and membrane-trafficking proteins. Five proteins of the
perilipin (PLIN) family (PLIN1 (perilipin), PLIN2 (adipose
differentiation-related protein), PLIN3 (tail-interacting protein of 47kDa),
PLIN4 (S3-12), and PLIN5 (myocardial lipid droplet protein)), are associated with
LD formation. More recently, the CIDE family of proteins, hypoxia-inducible
protein 2 (HIG2), and patanin-like phospholipase domain-containing 3 (PNPLA3)
have also gained attention in hepatic LD biology. Evidence suggests that LD
proteins are involved in the pathophysiology of fatty liver diseases
characterized by excessive lipid accumulation in hepatocytes. This review article
will focus on how hepatic LDs and their associated proteins are involved in the
pathogenesis of three chronic liver conditions: hepatitis C virus infection,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and alcoholic liver disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2015.10.021 
PMCID: PMC4744586 [Available on 2017-01-15]
PMID: 26515554  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


146. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 29;10(10):e0140908. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0140908.
eCollection 2015.

The Prevalence of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Children and Adolescents: 
A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Anderson EL(1), Howe LD(1), Jones HE(2), Higgins JP(3), Lawlor DA(1), Fraser
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit at the University of Bristol, Bristol,
United Kingdom; School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol,
Bristol, United Kingdom. (2)School of Social and Community Medicine, University
of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom. (3)School of Social and Community Medicine, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom; Centre for Reviews and
Dissemination, University of York, York, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Narrative reviews of paediatric NAFLD quote prevalences in the
general population that range from 9% to 37%; however, no systematic review of
the prevalence of NAFLD in children/adolescents has been conducted. We aimed to
estimate prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in young people 
and to determine whether this varies by BMI category, gender, age, diagnostic
method, geographical region and study sample size.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of all studies
reporting a prevalence of NAFLD based on any diagnostic method in participants
1-19 years old, regardless of whether assessing NAFLD prevalence was the main aim
of the study.
RESULTS: The pooled mean prevalence of NAFLD in children from general population 
studies was 7.6% (95%CI: 5.5% to 10.3%) and 34.2% (95% CI: 27.8% to 41.2%) in
studies based on child obesity clinics. In both populations there was marked
heterogeneity between studies (I2 = 98%). There was evidence that prevalence was 
generally higher in males compared with females and increased incrementally with 
greater BMI. There was evidence for differences between regions in clinical
population studies, with estimated prevalence being highest in Asia. There was no
evidence that prevalence changed over time. Prevalence estimates in studies of
children/adolescents attending obesity clinics and in obese children/adolescents 
from the general population were substantially lower when elevated alanine
aminotransferase (ALT) was used to assess NAFLD compared with biopsies,
ultrasound scan (USS) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
CONCLUSIONS: Our review suggests the prevalence of NAFLD in young people is high,
particularly in those who are obese and in males.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0140908 
PMCID: PMC4626023
PMID: 26512983  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Oct 23;16(10):25168-98. doi: 10.3390/ijms161025168.

Relevant Aspects of Nutritional and Dietary Interventions in Non-Alcoholic Fatty 
Liver Disease.

Hernandez-Rodas MC(1), Valenzuela R(2), Videla LA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition, Faculty of Medicine, University of Chile, Santiago
8380453, Chile. cata.hernandezr@gmail.com. (2)Department of Nutrition, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Chile, Santiago 8380453, Chile.
rvalenzuelab@med.uchile.cl. (3)Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology Program,
Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Chile,
Santiago 8380453, Chile. lvidela@med.uchile.cl.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the main cause of liver disease
worldwide. NAFLD is linked to circumstances such as type 2 diabetes, insulin
resistance, obesity, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension. Since the obesity figures 
and related comorbidities are increasing, NAFLD has turned into a liver problem
that has become progressively more common. Currently, there is no effective drug 
therapy for NAFLD; therefore, interventions in lifestyles remain the first line
of treatment. Bearing in mind that adherence rates to this type of treatment are 
poor, great efforts are currently focused on finding novel therapeutic agents for
the prevention in the development of hepatic steatosis and its progression to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and cirrhosis. This review presents a compilation of
the scientific evidence found in the last years showing the results of
interventions in lifestyle, diet, and behavioral therapies and research results
in human, animal and cell models. Possible therapeutic agents ranging from
supplementation with vitamins, amino acids, prebiotics, probiotics, symbiotics,
polyunsaturated fatty acids and polyphenols to interventions with medicinal
plants are analyzed.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms161025168 
PMCID: PMC4632797
PMID: 26512643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Alcohol Alcohol. 2016 May;51(3):251-7. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agv119. Epub 2015 Oct 
28.

The Role of Ceramide in the Pathogenesis of Alcoholic Liver Disease.

Yang L(1), Jin GH(1), Zhou JY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious disease, Third Hospital, Hebei Medical University,
139 ZiQiang Road, Shijiazhuang 050051, China. (2)Department of Infectious
disease, Third Hospital, Hebei Medical University, 139 ZiQiang Road, Shijiazhuang
050051, China doctorzhoujy@163.com.

AIMS: Ceramide is an important second messenger in the sphingomyelin signaling
pathway. In this review, we will focus on the potential role of ceramide in the
pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease (ALD).
METHODS: We have summarized the relevant studies and reviews about the role of
ceramide in ALD. In addition, we have discussed the role of acid sphingomyelinase
and protein phosphatase 2A in ALD, which are associated with ceramide and hepatic
steatosis.
RESULTS: Recent studies have proved that the immunoreactivity and content of
ceramide were increased, both in experimental models of chronic alcohol-induced
steatohepatitis and human livers with severe chronic alcohol-related liver
disease. Consistent with that, the levels of protein phosphatase 2A and acid
sphingomyelinase were increased. Of relevance, the phosphorylation of adenosine
monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) was inhibited, which could block
the fatty acid oxidation and promote its synthesis.
CONCLUSIONS: It was hypothesized that ethanol promoted ceramide accumulation and 
increased PP2A activity by activating ASMase, which may be an important mechanism
in the inhibitory effect on AMPK phosphorylation and then contributed to the
progression of steatosis. ASMase, a specific mechanism of ceramide generation,
was proved to be a regulator of steatosis, fibrosis, lipotoxicity and endoplasmic
reticulum stress.

© The Author 2015. Medical Council on Alcohol and Oxford University Press. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agv119 
PMID: 26511776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Mediators Inflamm. 2015;2015:276850. doi: 10.1155/2015/276850. Epub 2015 Oct 5.

Interactions between Myc and Mediators of Inflammation in Chronic Liver Diseases.

Liu T(1), Zhou Y(2), Ko KS(3), Yang H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Xiangya Hospital Central South University, 87 
Xiangya Road, Changsha, Hunan 410008, China. (2)GI Liver Center, Keck School of
Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.
(3)Department of Nutritional Science and Food Management, College of Health
Science, Ewha Womans University, Seoul 150-750, Republic of Korea. (4)Division of
Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Davis
Building 2094A, 8700 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA.

Most chronic liver diseases (CLDs) are characterized by inflammatory processes
with aberrant expressions of various pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators in the 
liver. These mediators are the driving force of many inflammatory liver
disorders, which often result in fibrosis, cirrhosis, and liver tumorigenesis.
c-Myc is involved in many cellular events such as cell growth, proliferation, and
differentiation. c-Myc upregulates IL-8, IL-10, TNF-α, and TGF-β, while IL-1,
IL-2, IL-4, TNF-α, and TGF-β promote c-Myc expression. Their interactions play a 
central role in fibrosis, cirrhosis, and liver cancer. Molecular interference of 
their interactions offers possible therapeutic potential for CLDs. In this
review, current knowledge of the molecular interactions between c-Myc and various
well known inflammatory mediators is discussed.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/276850 
PMCID: PMC4609837
PMID: 26508814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Biomark Med. 2015;9(11):1189-200. doi: 10.2217/bmm.15.70. Epub 2015 Oct 28.

Molecular regulation of miRNAs and potential biomarkers in the progression of
hepatic steatosis to NASH.

Wang Y(1), Liu Z(1), Zou W(1), Hong H(1), Fang H(2), Tong W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Bioinformatics & Biostatistics, National Center for Toxicological 
Research, US FDA, 3900 NCTR Road, Jefferson, AR 72079, USA. (2)Office of
Scientific Coordination, National Center for Toxicological Research, US FDA, 3900
NCTR Road, Jefferson, AR 72079, USA.

Increasing evidence suggests that microRNAs regulate diverse biological functions
in the liver and play a very important function in metabolic-related disorders
such as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease via regulating their target genes
expression. In this review, we summarized the most recent progress in
identification of miRNAs involving in the progression of liver steatosis and
discussed the possible mechanisms by which miRNAs contribute to the diverse
pathogenic liver injuries. We provide insights into the functional network of
miRNAs by connecting miRNAs, their targets and biological pathways associated to 
hepatic steatosis and fibrosis, with important implications for our understanding
of phenotypic-based disease pathogenesis. We also discuss the possible roles and 
challenges of miRNAs as biomarkers for drug-induced liver injury.

DOI: 10.2217/bmm.15.70 
PMID: 26506944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Clin Calcium. 2015 Nov;25(11):1619-24. doi: CliCa151116191624.

[Bone complications in chronic liver disease(hepatic osteodystrophy)].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Toranomon Hospital Endocrine Center, Japan.

Bone complication occurs in patients with alcoholic hepatitis, chronic hepatitis 
C, primary biliary cirrhosis(PBC), primary sclerosing cholangitis(PSC)or post
liver transplant. Prevalence of osteoporosis and fracture risk is high in these
diseases. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease(NAFLD)and non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis(NASH)is increasing in prevalence. Relation of NAFLD/NASH with
osteoporosis, however, is not well known, and further investigation is needed.

DOI: CliCa151116191624 
PMID: 26503865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Rev Med Suisse. 2015 Sep 2;11(484):1604-7.

[Factors influencing development and progression of alcoholic liver disease].

[Article in French]

Abdelrahman K, Marot A, Deltenre P.

Only a minority ot excessive drinkers develop cirrhosis. The main cofactors
implicated in the pathophysiology of alcoholic liver disease are obesity,
diabetes or the metabolic syndrome. Several genetic polymorphisms have been
associated with a higher risk of alcoholic cirrhosis. Recent data indicate that
gut microbiota could play a role in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease. 
The aim of this review is to summarize the factors that influence development and
progression of alcoholic liver disease.


PMID: 26502621  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Gynecol Endocrinol. 2016;32(3):177-83. doi: 10.3109/09513590.2015.1111327. Epub
2015 Nov 20.

Visceral adiposity index as a predictor of clinical severity and therapeutic
outcome of PCOS.

Zheng SH(1), Li XL(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Gynecology , Shanghai Key Laboratory of Female Reproductive
Endocrine Related Diseases, Shanghai OB/GYN Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University , Shanghai , People's Republic of China.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine-metabolic disease which
often accompany with abnormal fat distribution. Visceral adiposity has
association with abnormal lipid metabolic, pro-inflammatory activity, insulin
resistance (IR) and hyperandrogenism. Increased visceral adiposity raises the
risk of metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular (CV) events, and
aggravates ovulatory dysfunction and hyperandrogenism in PCOS women. Visceral
adiposity index (VAI), a simple surrogate maker of visceral adipose dysfunction
and visceral adiposity, is a predictor of IR, and link hyperinsulinemia,
hyperandrogenism and anovulation. This review aims to discuss the visceral
adiposity situation in PCOS women, and suggests that VAI may be a useful
predictor of clinical severity and therapeutic outcome of PCOS.

DOI: 10.3109/09513590.2015.1111327 
PMID: 26502288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Biomolecules. 2015 Oct 16;5(4):2619-42. doi: 10.3390/biom5042619.

A Mechanistic Review of Mitophagy and Its Role in Protection against Alcoholic
Liver Disease.

Williams JA(1), Ding WX(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutics, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Blvd., Kansas City, KS 66160, USA.
jesswilliams888@gmail.com. (2)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and
Therapeutics, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Blvd., Kansas
City, KS 66160, USA. wxding@kumc.edu.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a major health problem worldwide, and alcohol is
well-known to cause mitochondrial damage, which exacerbates alcohol-induced liver
injury and steatosis. No successful treatments are currently available for
treating ALD. Therefore, a better understanding of mechanisms involved in
regulation of mitochondrial homeostasis in the liver and how these mechanisms may
protect against alcohol-induced liver disease is needed for future development of
better therapeutic options for ALD. Mitophagy is a key mechanism for maintaining 
mitochondrial homeostasis by removing damaged mitochondria, and mitophagy
protects against alcohol-induced liver injury. Parkin, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is
well-known to induce mitophagy in in vitro models although Parkin-independent
mechanisms for mitophagy induction also exist. In this review, we discuss the
roles of Parkin and mitophagy in protection against alcohol-induced liver injury 
and steatosis. We also discuss Parkin-independent mechanisms for mitophagy
induction, which have not yet been evaluated in the liver but may also
potentially have a protective role against ALD. In addition to mitophagy,
mitochondrial spheroid formation may also provide a novel mechanism of protection
against ALD, but the role of mitochondrial spheroids in protection against ALD
progression needs to be further explored. Targeting removal of damaged
mitochondria by mitophagy or inducing formation of mitochondrial spheroids may be
promising therapeutic options for treatment of ALD.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5042619 
PMCID: PMC4693250
PMID: 26501336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Biomolecules. 2015 Oct 15;5(4):2573-88. doi: 10.3390/biom5042573.

Alcohol and the Intestine.

Patel S(1), Behara R(2), Swanson GR(3), Forsyth CB(4,)(5), Voigt RM(6),
Keshavarzian A(7,)(8,)(9,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition,
Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. Sheena_K_Patel@rush.edu. 
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition,
Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 60612, USA.
Ramakrishna_V_Behara@rush.edu. (3)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of
Digestive Diseases and Nutrition, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL
60612, USA. Garth_Swanson@rush.edu. (4)Department of Internal Medicine, Division 
of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA. Christopher_Forsyth@rush.edu. (5)Department of Biochemistry, Rush
University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. Christopher_Forsyth@rush.edu. 
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition,
Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. Robin_Voigt@rush.edu.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition,
Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 60612, USA.
Ali_keshavarzian@rush.edu. (8)Department of Pharmacology, Rush University Medical
Center, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. Ali_keshavarzian@rush.edu. (9)Department of
Molecular Biophysics & Physiology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL
60612, USA. Ali_keshavarzian@rush.edu. (10)Division of Pharmacology, Utrecht
Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Science, Utrecht University,
Utrecht PO Box 80125, The Netherlands. Ali_keshavarzian@rush.edu.

Alcohol abuse is a significant contributor to the global burden of disease and
can lead to tissue damage and organ dysfunction in a subset of alcoholics.
However, a subset of alcoholics without any of these predisposing factors can
develop alcohol-mediated organ injury. The gastrointestinal tract (GI) could be
an important source of inflammation in alcohol-mediated organ damage. The purpose
of review was to evaluate mechanisms of alcohol-induced endotoxemia (including
dysbiosis and gut leakiness), and highlight the predisposing factors for
alcohol-induced dysbiosis and gut leakiness to endotoxins. Barriers, including
immunologic, physical, and biochemical can regulate the passage of toxins into
the portal and systemic circulation. In addition, a host of environmental
interactions including those influenced by circadian rhythms can impact
alcohol-induced organ pathology. There appears to be a role for therapeutic
measures to mitigate alcohol-induced organ damage by normalizing intestinal
dysbiosis and/or improving intestinal barrier integrity. Ultimately, the
inflammatory process that drives progression into organ damage from alcohol
appears to be multifactorial. Understanding the role of the intestine in the
pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease can pose further avenues for pathogenic
and treatment approaches.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5042573 
PMCID: PMC4693248
PMID: 26501334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2015 Nov;39(11):2085-94. doi: 10.1111/acer.12887. Epub 2015
Oct 25.

Clinical impact of alcohol-related cirrhosis in the next decade: estimates based 
on current epidemiological trends in the United States.

Guirguis J(1), Chhatwal J(2), Dasarathy J(3), Rivas J(1), McMichael D(1), Nagy
LE(4), McCullough AJ(1), Dasarathy S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Transplant Surgery, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio. (2)Department of Health Services Research, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. (3)Department of
Family Medicine, Metro Health Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio. (4)Department of
Pathobiology, Lerner Research Institute, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation,
Cleveland, Ohio.

BACKGROUND: Identifying changes in the epidemiology of liver disease is critical 
for establishing healthcare priorities and allocating resources to develop
therapies. The projected contribution of different etiologies toward development 
of cirrhosis in the United States was estimated based on current publications on 
epidemiological data and advances in therapy. Given the heterogeneity of
published reports and the different perceptions that are not always reconcilable,
a critical overview rather than a formal meta-analysis of the existing data and
projections for the next decade was performed.
METHODS: Data from the World Health Organization Global Status Report on Alcohol 
and Health of 2014, Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients from 1999 to
2012, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, and the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention were inquired to determine future changes in the
epidemiology of liver disease.
RESULTS: Alcohol consumption has increased over the past 60 years. In 2010,
transplant-related costs for liver recipients were the highest for hepatitis C
(~$124 million) followed by alcohol-related cirrhosis (~$86 million). We
anticipate a significant reduction in incidence cirrhosis due to causes other
than alcohol because of the availability of high efficiency antiviral agents for 
hepatitis C, universal and effective vaccination for hepatitis B, relative
stabilization of the obesity trends in the United States, and novel, potentially 
effective therapies for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. The proportion of
alcohol-related liver disease is therefore likely to increase in both the
population as a whole and the liver transplant wait list.
CONCLUSIONS: Alcohol-related cirrhosis and alcohol-related liver disorders will
be the major cause of liver disease in the coming decades. There is an urgent
need to allocate resources aimed toward understanding the pathogenesis of the
disease and its complications so that effective therapies can be developed.

Copyright © 2015 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12887 
PMCID: PMC4624492
PMID: 26500036  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


157. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Oct 21;21(39):11088-111. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11088.

Genetic background in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: A comprehensive review.

Macaluso FS(1), Maida M(1), Petta S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fabio Salvatore Macaluso, Marcello Maida, Salvatore Petta, Section of
Gastroenterology, DIBIMIS, University of Palermo, 90127 Palermo, Italy.

In the Western world, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered as
one of the most significant liver diseases of the twenty-first century. Its
development is certainly driven by environmental factors, but it is also
regulated by genetic background. The role of heritability has been widely
demonstrated by several epidemiological, familial, and twin studies and case
series, and likely reflects the wide inter-individual and inter-ethnic genetic
variability in systemic metabolism and wound healing response processes.
Consistent with this idea, genome-wide association studies have clearly
identified Patatin-like phosholipase domain-containing 3 gene variant I148M as a 
major player in the development and progression of NAFLD. More recently, the
transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 E167K variant emerged as a relevant
contributor in both NAFLD pathogenesis and cardiovascular outcomes. Furthermore, 
numerous case-control studies have been performed to elucidate the potential role
of candidate genes in the pathogenesis and progression of fatty liver, although
findings are sometimes contradictory. Accordingly, we performed a comprehensive
literature search and review on the role of genetics in NAFLD. We emphasize the
strengths and weaknesses of the available literature and outline the putative
role of each genetic variant in influencing susceptibility and/or progression of 
the disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11088 
PMCID: PMC4607907
PMID: 26494964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


158. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Oct 21;21(39):11077-87. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11077.

Liver fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease - diagnostic challenge with
prognostic significance.

Stål P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Per Stål, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Karolinska Institutet, 
Department of Digestive Diseases, Huddinge K63, Karolinska University Hospital,
S-141 86 Stockholm, Sweden.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in the
Western world, with a prevalence of 20%. In a subgroup of patients, inflammation,
ballooning degeneration of hepatocytes and a varying degree of fibrosis may
develop, a condition named non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Advanced liver fibrosis
(stage F3) and cirrhosis (stage F4) are histologic features that most accurately 
predict increased mortality in both liver-related and cardiovascular diseases.
Patients with advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis are at risk for complications such
as hepatocellular carcinoma and esophageal varices and should therefore be
included in surveillance programs. However, liver disease and fibrosis are often 
unrecognized in patients with NAFLD, possibly leading to a delayed diagnosis of
complications. The early diagnosis of advanced fibrosis in NAFLD is therefore
crucial, and it can be accomplished using serum biomarkers (e.g., the NAFLD
Fibrosis Score, Fib-4 Index or BARD) or non-invasive imaging techniques
(transient elastography or acoustic radiation force impulse imaging). The
screening of risk groups, such as patients with obesity and/or type 2 diabetes
mellitus, for NAFLD development with these non-invasive methods may detect
advanced fibrosis at an early stage. Additionally, patients with a low risk for
advanced fibrosis can be identified, and the need for liver biopsies can be
minimized. This review focuses on the diagnostic challenge and prognostic impact 
of advanced liver fibrosis in NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11077 
PMCID: PMC4607906
PMID: 26494963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


159. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Oct 21;21(39):11053-76. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11053.

Endocrine causes of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Marino L(1), Jornayvaz FR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laura Marino, François R Jornayvaz, Service of Endocrinology, Diabetes and
Metabolism, Lausanne University Hospital, 1011 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in the industrialized world. The prevalence of NAFLD is increasing,
becoming a substantial public health burden. NAFLD includes a broad spectrum of
disorders, from simple conditions such as steatosis to severe manifestations such
as fibrosis and cirrhosis. The relationship of NAFLD with metabolic alterations
such as type 2 diabetes is well described and related to insulin resistance, with
NAFLD being recognized as the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome.
However, NAFLD may also coincide with endocrine diseases such as polycystic ovary
syndrome, hypothyroidism, growth hormone deficiency or hypercortisolism. It is
therefore essential to remember, when discovering altered liver enzymes or
hepatic steatosis on radiological exams, that endocrine diseases can cause NAFLD.
Indeed, the overall prognosis of NAFLD may be modified by treatment of the
underlying endocrine pathology. In this review, we will discuss endocrine
diseases that can cause NALFD. Underlying pathophysiological mechanisms will be
presented and specific treatments will be reviewed.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11053 
PMCID: PMC4607905
PMID: 26494962  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


160. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Oct 21;21(39):11044-52. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11044.

Non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with alcoholic liver
disease.

Lombardi R(1), Buzzetti E(1), Roccarina D(1), Tsochatzis EA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rosa Lombardi, Elena Buzzetti, Davide Roccarina, Emmanuel A Tsochatzis, Sheila
Sherlock Liver Unit and UCL Institute for Liver and Digestive Health, Royal Free 
Hospital and UCL, London NW3 2QG, United Kingdom.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) consists of a broad spectrum of disorders, ranging 
from simple steatosis to alcoholic steatohepatitis and cirrhosis. Fatty liver
develops in more than 90% of heavy drinkers, however only 30%-35% of them develop
more advanced forms of ALD. Therefore, even if the current "gold standard" for
the assessment of the stage of alcohol-related liver injury is histology, liver
biopsy is not reasonable in all patients who present with ALD. Currently,
although several non-invasive fibrosis markers have been suggested as
alternatives to liver biopsy in patients with ALD, none has been sufficiently
validated. As described in other liver disease, the diagnostic accuracy of such
tests in ALD is acceptable for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis or cirrhosis
but not for lesser fibrosis stages. Existing data suggest that the use of
non-invasive tests could be tailored to first tier screening of patients at risk,
in order to diagnose early patients with progressive liver disease and offer
targeted interventions for the prevention of decompensation. We review these
tests and critically appraise the existing evidence.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11044 
PMCID: PMC4607904
PMID: 26494961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


161. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Oct 21;21(39):11027-33. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11027.

Candidates for liver transplantation with alcoholic liver disease: Psychosocial
aspects.

Telles-Correia D(1), Mega I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Diogo Telles-Correia, Deparment of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University
of Lisbon, 1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal.

In Europe, 30% to 50% of liver transplantations are currently due to alcoholic
liver disease (ALD). In the United States, this percentage is 17.2%.
Post-transplant survival and other predictors of clinical course do not differ
significantly from those in other types of transplanted patients, as long as
there is no relapse of drinking. However, 20%-25% of these patients lapse or
relapse to heavy drinking post-operatively, which has been associated with an
increased risk of liver damage and mortality. It is therefore crucial to design
specific selection and follow-up strategies aimed at this particular type of
patient. Several good and poor prognosis factors that could help to predict a
relapse have been suggested, among them the duration of abstinence, social
support, a family history of alcoholism, abuse diagnosis versus alcohol
dependence, non-acceptance of diagnosis related to alcohol use, presence of
severe mental illness, non-adherence in a broad sense, number of years of
alcoholism, and daily quantity of alcohol consumption. In this article, we
discuss these and other, more controversial factors in selecting ALD patients for
liver transplantation. Abstinence should be the main goal after transplantation
in an ALD patient. In this article, we review the several definitions of
post-transplant relapse, its monitoring and the psychopharmacological and
psychotherapeutic treatment.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.11027 
PMCID: PMC4607902
PMID: 26494959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


162. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Oct 21;21(39):10994-1002. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.10994.

Liver transplantation for alcoholic liver disease: Lessons learned and unresolved
issues.

Ursic-Bedoya J(1), Faure S(1), Donnadieu-Rigole H(1), Pageaux GP(1).

Author information: 
(1)José Ursic-Bedoya, Stéphanie Faure, Georges-Philippe Pageaux, Liver
Transplantation Unit, Digestive Department, Saint Eloi University Hospital,
University of Montpellier, 34295 Montpellier Cedex 5, France.

The use of liver transplantation (LT) as a treatment for alcoholic liver disease 
(ALD) has been highly controversial since the beginning. The ever increasing
shortage of organs has accentuated the low priority given to patients suffering
from ALD, which is considered a "self-inflicted" condition. However, by improving
the long-term survival rates, making them similar to those from other
indications, and recognizing that alcoholism is a primary disease, ALD has become
one of the most common indications for LT in Europe and North America, a
situation thought unfathomable thirty years ago. Unfortunately, there are still
many issues with the use of this procedure for ALD. There are significant relapse
rates, and the consequences of excessive drinking after LT range from
asymptomatic biochemical and histological abnormalities to graft failure and
death. A minimum three-month period of sobriety is required for an improvement in
liver function, thus making LT unnecessary, and to demonstrate the patient's
commitment to the project, even though a longer abstinence period does not
guarantee lower relapse rates after LT. Recent data have shown that LT is also
effective for severe alcoholic hepatitis when the patient is unresponsive to
corticosteroids therapy, with low relapse rates in highly selected patients,
although these results must be confirmed before LT becomes a standard procedure
in this setting. Finally, LT for ALD is accompanied by an increased risk of de
novo solid organ cancer, skin cancer, and lymphoproliferative disorders, which
has a large impact on the survival rates.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i39.10994 
PMCID: PMC4607899
PMID: 26494956  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Curr Atheroscler Rep. 2015 Dec;17(12):73. doi: 10.1007/s11883-015-0545-2.

Novel Approaches to Targeting Visceral and Hepatic Adiposities in HIV-Associated 
Lipodystrophy.

Tien PC(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, 94143,
USA. ptien@ucsf.edu. (2)Medical Service, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical
Center, San Francisco, 4150 Clement Street, 111W, San Francisco, CA, 94121, USA. 
ptien@ucsf.edu.

Visceral and hepatic adiposities have been associated with both cardiovascular
and liver disease and are of concern in HIV-infected persons in the modern era of
combination antiretroviral therapy (ART). The development of therapeutic targets 
to reduce visceral and hepatic adiposities in HIV-infected persons has been slow,
because of early reports that attributed the excess adiposity to specific
antiretroviral drugs. Visceral adiposity was initially thought to occur as part
of a protease inhibitor-induced "HIV-associated lipodystrophy syndrome."
Subsequent studies show that visceral adiposity is likely a result of effective
ART, recovery of health, and the normal aging process. Visceral adiposity is an
established risk factor for hepatic adiposity. Identifying drug targets for
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is under active investigation. The present
review summarizes the recent literature on the pathogenesis of visceral and
hepatic adiposities in HIV-infected persons, current therapeutic strategies, and 
novel interventions in HIV-infected and uninfected persons.

DOI: 10.1007/s11883-015-0545-2 
PMID: 26493063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:319745. doi: 10.1155/2015/319745. Epub 2015 Sep 28.

The Crosstalk between Hypoxia and Innate Immunity in the Development of
Obesity-Related Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Arias-Loste MT(1), Fábrega E(1), López-Hoyos M(2), Crespo J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Department, Marqués de Valdecilla University
Hospital, 39008 Santander, Spain ; Infection, Immunity and Digestive Pathology
Group, Research Institute Marqués de Valdecilla (IDIVAL), 39008 Santander, Spain.
(2)Transplant and Autoimmunity Group, Research Institute Marqués de Valdecilla
(IDIVAL), 39008 Santander, Spain ; Immunology Department, Marqués de Valdecilla
University Hospital, 39008 Santander, Spain.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become a major health issue in
western countries in parallel with the dramatic increase in the prevalence of
obesity and all obesity related conditions, including respiratory diseases as
obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS). Interestingly, the severity of
the liver damage in obesity-related NAFLD has been associated with the
concomitant presence of OSAHS. In the presence of obesity, the proinflammatory
state in these patients together with intermittent episodes of hypoxia,
characteristic of OSAHS pathogenesis, may lead to an enhanced inflammatory
response mediated by a positive feedback loop mechanism that implicates HIF-1 and
NFκB. Thus, the severity of liver involvement in obese NAFLD patients with a
concomitant diagnosis of OSAHS could be explained. In this review, we focus on
the molecular mechanisms underlying the hepatic response to chronic intermittent 
hypoxia and its interaction with innate immunity in obesity-related NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/319745 
PMCID: PMC4600870
PMID: 26491664  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Curr Pharm Des. 2015;21(31):4574-86.

RNA Interference as a Therapeutic Strategy for the Treatment of Liver Diseases.

Gonzalez-Rodriguez A, Valverde AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Biomedicas Alberto Sols (Centro mixto CSIC/UAM). 
C/Arturo Duperier 4. 28029, Madrid. Spain. aguedagr@iib.uam.es.

RNA interference has emerged as an innovative technology for gene silencing that 
degrades mRNAs complementary to the antisense strands of double-stranded, short
interfering RNAs (siRNAs). Its therapeutic application has important advantages
over small-molecule drugs since offers the possibility of targeting virtually all
genes and allows selective silencing of one or several genes. So far, a relative 
small proportion of cellular proteins can bind and respond to chemical drugs.
Based on that, RNA interference-mediated gene silencing is widely considered as a
crucial breakthrough in molecular biology with a direct translation to medicine. 
The liver has been widely chosen as a model system for the development of RNA
interference therapy due to the convenience and availability of effective
delivery into this tissue. Numerous preclinical models have revealed promising
results, but the safety of this technology remains the primary challenge in
developing siRNA based treatments. Liver diseases comprise a broad spectrum of
genetic and non-genetic pathologies including acute fulminant liver injury that
demands urgent medical care, or chronic pathologies such as nonalcoholic fatty
liver (NAFLD), alcoholic liver disease, liver cirrhosis, viral hepatitis and
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In some cases restoration of liver function is
not possible and alternatives to liver transplantation offering novel and
efficient therapeutic approaches are urgently needed. In this review, we describe
recent insights on the advantages of using RNA interference in preclinical
settings as a targeted strategy with potential to markedly improve the treatment 
of liver diseases.


PMID: 26486144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Eur J Nutr. 2016 Feb;55(1):1-6.

A possible link between hepatic mitochondrial dysfunction and diet-induced
insulin resistance.

Crescenzo R, Bianco F, Mazzoli A, Giacco A, Liverini G, Iossa S.

BACKGROUND: Mitochondria are the main cellular sites devoted to ATP production
and lipid oxidation. Therefore, the mitochondrial dysfunction could be an
important determinant of cellular fate of circulating lipids, that accumulate in 
the cytoplasm, if they are not oxidized. The ectopic fat accumulation is
associated with the development of insulin resistance, and a link between
mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance has been proposed.
METHODS: Recent data on the possible link existing between mitochondrial
dysfunction in the liver and diet induced obesity will be summarized, focusing on
the three factors that affect the mitochondrial oxidation of metabolic fuels,
i.e. organelle number, organelle activity, and energetic efficiency of the
mitochondrial machinery in synthesizing ATP. Search in PubMed relevant articles
from 2003 to 2014 was conducted, by using query “liver mitochondria and obesity” 
“hepatic mitochondria and obesity” “liver mitochondria and high fat diet” and
“hepatic mitochondria and high fat diet” and including related articles by the
same groups.
RESULTS: Several works, by using different physiological approaches, have dealt
with alteration in mitochondrial function in obesity and diabetes. Most results
show that hepatic mitochondrial function is impaired in models of obesity and
insulin resistance induced by high-fat or highfructose feeding.
CONCLUSIONS: Since mitochondria are the main producers of both cellular energy
and free radicals, dysfunctional mitochondria could play an important role in the
development of insulin resistance and ectopic fat storage in the liver, thus
supporting the emerging idea that mitochondrial dysfunction is closely related to
the development of obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus and non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00394-015-1073-0 
PMID: 26476631  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Annu Rev Med. 2016;67:103-17. doi: 10.1146/annurev-med-090514-013832. Epub 2015
Oct 14.

Liver Cancer: Connections with Obesity, Fatty Liver, and Cirrhosis.

Marengo A(1), Rosso C(1), Bugianesi E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medical Sciences,
A.O. Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino, University of Turin, Turin,
Italy; email: elisabetta.bugianesi@unito.it , amarengo@unito.it ,
crosso@cittadellasalute.to.it.

The burden of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common form of liver
cancer, is steadily growing because obesity, type 2 diabetes, and nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are replacing viral- and alcohol-related liver
disease as major pathogenic promoters. The most worrisome aspects of these new
risk factors are their large spread in the general population and their link with
HCC arising in noncirrhotic livers. HCC may be the presenting feature of an
asymptomatic nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the progressive form of NAFLD. 
The HCC risk connected to metabolic factors has been underestimated so far, and a
poorer surveillance has prevented an adequate treatment. Systemic and hepatic
molecular mechanisms involved in obesity- and NAFLD-induced hepatocarcinogenesis 
as well as potential early markers of HCC are being extensively investigated.
This review summarizes current evidence linking obesity, NAFLD and liver cancer, 
discusses its clinical impact and describes the main mechanisms underlying this
complex relationship.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-med-090514-013832 
PMID: 26473416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016;10(1):63-71. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2016.1099433. Epub 2015 Oct 15.

Current complications and challenges in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis screening
and diagnosis.

Golabi P(1), Sayiner M(1), Fazel Y(1), Koenig A(1), Henry L(1), Younossi
ZM(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Betty and Guy Beatty Center for Integrated Research , Inova Health System , 
Falls Church , VA , USA. (2)b Center for Liver Disease, Department of Medicine , 
Inova Fairfax Hospital , Falls Church , VA , USA.

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) can lead to complications such as liver
failure, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The diagnostic gold standard for
NASH is liver biopsy; however, other noninvasive methods have been developed. In 
this article, the authors evaluate current methods in NASH screening and
diagnosis. Routine radiologic modalities were found to detect hepatic steatosis
accurately, but were unable to establish the diagnosis of NASH or stage of
fibrosis. Newly developed elastography based techniques seem promising to
estimate liver fibrosis. Other noninvasive tests such as FibroTest, ELF,
Hepascore, FIB-4, NFS, FLI and ION (biochemical panels) have AUROCs ranging
between 0.80-0.98 for detecting advanced fibrosis but lack specificity for
detecting mild fibrosis. Noninvasive tools, especially elastography, identify
NASH associated advanced fibrosis potentially reducing liver biopsies. More
research is needed to validate the clinical utility of these tests.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2016.1099433 
PMID: 26469309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Curr Diab Rep. 2015 Dec;15(12):116. doi: 10.1007/s11892-015-0674-6.

Epidemiology of NAFLD and Type 2 Diabetes: Health Disparities Among Persons of
Hispanic Origin.

Lazo M(1,)(2,)(3), Bilal U(4,)(5), Perez-Escamilla R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. mlazo@jhu.edu. (2)The Welch Center for Prevention, 
Epidemiology and Clinical Research, Johns Hopkins University, 2024 E. Monument
Street 2-615, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA. mlazo@jhu.edu. (3)Department of
Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 615 N. Wolfe
Street, W6604, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA. mlazo@jhu.edu. (4)The Welch Center for 
Prevention, Epidemiology and Clinical Research, Johns Hopkins University, 2024 E.
Monument Street 2-615, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA. ubilal@jhmi.edu. (5)Department 
of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 615 N. Wolfe
Street, W6604, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA. ubilal@jhmi.edu. (6)Department of
Chronic Disease Epidemiology, Yale School of Public Health, 135 College St.
(Suite 200), New Haven, CT, 06510, USA. rafael.perez-escamilla@yale.edu.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver
condition in the USA and worldwide and affects Hispanics disproportionally. In
this review, we aim to document and contrast the epidemiology of NAFLD and type 2
diabetes, provide a framework to study health disparities in NAFLD in Hispanic
populations, and identify points of action within the health care system to
tackle these health disparities. NAFLD shares many common risk factors with type 
2 diabetes, specially obesity and insulin resistance, but shows different
prevalence patterns by ethnicity: while Hispanics are disproportionately affected
by both NAFLD and type 2 diabetes, non-Hispanic black populations have a low
prevalence of NAFLD. The current literature suggests a strong role of
polymorphisms in the PNPLA3 gene and potential interactions with environmental
factors in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. However, given potential interactions and
the shared risk factors with type 2 diabetes, a health disparity approach that
acknowledges upstream determinants is needed. Solutions to these determinants can
also be found in the health system. The role of interventions that have shown
efficacy in type 2 diabetes, like community health workers, may be implemented to
prevent and control NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11892-015-0674-6 
PMID: 26468154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Vnitr Lek. 2015 Sep;61(9):792-8.

[The role of metabolic syndrome in gastroenterology].

[Article in Czech]

Dítě P, Přinosilová J, Dovrtělová L, Kupka T, Nechutová H, Kianička B, Břegová B,
Kunovský L, Martínek A, Souček M.

GOAL: Metabolic syndrome and its components play an important part in the
development of not only cardiovascular conditions, but also digestive and
pancreaticobiliary system diseases. The aim of our study is to present a
comprehensive overview of the diseases where metabolic syndrome is an inducing
risk factor, or where it affects the course of the disease.
RESULTS: Metabolic syndrome is a significant risk factor of induction of
gastroesophageal reflux and its complication, which is Barretts esophagus.
Metabolic syndrome was described as the disease closely linked to idiopathic
intestinal inflammations, diseases of the biliary tree and pancreas. Acute
pancreatitis, both its development in obese individuals and the burden of its
course, are in close correlation with metabolic syndrome, similarly as the course
of chronic, mainly alcoholic pancreatitis. Study of non-alcoholic
steatopancreatitis presents a challenge, most importantly with regard to the
function of pancreatic B cells in obese individuals. Non-alcoholic hepatic
steatosis and its forms may as much as lead to the stage of cirrhosis of the
liver and they pose a risk of hepatocellular carcinoma. Metabolic syndrome was
also described in a population study as a risk factor for carcinoma of the colon.
SUMMARY: Metabolic syndrome and its components present an important risk factor
in relation to inducing some benign as well as malignant gastrointestinal and
pancreaticobiliary diseases. A systemic approach to influencing the metabolic
syndrome and its components is therefore one of the important approaches to
influencing the development and course of not only cardiovascular conditions.


PMID: 26465278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2015 Aug 1;8(8):8699-708. eCollection 2015.

Lipid droplet-associated proteins in alcoholic liver disease: a potential linkage
with hepatocellular damage.

Ikura Y(1), Caldwell SH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Takatsuki General Hospital 1-3-13, Kosobecho,
Takatsuki 569-1192, Japan. (2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
University of Virginia Charlottesville, Virginia 22908-0708, USA.

Steatosis is a characteristic morphological change of alcoholic liver disease,
but its pathologic significance is still obscure. Regardless of cell types,
intracellular lipid droplets are coated with a phospholipid monolayer, on which
many kinds of lipid droplet-associated proteins are present. These proteins, such
as the perilipin family of proteins and the cell death inducing DNA fragmentation
factor (DFF) 45-like effectors, are recognized to play important roles in lipid
metabolism in the physiological settings. In addition, recent lipidology studies 
have revealed that expression of the lipid droplet-associated proteins possibly
participate in the pathologic processes of many metabolic disorders, including
fatty liver and insulin resistance. Hence, controlling protein expressions is
expected to offer novel therapeutic options. In this review, we summarize
collected data concerning the potential contribution of the lipid
droplet-associated proteins to the development of alcoholic fatty liver. Without 
exception, existing data indicates that the lipid droplet-associated proteins,
especially the perilipin family proteins, are important factors in alcoholic
fatty liver. These proteins exert a prosteatotic effect, and their expression is 
closely associated with lipotoxicity based on endoplasmic reticulum stress and
oxidative injury. Although suppression of their expression may be beneficial,
careful consideration is required because these proteins simultaneously function 
as protective factors against lipotoxicity.


PMCID: PMC4583846
PMID: 26464614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Crit Rev Clin Lab Sci. 2016;53(2):106-20. doi: 10.3109/10408363.2015.1092106.
Epub 2015 Oct 14.

Omega-3 fatty acids: Mechanisms of benefit and therapeutic effects in pediatric
and adult NAFLD.

Nobili V(1), Alisi A(2), Musso G(3), Scorletti E(4,)(5), Calder PC(4,)(5), Byrne 
CD(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)a Hepato-Metabolic Disease Unit and. (2)b Liver Research Unit, "Bambino Gesù" 
Children's Hospital and IRCCS , Rome , Italy . (3)c Gradenigo Hospital,
University of Turin , Turin , Italy . (4)d Human Development and Health Academic 
Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton , Southampton , UK , and.
(5)e National Institute for Health Research Southampton Biomedical Research
Centre, University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, University of
Southampton , Southampton , UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is currently considered the most common
liver disease in industrialized countries, and it is estimated that it will
become the most frequent indication for liver transplantation in the next decade.
NAFLD may be associated with moderate (i.e. steatosis) to severe (i.e.
steatohepatitis and fibrosis) liver damage and affects all age groups.
Furthermore, subjects with NAFLD may be at a greater risk of other
obesity-related complications later in life, and people with obesity and
obesity-related complications (e.g. metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes and
cardiovascular disease) are at increased risk of developing NAFLD. To date, there
is no licensed treatment for NAFLD and therapy has been mainly centered on weight
loss and increased physical activity. Unfortunately, it is often difficult for
patients to adhere to the advised lifestyle changes. Therefore, based on the
known pathogenesis of NAFLD, several clinical trials with different nutritional
supplementation and prescribed drugs have been undertaken or are currently
underway. Experimental evidence has emerged about the health benefits of omega-3 
fatty acids, a group of polyunsaturated fatty acids that are important for a
number of health-related functions. Omega-3 fatty acids are present in some foods
(oils, nuts and seeds) that also contain omega-6 fatty acids, and the best
sources of exclusively omega-3 fatty acids are oily fish, krill oil and algae. In
this review, we provide a brief overview of the pathogenesis of NAFLD, and we
also discuss the molecular and clinical evidence for the benefits of different
omega-3 fatty acid preparations in NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3109/10408363.2015.1092106 
PMID: 26463349  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


173. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Oct 7;21(37):10621-35. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i37.10621.

Oily fish, coffee and walnuts: Dietary treatment for nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Gupta V(1), Mah XJ(1), Garcia MC(1), Antonypillai C(1), van der Poorten D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vikas Gupta, Xian-Jun Mah, Maria Carmela Garcia, Christina Antonypillai, David
van der Poorten, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Division of
Medicine, University of Sydney at Westmead Hospital, Westmead, New South Wales,
NSW 2145, Australia.

Rates of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are increasing worldwide in
tandem with the metabolic syndrome, with the progressive form of disease,
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) likely to become the most common cause of
end stage liver disease in the not too distant future. Lifestyle modification and
weight loss remain the main focus of management in NAFLD and NASH, however, there
has been growing interest in the benefit of specific foods and dietary components
on disease progression, with some foods showing protective properties. This
article provides an overview of the foods that show the most promise and their
potential benefits in NAFLD/NASH, specifically; oily fish/ fish oil, coffee,
nuts, tea, red wine, avocado and olive oil. Furthermore, it summarises results
from animal and human trials and highlights potential areas for future research.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i37.10621 
PMCID: PMC4588084
PMID: 26457022  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


174. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Oct 7;21(37):10598-603. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i37.10598.

Does herbal medicine reduce the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma?

Rino Y(1), Yukawa N(1), Yamamoto N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yasushi Rino, Norio Yukawa, Naoto Yamamoto, Department of Surgery, School of
Medicine, Yokohama City University, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan.

Many herbal medicines are effective anti-inflammatory agents and may therefore
suppress the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Recently, treatment
with a single-tablet regimen containing ledipasvir and sofosbuvir resulted in
high rates of sustained virologic response among patients with hepatitis C virus 
genotype 1 infection who did not respond to prior interferon-based treatment.
Patients with chronic hepatitis C are expected to receive this treatment
worldwide. However, many patients have hepatitis-like fatty liver and
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. A strategy to prevent the development of HCC in
this subgroup of patients is urgently required. Whether herbal medicines can
suppress the development of HCC remains to be established. However, herbal
medicines are effective anti-inflammatory agents and may inhibit the development 
of HCC. Clinical trials exploring the effectiveness of herbal medicines in the
prevention and treatment of HCC are therefore warranted. The current lack of
knowledge and of educational programs is a barrier to increasing the use of
potentially effective herbal medicines and performing prospective clinical
trials.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i37.10598 
PMCID: PMC4588081
PMID: 26457019  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Dig Liver Dis. 2015 Dec;47(12):997-1006. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.08.004. Epub
2015 Aug 14.

Epidemiological modifiers of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: Focus on
high-risk groups.

Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Study Group, Lonardo A(1), Bellentani S(2),
Argo CK(3), Ballestri S(4), Byrne CD(5), Caldwell SH(3), Cortez-Pinto H(6),
Grieco A(7), Machado MV(6), Miele L(7), Targher G(8).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine and Outpatient Liver Clinic, NOCSAE Baggiovara, Azienda USL 
di Modena, Modena, Italy. Electronic address: a.lonardo@libero.it. (2)Internal
Medicine and Outpatient Liver Clinic, NOCSAE Baggiovara, Azienda USL di Modena,
Modena, Italy; Department of Gastroenterology and Endoscopy, NOCSE Baggiovara,
Azienda USL di Modena Modena, Italy. (3)University of Virginia, Charlottesville, 
VA, USA. (4)Internal Medicine Pavullo Hospital, Azienda USL di Modena, Modena,
Italy. (5)Nutrition and Metabolism, University of Southampton, Southampton
National Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, Southampton,
UK. (6)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital of Santa Maria,
Faculty of Medicine, Lisbon, Portugal. (7)Institute of Internal Medicine,
Catholic University of Rome, Rome, Italy. (8)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes
and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, University of Verona and Azienda
Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata di Verona, Verona, Italy.

An improved understanding of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease epidemiology would
lead to identification of individuals at high risk of developing chronic liver
disease and extra-hepatic complications, thus contributing to more effective case
finding of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease among selected groups. We aimed to
illustrate the epidemiology of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in high-risk
groups, which were identified based on existing literature. To this end, PubMed
was searched to retrieve original articles published until May 2015 using
relevant and pertinent keywords "nonalcoholic fatty liver disease" and
"diabetes", "obesity", "hyperlipidaemia", "familial heterozygous
hypobetalipoproteinaemia", "hypertension", "metabolic syndrome", "ethnicity",
"family history" or "genetic polymorphisms". We found that age, sex and ethnicity
are major physiological modifiers of the risk of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease, along with belonging to "non-alcoholic fatty liver disease families" and
carrying risk alleles for selected genetic polymorphisms. Metabolic syndrome,
diabetes, obesity, mixed hyperlipidaemia and hypocholesterolaemia due to familial
hypobetalipoproteinaemia are the major metabolic modifiers of non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease risk. Compared with these metabolic conditions, however, arterial
hypertension appears to carry a relatively more modest risk of non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease. A better understanding of the epidemiology of non-alcoholic 
fatty liver disease may result in a more liberal policy of case finding among
high-risk groups.

Copyright © 2015 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.08.004 
PMID: 26454786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Curr Drug Abuse Rev. 2015;8(2):86-103.

Signs and Related Mechanisms of Ethanol Hepatotoxicity.

Dinis-Oliveira RJ(1), Mãgalhaes T, Queirós O, Proença JB, Moreira R, de Lourdes
Bastos M, Carvalho F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Porto, Alameda Prof. Hernani Monteiro, 4200-319 Porto, Portugal.
ricardinis@sapo.pt.

Ethanol is the most abused psychoactive substance. Accordingly to World Health
Organization ethanol ranks among the top five risk factors for disease,
disability and death (3.3 million/year) throughout the world. This manuscript
highlights and critically analyses clinical and forensic signs related to
hepatoxicity of ethanol that may lead to suspected of abuse. Namely, steatosis,
jaundice, cirrhosis, hemorrhoids, esophageal varices caput medusae, ascites,
petechiae, ecchymoses, splenomegaly, hemochromatosis, xanthelasma, nutritional
deficiency, testicular atrophy, gynecomastia and dilated congestive
cardiomyopathy are discussed and related to the toxic mechanism of ethanol.


PMID: 26452450  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Nutr Clin Pract. 2015 Dec;30(6):780-6. doi: 10.1177/0884533615605811. Epub 2015
Oct 8.

Role of the Gut Microbiome in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Aqel B(1), DiBaise JK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic in Arizona,
Scottsdale, Arizona Aqel.bashar@mayo.edu. (2)Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Mayo Clinic in Arizona, Scottsdale, Arizona.

The incidence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) continues to increase
with prevalence estimates ranging from 17%-33%, making it is the most common
cause of chronic liver disease in North America. Its importance is due to not
only its prevalence but also its association with increased cardiovascular
morbidity and progression to cirrhosis in a subset of patients. NAFLD encompasses
a pathologic spectrum of disease, from relatively benign accumulation of lipid
(steatosis) to progressive nonalcoholic steatohepatitis associated with
inflammation, fibrosis, and necrosis. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis remains an
important phenotypic state because this subgroup of patients is deemed at high
risk for developing cirrhosis and progressing to liver failure requiring
transplantation or to death. Gut microbiota has recently been identified as
regulators of energy homeostasis and fat deposition, thereby implicating them in 
the development of obesity and associated metabolic diseases. The growing
evidence that alteration in gut microbiota (dysbiosis) may affect liver pathology
may allow for a better understanding of its role in the pathogenesis of NAFLD,
help to identify patients at risk of progression, and expose a microbial target
for prevention and therapeutic intervention. In this review, we discuss the
growing evidence that highlights the relationship between gut microbiota and its 
association with NAFLD.

© 2015 American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition.

DOI: 10.1177/0884533615605811 
PMID: 26449892  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


178. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2015 Nov-Dec;49 Suppl 1:S28-32. doi:
10.1097/MCG.0000000000000347.

Probiotics in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease, Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis, and
Cirrhosis.

Qamar AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transplantation, Lahey Hospital and Medical Center, Burlington, 
MA.

With the growing epidemic of obesity, the incidence of both nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFL) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is increasing. The
intestinal microbiota differs between individuals who are obese or have normal
body mass indices. Animal studies have shown increased intestinal permeability in
NAFL, NASH, and cirrhosis. This increases the risk of oxidative and inflammatory 
injury to the liver from intestinal microbacteria. It may also increase the risk 
of fatty acid injury and fatty deposition. Bacterial translocation is associated 
with increased portal hypertension and hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhosis. By
preventing bacterial adhesion and translocation, probiotics may have a role in
the management of patients with NAFL, NASH, and cirrhosis. Multiple small studies
have suggested that probiotics improve some of the clinical markers of activity
in patients with NAFL and NASH. Controlled studies have also shown improved
outcomes in patients with cirrhosis who were treated with probiotics.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000000347 
PMID: 26447961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


179. J Child Adolesc Psychopharmacol. 2015 Oct;25(8):602-10. doi:
10.1089/cap.2015.0007. Epub 2015 Oct 8.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Fibrosis in Youth Taking Psychotropic
Medications: Literature Review, Case Reports, and Management.

Gracious BL(1,)(2), Bhatt R(2,)(3), Potter C(4).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Health, The Ohio State University
Wexner Medical Center , Columbus, Ohio. (2)2 Center for Innovation in Pediatric
Practice, The Research Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital , Nationwide
Children's Hospital, Columbus, Ohio. (3)3 Lake Erie College of Osteopathic
Medicine , Erie, Ohio. (4)4 Department of Pediatrics, Division of
Gastroenterology, Nationwide Children's Hospital , Columbus, Ohio.

OBJECTIVE: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become a worldwide
epidemic because of the greater prevalence of obesity. Despite implications for
youth with severe mental disorders, little has been published in the psychiatric 
literature about this increasingly common medical comorbidity. The goals of this 
article are to: 1) provide an overview of the epidemiology and pathophysiology of
NAFLD, including progression to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH); 2) describe 
two clinical cases illustrating difficulties faced in management; and 3) review
screening recommendations, differential diagnosis, and monitoring and
intervention approaches.
METHODS: A literature review was conducted, including guidelines and
recommendations, with case presentations including case and control liver
histology biopsy photographs.
RESULTS: NAFLD in childhood and adolescence, as a precursor to NASH, progresses
to fibrosis in a small percentage of youth, leading to risk for early onset
cirrhosis and the need for transplantation. The cases presented raise concern
that youth with severe mental health disorders, already at greater risk for
obesity and its sequelae, may be at higher risk for progression to NASH,
potentially because of greater rates of weight gain on top of overweight or obese
status, and to liver metabolism changes from psychotropic medications favoring
fat deposition.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with rapid weight gain into the overweight or obese
categories, or who develop elevated liver transaminases that persist across 3-6
months, should be screened or referred for screening by their
psychotropic-providing clinicians for early detection, diagnosis, and
co-management by a pediatric gastroenterologist, to decrease risk of progression 
to NASH, which is reversible if early and sufficient lifestyle change results in 
significant weight loss. There is urgent need for controlled research on the
relationships among weight gain, psychotropic medications, ultrasound and biopsy 
findings, and rates of progression to NAFLD and NASH in youth taking
weight-gain-inducing psychotropic medications.

DOI: 10.1089/cap.2015.0007 
PMID: 26447642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Biomolecules. 2015 Sep 30;5(4):2477-503. doi: 10.3390/biom5042477.

Potential Role of the Gut/Liver/Lung Axis in Alcohol-Induced Tissue Pathology.

Massey VL(1), Beier JI(2), Ritzenthaler JD(3), Roman J(4,)(5), Arteel GE(6).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pharmacology and Toxicology and the University of Louisville
Alcohol Research Center, University of Louisville Health Sciences Center,
Louisville, KY 40292, USA. veronica_massey@med.unc.edu. (2)Departments of
Pharmacology and Toxicology and the University of Louisville Alcohol Research
Center, University of Louisville Health Sciences Center, Louisville, KY 40292,
USA. juliane.beier@louisville.edu. (3)Department of Medicine University of
Louisville Health Sciences Center, Louisville, KY 40292, USA.
j.ritzenthaler@louisville.edu. (4)Departments of Pharmacology and Toxicology and 
the University of Louisville Alcohol Research Center, University of Louisville
Health Sciences Center, Louisville, KY 40292, USA.
j0roma02@exchange.louisville.edu. (5)Department of Medicine University of
Louisville Health Sciences Center, Louisville, KY 40292, USA.
j0roma02@exchange.louisville.edu. (6)Departments of Pharmacology and Toxicology
and the University of Louisville Alcohol Research Center, University of
Louisville Health Sciences Center, Louisville, KY 40292, USA.
gavin.arteel@louisville.edu.

Both Alcoholic Liver Disease (ALD) and alcohol-related susceptibility to acute
lung injury are estimated to account for the highest morbidity and mortality
related to chronic alcohol abuse and, thus, represent a focus of intense
investigation. In general, alcohol-induced derangements to both organs are
considered to be independent and are often evaluated separately. However, the
liver and lung share many general responses to damage, and specific responses to 
alcohol exposure. For example, both organs possess resident macrophages that play
key roles in mediating the immune/inflammatory response. Additionally,
alcohol-induced damage to both organs appears to involve oxidative stress that
favors tissue injury. Another mechanism that appears to be shared between the
organs is that inflammatory injury to both organs is enhanced by alcohol
exposure. Lastly, altered extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition appears to be a
key step in disease progression in both organs. Indeed, recent studies suggest
that early subtle changes in the ECM may predispose the target organ to an
inflammatory insult. The purpose of this chapter is to review the parallel
mechanisms of liver and lung injury in response to alcohol consumption. This
chapter will also explore the potential that these mechanisms are interdependent,
as part of a gut-liver-lung axis.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5042477 
PMCID: PMC4693244
PMID: 26437442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Liver Int. 2016 Jan;36(1):5-20. doi: 10.1111/liv.12975. Epub 2015 Nov 5.

Natural antioxidants for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: molecular targets and
clinical perspectives.

Salomone F(1), Godos J(2), Zelber-Sagi S(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Ospedale di Acireale, Azienda Sanitaria
Provinciale di Catania, Catania, Italy. (2)Department of Biomedical and
Biotechnological Sciences, University of Catania, Catania, Italy. (3)The Liver
Unit, Gastroenterology Department, Tel-Aviv Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(4)School of Public Health, University of Haifa, Haifa, Israel.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the progressive form of non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD), is emerging as a main health problem in industrialized
countries. Lifestyle modifications are effective in the treatment of NAFLD;
however, the long-term compliance is low. Therefore, several pharmacological
treatments have been proposed but none has shown significant efficacy or
long-term safety. Natural polyphenols are a heterogeneous class of polyphenolic
compounds contained in vegetables, which are being proposed for the treatment of 
different metabolic disorders. Although the beneficial effect of these compounds 
has traditionally related to their antioxidant properties, they also exert
several beneficial effects on hepatic and extra-hepatic glucose and lipid
homeostasis. Furthermore, natural polyphenols exert antifibrogenic and
antitumoural effects in animal models, which appear relevant from a clinical
point of view because of the association of NASH with cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma. Several polyphenols, such anthocyanins, curcumin and
resveratrol and those present in coffee, tea, soy are available in the diet and
their consumption can be proposed as part of a healthy diet for the treatment of 
NAFLD. Other phenolic compounds, such as silymarin, are commonly consumed
worldwide as nutraceuticals or food supplements. Natural antioxidants are
reported to have beneficial effects in preclinical models of NAFLD and in pilot
clinical trials, and thus need clinical evaluation. In this review, we summarize 
the existing evidence regarding the potential role of natural antioxidants in the
treatment of NAFLD and examine possible future clinical applications.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12975 
PMID: 26436447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Ann Hepatol. 2015 Nov-Dec;14(6):789-806. doi: 10.5604/16652681.1171749.

Drug-induced fatty liver disease: An overview of pathogenesis and management.

Satapathy SK(1), Kuwajima V(2), Nadelson J(2), Atiq O(3), Sanyal AJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Methodist University Hospital Transplant Institute, Division of Surgery,
University of Tennessee Health Sciences Center, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Tennessee Health
Sciences Center, Memphis, Tennessee, USA. (3)University of Texas Southwestern,
Dallas, Texas, USA. (4)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition,
Virginia Commonwealth University Health System, Richmond, Virginia, USA.

Over the past decades, many drugs have been identified, that can potentially
induce steatohepatitis in the predisposed individual. Classically this has been
incriminated to amiodarone, perhexiline, and 4,4'-diethylaminoethoxyhexestrol
(DH), all of which have been found to independently induce the histologic picture
of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Pathogenetic mechanisms of
hepatotoxicity although still evolving, demonstrate that mitochondrial
dysfunction, deranged ATP production and fatty acid catabolism likely play an
important role. Drugs like steroid hormones can exacerbate the pathogenetic
mechanisms that lead to NASH, and other drugs like tamoxifen, cisplatin and
irenotecan have been shown to precipitate latent fatty liver as well. Further
research aiming to elucidate the pathogenesis of drug-induced steatosis and
steatohepatitis is needed in order to better design therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.5604/16652681.1171749 
PMID: 26436351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2016 Jan 5;419:44-59. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2015.09.033. Epub
2015 Nov 2.

Role of bioactive lipid mediators in obese adipose tissue inflammation and
endocrine dysfunction.

Lopategi A(1), López-Vicario C(2), Alcaraz-Quiles J(2), García-Alonso V(2), Rius 
B(2), Titos E(3), Clària J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Hospital Clínic, IDIBAPS,
Barcelona 08036, Spain. Electronic address: lopategi@clinic.ub.es. (2)Department 
of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Hospital Clínic, IDIBAPS, Barcelona
08036, Spain. (3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Hospital
Clínic, IDIBAPS, Barcelona 08036, Spain; CIBERehd, University of Barcelona,
Barcelona 08036, Spain. (4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics,
Hospital Clínic, IDIBAPS, Barcelona 08036, Spain; CIBERehd, University of
Barcelona, Barcelona 08036, Spain; Department of Physiological Sciences I,
University of Barcelona, Barcelona 08036, Spain. Electronic address:
jclaria@clinic.ub.es.

White adipose tissue is recognized as an active endocrine organ implicated in the
maintenance of metabolic homeostasis. However, adipose tissue function, which has
a crucial role in the development of obesity-related comorbidities including
insulin resistance and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, is dysregulated in
obese individuals. This review explores the physiological functions and molecular
actions of bioactive lipids biosynthesized in adipose tissue including
sphingolipids and phospholipids, and in particular fatty acids derived from
phospholipids of the cell membrane. Special emphasis is given to polyunsaturated 
fatty acids of the omega-6 and omega-3 families and their conversion to bioactive
lipid mediators through the cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase pathways. The
participation of omega-3-derived lipid autacoids in the resolution of adipose
tissue inflammation and in the prevention of obesity-associated hepatic
complications is also thoroughly discussed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2015.09.033 
PMID: 26433072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Trends Mol Med. 2015 Oct;21(10):645-62. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2015.08.005.

Emerging Liver-Kidney Interactions in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Musso G(1), Cassader M(2), Cohney S(3), Pinach S(2), Saba F(2), Gambino R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, University of Turin, Turin, Italy. Electronic address:
giovanni_musso@yahoo.it. (2)Department of Medical Sciences, San Giovanni Battista
Hospital, University of Turin, Turin, Italy. (3)Department of Nephrology, Royal
Melbourne and Western Hospital, Victoria, University of Melbourne, Melbourne,
Australia.

Mounting evidence connects non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) to chronic
kidney disease (CKD). We review emerging mechanistic links between NAFLD and CKD,
including altered activation of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)-2,
nutrient/energy sensors sirtuin-1 and AMP-activated kinase, as well as impaired
antioxidant defense mediated by nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor-2
(Nrf2). Dietary fructose excess may also contribute to NAFLD and CKD. NAFLD
affects renal injury through lipoprotein dysmetabolism and altered secretion of
the hepatokines fibroblast growth factor-21, fetuin-A, insulin-like growth
factor-1, and syndecan-1. CKD may mutually aggravate NAFLD and associated
metabolic disturbances through altered intestinal barrier function and microbiota
composition, the accumulation of uremic toxic metabolites, and alterations in
pre-receptor glucocorticoid metabolism. We conclude by discussing the
implications of these findings for the treatment of NAFLD and CKD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmed.2015.08.005 
PMID: 26432021  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Obes Surg. 2016 Jan;26(1):177-81. doi: 10.1007/s11695-015-1916-z.

Routine Liver Biopsy During Bariatric Surgery: an Analysis of Evidence Base.

Mahawar KK(1), Parmar C(2), Graham Y(2,)(3), Abouleid A(2), Carr WR(2), Jennings 
N(2), Schroeder N(2), Small PK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bariatric Unit, Sunderland Royal Hospital, Sunderland, SR4 7TP, UK.
kamal_mahawar@hotmail.com. (2)Bariatric Unit, Sunderland Royal Hospital,
Sunderland, SR4 7TP, UK. (3)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Well-being,
University of Sunderland, Sunderland, SR1 3SD, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis are common
in patients undergoing bariatric surgery. Non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis can
progress to cirrhosis of the liver and hepatocellular carcinoma. Non-invasive
methods of diagnosing non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis are not as accurate as liver
biopsy, and bariatric surgery presents a unique opportunity to carry out a
simultaneous liver biopsy. Routine liver biopsy can help early and accurate
diagnosis of obesity-associated liver conditions. This has led some surgeons to
argue for routine liver biopsy at the time of bariatric surgery. However, most
bariatric surgeons remain unconvinced and liver biopsy is currently not routine
practice with bariatric surgery. This review examines published scientific
literature to ascertain the usefulness of routine liver biopsy at the time of
bariatric surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-015-1916-z 
PMID: 26428254  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Syst Rev. 2015 Sep 29;4:131. doi: 10.1186/s13643-015-0114-3.

Interventions for preventing or treating malnutrition in problem drinkers who are
homeless or vulnerably housed: protocol for a systematic review.

Thorley H(1,)(2), Porter K(3), Fleming C(4), Jones T(5,)(6), Kesten J(7,)(8),
Marques E(9,)(10), Richards A(11,)(12), Savović J(13,)(14).

Author information: 
(1)The National Institute for Health Research Collaboration for Leadership in
Applied Health Research and Care West (NIHR CLAHRC West) at University Hospitals 
Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, 9th Floor Whitefriars, Lewins Mead, Bristol, BS1
2NT, UK. helen.thorley@bristol.ac.uk. (2)School of Social and Community Medicine,
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. helen.thorley@bristol.ac.uk. (3)Bristol City 
Council, St Anne's House, St Anne's Road, Bristol, BS4 4AB, UK.
Katie.Porter@bristol.gov.uk. (4)Compass Health, The Compass Centre, 1 Jamaica
Street, Bristol, BS2 8JP, UK. Clare.Fleming2@nhs.net. (5)The National Institute
for Health Research Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and
Care West (NIHR CLAHRC West) at University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation
Trust, 9th Floor Whitefriars, Lewins Mead, Bristol, BS1 2NT, UK.
Timothy.Jones@bristol.ac.uk. (6)School of Social and Community Medicine,
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. Timothy.Jones@bristol.ac.uk. (7)The National 
Institute for Health Research Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health
Research and Care West (NIHR CLAHRC West) at University Hospitals Bristol NHS
Foundation Trust, 9th Floor Whitefriars, Lewins Mead, Bristol, BS1 2NT, UK.
Jo.Kesten@bristol.ac.uk. (8)School of Social and Community Medicine, University
of Bristol, Bristol, UK. Jo.Kesten@bristol.ac.uk. (9)The National Institute for
Health Research Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care 
West (NIHR CLAHRC West) at University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, 9th
Floor Whitefriars, Lewins Mead, Bristol, BS1 2NT, UK. E.Marques@bristol.ac.uk.
(10)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. 
E.Marques@bristol.ac.uk. (11)The National Institute for Health Research
Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care West (NIHR
CLAHRC West) at University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, 9th Floor
Whitefriars, Lewins Mead, Bristol, BS1 2NT, UK. Alison.Richards@bristol.ac.uk.
(12)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. 
Alison.Richards@bristol.ac.uk. (13)The National Institute for Health Research
Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care West (NIHR
CLAHRC West) at University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, 9th Floor
Whitefriars, Lewins Mead, Bristol, BS1 2NT, UK. J.Savovic@bristol.ac.uk.
(14)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. 
J.Savovic@bristol.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Problem alcohol drinking in homeless and vulnerably housed people can
lead to malnutrition, which is associated with complications such as
alcohol-related brain damage. Homeless alcohol drinkers are likely to have worse 
health outcomes and different nutritional needs compared with housed
alcohol-drinking persons. It is not clear whether interventions to improve
nutritional status in this population have been effective. The purpose of this
review is to assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of interventions for
preventing or correcting micronutrient deficiencies and other forms of
malnutrition and related comorbidities in this population.
METHODS/DESIGN: A systematic search for studies of a nutrition-based intervention
applied in the homeless or vulnerably housed population with problem drinking
will be conducted. The following electronic databases will be systematically
searched for relevant studies: MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, PsycINFO, CAB
abstracts, CINAHL, Cochrane Public Health Group Register and Cochrane Drugs and
Alcohol Group Register. Screening of identified abstracts for relevance and
assessment of papers for inclusion will be done in duplicate. One reviewer will
extract data from the studies and assess quality, and this will be checked by
another reviewer. Discrepancies will be resolved by consensus. The primary
outcomes are (mal)nutrition status or micronutrient deficiencies or change in
(mal)nutrition status or micronutrient deficiencies, measures of liver damage and
cognitive function. Secondary outcomes include comorbidities, quality of life and
functional scales, resources used to deliver treatment, uptake/acceptability of
the intervention and engagement with treatment services. Results will be analysed
descriptively, and, if appropriate, meta-analyses will be performed.
DISCUSSION: The results of this review should help to inform the development of
effective interventions that can be implemented in the community to improve the
health of homeless people who are problem drinkers.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42015024247.

DOI: 10.1186/s13643-015-0114-3 
PMCID: PMC4589081
PMID: 26424296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Lancet. 2015 Oct 17;386(10003):1576-87. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00309-8. Epub 
2015 Sep 27.

Acute-on-chronic liver failure.

Bernal W(1), Jalan R(2), Quaglia A(3), Simpson K(4), Wendon J(5), Burroughs A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Intensive Therapy Unit, King's College Hospital, London, UK. Electronic 
address: william.bernal@kcl.ac.uk. (2)Liver Failure Group, Division of Medicine, 
University College London, London, UK; Institute for Liver and Digestive Health, 
Division of Medicine, University College London, London, UK; Sheila Sherlock
Liver Centre, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK. (3)Histopathology Section,
Institute of Liver Studies, King's College Hospital, London, UK. (4)Department of
Hepatology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK. (5)Liver Intensive Therapy
Unit, King's College Hospital, London, UK. (6)Institute for Liver and Digestive
Health, Division of Medicine, University College London, London, UK; Sheila
Sherlock Liver Centre, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK.

Acute-on-chronic liver failure combines an acute deterioration in liver function 
in an individual with pre-existing chronic liver disease and hepatic and
extrahepatic organ failures, and is associated with substantial short-term
mortality. Common precipitants include bacterial and viral infections, alcoholic 
hepatitis, and surgery, but in more than 40% of patients, no precipitating event 
is identified. Systemic inflammation and susceptibility to infection are
characteristic pathophysiological features. A new diagnostic score, the Chronic
Liver Failure Consortium (CLIF-C) organ failure score, has been developed for
classification and prognostic assessment of patients with acute-on-chronic liver 
failure. Disease can be reversed in many patients, and thus clinical management
focuses upon the identification and treatment of the precipitant while providing 
multiorgan-supportive care that addresses the complex pattern of physiological
disturbance in critically ill patients with liver disease. Liver transplantation 
is a highly effective intervention in some specific cases, but recipient
identification, organ availability, timing of transplantation, and high resource 
use are barriers to more widespread application. Recognition of acute-on-chronic 
liver failure as a clinically and pathophysiologically distinct syndrome with
defined diagnostic and prognostic criteria will help to encourage the development
of new management pathways and interventions to address the unacceptably high
mortality.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00309-8 
PMID: 26423181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2016;20(3):375-87. doi: 10.1517/14728222.2016.1096930. 
Epub 2015 Sep 30.

Serum uric acid: a new therapeutic target for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Sun DQ(1), Wu SJ(2), Liu WY(3), Lu QD(1), Zhu GQ(4,)(5), Shi KQ(4,)(6), Braddock 
M(7), Song D(1), Zheng MH(4,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)a 1 Nanjing Medical University, Affiliated Wuxi Second Hospital, Department of
Nephrology , Wuxi 214002, China. (2)b 2 The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou 
Medical University, the Heart Center, Department of Cardiovascular Medicine ,
Wenzhou 325000, China. (3)c 3 The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical
University, Department of Endocrinology , Wenzhou 325000, China. (4)d 4 The First
Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Liver Research Center,
Department of Infection and Liver Diseases , Wenzhou 325000, China
zhengmh@wmu.edu.cn and sdwx66@163.com. (5)e 5 Wenzhou Medical University, School 
of the First Clinical Medical Sciences , Wenzhou 325000, China. (6)f 6 Wenzhou
Medical University, Institute of Hepatology , Wenzhou 325000, China. (7)g 7
Global Medicines Development, AstraZeneca R&D , Alderley Park, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a major, worldwide
public health problem. NAFLD is recognized as a major cause of liver-related
morbidity and mortality. However, physicians are currently limited by available
treatment options. Recently, numerous studies have reported a correlation between
serum uric acid (SUA) and NAFLD with numerous clinical and experimental studies
demonstrating a significant correlation. This review will focus on the role of
SUA in the development of NAFLD and its potential role as a new target for
therapeutic intervention.
AREAS COVERED: This review discusses SUA as a significant independent factor in
the development of NAFLD. Moreover, we introduce the causal relationship between 
SUA, metabolic syndrome, and NAFLD. We discuss two major theories of insulin
resistance and inflammasomes as potential explanations of the mechanistic link
between SUA and NAFLD. In addition, we review current and emerging therapeutic
medications to control appropriate SUA levels.
EXPERT OPINION: There is an urgent need to develop novel, safe and effective
therapies for the growing NAFLD epidemic. Reduction of SUA may be a promising
potential treatment for patients with NAFLD. Clinical studies are required to
determine the therapeutic effect of attenuation of hyperuricemia in humans with
NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2016.1096930 
PMID: 26419119  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


189. J Physiol. 2015 Dec 1;593(23):5043-55. doi: 10.1113/JP271124. Epub 2015 Nov 4.

A shift in paradigm towards human biology-based systems for cholestatic-liver
diseases.

Noor F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemical Engineering Institute, Saarland University, Saarbrücken, Germany.

Cholestatic-liver diseases (CLDs) arise from diverse causes ranging from genetic 
factors to drug-induced cholestasis. The so-called diseases of civilization
(obesity, diabetes, metabolic disorders, non-alcoholic liver disease,
cardiovascular diseases, etc.) are intricately implicated in liver and gall
bladder diseases. Although CLDs have been extensively studied, there seem to be
important gaps in the understanding of human disease. Despite the fact that many 
animal models exist and substantial clinical data are available, translation of
this knowledge towards therapy has been disappointingly limited. Recent advances 
in liver cell culture such as in vivo-like 3D cultivation of human primary
hepatic cells, human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived hepatocytes; and
cutting-edge analytical techniques such as 'omics' technologies and high-content 
screenings could play a decisive role in deeper mechanistic understanding of
CLDs. This Topical Review proposes a roadmap to human biology-based research
using omics technologies providing quantitative information on mechanisms in an
adverse outcome/disease pathway framework. With modern sensitive tools, a shift
in paradigm in human disease research seems timely and even inevitable to
overcome species barriers in translation.

© 2015 The Authors. The Journal of Physiology © 2015 The Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1113/JP271124 
PMCID: PMC4666998
PMID: 26417843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2016 Jan 1;589:108-19. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2015.09.018. Epub
2015 Sep 26.

MicroRNAs in obesity-associated disorders.

Abente EJ(1), Subramanian M(1), Ramachandran V(1), Najafi-Shoushtari SH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Weill Cornell Medical College,
Cornell University, New York 10021, NY, USA; Weill Cornell Medical College-Qatar,
Qatar Foundation, Education City, P.O. Box 24144, Doha, Qatar. (2)Department of
Cell and Developmental Biology, Weill Cornell Medical College, Cornell
University, New York 10021, NY, USA; Weill Cornell Medical College-Qatar, Qatar
Foundation, Education City, P.O. Box 24144, Doha, Qatar. Electronic address:
han2005@med.cornell.edu.

The emergence of a worldwide obesity epidemic has dramatically increased the
prevalence of insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome, predisposing individuals
to a greater risk for the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, type 
II diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases. Current available
pharmacological interventions combined with diet and exercise-based managements
are still poorly effective for weight management, likely in part due to an
incomplete understanding of regulatory mechanisms and pathways contributing to
the systemic metabolic abnormalities under disturbed energy homeostasis.
MicroRNAs, small non-coding RNAs that regulate posttranscriptional gene
expression, have been increasingly described to influence shifts in metabolic
pathways under various obesity-related disease settings. Here we review recent
discoveries of the mechanistic role that microRNAs play in regulating metabolic
functions in liver and adipose tissues involved in obesity associated disorders, 
and briefly discusses the potential candidates that are being pursued as viable
therapeutic targets.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2015.09.018 
PMID: 26416722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Curr Pharm Des. 2015;21(35):5144-50.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in children and adolescents - Relationship with 
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome.

Abruzzese GA, Motta AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Pharmacological and Botanical Studies, School of Medicine,
University of Buenos Aires, Paraguay 2155 (1121), Buenos Aires, Argentina.
aliciabmotta@yahoo.com.ar.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is defined as the accumulation of
triglycerides (TGs) within hepatocytes exceeding 5 % of liver weight. NAFLD is a 
spectrum of pathological processes from nonalcoholic fatty liver or simple
steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), fibrosis, cirrhosis, and
hepatocellular carcinoma. As NAFLD induces metabolic syndrome (MS), then, NAFLD
is associated with insulin resistance (IR), type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM),
hypertension and even Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS). Because it is well
established that patients carrying gene mutations also develop NAFLD in the
absence of IR, the genetic predisposition to NAFLD is also discussed. Little is
known about the diagnosis and treatment of NAFLD in children and adolescents and 
the lack of non-invasive diagnostic tools in these populations is a major problem
faced by physicians. The present review aims to discuss recent findings of NAFLD 
in children and adolescents and, considering the features in common with PCOS, we
also discuss their relationship.


PMID: 26412465  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 2015;70(3):197-204. doi: 10.1265/jjh.70.197.

[Mechanism Analysis and Prevention of Pathogenesis of Nonalcoholic
Steatohepatitis].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakajima T(1), Naito H.

Author information: 
(1)College of Life and Health Sciences, Chubu University.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common disease in humans having a
broad spectrum of liver histology from simple fatty liver to mixed inflammatory
cell infiltration and fibrosis (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, NASH), which is a
more severe and progressing form. NASH/NAFLD is significantly associated with
lifestyle such as diet and exercise, obesity, insulin resistance, type 2
diabetes, dyslipidemia and hypertension. Age and gender are also associated with 
the development. On the other hand, NAFLD has been found in a high percentage of 
nonobese individuals in the Asia-Pacific area. Some characteristic animal models 
of NAFLD/NASH have been developed to clarify the pathogenesis of human
NAFLD/NASH. We have recently developed a novel NASH rat model (stroke-prone
spontaneously hypertensive rats, SHRSP5/Dmcr), which showed hepatic steatosis and
inflammation at 2 weeks, ballooning, macrovesicular steatosis and fibrosis at 8
weeks, and bridging fibrosis at 14 weeks by feeding of high-fat and -cholesterol 
(HFC) diet alone. This animal model does not have obesity, insulin resistance or 
diabetes. Therefore, this may be an excellent animal model of human NASH/NAFLD
without obesity and diabetes. Sex and strain differences observed in fibrogenesis
by the HFC diet in SHRSP5/Dmcr may be associated with the sensitivity to
detoxification enzymes in the liver, because the levels of
UGP-glucuronosyltransferase and sulfotransferase and their regulating nuclear
receptors only decreased in male SHRSP5/Dmcr rats, but not in female and SHRSP
rats. This suggests the importance of phase II reactions of drug-metabolizing
enzymes in NASH progression. Importantly, SHRSP5/Dmcr rats are spontaneously
hypertensive; therefore, when we use the original strain Wistar Kyoto, which has 
normal blood pressure, the involvement of blood pressure in the development of
human NASH/NAFLD may also be clarified.

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.70.197 
PMID: 26411937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Diabetologia. 2016 Jan;59(1):30-43. doi: 10.1007/s00125-015-3769-3. Epub 2015 Sep
26.

Circulating leptin in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Polyzos SA(1), Aronis KN(2,)(3), Kountouras J(4), Raptis DD(4), Vasiloglou MF(4),
Mantzoros CS(2,)(3,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Second Medical Clinic, Department of Medicine, Aristotle University of
Thessaloniki, Ippokration Hospital, 49 Konstantinoupoleos, 546 42, Thessaloniki, 
Greece. stergios@endo.gr. (2)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. (3)Department of Medicine, Boston Medical
Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA. (4)Second Medical 
Clinic, Department of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Ippokration
Hospital, 49 Konstantinoupoleos, 546 42, Thessaloniki, Greece. (5)Section of
Endocrinology, Boston VA Healthcare System, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA,
USA.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Clinical data regarding circulating leptin levels in patients
with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are conflicting. The purpose of
this meta-analysis was to compare leptin levels between the following groups:
patients with biopsy-proven NAFLD vs controls; simple steatosis (SS) patients vs 
controls; non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) patients vs controls and NASH
patients vs SS patients.
METHODS: We performed a systematic search in PubMed, Scopus and the Cochrane
Library. We analysed 33 studies, published between 1999 and 2014, including 2,612
individuals (775 controls and 1,837 NAFLD patients).
RESULTS: Higher circulating leptin levels were observed in NAFLD patients vs
controls (standardised mean difference [SMD] 0.640; 95% CI 0.422, 0.858), SS
patients vs controls (SMD 0.358; 95% CI 0.043, 0.673), NASH patients vs controls 
(SMD 0.617; 95% CI 0.403, 0.832) and NASH patients vs SS patients (SMD 0.209; 95%
CI 0.023, 0.395). These results remained essentially unchanged after excluding
studies involving paediatric or adolescent populations and/or individuals
undergoing bariatric surgery. There was moderate-to-severe heterogeneity among
studies in all comparisons, but no significant publication bias was detected.
Meta-regression analysis demonstrated that BMI was inversely associated with
leptin SMD and accounted for 26.5% (p = 0.014) and 32.7% (p = 0.021) of the
between-study variance in the comparison between NASH patients and controls and
NAFLD patients and controls, respectively. However, when bariatric studies were
excluded, BMI did not significantly explain the between-study variance.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Circulating leptin levels were higher in patients
with NAFLD than in controls. Higher levels of circulating leptin were associated 
with increased severity of NAFLD, and the association remained significant after 
the exclusion of studies involving paediatric or adolescent populations and
morbidly obese individuals subjected to bariatric surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-015-3769-3 
PMID: 26407715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


194. J Dig Dis. 2015 Oct;16(10):541-57. doi: 10.1111/1751-2980.12291.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease - current status and future directions.

Demir M(1), Lang S(1), Steffen HM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinic for Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital of Cologne,
Cologne, Germany.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as the most common chronic
liver disease worldwide with a reported prevalence ranging 6-33%, depending on
the studied populations. It encompasses a spectrum of liver manifestations
ranging from simple steatosis (also known as nonalcoholic fatty liver, NAFL) to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), fibrosis and cirrhosis, which may ultimately
progress to hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD is strongly associated with the
components of metabolic syndrome, mainly obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
NAFLD patients are at increased risk of liver-related as well as cardiovascular
mortality. Current paradigm suggests a benign course for NAFL whereas NASH is
considered to be the progressive phenotype. Although previously under-recognized 
accumulating evidence suggests that NAFL may also progress, suggesting a higher
number of patients at risk than previously appreciated. Liver biopsy remains the 
gold standard for definitive diagnosis, but the majority of patients can be
diagnosed accurately by noninvasive methods. Approved therapies for NAFLD are
still lacking and lifestyle modifications aiming at weight loss remain the
mainstay of NAFLD treatment. Intensive research could identify insulin
resistance, lipotoxicity and dysbiosis of the gut microbiota as major
pathophysiological mechanisms, leading to the development of promising targeted
therapies which are currently investigated in clinical trials. In this review we 
summarized the current knowledge of NAFLD epidemiology, natural history,
diagnosis, pathogenesis and treatment and considered future directions.

© 2015 Chinese Medical Association Shanghai Branch, Chinese Society of
Gastroenterology, Renji Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University
School of Medicine and Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-2980.12291 
PMID: 26406351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2015 Sep;24(3):359-68. doi:
10.15403/jgld.2014.1121.243.gta.

Hype or Reality: Should Patients with Metabolic Syndrome-related NAFLD be on the 
Hunter-Gatherer (Paleo) Diet to Decrease Morbidity?

Tarantino G(1), Citro V(2), Finelli C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, Federico II University, Medical
School of Naples, ;Centro Ricerche Oncologiche di Mercogliano, Istituto Nazionale
Per Lo Studio E La Cura Dei Tumori Fondazione Giovanni Pascale, IRCCS,
Mercogliano (Av), Naples, Italy. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Umberto I
Hospital, Nocera Inferiore, Salerno, Italy. (3)Center of Obesity and Eating
Disorders, Stella Maris Mediterraneum Foundation, C/da S. Lucia, Chiaromonte,
Potenza, Italy.

The current Western diet figures centrally in the pathogenesis of several chronic
diseases such as obesity, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and the
emerging major health problem nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, all of them
negatively impacting on life expectancy. This type of diet is represented by a
high calorie uptake, high glycemic load, high fat and meat intake, as well as
increased consumption of fructose. On the contrary, a simplified way of eating
healthily by excluding highly-processed foods, is presumed to be the Paleolithic 
diet (a diet based on vegetables, fruits, nuts, roots, meat, organ meats) which
improves insulin resistance, ameliorates dyslipidemia, reduces hypertension and
may reduce the risk of age-related diseases. The diet is the foundation of the
treatment of obesity- and type 2 diabetes-related nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease and a diet similar to those of pre-agricultural societies may be an
effective option. To lend sufficient credence to this type of diet, well-designed
studies are needed.


PMID: 26405708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Pathologe. 2015 Nov;36 Suppl 2:146-52. doi: 10.1007/s00292-015-0082-3.

[Lipid droplet-associated proteins. Importance in steatosis, steatohepatitis and 
hepatocarcinogenesis].

[Article in German]

Straub BK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pathologisches Institut, Universitätsklinik Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld
224, 69120, Heidelberg, Deutschland. beate.straub@med.uni-heidelberg.de.

Hepatocellular steatosis constitutes the most frequent liver disease in western
countries and may progress to steatohepatitis, liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC). The lipid droplet (LD)-associated proteins perilipin,
adipophilin, TIP47 ("tail interacting protein of 47 kDa"), S3-12 and myocardial
LD protein (MLDP), so-called perilipins 1-5 (PAT family) govern formation,
maintenance and degradation of LDs. A lack of perilipin in mice inhibits obesity 
and a lack of adipophilin or TIP47 inhibit the development of fatty liver
disease. In long-term cell culture models as well as in liver biopsies of
patients with different acute and chronic liver diseases, LD-associated proteins 
are sequentially recruited to LDs and regulated via peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α and PPARγ as well as
posttranscriptionally via alternative splicing, LD fusion and lipolysis. Whereas 
TIP47 and MLDP coat small newly formed LDs in acute microvesicular steatosis,
adipophilin constitutes a robust general marker for LDs in many different cell
types. Perilipin is important for the long-term storage of lipids in
macrovesicular steatosis and controls lipolysis via hormone-dependent
phosphorylation. During malignant transformation, increased formation of small
LDs and overexpression of adipophilin, TIP47 and MLDP are detected, possibly as
the expression of an altered tumor metabolism analogous to a Warburg effect.
Adipophilin correlates positively with the proliferation rate of HCC cells.
Cultured cells with downregulation of TIP47 or adipophilin via small interfering 
RNA (siRNA) or small hairpin RNA (shRNA) show less but larger LDs with reduced
neutral fat content.

DOI: 10.1007/s00292-015-0082-3 
PMID: 26400566  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Histol Histopathol. 2016 Feb;31(2):141-8. doi: 10.14670/HH-11-668. Epub 2015 Sep 
23.

Inducible factors for cancer-associated fibroblasts in liver cancer versus
myofibroblasts in inflammatory liver disease.

Okabe H(1), Hayashi H(1), Nakagawa S(1), Imai K(1), Nitta H(1), Arima K(1),
Hashimoto D(1), Chikamoto A(1), Ishiko T(1), Beppu T(2), Baba H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Graduate School of Life Sciences,
Kumamoto University. (2)Department of Multidisciplinary Treatment for
Gastroenterological Cancer, Kumamoto University Hospital. (3)Department of
Gastroenterological Surgery, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Kumamoto
University. hdobaba@kumamoto-u.ac.jp.

The importance of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in liver cancer,
cholangiocarcinoma (CC) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), has been appreciated 
in the past 5 years. We focused on how they get activated in the tumor
microenvironment in this review. Not only hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) but also 
portal fibroblasts (PFs) have been appreciated to be key players in liver
fibrogenesis, and their different roles have just started to be recognized. Since
the role of cholangiocyte in biliary fibrogenic disease might have some
similarities to that of CC, we focused on the role of cholangiocytes activating
stromal fibroblasts, which would presumably be helpful for better understanding
the mechanism of tumor-CAFs interaction. In addition, the activation of CAFs
should be different from that of CAFs in HCC, which we consider to be potentially
similar to MFs in hepatocyte injury-dependent liver fibrogesis. Herein, we
describe the activation of CAFs in CC in comparison to MFs seen in other liver
diseases such as 1) MFs in liver fibrosis caused by hepatocyte injury such as
alcoholic hepatitis, viral hepatitis, and nonalcoholic steatosis, 2) MFs in liver
fibrosis caused by cholestatic disease, and 3) CAFs in hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC). This review on the activation of fibroblasts either in liver cancer or in 
chronic liver disease would contribute to CAF-targeted therapy in liver cancer.

DOI: 10.14670/HH-11-668 
PMID: 26398776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Dig Dis. 2015 Sep;33(5):648-54. doi: 10.1159/000438474. Epub 2015 Sep 23.

Serum Amyloid A-Positive Hepatocellular Neoplasm: A New Type of Tumor Arising in 
Patients with Advanced Alcoholic Disease.

Sasaki M(1), Nakanuma Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Pathology, Kanazawa University Graduate School of
Medicine, Kanazawa, Japan.

This chapter reviews a new type of hepatocellular neoplasm, serum amyloid
A-positive hepatocellular neoplasm (SAA-HN), which arises in patients with
advanced alcoholic liver disease such as cirrhosis. SAA-HNs share histological
and immunohistochemical features with inflammatory hepatocellular adenoma, for
example, a strong immunoreactivity for SAA. Clinicopathological features and
issues regarding SAA-HN are reviewed with emphasis regarding its potential to
develop into hepatocellular carcinoma.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000438474 
PMID: 26398230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015;9(11):1343-6. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1092382. Epub 2015 Sep 22.

Cholesterol is a significant risk factor for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Walenbergh SM(1), Shiri-Sverdlov R(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Molecular Genetics, School of Nutrition and Translational
Research in Metabolism (NUTRIM), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The
Netherlands.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is characterized by hepatic lipid
accumulation (steatosis) and inflammation (steatohepatitis). Currently, the exact
underlying mechanisms leading to hepatic inflammation remain incompletely
understood and therefore therapy options are poor. Analogous to the predominant
metabolic risk factor for the metabolic syndrome, NASH patients often display
diet-induced dyslipidemia and are therefore also at high risk for cardiovascular 
disease. Higher lipid levels, in general, are also widely associated with the
production of reactive oxygen species during oxidation. However, the exact
contribution of the specific type of lipids to hepatic inflammation still remains
unclear. In this editorial, we aim to show that cholesterol, in addition to
triglycerides and free fatty acids, is an important risk factor in NASH disease
pathogenesis. Developing a better understanding of the contribution of lipids
underlying NASH pathogenesis is essential for creating effective therapies
against this prevalent disease.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1092382 
PMID: 26395315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nihon Rinsho. 2015 Sep;73(9):1546-51.

[Physical diseases in alcoholism].

[Article in Japanese]

Takase K.

Rapid excessive alcohol drinking frequently causes disturbance of consciousness
due to head trauma, brain edema, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, hepatic coma and so 
on, provoked by acute alcohol intoxication. Rapid differential diagnosis and
management are extremely important to save a life. On the other hands, the
chronic users of alcohol so called alcoholism has many kinds of physical diseases
such as liver diseases (i.e., fatty liver, alcoholic hepatitis, alcoholic liver
cirrhosis and miscellaneous liver disease), diabetes mellitus, injury to happen
in drunkenness, pancreas disease (i.e., acute and chronic pancreatitis and
deterioration of chronic pancreatitis), gastrontestinal diseases (i.e.,
gastroduodenal ulcer), and so on. Enough attention should be paid to above
mentioned diseases, otherwise they would turn worse more with continuation and
increase in quantity of the alcohol. It should be born in its mind that the
excessive drinking becomes the weapon threatening life.


PMID: 26394519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Biomolecules. 2015 Sep 18;5(3):2140-59. doi: 10.3390/biom5032140.

The Altered Hepatic Tubulin Code in Alcoholic Liver Disease.

Groebner JL(1), Tuma PL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, The Catholic University of America, Washington, DC
20064, USA. 41groebner@cardinalmail.cua.edu. (2)Department of Biology, The
Catholic University of America, Washington, DC 20064, USA. tuma@cua.edu.

The molecular mechanisms that lead to the progression of alcoholic liver disease 
have been actively examined for decades. Because the hepatic microtubule
cytoskeleton supports innumerable cellular processes, it has been the focus of
many such mechanistic studies. It has long been appreciated that α-tubulin is a
major target for modification by highly reactive ethanol metabolites and reactive
oxygen species. It is also now apparent that alcohol exposure induces
post-translational modifications that are part of the natural repertoire, mainly 
acetylation. In this review, the modifications of the "tubulin code" are
described as well as those adducts by ethanol metabolites. The potential cellular
consequences of microtubule modification are described with a focus on
alcohol-induced defects in protein trafficking and enhanced steatosis. Possible
mechanisms that can explain hepatic dysfunction are described and how this
relates to the onset of liver injury is discussed. Finally, we propose that
agents that alter the cellular acetylation state may represent a novel
therapeutic strategy for treating liver disease.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5032140 
PMCID: PMC4598792
PMID: 26393662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2016 Feb;32(2):200-16. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.2713. Epub 2015 
Nov 1.

Comparative efficacy of anti-diabetic agents on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 
in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis 
of randomized and non-randomized studies.

Tang W(1), Xu Q(1), Hong T(2), Tong G(1), Feng W(1), Shen S(1), Bi Y(1), Zhu
D(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Drum Tower Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing
University Medical School, Nanjing, China. (2)Department of Endocrinology, Drum
Tower Clinical Medical College of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.

BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has a high prevalence in
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In this study, we sought to
provide a comprehensive assessment regarding the effects of anti-diabetic agents 
on NAFLD in patients with T2DM.
METHODS: MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with different
anti-diabetic agents in T2DM. Observational trials were also recruited to expand 
our population. Hepatic fat content and liver histology were evaluated as primary
outcomes. Pooled estimates were calculated using a fixed effect model.
RESULTS: One thousand one hundred ninety-six participants in 19 RCTs and 14
non-randomized studies were included. Evidence from RCTs and observational
studies suggested that greater hepatic fat content reduction and improved liver
histology were seen in thiazolidinediones for 12-72 weeks; glucagon-like
peptide-1 receptor agonists had beneficial effects on hepatic fat content after
26-50 weeks intervention, and insulin/metformin combination with 3-7 months
improved hepatic fat content. Initiating metformin or dapagliflozin showed no
benefit on hepatic fat content or liver histology in 16-48 weeks. Besides,
nateglinide for 18 months was reported in a small sample-size RCT to improve
hepatic fat content and liver histology. Sitagliptin therapy of 1 year also
provided benefit on nonalcoholic steatohepatitis score in an observational study.
CONCLUSIONS: For T2DM with NAFLD, administrating thiazolidinediones and
glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists seems to provide more identified
advances in attenuating hepatic fat content. Further RCTs are warranted to assess
the efficacy of various hypoglycemic agents on clinical outcomes associated with 
NAFLD in T2DM. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.2713 
PMID: 26381272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):338-48. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562951. Epub 2015
Sep 17.

Pharmacotherapy for Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Gawrieh S(1), Chalasani N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Lifestyle modifications and optimization of the management of cardiometabolic
comorbidities are currently the mainstay of treatment for patients with
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Pharmacotherapy to halt or reverse hepatic
histological injury and prevent the development of end-stage liver disease is
specifically offered to patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and
those with advanced fibrosis. In this review, the authors discuss the state of
the art of various pharmacological agents for NASH. The efficacy of vitamin E and
pioglitazone is reasonably well established in a selected group of patients with 
NASH. Current data do not offer convincing evidence for efficacy of
pentoxifylline, long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids, angiotensin receptor
blockers, metformin, or ursodeoxycholic acid. They also discuss the state of
several emerging agents for treating NASH including the farsenoid X receptor
ligand, obeticholic acid.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562951 
PMID: 26378648  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):318-37. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562950. Epub 2015
Sep 17.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Management: Dietary and Lifestyle Modifications.

Nguyen V(1), George J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Storr Liver Centre, Westmead Hospital and Westmead Millennium Institute,
University of Sydney at Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a spectrum of abnormalities 
that can range from bland liver fat (steatosis), to hepatic inflammation and
liver injury (steatohepatitis). It is estimated that NAFLD will become the
principal cause of liver disease in Western nations and the leading indication
for liver transplantation. Advancements in disease recognition and management are
therefore paramount. Although the development of new, reliable drug therapies is 
vital, lifestyle interventions remain the most effective treatment modality. In
addition to weight loss as a primary measure of treatment success, there is
growing recognition that other endpoints, including the prevention or delay of
diabetes onset, reduced cardiovascular events, prevention of cancer, and improved
overall mortality, are equally important outcomes that can be independently
modified by lifestyle change. Moreover, NAFLD is inextricably part of a complex, 
systemic disease process that is linked with deeply entrenched maladaptive
lifestyle behaviors. Thus, a holistic, multidisciplinary, and individualized
approach to disease management will be the key to achieving any realistic
population-level change.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562950 
PMID: 26378647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):304-17. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562949. Epub 2015
Sep 17.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease-Related Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Problem of
Growing Magnitude.

Pocha C(1), Kolly P(1), Dufour JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hepatology, University Clinic for Visceral Surgery and Medicine, University of
Berne, Berne, Switzerland.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a cancer with globally rising incidence.
Growing evidence supports associations between metabolic syndrome and diabetes as
well as obesity and HCC arising in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD). This constitutes a problem of alarming magnitude given the rising
epidemic of these conditions. The role of diabetes seems to be particularly
important when associated with obesity or cirrhosis. Excess hepatic iron may be
another potential risk factor for the development of NAFLD-associated HCC. In the
context of NAFLD, HCC frequently develops in a not-yet cirrhotic liver. As there 
are no surveillance programs for these patients, diagnosis often occurs at a
tumor stage beyond curative options. Clinical, tumor, and patient characteristics
in NAFLD-associated HCC differ from other etiologies. Older age and
cardiovascular comorbidities may limit treatment options further. The outcome in 
patients with NAFLD-associated early HCC is excellent and therefore aggressive
treatment should be pursued in appropriate patients. Population-based prevention 
to reduce the culprit-NAFLD-early recognition through targeted surveillance
programs in risk-stratified patients and effective treatment of HCC associated
with NAFLD are urgently needed. In this review, the authors summarize the
epidemiology, risk factors, features, and prevention of NAFLD-associated HCC.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562949 
PMID: 26378646  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):291-303. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562948. Epub 2015
Sep 17.

Noninvasive Evaluation of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Castera L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatology, Hôpital Beaujon, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de
Paris, Université Paris-VII, Clichy, France.

Key issues in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are the
differentiation of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) from simple steatosis and 
staging of liver fibrosis, as patients with NASH/advanced fibrosis are at
greatest risk of developing complications of end-stage liver disease. The
controlled attenuation parameter is the most promising noninvasive technique for 
detecting and quantifying hepatic steatosis, but needs to be implemented with the
XL probe and compared with ultrasound that, despite its limitations, remains the 
most widely used method. Cytokeratin-18 is currently the most extensively
validated serum marker of NASH as a stand-alone test or as part of prediction
models. However, it is not widely available and thus has not been introduced yet 
into practice. Transient elastography, as well as FIB-4 and NAFLD fibrosis scores
are the best methods to rule out severe fibrosis and cirrhosis. However, the high
rate of unreliable results with transient elastography remains a challenge, which
is not completely addressed by the use of the XL probe. Given the high prevalence
of NAFLD in the general population, these noninvasive methods could be used in
clinical practice as first-line tools to screen patients with NAFLD to help
determine those who may still require a liver biopsy.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562948 
PMID: 26378645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):270-90. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562947. Epub 2015
Sep 17.

The Genetics of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Spotlight on PNPLA3 and TM6SF2.

Anstee QM(1), Day CP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Group, Institute of Cellular Medicine, The Medical School,
Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, United Kingdom.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a spectrum that spans simple
steatosis, through nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) to fibrosis and ultimately
cirrhosis. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is characterized by substantial
interpatient variation in rate of progression and disease outcome: Although up to
25% of the general population are at risk of progressive disease, only a minority
experience associated liver-related morbidity. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
is considered a complex disease trait that occurs when environmental exposures
act upon a susceptible polygenic background composed of multiple independent
modifiers. Recent advances include the identification of PNPLA3 as a modifier of 
disease outcome across the full spectrum of NAFLD from steatosis to advanced
fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma; and the discovery of TM6SF2 as a potential
"master regulator" of metabolic syndrome outcome, determining not only risk of
advanced liver disease, but also cardiovascular disease outcomes. In this
article, the authors will review the field, discussing in detail the current
status of research into these important genetic modifiers of NAFLD progression.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562947 
PMID: 26378644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):262-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562946. Epub 2015 Sep
17.

The Gut Microbiota and Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Quigley EM(1), Monsour HP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Houston Methodist Hospital and
Weill Cornell Medical College, Houston, Texas.

With the recognition of the various metabolic functions of the gut microbiome and
of its putative role in obesity, an investigation of the contribution of the
bacterial populations of the gastrointestinal tract to the metabolic syndrome and
its hepatic manifestation-nonalcoholic liver disease (NAFLD)-became inevitable.
Furthermore, the central role of an altered microbiome in the precipitation of
infectious and noninfectious complications of liver disease was described decades
ago. The contribution of the microbiome to the pathogenesis of NAFLD has been
extensively studied in animal models. Convincing evidence for a central role for 
an altered microbiome (through multiple mechanisms), coupled with such phenomena 
as impaired gut barrier function and an aberrant host immune response, has been
amply demonstrated. The accumulation of a similar level of evidence from human
studies has proven more challenging; however, incriminating data accumulate.
Although animal studies have demonstrated the benefits of interventions that
modulate the microbiome and of probiotics, in particular, in reducing steatosis
and preventing progression to steatohepatitis, data in man are scanty and
high-quality clinical trials of probiotics and other strategies are needed.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562946 
PMID: 26378643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):250-61. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562945. Epub 2015
Sep 17.

Fatty Acid and Glucose Sensors in Hepatic Lipid Metabolism: Implications in
NAFLD.

Vacca M(1), Allison M(2), Griffin JL(1), Vidal-Puig A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council - Human Nutrition Research (MRC-HNR), Cambridge,
United Kingdom. (2)Liver Unit, Department of Medicine, Cambridge Biomedical
Research Centre, Cambridge University NHS Foundation Trust, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry and University of Cambridge Metabolic
Research Laboratories, Institute of Metabolic Science, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

The term nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) covers a pathologic spectrum
from lipid accumulation alone (simple steatosis) to steatosis with associated
inflammation and fibrosis (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis [NASH]). Nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis can progress to cirrhosis and potentially to hepatocellular
carcinoma. Although a genetic predisposition has been highlighted, NAFLD is
strongly associated with an unhealthy lifestyle and hypercaloric diet in the
context of obesity and metabolic disease. The dysregulation of specific pathways 
(insulin signaling, mitochondrial function, fatty acid, and lipoprotein
metabolism) have been linked to steatosis, but elucidating the molecular events
determining evolution of the disease still requires further research before it
can be translated into specific personalized interventional strategies. In this
review, the authors focus on the early events of the pathophysiology of NASH,
dissecting the metabolic and nutritional pathways involving fatty acids and
glucose sensors that can modulate lipid accumulation in the liver, but also
condition the progression to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562945 
PMID: 26378642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):236-49. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562944. Epub 2015
Sep 17.

Systemic Complications of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: When the Liver Is Not
an Innocent Bystander.

Vanni E(1), Marengo A(1), Mezzabotta L(1), Bugianesi E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, Division of Gastro-Hepatology, A.O. Città
della Salute e della Scienza di Torino, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.

The top three leading causes of death in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) in descending order are cardiovascular disease, cancer, and liver
disease. It is clear now that the increased risk of metabolic and macro- and
microvascular complications in NAFLD stems from the associated features of
metabolic syndrome. However, NAFLD itself may contribute to the spectrum of risk 
factors associated with insulin resistance. The primary focus of this review is
to summarize the main systemic associations of NAFLD, as well as to discuss the
mechanisms that link them to NAFLD. Hepatic lipid accumulation in NAFLD impairs
hepatic glucose and lipid metabolism further increasing the risk of type 2
diabetes mellitus and of cardiovascular disease, independently of established
risk factors. The incidence, prevalence, and severity of these complications are 
proportional to the histological severity of liver damage suggesting that NAFLD, 
but particularly nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, can also contribute to the
low-grade inflammatory state through the systemic release of several markers of
inflammation, oxidative stress, and of procoagulant factors. The clinical
implication of these findings is that patients with NAFLD require a
multidisciplinary evaluation, with a major focus on type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
cardiovascular disease complications and may benefit from more intensive
surveillance and early treatment interventions to decrease the risk for
cardiovascular and kidney complications.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562944 
PMID: 26378641  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):221-35. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562943. Epub 2015
Sep 17.

Epidemiology and Natural History of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Satapathy SK(1), Sanyal AJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Surgery, Methodist University Hospital Transplant Institute,
University of Tennessee Health Sciences Center, Memphis, Tennessee. (2)Division
of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth
University School of Medicine, Richmond, Virginia.

The epidemic of obesity has resulted in a parallel incremental burden of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) worldwide. Nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease includes a spectrum of liver disease that ranges from simple fat
accumulation in the liver to necroinflammation, fibrosis, cirrhosis, and
hepatocellular carcinoma, which in essence represent the stages of the natural
history of NAFLD. The rising prevalence of NAFLD globally may be accounted for by
changes in dietary habits and an increase in sedentary lifestyle. Nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), the aggressive form of NAFLD, is currently the second
leading etiology of liver disease among adults awaiting liver transplantation in 
the United States. In the current review, the authors discuss the uncertainty
around the progression from NAFL (steatosis) to NASH (steatohepatitis), the
undisputed progression of NASH to cirrhosis, and the risk factors that predispose
to such progression. The published literature on the long-term cardiovascular
complications and liver-related mortality of NAFLD is also discussed.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562943 
PMID: 26378640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Aug;35(3):207-20. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562942. Epub 2015
Sep 17.

Diagnosis and Assessment of NAFLD: Definitions and Histopathological
Classification.

Burt AD(1), Lackner C(2), Tiniakos DG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, The University of Adelaide, Level 2, Barr Smith
South, North Terrace, Adelaide, Australia. (2)Department of Quantitative
Pathomorphology, Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Graz, Graz,
Austria. (3)Clinical Senior Lecturer, Institute of Cellular Medicine, Faculty of 
Medical Sciences, Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon Tyne,
United Kingdom.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) comprises a spectrum of clinical and
histopathological changes including "simple" steatosis, steatosis with
inflammation, steatohepatitis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. It was
initially described in the context of drug-induced liver injury and acute liver
disease following jejunoileal bypass surgery, but since the early 1980s it has
been widely acknowledged as the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome. It
now represents a burgeoning public health crisis and is fast becoming the main
indication for liver transplantation in some parts of the world. Its true
incidence and prevalence are unknown, although estimates have been made from
large imaging studies. Liver biopsy interpretation is still regarded as the gold 
standard for making accurate diagnoses in NAFLD, but sampling limitations are
recognized. Furthermore, clear definitions for key histopathological components
have been lacking, resulting in significant interobserver variations in making a 
diagnosis of steatohepatitis. In this review the authors consider some aspects of
classification and variant forms of NAFLD such as that occurring in children.
They provide an update on grading and staging systems and histopathological
prognostic factors, and address the role of liver biopsy in contemporary clinical
care of patients with NAFLD.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1562942 
PMID: 26378639  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Curr Diab Rep. 2015 Oct;15(10):83. doi: 10.1007/s11892-015-0648-8.

Insights into the Genetic Susceptibility to Type 2 Diabetes from Genome-Wide
Association Studies of Obesity-Related Traits.

Karaderi T(1), Drong AW(2), Lindgren CM(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Roosevelt
Drive, OX3 7BN, Oxford, UK. tugce.karaderi@well.ox.ac.uk. (2)Wellcome Trust
Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive, OX3 7BN,
Oxford, UK. alexd@well.ox.ac.uk. (3)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics,
University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive, OX3 7BN, Oxford, UK.
celi@broadinstitute.org. (4)Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad
Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA. celi@broadinstitute.org. (5)Big
Data Institute, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. celi@broadinstitute.org.

Obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are common and complex metabolic diseases,
which are caused by an interchange between environmental and genetic factors.
Recently, a number of large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have
improved our knowledge of the genetic architecture and biological mechanisms of
these diseases. Currently, more than ~250 genetic loci have been found for
monogenic, syndromic, or common forms of T2D and/or obesity-related traits. In
this review, we discuss the implications of these GWAS for obesity and T2D, and
investigate the overlap of loci for obesity-related traits and T2D, highlighting 
potential mechanisms that affect T2D susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1007/s11892-015-0648-8 
PMCID: PMC4568008
PMID: 26363598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


214. J Med Life. 2015 Jul-Sep;8(3):258-62.

Medical nutrition therapy in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease--a review of
literature.

Rusu E(1), Enache G(1), Jinga M(1), Dragut R(1), Nan R(1), Popescu H(1), Parpala 
C(1), Homentcovschi C(1), Nitescu M(1), Stoian M(1), Costache A(1), Posea M(1),
Rusu F(1), Jinga V(1), Mischianu D(1), Radulian G(1).

Author information: 
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common 
cause of liver disease worldwide, with a prevalence of 20%-40% in Western
populations. The purpose of this article is to review data related to lifestyle
changes in patients with NAFLD.
METHOD: We searched a public domain database (PubMed) with the following
categories: disease (NAFLD, fatty liver, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
[NASH]) and intervention (lifestyle intervention, diet, nutrition) with each
possible combination through 25 September 2014, for relevant articles. Review of 
articles was restricted to those published in English. We selected the studies
involving adult patients only.
CONCLUSION: There is no consensus as to what diet or lifestyle approach is the
best for NAFLD patients. However, patients with NAFLD may benefit from a
moderate- to low-carbohydrate (40%-45% of total calories) diet, coupled with
increased dietary MUFA and n-3 PUFAs, reduced SFAs. More CRT are needed to
clarify the specific effects of different diets and dietary components on the
health of NAFLD patients.
ABBREVIATIONS: NAFL = Non-alcoholic fatty liver, NAFLD = non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease, NASH = non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, HCC = hepatocarcinoma, BEE =
basal energy expenditure, CRT = A small clinical randomized trial showed that
short-term carbohydrate restriction is more efficacious in reducing intrahepatic 
triglyceride, IHT = intrahepatic triglyceride, VLCD = Very low calorie diets, AST
= aspartate aminotransferases, SFAs = saturated fatty acids.


PMCID: PMC4556902
PMID: 26351523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Autoimmun. 2016 Jan;66:51-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2015.08.021. Epub 2015 Sep 5.

An update on liver transplantation: A critical review.

Neuberger J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Unit, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham, B15 2TH, UK; Organ Donation 
and Transplantation, NHS Blood and Transplant, Fox Den Road, Bristol, BS34 8RR,
UK. Electronic address: james.neuberger@nhsbt.nhs.uk.

Liver transplantation, although now a routine procedure, with defined indications
and usually excellent outcomes, still has challenges. Donor shortage remains a
key issue. Transplanted organs are not free of risk and may transmit cancer,
infection, metabolic or autoimmune disease. Approaches to the donor shortage
include use of organs from donors after circulatory death, from living donors and
from those previously infected with Hepatitis B and C and even HIV for selected
recipients. Normothermic regional and/or machine perfusion, whether static or
pulsatile, normo- or hypothermic, are being explored and will be likely to have a
major place in improving donation rates and outcomes. The main indications for
liver replacement are alcoholic liver disease, HCV, non-alcoholic liver disease
and liver cancer. Recent studies have shown that selected patients with severe
alcoholic hepatitis may also benefit from liver transplant. The advent of new and
highly effective treatments for HCV, whether given before or after transplant
will have a major impact on outcomes. The role of transplantation for those with 
liver cell cancer continues to evolve as other interventions become more
effective. Immunosuppression is usually required life-long and adherence remains 
a challenge, especially in adolescents. Immunosuppression with calcineurin
inhibitors (primarily tacrolimus), antimetabolites (azathioprine or
mycophenolate) and corticosteroids remains standard. Outcomes after
transplantation are good but not normal in quality or quantity. Premature death
may be due to increased risk of cardiovascular disease, de novo cancer, recurrent
disease or late technical problems.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2015.08.021 
PMID: 26350881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Trop Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct-Dec;35(4):212-21.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease--The Clinician's Perspective.

Agrawal S, Duseja A.

Non alcoholic fatty liver (NAFLD) is a common cause of liver disease worldwide
with prevalence ranging from 10-30%. It encompasses a spectrum ranging from
simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) which can progress to
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in some patients. The diagnosis of
hepatic steatosis can be made reliably by imaging. Differentiating simple
steatosis from NASH usually requires liver biopsy although various non-invasive
methods are under evaluation. Similarly, liver biopsy is the gold standard for
staging of fibrosis but NAFLD fibrosis score and transient elastography are now
validated for non-invasive assessment of fibrosis in patients with NAFLD. Liver
biopsy should be reserved for patients at high risk of having NASH or advanced
fibrosis, those needing evaluation of competing diagnoses or those enrolled in
therapeutic trials. Treatment can be directed against various pathophysiological 
aspects of NAFLD and includes management of obesity, insulin resistance,
hyperlipidemia and oxidative stress, suppression of inflammation and modulation
of gut bacteria. Lifestyle modification with diet, exercise and weight loss is
the cornerstone of therapy. Pharmacological treatment of NAFLD is still evolving 
with vitamin E and pioglitazone being the only approved drugs as of now.
Bariatric surgery can lead to improvement in NASH in morbidly obese patients.
Optimal therapy of NAFLD includes a multidisciplinary approach involving
management of metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease. Management of NASH
related cirrhosis and HCC is like that of other etiologies. Indications and
outcomes of liver transplantation in patients with NASH are same as for other
etiologies of liver disease.


PMID: 26349165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Biomolecules. 2015 Aug 28;5(3):2023-34. doi: 10.3390/biom5032023.

Alcoholic Liver Disease: Role of Cytokines.

Neuman MG(1,)(2), Maor Y(3), Nanau RM(4), Melzer E(5), Mell H(6), Opris M(7,)(8),
Cohen L(9), Malnick S(10).

Author information: 
(1)In Vitro Drug Safety and Biotechnology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5G
0A3, Canada. manuela.neuman@utoronto.ca. (2)Department of Pharmacology and
Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5G 0A3,
Canada. manuela.neuman@utoronto.ca. (3)Division of Gastroenterology, Kaplan
Health Sciences Centre, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Hebrew
University, Rehovot 76100, Israel. halishy@netvision.net.il. (4)In Vitro Drug
Safety and Biotechnology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5G 0A3, Canada.
radu.nanau@utoronto.ca. (5)Division of Gastroenterology, Kaplan Health Sciences
Centre, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Hebrew University, Rehovot
76100, Israel. ehudm@clalit.org.il. (6)Israel Anti-Drug Authority, Jerusalem
91039, Israel. haimm@antidrugs.gov.il. (7)In Vitro Drug Safety and Biotechnology,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5G 0A3, Canada. M_neuman@rogers.com. (8)Casa 
de Ajutor Reciproc, Bucharest 031621, Romania. M_neuman@rogers.com. (9)Sunnybrook
Health Sciences Centre and Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON M5G 0A3, Canada. lawrence.cohen@sunnybrook.ca. (10)Division 
of Gastroenterology, Kaplan Health Sciences Centre, Department of Medicine,
Faculty of Medicine, Hebrew University, Rehovot 76100, Israel.
stephen@malnick.net.

The present review spans a broad spectrum of topics dealing with alcoholic liver 
disease (ALD), including clinical and translational research. It focuses on the
role of the immune system and the signaling pathways of cytokines in the
pathogenesis of ALD. An additional factor that contributes to the pathogenesis of
ALD is lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which plays a central role in the induction of
steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis in the liver. LPS derived from the
intestinal microbiota enters the portal circulation, and is recognized by
macrophages (Kupffer cells) and hepatocytes. In individuals with ALD, excessive
levels of LPS in the liver affect immune, parenchymal, and non-immune cells,
which in turn release various inflammatory cytokines and recruit neutrophils and 
other inflammatory cells. In this review, we elucidate the mechanisms by which
alcohol contributes to the activation of Kupffer cells and the inflammatory
cascade. The role of the stellate cells in fibrogenesis is also discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5032023 
PMCID: PMC4598786
PMID: 26343741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Drug Metab Lett. 2015;9(2):72-9.

Alterations in Hepatic Lipid Metabolism, and their Relation to Dietary
Macronutrients in Pediatric Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

St-Jules DE(1), Watters CA.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Department of Nutrition, 665 Huntington
Avenue, Boston MA, USA, 02119. davidstjules@gmail.com.

Nonacoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common complication of pediatric
obesity in which diet is a major factor in causation and the cornerstone of
treatment. In this review, the alterations in hepatic lipid metabolism that
contribute to pediatric NAFLD, and impact of dietary proteins, carbohydrates, and
fats on hepatic fat metabolism and NAFLD are described. Lastly, dietary
recommendations for achieving changes in macronutrient intakes that can be
beneficial in the treatment of NAFLD are provided.


PMID: 26343136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Exp Mol Pathol. 2015 Dec;99(3):596-610. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2015.09.001. Epub
2015 Sep 3.

Alcoholic liver disease: Clinical and translational research.

Neuman MG(1), Malnick S(2), Maor Y(2), Nanau RM(3), Melzer E(2), Ferenci P(4),
Seitz HK(5), Mueller S(5), Mell H(6), Samuel D(7), Cohen LB(8), Kharbanda KK(9), 
Osna NA(9), Ganesan M(9), Thompson KJ(10), McKillop IH(10), Bautista A(11),
Bataller R(12), French SW(13).

Author information: 
(1)In Vitro Drug Safety and Biotechnology, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department
of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: manuela.neuman@utoronto.ca.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Kaplan Health Sciences Centre, Department of
Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Hebrew University, Rehovot, Israel. (3)In Vitro
Drug Safety and Biotechnology, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (4)Medical University of
Vienna, Austria. (5)University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany; Department of 
Medicine, Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Centre for Alcohol Research, Salem
Medical Centre, Heidelberg, Germany. (6)Israel Antidrug and Alcohol Authority,
Jerusalem, Israel. (7)Liver Transplant Unit, Research Inserm-Paris XI Unit 785,
Centre Hepatobiliaire, Hopital Paul Brousse, Villejuif, Paris, France.
(8)Division of Gastroenterology, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre and Department
of Internal Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. (9)Research
Service, Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System, Internal
Medicine, Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, University of Nebraska Medical
Center, Omaha, NE, USA. (10)Department of Surgery, Carolinas Medical Center,
Charlotte, NC 28203, USA. (11)Office of Extramural Activities, National Institute
on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, MD,
USA. (12)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine,
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Department of 
Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(13)Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA, USA.

The present review spans a broad spectrum of topics dealing with alcoholic liver 
disease (ALD), including clinical research, translational research, pathogenesis 
and therapies. A special accent is placed on alcohol misuse, as alcohol is a
legally commercialized and taxable product. Drinking alcohol, particularly from a
young age, is a major health problem. Alcoholism is known to contribute to
morbidity and mortality. A systematic literature search was performed in order to
obtain updated data (2008-2015). The review is focused on genetic polymorphisms
of alcohol metabolizing enzymes and the role of cytochrome p450 2E1 and iron in
ALD. Alcohol-mediated hepatocarcinogenesis is also discussed in the presence or
absence of co-morbidities such as viral hepatitis C as well as therapeutic the
role of innate immunity in ALD-HCV. Moreover, emphasis was placed on alcohol and 
drug interactions, as well as liver transplantation for end-stage ALD. Finally,
the time came to eradicate alcohol-induced liver and intestinal damage by using
betaine.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2015.09.001 
PMID: 26342547  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


220. J Dent Res. 2015 Dec;94(12):1638-45. doi: 10.1177/0022034515605270. Epub 2015 Sep
4.

Osteopontin in Immune-mediated Diseases.

Rittling SR(1), Singh R(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Forsyth Institute, Cambridge, MA, USA Harvard School of Dental Medicine,
Boston, MA, USA srittling@forsyth.org. (2)The Forsyth Institute, Cambridge, MA,
USA.

Since its initial identification as one of the genes most highly upregulated upon
T-cell activation, osteopontin (or Eta-1, as it was designated then) has been
demonstrated to have many roles in the regulation of the immune response on
multiple levels. It contributes to the development of immune-mediated and
inflammatory diseases, and it regulates the host response to infection. In some
cases, the mechanisms of these effects have been elucidated, while other
mechanistic functions of the protein remain obscure. The protein itself makes
these analyses complex, since it binds to a series of different integrins, and in
addition to its classically secreted form, an intracellular form of osteopontin
has been identified, which participates in several aspects of immune regulation. 
In this review, we focus on the role of osteopontin in a series of immune-related
diseases, particularly those where significant advances have been made in recent 
years: multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and related diseases,
Sjögren's disease, colitis, and 1 area of inflammatory pathology, alcoholic and
nonalcoholic liver diseases. A recurring theme in these diseases is a link
between osteopontin and pathogenic T cells, particularly T helper 17 cells, where
osteopontin produced by dendritic cells supports IL-17 expression, contributing
to pathology. In addition, a role for osteopontin in B-cell differentiation is
becoming clear. In general, osteopontin contributes to pathology in these
diseases, but there are examples where it has a protective role; deciphering the 
mechanisms underlying these differences and the specific receptors for
osteopontin will be a research challenge for the future. Aside from its newly
discovered role in the development of Sjögren's disease, the role of osteopontin 
in inflammatory conditions in the oral cavity is still poorly understood.
Elucidation of this role will be of interest.

© International & American Associations for Dental Research 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0022034515605270 
PMCID: PMC4681477
PMID: 26341976  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


221. J Hepatol. 2016 Jan;64(1):203-14. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.08.028. Epub 2015 Sep 
1.

Hepatocellular carcinoma and lifestyles.

Saran U(1), Humar B(2), Kolly P(1), Dufour JF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hepatology, Department of Clinical Research, University of Berne, Berne,
Switzerland; University Clinic of Visceral Surgery and Medicine, Inselspital
Berne, Berne, Switzerland. (2)Department of Visceral & Transplantation Surgery,
University Hospital Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland. (3)Hepatology, Department of
Clinical Research, University of Berne, Berne, Switzerland; University Clinic of 
Visceral Surgery and Medicine, Inselspital Berne, Berne, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: jean-francois.dufour@insel.ch.

The majority of hepatocellular carcinoma occurs over pre-existing chronic liver
diseases that share cirrhosis as an endpoint. In the last decade, a strong
association between lifestyle and hepatocellular carcinoma has become evident.
Abundance of energy-rich food and sedentary lifestyles have caused metabolic
conditions such as obesity and diabetes mellitus to become global epidemics.
Obesity and diabetes mellitus are both tightly linked to non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease and also increase hepatocellular carcinoma risk independent of
cirrhosis. Emerging data suggest that physical activity not only counteracts
obesity, diabetes mellitus and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, but also
reduces cancer risk. Physical activity exerts significant anticancer effects in
the absence of metabolic disorders. Here, we present a systematic review on
lifestyles and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Copyright © 2015 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.08.028 
PMID: 26341826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:768071. doi: 10.1155/2015/768071. Epub 2015 Aug 3.

The Role of Dendritic Cells in Fibrosis Progression in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver
Disease.

Almeda-Valdes P(1), Aguilar Olivos NE(2), Barranco-Fragoso B(3), Uribe M(2),
Méndez-Sánchez N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology and Metabolism Department, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias
Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, 14080 Mexico, DF, Mexico. (2)Liver Research
Unit, Medica Sur Clinic & Foundation, 14050 Mexico, DF, Mexico. (3)Department of 
Gastroenterology, National Medical Center "20 Noviembre", 03229 Mexico, DF,
Mexico.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most frequent cause of chronic
liver disease. NAFLD encompasses a wide range of pathologies, from simple
steatosis to steatosis with inflammation to fibrosis. The pathogenesis of NAFLD
progression has not been completely elucidated, and different liver cells could
be implicated. This review focuses on the current evidence of the role of liver
dendritic cells (DCs) in the progression from NAFLD to fibrosis. Liver DCs are a 
heterogeneous population of hepatic antigen-presenting cells; their main function
is to induce T-cell mediated immunity by antigen processing and presentation to T
cells. During the steady state liver DCs are immature and tolerogenic. However,
in an environment of chronic inflammation, DCs are transformed to potent inducers
of immune responses. There is evidence about the role of DC in liver fibrosis,
but it is not clearly understood. Interestingly, there might be a link between
lipid metabolism and DC function, suggesting that immunogenic DCs are associated 
with liver lipid storage, representing a possible pathophysiological mechanism in
NAFLD development. A better understanding of the interaction between inflammatory
pathways and the different cell types and the effect on the progression of NAFLD 
is of great relevance.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/768071 
PMCID: PMC4538585
PMID: 26339640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Gut. 2016 Feb;65(2):330-9. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2015-309990. Epub 2015 Sep 2.

The gut microbiota and host health: a new clinical frontier.

Marchesi JR(1), Adams DH(2), Fava F(3), Hermes GD(4), Hirschfield GM(2), Hold
G(5), Quraishi MN(2), Kinross J(6), Smidt H(7), Tuohy KM(3), Thomas LV(8),
Zoetendal EG(4), Hart A(9).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, Museum Avenue, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK Centre
for Digestive and Gut Health, Imperial College London, London, UK. (2)NIHR
Biomedical Research Unit, Centre for Liver Research, University of Birmingham,
Birmingham, UK. (3)Nutrition and Nutrigenomics Group, Department of Food Quality 
and Nutrition, Research and Innovation Centre, Trento, Italy. (4)Laboratory of
Microbiology, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The Netherlands Top Institute
Food and Nutrition (TIFN), Wageningen, The Netherlands. (5)Division of Applied
Medicine, School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Aberdeen, Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Aberdeen, UK. (6)Section of Computational and Systems Medicine,
Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK. (7)Laboratory of
Microbiology, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The Netherlands. (8)Yakult UK
Limited, Middlesex, UK. (9)IBD Unit, St Mark's Hospital and Imperial College
London, London, UK.

Over the last 10-15 years, our understanding of the composition and functions of 
the human gut microbiota has increased exponentially. To a large extent, this has
been due to new 'omic' technologies that have facilitated large-scale analysis of
the genetic and metabolic profile of this microbial community, revealing it to be
comparable in influence to a new organ in the body and offering the possibility
of a new route for therapeutic intervention. Moreover, it might be more accurate 
to think of it like an immune system: a collection of cells that work in unison
with the host and that can promote health but sometimes initiate disease. This
review gives an update on the current knowledge in the area of gut disorders, in 
particular metabolic syndrome and obesity-related disease, liver disease, IBD and
colorectal cancer. The potential of manipulating the gut microbiota in these
disorders is assessed, with an examination of the latest and most relevant
evidence relating to antibiotics, probiotics, prebiotics, polyphenols and faecal 
microbiota transplantation.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2015-309990 
PMCID: PMC4752653
PMID: 26338727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Curr Med Chem. 2015;22(31):3565-79.

Emerging Vascular Risk Factors in Women: Any Differences from Men?

Katsiki N, Mikhailidis DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Royal Free Hospital Campus, University
College Medical School, University College London (UCL), Pond Street, London NW3 
2QG, UK. MIKHAILIDIS@aol.com.

Gender differences have been reported for traditional vascular risk factors such 
as smoking, obesity, diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, age and family history
of premature coronary heart disease. The prevalence, severity, associations and
response to treatment of several emerging cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk
factors may also differ between men and women. Such CVD risk factors include
certain inflammatory and hemostatic markers, endothelial dysfunction,
homocysteine, lipid disorders, microalbuminuria/proteinuria, coronary artery
calcium score, arterial stiffness, periodontitis, inflammatory bowel syndrome,
obstructive sleep apnea, impaired glucose metabolism, metabolic syndrome and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Further larger prospective studies are needed 
to establish these relationships. Hormone replacement therapy may also affect
vascular risk. These data should be taken into consideration when assessing and
treating CVD risk in women.


PMID: 26337107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Redox Biol. 2015 Dec;6:344-52. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2015.08.015. Epub 2015 Aug
28.

Redox-fibrosis: Impact of TGFβ1 on ROS generators, mediators and functional
consequences.

Richter K(1), Konzack A(1), Pihlajaniemi T(2), Heljasvaara R(2), Kietzmann T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, Biocenter Oulu, University of 
Oulu, Oulu, Finland. (2)Faculty of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, Biocenter
Oulu, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland; Center of Excellence in
Cell-Extracellular Matrix Research, Finland. (3)Faculty of Biochemistry and
Molecular Medicine, Biocenter Oulu, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland. Electronic
address: tkietzm@gwdg.de.

Fibrosis is one of the most prevalent features of age-related diseases like
obesity, diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, chronic kidney disease, or 
cardiomyopathy and affects millions of people in all countries. Although the
understanding about the pathophysiology of fibrosis has improved a lot during the
recent years, a number of mechanisms still remain unknown. Although TGF-β1
signaling, loss of metabolic homeostasis and chronic low-grade inflammation
appear to play important roles in the pathogenesis of fibrosis, recent evidence
indicates that oxidative stress and the antioxidant system may also be crucial
for fibrosis development and persistence. These findings point to a concept of a 
redox-fibrosis where the cellular oxidant and antioxidant system could be
potential therapeutic targets. The current review aims to summarize the existing 
links between TGF-β1 signaling, generation and action of reactive oxygen species,
expression of antioxidative enzymes, and functional consequences including
epigenetic redox-mediated responses during fibrosis.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2015.08.015 
PMCID: PMC4565043
PMID: 26335400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2015 Oct 15;309(8):E691-714. doi:
10.1152/ajpendo.00297.2015. Epub 2015 Sep 1.

Revisiting the adipocyte: a model for integration of cytokine signaling in the
regulation of energy metabolism.

Rodríguez A(1), Ezquerro S(2), Méndez-Giménez L(1), Becerril S(1), Frühbeck G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Metabolic Research Laboratory, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona,
Spain; CIBER Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición, Instituto de Salud Carlos
III, Madrid, Spain; and Obesity and Adipobiology Group, Instituto de
Investigación Sanitaria de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (2)Metabolic Research
Laboratory, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; (3)Metabolic
Research Laboratory, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; Department 
of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; 
CIBER Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición, Instituto de Salud Carlos III,
Madrid, Spain; and Obesity and Adipobiology Group, Instituto de Investigación
Sanitaria de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain gfruhbeck@unav.es.

Adipose tissue constitutes an extremely active endocrine organ with a network of 
signaling pathways enabling the organism to adapt to a wide range of different
metabolic challenges, such as starvation, stress, infection, and short periods of
gross energy excess. The functional pleiotropism of adipose tissue relies on its 
ability to synthesize and release a huge variety of hormones, cytokines,
complement and growth factors, extracellular matrix proteins, and vasoactive
factors, collectively termed adipokines. Obesity is associated with adipose
tissue dysfunction leading to the onset of several pathologies including type 2
diabetes, dyslipidemia, nonalcoholic fatty liver, or hypertension, among others. 
The mechanisms underlying the development of obesity and its associated
comorbidities include the hypertrophy and/or hyperplasia of adipocytes, adipose
tissue inflammation, impaired extracellular matrix remodeling, and fibrosis
together with an altered secretion of adipokines. Recently, the potential role of
brown and beige adipose tissue in the protection against obesity has been also
recognized. In contrast to white adipocytes, which store energy in the form of
fat, brown and beige fat cells display energy-dissipating capacity through the
promotion of triacylglycerol clearance, glucose disposal, and generation of heat 
for thermogenesis. Identification of the morphological and molecular changes in
white, beige, and brown adipose tissue during weight gain is of utmost relevance 
for the identification of pharmacological targets for the treatment of obesity
and its associated metabolic diseases.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00297.2015 
PMID: 26330344  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2015;135(9):1003-9. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.15-00175-1.

[SREBP-1c and Elovl6 as Targets for Obesity-related Disorders].

[Article in Japanese]

Shimano H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (Endocrinology and Metabolism), Faculty of
Medicine, University of Tsukuba.

Recent studies suggest that chronic local inflammation and cellular stresses are 
the key steps in organ defects in obesity-related diseases such as
atherosclerosis, diabetes, and fatty liver. We have shown that an excess energy
state activates sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-1c, a master
transcription factor for fatty acid synthesis causing the accumulation of lipids 
leading to fatty liver, insulin resistance, insulin secretion defects, and
dyslipidemia and we clarified their molecular mechanisms. Recently, we shifted
focus to the quality aspect of accumulated lipids. It has long been known that
saturated and poly-unsaturated fatty acids are atherogenic and anti-atherogenic, 
respectively. Besides desaturation, we found that the chain-length of fatty acids
is another important factor. Elovl6 that we have cloned as an SREBP-1 target is a
fatty acid elongase that catalises the last step of fatty acid synthesis. Elovl6 
KO mice exhibit obesity and fatty liver on a high energy diet, but unexpectedly
were immune to insulin resistance (Nat. Med., 13, 2007, Matsuzaka et al.),
atherosclerosis (Arterioscler. Thromb. Vasc. Biol., 31, 2011, Saito et al.) and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) pathology including liver damage, ROS, and
fibrosis (Hepatology, 56, 2012, Matsuzaka et al.). Elovl6 is crucial for
protection against lung fibrosis (Nat. Commun., 4, 2013, Sunaga et al.). These
data implicate that fatty acid composition is a new therapeutic target for a
variety of chronic metabolic diseases. In this symposium review, a novel strategy
for the prevention of life-related diseases will be discussed in the standpoint
of application of wet-dry fusion strategies for theoretical and medicinal
chemistry.

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.15-00175-1 
PMID: 26329544  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Exp Clin Transplant. 2016 Feb;14(1):106-8. doi: 10.6002/ect.2015.0136. Epub 2015 
Aug 31.

De Novo Hepatitis B Infection From Hepatitis B Core Antibody-Positive Donors
During Hepatitis B Immunoglobulin Prophylaxis.

Shin M(1), Chang SH.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Surgery, Konkuk University School of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.

De novo hepatitis B infection in patients receiving liver transplants from
hepatitis B core antibody-positive donors is well known, but the effective
prevention strategy has not been well established. In our hospital, recipients
receive hepatitis B immunoglobulin monotherapy if they are hepatitis B surface
antigen negative at the time of transplant and are receiving a liver from a
hepatitis B core antibody-positive donor. Since August 2006, we have had 4
patients who were naïve to hepatitis B virus and received a hepatitis B core
antibody-positive graft. Two patients died of other causes, and 2 patients, who
had liver transplant in October 2006 and October 2009, developed de novo
hepatitis B. Both patients were tested annually for serum hepatitis B surface
antigen as part of routine visit. Tests were negative; however, both patients
recently became hepatitis B surface antigen positive. Other laboratory results,
including liver function test, were unremarkable, except HBsAb titer was
undetectable even though hepatitis B immunoglobulin monotherapy had been
administrated 2 months previously in both patients. The patients had hepatitis B 
virus DNA levels of 3.07E+08 copies/mL and 1.51E+08 copies/mL. We suggest that
additional prophylactic therapies above hepatitis B immunoglobulin monotherapy
are needed for these recipients.

DOI: 10.6002/ect.2015.0136 
PMID: 26325029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Nov;12(11):617-28. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2015.146. Epub 2015 Sep 1.

Caring for children with NAFLD and navigating their care into adulthood.

Mencin AA(1), Loomba R(2), Lavine JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Paediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Columbia
University Medical Centre, 622 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, University of California at San Diego, 9500
Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.

NAFLD is the most common chronic liver disease in children and adults, with its
prevalence closely associated with obesity and other features of the metabolic
syndrome. As young adults with NAFLD transition from the paediatric care
environment to adult services, establishing a coordinated model of transition to 
ensure ongoing and appropriate care is critical. Enabling a smooth transfer
begins with an understanding of the key differences between paediatric and adult 
NAFLD as well as the psychosocial factors that affect older adolescents. This
Review summarizes the literature on paediatric NAFLD from the past two decades
with a focus on the differences in epidemiology, pathology, pathophysiology and
treatment that are relevant to clinicians who transition paediatric patients to
adult care. An integrated model, which employs a team of adult and paediatric
providers who can address the psychosocial, cognitive and logistical challenges
of transition, provides the best opportunity for a seamless and coordinated
transfer to adult care.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2015.146 
PMID: 26323878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Pharmacol Rep. 2015 Aug;67(4):689-94. doi: 10.1016/j.pharep.2015.04.010. Epub
2015 May 2.

Liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) function and NAFLD; NO-based therapy
targeted to the liver.

Maslak E(1), Gregorius A(1), Chlopicki S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Jagiellonian Centre for Experimental Therapeutics (JCET), Jagiellonian
University, Kraków, Poland. (2)Jagiellonian Centre for Experimental Therapeutics 
(JCET), Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland; Department of Experimental
Pharmacology, Jagiellonian University Medical College, Kraków, Poland. Electronic
address: stefan.chlopicki@jcet.eu.

Liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) present unique, highly specialised
endothelial cells in the body. Unlike the structure and function of typical,
vascular endothelial cells, LSECs are comprised of fenestrations, display high
endocytic capacity and play a prominent role in maintaining overall liver
homeostasis. LSEC dysfunction has been regarded as a key event in multiple liver 
disorders; however, its role and diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic
significance in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is still neglected. The 
purpose of this review is to provide an overview of the importance of LSECs in
NAFLD. Attention is focused on the LSECs-mediated NO-dependent mechanisms in
NAFLD development. We briefly describe the unique, highly specialised phenotype
of LSECs and consequences of LSEC dysfunction on function of hepatic stellate
cells (HSC) and hepatocytes. The potential efficacy of liver selective NO donors 
against liver steatosis and novel treatment approaches to modulate LSECs-driven
liver pathology including NAFLD are also highlighted.

Copyright © 2015 Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences. Published
by Elsevier Urban & Partner Sp. z o.o. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharep.2015.04.010 
PMID: 26321269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Transl Res. 2016 Jan;167(1):116-24. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2015.08.002. Epub 2015
Aug 12.

Targeting gut-liver axis for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis:
translational and clinical evidence.

Federico A(1), Dallio M(1), Godos J(2), Loguercio C(1), Salomone F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hepatogastroenterology, Department of Clinical and Experimental
Medicine, Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy. (2)Department of Biomedical
and Biotechnological Sciences, University of Catania, Catania, Italy. (3)Division
of Gastroenterology, Ospedale di Acireale, Azienda Sanitaria Provinciale di
Catania, Catania, Italy. Electronic address: federicosalomone@rocketmail.com.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is widely emerging as the most prevalent
liver disorder and is associated with increased risk of liver-related and
cardiovascular mortality. Recent experimental and clinical studies have revealed 
the pivotal role played by the alteration of gut-liver axis in the onset of fatty
liver and related metabolic disturbances. Gut-liver cross talk is implicated not 
only in the impairment of lipid and glucose homeostasis leading to steatogenesis,
but also in the initiation of inflammation and fibrogenesis, which characterize
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the evolving form of NAFLD. The gut
microbiota has been recognized as the key player in the gut-liver liaison and
because of its complexity can act as a villain or a victim. Gut microbiota not
only influences absorption and disposal of nutrients to the liver, but also
conditions hepatic inflammation by supplying toll-like receptor ligands, which
can stimulate liver cells to produce proinflammatory cytokines. Thus, the
modification of intestinal bacterial flora by specific probiotics has been
proposed as a therapeutic approach for the treatment of NASH. In this review, we 
summarized the evidence regarding the role of gut-liver axis in the pathogenesis 
of NASH and discussed the potential therapeutic role of gut microbiota modulation
in the clinical setting.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trsl.2015.08.002 
PMID: 26318867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015 Aug 20;9:4835-45. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S64877. eCollection
2015.

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: emerging targeted therapies to optimize treatment
options.

Milic S(1), Mikolasevic I(2), Krznaric-Zrnic I(1), Stanic M(3), Poropat G(1),
Stimac D(1), Vlahovic-Palcevski V(4), Orlic L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, UHC Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia. (2)Department of 
Gastroenterology, UHC Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia ; Department of Nephrology,
Dialysis and Kidney Transplantation, UHC Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia. (3)Department
of Hematology, UHC Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia. (4)Department for Clinical
Pharmacology, University of Rijeka Medical School, UHC Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia.
(5)Department of Nephrology, Dialysis and Kidney Transplantation, UHC Rijeka,
Rijeka, Croatia.

Diet and lifestyle changes have led to worldwide increases in the prevalences of 
obesity and metabolic syndrome, resulting in substantially greater incidence of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD is considered a hepatic
manifestation of metabolic syndrome and is related to diabetes, insulin
resistance, central obesity, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension. Nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) is an entity that describes liver inflammation due to
NAFLD. Growing evidence suggests that NAFLD is a multisystem disease with a
clinical burden that is not only confined to liver-related morbidity and
mortality, but that also affects several extra-hepatic organs and regulatory
pathways. Thus, NAFLD is considered an important public health issue, but there
is currently no effective therapy for all NAFLD patients in the general
population. Studies seeking optimal therapy for NAFLD and NASH have not yet led
to development of a universal protocol for treating this growing problem. Several
pharmacological agents have been studied in an effort to improve insulin
resistance and the proinflammatory mediators that may be responsible for NASH
progression. Cardiovascular risk factors are highly prevalent among NASH
patients, and the backbone of treatment regimens for these patients still
comprises general lifestyle interventions, including dietary changes and
increased physical activity. Vitamin E and thiazolidinedione derivatives are
currently the most evidence-based therapeutic options, but only limited clinical 
evidence is available regarding their long-term efficacy and safety. Vitamin D
and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system blockers are promising drugs that are
currently being intensively investigated for use in NAFLD/NASH patients.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S64877 
PMCID: PMC4548724
PMID: 26316717  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Eur Radiol. 2016 May;26(5):1431-40. doi: 10.1007/s00330-015-3949-z. Epub 2015 Aug
28.

Magnetic resonance elastography for staging liver fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease: a diagnostic accuracy systematic review and individual participant
data pooled analysis.

Singh S(1), Venkatesh SK(2), Loomba R(3), Wang Z(4), Sirlin C(5), Chen J(6), Yin 
M(6), Miller FH(7), Low RN(8), Hassanein T(9), Godfrey EM(10), Asbach P(11),
Murad MH(4), Lomas DJ(10), Talwalkar JA(1), Ehman RL(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. 
(2)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. Venkatesh.Sudhakar@mayo.edu. (3)NAFLD Translational
Research Unit, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of
Medicine, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA. (4)Robert D. and Patricia
E. Kern Center for the Science of Health Care Delivery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
MN, USA. (5)Liver Imaging Group, Department of Radiology, University of
California, San Diego, CA, USA. (6)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic College
of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. (7)Department of Radiology, 
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. (8)Sharp
and Children's MRI Center, San Diego, CA, USA. (9)Liver Centers of Southern
California, Coronado, CA, USA. (10)Department of Radiology, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Cambridge, UK. (11)Department of Radiology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin
Berlin, Charité Campus Mitte, Berlin, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: We conducted an individual participant data (IPD) pooled analysis on 
diagnostic accuracy of MRE to detect fibrosis stage in patients with
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
METHODS: Through a systematic literature search, we identified studies of MRE (at
60-62.5 Hz) for staging fibrosis in patients with NAFLD, using liver biopsy as
gold standard, and contacted study authors for IPD. Through pooled analysis, we
calculated the cluster-adjusted AUROC, sensitivity and specificity of MRE for any
(≥stage 1), significant (≥stage 2) and advanced (≥stage 3) fibrosis and cirrhosis
(stage 4).
RESULTS: We included nine studies with 232 patients with NAFLD (mean age, 51 ± 13
years; 37.5% males; mean BMI, 33.5 ± 6.7 kg/m(2); interval between MRE and biopsy
<1 year, 98.3%). Fibrosis stage distribution (stage 0/1/2/3/4) was 33.6, 32.3,
10.8, 12.9 and 10.4%, respectively. Mean AUROC (and 95% CIs) for diagnosis of
any, significant or advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis was 0.86 (0.82-0.90), 0.87
(0.82-0.93), 0.90 (0.84-0.94) and 0.91 (0.76-0.95), respectively. Similar
diagnostic performance was observed in stratified analysis based on sex, obesity 
and degree of inflammation.
CONCLUSIONS: MRE has high diagnostic accuracy for detection of fibrosis in NAFLD,
independent of BMI and degree of inflammation.
KEY POINTS: • MRE has high diagnostic accuracy for detection of fibrosis in
NAFLD. • BMI does not significantly affect accuracy of MRE in NAFLD. •
Inflammation had no significant influence on MRE performance in NAFLD for
fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-015-3949-z 
PMCID: PMC5051267
PMID: 26314479  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Int J Cardiol. 2015 Dec 15;201:408-14. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2015.08.107. Epub
2015 Aug 10.

Mechanistic link between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiometabolic
disorders.

Lim S(1), Oh TJ(2), Koh KK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine
and Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, South Korea. Electronic
address: limsoo@snu.ac.kr. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National
University College of Medicine and Seoul National University Bundang Hospital,
Seongnam, South Korea. (3)Department of Cardiology, Gachon University Gil Medical
Center and Gachon Cardiovascular Research Institute, Incheon, South Korea.
Electronic address: kwangk@gilhospital.com.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic condition characterized by 
fat accumulation combined with low-grade inflammation in the liver. A large body 
of clinical and experimental data shows that increased flux of free fatty acids
from increased visceral adipose tissue can lead to NAFLD related with insulin
resistance. Thus, individuals with obesity, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia 
are at the greatest risk of developing NAFLD. Conversely, NAFLD is one of the
phenotypes of insulin resistance or metabolic syndrome. Many researchers have
discovered a close association between NAFLD and insulin resistance, and focused 
on the role of NAFLD in the development of type 2 diabetes. Further, substantial 
evidence has suggested the association between NAFLD and cardiovascular disease
(CVD). In the current review, we provide a plausible mechanistic link between
NAFLD and CVD and the potential of the former as a therapeutic target based on
pathophysiology. We also discuss in detail about the role of insulin resistance, 
oxidative stress, low-grade inflammation, abnormal lipid metabolism, gut
microbiota, changes of biomarkers, and genetic predisposition in the pathological
linking between NAFLD and cardiometabolic disorders.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2015.08.107 
PMID: 26310987  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


235. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2015 Nov;100(11):4198-207. doi: 10.1210/jc.2015-2527.
Epub 2015 Aug 26.

Serum Uric Acid Levels and Risk of Metabolic Syndrome: A Dose-Response
Meta-Analysis of Prospective Studies.

Yuan H(1), Yu C(1), Li X(1), Sun L(1), Zhu X(1), Zhao C(1), Zhang Z(1), Yang
Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Geriatrics (H.Y., X.L., L.S., X.Z., C.Z., Z.Z., Z.Y.),
School of Public Health (X.L.), Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan 750011,
China; Beijing Hospital & Beijing Institute of Geriatrics, Ministry of Health,
Beijing 100730, China; Mind-Brain Theme (C.Y.), South Australian Health and
Medical Research Institute, North Terrace, Adelaide 5000, and Australia; and
School of Medicine (C.Y.), Flinders University, Adelaide 5042, Australia.

CONTEXT: An excess circulating uric acid level, even within the normal range, is 
always comorbid with metabolic syndrome (MS), several of its components, and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which was regarded as hepatic
manifestation of MS; however, these associations remain controversial.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to quantitatively assess the relationship between the
serum uric acid (SUA) levels and the MS/NAFLD risk.
DESIGN: We searched for related prospective cohort studies including SUA as an
exposure and MS/NAFLD as a result in MEDLINE (PubMed) and EMBASE databases up to 
January 31, 2015 and July 28, 2015, respectively. Pooled relative risks (RRs) and
corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were extracted. A random-effects
model was used to evaluate dose-response relationships.
MAIN OUTCOMES: On the basis of 11 studies (54 970 participants and 8719 MS
cases), a combined RR of 1.72 (95% CI, 1.45-2.03; P < .0001) was observed for the
highest SUA level category compared with the lowest SUA level category.
Furthermore, based on nine studies (51 249 participants and 8265 MS cases),
dose-response analysis suggested that each 1 mg/dL SUA increment was roughly
linearly associated with the MS risk (RR, 1.30; 95% CI, 1.22-1.38; P < .0001).
Beyond that, SUA level increased NAFLD risk (RR, 1.46; 95% CI, 1.31-1.63). Each 1
mg/dL SUA level increment led to 21% increase in the NAFLD risk.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis suggests that higher SUA levels led to an
increased risk of MS regardless of the study characteristics, and were consistent
with a linear dose-response relationship. In addition, SUA was also a causal
factor for the NAFLD risk.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2015-2527 
PMID: 26308292  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Aug 21;16(8):19989-20000. doi: 10.3390/ijms160819989.

Docosahexaenoic Acid Levels in Blood and Metabolic Syndrome in Obese Children: Is
There a Link?

Lassandro C(1), Banderali G(2), Radaelli G(3), Borghi E(4), Moretti F(5), Verduci
E(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, San Paolo Hospital, Department of Health Science,
University of Milan, I-20142 Milan, Italy. carlotta.lassandro@unimi.it.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, San Paolo Hospital, Department of Health Science,
University of Milan, I-20142 Milan, Italy. giuseppe.banderali@unimi.it.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, San Paolo Hospital, Department of Health Science,
University of Milan, I-20142 Milan, Italy. giovanni.radaelli@unimi.it.
(4)Microbiology Unit, Department of Health Sciences, University of Milan, I-20142
Milan, Italy. elisa.borghi@unimi.it. (5)Department of Pediatrics, San Paolo
Hospital, Department of Health Science, University of Milan, I-20142 Milan,
Italy. francesca.moretti@unimi.it. (6)Department of Pediatrics, San Paolo
Hospital, Department of Health Science, University of Milan, I-20142 Milan,
Italy. elvira.verduci@unimi.it.

Prevalence of metabolic syndrome is increasing in the pediatric population.
Considering the different existing criteria to define metabolic syndrome, the use
of the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) criteria has been suggested in
children. Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) has been associated with beneficial effects 
on health. The evidence about the relationship of DHA status in blood and
components of the metabolic syndrome is unclear. This review discusses the
possible association between DHA content in plasma and erythrocytes and
components of the metabolic syndrome included in the IDF criteria (obesity,
alteration of glucose metabolism, blood lipid profile, and blood pressure) and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in obese children. The current evidence is
inconsistent and no definitive conclusion can be drawn in the pediatric
population. Well-designed longitudinal and powered trials need to clarify the
possible association between blood DHA status and metabolic syndrome.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms160819989 
PMCID: PMC4581336
PMID: 26307979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Nov;42(9):1051-63. doi: 10.1111/apt.13376. Epub 2015
Aug 24.

Systematic review: microbial dysbiosis and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Wieland A(1), Frank DN(2), Harnke B(3), Bambha K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Colorado Denver,
Aurora, CO, USA. (2)Division of Infectious Diseases and Microbiome Research
Consortium, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, CO, USA. (3)University of
Colorado Health Science Library, Aurora, CO, USA.

BACKGROUND: The human intestinal microbiota is a key regulator of host metabolic 
and immune functions and alterations in the microbiome ('dysbiosis') have been
implicated in several human diseases. Because of the anatomical links between the
intestines and the liver, dysbiosis may also disrupt hepatic function and thereby
contribute to the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
AIM: To perform a comprehensive review of the medical literature investigating
associations between intestinal dysbiosis and NAFLD, with a particular emphasis
on studies that characterise the microbiome in NAFLD.
METHODS: We conducted a search of PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science using
multiple search terms including: 'NAFLD, NASH, fatty liver, steatohepatitis'
combined with 'metagenome, microbiom*, microbiota*, fecal flora, intestinal
flora, gut bacteria'. Results were manually reviewed and studies selected based
on relevance to intestinal microbiota and NAFLD. We also included studies that
addressed potential mechanistic models of pathways linking the dysbiosis to
NAFLD.
RESULTS: Nine studies (five human and four animal models) were identified in our 
search that assessed associations between specific intestinal microbiota
composition and NAFLD. We reviewed and summarised the results of additional
investigations that more broadly addressed the mechanisms by which the microbiome
may impact NAFLD pathogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS: Investigations in humans and animals demonstrate associations
between intestinal dysbiosis and NAFLD; however, causality has not been proven
and mechanistic links require further delineation. As the field of microbiome
research matures in techniques and study design, more detailed insights into
NAFLD pathogenesis and its associations with the intestinal microbiota will be
elucidated.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.13376 
PMID: 26304302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2016 Jan;60(1):147-59. doi: 10.1002/mnfr.201500346. Epub 2015 
Oct 7.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: Roles of the gut and the liver and metabolic
modulation by some dietary factors and especially long-chain n-3 PUFA.

Delarue J(1,)(2), Lallès JP(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, University Hospital and University of
Brest, Brest, France. (2)Breton Federation of Food and Human Nutrition (FED4216),
University of Brest, Brest, France. (3)Institut National de la Recherche
Agronomique, UR1341, Alimentation et Adaptations Digestives, Nerveuses et
Comportementales (ADNC), Saint-Gilles, France. (4)Centre de Recherche en
Nutrition Humaine-Ouest, Nantes Cedex 1, France.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis 
(NASH), is the leading cause of chronic liver disease in Western countries. NASH 
increases the risk for fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. The
mechanisms underlying the steatosis to NASH transition remain incompletely
understood despite recent progress in cellular and molecular aspects. Our primary
aim is to analyze recent advances in understanding deviations in hepatic fat
metabolism and the implication of gut physiology and microbiota in this
transition. Our second aim is to gather experimental and clinical data on the
capability of long-chain n-3 PUFA (LC n-3 PUFA), including docosahexaenoic (DHA) 
and eicosapentaenoic (EPA) acids to prevent or alleviate NAFLD. Our main
conclusions are: (i) increasing data support a pivotal role for the gut toward
NASH development; (ii) LC n-3 PUFA have often proven preventive or therapeutic
effect toward NASH development in rodent models. In patients with NASH they
appear to have no therapeutic effects, but they could have preventive effects,
which require to define better the specific roles, modes of action, and doses of 
DHA and EPA.

© 2015 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/mnfr.201500346 
PMID: 26300318  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Toxicology. 2015 Nov 4;337:10-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tox.2015.08.006. Epub 2015 Aug
20.

Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B): A key regulator and therapeutic target
in liver diseases.

Chen PJ(1), Cai SP(1), Huang C(1), Meng XM(1), Li J(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Laboratory of Bioactivity of Natural Products, Anhui
Medical University, Hefei 230032, China; Institute for Liver Diseases of Anhui
Medical University (ILD-AMU), Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230032, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Laboratory of Bioactivity of Natural Products, Anhui
Medical University, Hefei 230032, China; Institute for Liver Diseases of Anhui
Medical University (ILD-AMU), Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230032, China.
Electronic address: lj@ahmu.edu.cn.

Phosphorylation of tyrosine residues within proteins, which is controlled by the 
reciprocal action of protein tyrosine kinases and protein tyrosine phosphatases, 
plays a key role in regulating almost all physiological responses. Therefore, it 
comes as no surprise that once the balance of tyrosine phosphorylation is
disturbed, drastic effects can occur. Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B), a 
classical non-transmembrane tyrosine phosphatase, is a pivotal regulator and
promising drug target in type 2 diabetes and obesity. Recently it has received
renewed attention in liver diseases and represents an intriguing opportunity as a
drug target by modulating hepatocyte death and survival, hepatic lipogenesis and 
so on. Here, the multiple roles of PTP1B in liver diseases will be presented,
with respect to liver regeneration, drug-induced liver disease, non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tox.2015.08.006 
PMID: 26299811  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015;9(9):1193-205. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1069705.

Host homeostatic responses to alcohol-induced cellular stress in animal models of
alcoholic liver disease.

Wang HJ(1), Murray GJ, Jung MK.

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Metabolism and Health Effect, National Institute of Alcohol
Abuse and Alcoholism/NIH, 5635 Fishers Lane, MSC 9304, Bethesda, MD 20892-9304,
USA.

Humans develop various clinical phenotypes of severe alcoholic liver disease,
including alcoholic hepatitis and cirrhosis, generally after decades of heavy
drinking. In such individuals, following each episode of drinking, their livers
experience heightened intracellular and extracellular stresses that are closely
associated with alcohol consumption and alcohol metabolism. This article focuses 
on the latest advances made in animal models on evolutionarily conserved
homeostatic mechanisms for coping with and resolving these stress conditions. The
mechanisms discussed include the stress-activated protein kinase JNK, energy
regulator AMPK, autophagy and the inflammatory response. Over time, the host may 
respond variably to stress with protective mechanisms that are critical in
determining an individual's vulnerability to developing severe alcoholic liver
disease. A systematic review of these mechanisms and their temporal changes in
animal models provides the basis for general conclusions, and raises questions
for future studies. The relevance of these data to human conditions is also
discussed.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1069705 
PMID: 26293978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Nov;13(12):2031-41. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2015.08.015. Epub 2015 Aug 17.

Current and Future Burden of Chronic Nonmalignant Liver Disease.

Udompap P(1), Kim D(1), Kim WR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California. (2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California. Electronic address:
wrkim@stanford.edu.

Disease burden is an important indicator of the state of health of a population. 
It can be measured as the frequency (eg, incidence and prevalence) of a condition
or its effects including fatal and non-fatal health loss from disease (eg,
disability-adjusted life years) as well as the financial costs (eg, direct
healthcare costs and indirect healthcare expenditures related to lost income
because of premature death). Accurate disease burden information is essential for
policy-making such as prioritization of health interventions and allocation of
resources. Chronic liver disease (CLD) causes substantial health and economic
burden in the United States, where nearly 2 million deaths annually are
attributable to CLD. In the recent past, overall mortality rate of CLD has been
increasing. Viral hepatitis and alcoholic liver disease are thought to be the
most common etiologies of chronic liver diseases. More recently, the prevalence
of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is rapidly increasing, and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis has become a leading indication for liver transplantation. In
this article, we assemble available data on the burden of CLD in the United
States, focusing on nonmalignant complications, whereas the impact on mortality
and healthcare expenses of hepatocellular carcinoma, an important consequence of 
CLD, is discussed elsewhere.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2015.08.015 
PMCID: PMC4618163
PMID: 26291665  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Front Med. 2015 Sep;9(3):275-87. doi: 10.1007/s11684-015-0410-2. Epub 2015 Aug
19.

Molecular mechanisms of fatty liver in obesity.

Gan L(1), Xiang W, Xie B, Yu L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Third Military Medical
University, Chongqing, 400038, China, ganlixia@yahoo.com.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) covers a spectrum of liver disorders
ranging from simple steatosis to advanced pathologies, including nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis and cirrhosis. NAFLD significantly contributes to morbidity and
mortality in developed societies. Insulin resistance associated with central
obesity is the major cause of hepatic steatosis, which is characterized by
excessive accumulation of triglyceride-rich lipid droplets in the liver.
Accumulating evidence supports that dysregulation of adipose lipolysis and liver 
de novo lipogenesis (DNL) plays a key role in driving hepatic steatosis. In this 
work, we reviewed the molecular mechanisms responsible for enhanced adipose
lipolysis and increased hepatic DNL that lead to hepatic lipid accumulation in
the context of obesity. Delineation of these mechanisms holds promise for
developing novel avenues against NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11684-015-0410-2 
PMID: 26290284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Niger J Clin Pract. 2015 Nov-Dec;18(6):703-12. doi: 10.4103/1119-3077.163288.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: Synopsis of current developments.

Onyekwere CA(1), Ogbera AO, Samaila AA, Balogun BO, Abdulkareem FB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Lagos State University College of Medicine/Teaching
Hospital, Ikeja, Nigeria.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) which is defined as the accumulation of
fat>5% of liver weight is increasingly becoming an important cause of chronic
liver disease. This article tries to chronicle advances that have occurred in the
understanding of the pathogenesis, pathology as well as the management of this
disease. We have done a Medline search on published work on the subject and
reviewed major conference proceedings in the preceding years. The Pathogenesis
involves a multi-hit process in which increased accumulation of triglycerides in 
face of insulin resistance results in increased susceptibility to inflammatory
damage mediated by increased expression of inflammatory cytokines and adipokines,
oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction, endoplasmic reticulum stress and 
gut derived endotoxemia. An interplay of multiple metabolic genetic expression
and environmental factors however determine which patient with NAFLD will
progress from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and liver 
cirrhosis. The minimum criteria for diagnosis of NASH are steatosis, ballooning
and lobular inflammation; fibrosis is not required. The NASH Clinical Research
Network (CRN), histological scoring system is used to grade and stage the disease
for standardization. The management of NAFLD consists of treating liver disease
as well as associated metabolic co-morbidities such as obesity, hyperlipidaemia, 
insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Patient education is
important as their insight and commitment is pivotal, and lifestyle modification 
is the first line of treatment. Improvement in liver histology in non-diabetic
NASH patients has been reported with use of Vitamin E. Other liver-related
therapies under investigations include pentoxyfiylins, Caspar inhibitors,
Resveratrol as well as probiotics. The prognosis (both overall and liver-related 
mortality) for simple steatosis is not different from that of the general
population however.

DOI: 10.4103/1119-3077.163288 
PMID: 26289505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015;9(10):1247-50. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1075392. Epub 2015 Aug 4.

The benefits of exercise for patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Keating SE(1), George J(2), Johnson NA(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)a 1 Centre for Research on Exercise, Physical Activity and Health, School of
Human Movement and Nutrition Sciences, The University of Queensland, St Lucia,
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. (2)b 2 Storr Liver Centre, Westmead Millennium
Institute and Westmead Hospital, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia. (3)c 3
Discipline of Exercise and Sport Science, Faculty of Health Sciences, University 
of Sydney, NSW, Australia. (4)d 4 Boden Institute of Obesity, Nutrition, Exercise
& Eating Disorders, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

As exercise is now an established therapy for the management of non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD), recent investigations have sought to identify the
optimal dose (type, intensity and amount) of exercise for hepatic benefit. Here, 
the authors discuss the following: the role of aerobic exercise for the
modulation of hepatic steatosis; the limited evidence for the role of resistance 
training in reducing liver fat; the lack of evidence from clinical trials on the 
role of exercise in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis; and the benefits of exercise
for patients with NAFLD, beyond steatosis. Based on current evidence, the authors
provide recommendations for exercise prescription for patients with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1075392 
PMID: 26289101  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


245. FP Essent. 2015 Aug;435:24-9.

Metabolic Syndrome: Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Williams T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine at the University of Kansas School
of Medicine-Wichita, 707 N. Emporia, Wichita, KS 67214.

Although nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is not one of the defining
criteria for metabolic syndrome, it is a common hepatic manifestation. NAFLD
includes a spectrum of histologic findings ranging from simple steatosis, known
as nonalcoholic fatty liver, to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). To make the 
diagnosis of NAFLD, other etiologies of steatosis or hepatitis, such as
hepatotoxic drugs, excessive alcohol intake, congenital errors of metabolism, or 
viral hepatitis, must be ruled out. After ruling out other conditions, the
diagnosis of NAFLD often is made clinically, but a definitive diagnosis of NASH
requires liver biopsy. As with other complications of metabolic syndrome, insulin
resistance is thought to be an underlying etiology of NAFLD. Management
strategies attempt to reverse or improve insulin resistance while minimizing
liver damage. The strongest evidence supports lifestyle modifications with weight
loss, but there is some evidence to support bariatric surgery, medical therapy
with insulin-sensitizing agents, and/or pharmacotherapy to promote weight loss.
Cardiovascular disease is the major cause of mortality in patients with NAFLD, so
management must include modification of cardiovascular risk factors.

Written permission from the American Academy of Family Physicians is required for
reproduction of this material in whole or in part in any form or medium.


PMID: 26280342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:460190. doi: 10.1155/2015/460190. Epub 2015 Jul 27.

Genetic Factors in the Pathogenesis of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver and
Steatohepatitis.

Dongiovanni P(1), Romeo S(2), Valenti L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine and Metabolic Diseases, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale
Maggiore Policlinico, Via Francesco Sforza 35, 20122 Milan, Italy. (2)Wallenberg 
Laboratory, Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy at
the University of Gothenburg, Medicinaregatan 3, 40530 Gothenburg, Sweden ;
Clinical Nutrition Unit, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University 
Magna Graecia, Viale Europa, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy. (3)Internal Medicine and
Metabolic Diseases, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico,
Via Francesco Sforza 35, 20122 Milan, Italy ; Department of Pathophysiology and
Transplantation, University of Milan, Via Francesco Sforza 35, 20122 Milan,
Italy.

Liver fat accumulation generally related to systemic insulin resistance
characterizes nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which in the presence of 
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) can progress towards cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma. Due to the epidemic of obesity, NAFLD is now the most
frequent liver disease in Western countries. Epidemiological, familial, and twin 
studies provide evidence for a strong genetic component of NAFLD susceptibility. 
Recently, genome-wide association studies led to the identification of the major 
inherited determinants of hepatic fat accumulation: patatin-like phospholipase
domain-containing 3 (PNPLA3) I148M gene and transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 
(TM6SF2) E167K gene variants, involved in lipid droplets remodelling and very
low-density lipoproteins secretion, are the major determinants of interindividual
differences in liver steatosis, and susceptibility to progressive NASH. In this
review, we aimed to provide an overview of recent insights into the genetics of
hepatic fat accumulation and steatohepatitis.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/460190 
PMCID: PMC4530215
PMID: 26273621  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:287401. doi: 10.1155/2015/287401. Epub 2015 Jul 26.

The Potential Role of Iron and Copper in Pediatric Obesity and Nonalcoholic Fatty
Liver Disease.

Feldman A(1), Aigner E(1), Weghuber D(2), Paulmichl K(2).

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Medicine, Paracelsus Medical University, Müllner
Hauptstrasse 48, 5020 Salzburg, Austria ; Obesity Research Unit, Paracelsus
Medical University, Müllner Hauptstrasse 48, 5020 Salzburg, Austria. (2)Obesity
Research Unit, Paracelsus Medical University, Müllner Hauptstrasse 48, 5020
Salzburg, Austria ; Department of Pediatrics, Paracelsus Medical University,
Müllner Hauptstrasse 48, 5020 Salzburg, Austria.

Obesity is a rapidly growing health problem and is paralleled by a multitude of
comorbidities, including nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD has
become the most common chronic liver disease in both adults and children. The
current understanding of NAFLD is still fragmentary. While simple steatosis is
characterized by the interplay between excessive free fatty acid accumulation and
hepatic insulin resistance, the progression to NASH has been related to oxidative
stress and a proinflammatory state with dysbalanced adipokine, cytokine levels,
and endotoxin-mediated immune response. In addition, oxidative stress has been
suggested to play a central role for the sequelae leading to NASH. Trace elements
are critical in regulatory, immunologic, and antioxidant functions resulting in
protection against inflammation and peroxidation and consequently against the
known comorbidities of obesity. Disruptions of the metal detoxification processes
located in the liver are plausibly related to NAFLD development via oxidative
stress. Perturbations of iron and copper (Cu) homeostasis have been shown to
contribute to the pathogenesis of NAFLD. This review presents current data from
pediatric studies. In addition, data from adult studies are summarized where
clinical relevance may be extrapolated to pediatric obesity and NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/287401 
PMCID: PMC4529901
PMID: 26273604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:213737. doi: 10.1155/2015/213737. Epub 2015 Jul 26.

Association of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease with Subclinical Cardiovascular
Changes: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Bonci E(1), Chiesa C(2), Versacci P(3), Anania C(3), Silvestri L(3), Pacifico
L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, Sapienza University of Rome, 00161 Rome, 
Italy. (2)Institute of Translational Pharmacology, National Research Council,
00133 Rome, Italy. (3)Department of Pediatrics and Child Neuropsychiatry,
Sapienza University of Rome, 00161 Rome, Italy.

In the last 20 years, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become the
leading cause of chronic liver disease worldwide, primarily as a result of the
epidemic of obesity. NAFLD is strongly associated with insulin resistance,
glucose intolerance, and dyslipidemia and is currently regarded as the liver
manifestation of the metabolic syndrome, a highly atherogenic condition even at a
very early age. Patients with NAFLD including pediatric subjects have a higher
prevalence of subclinical atherosclerosis, as shown by impaired flow-mediated
vasodilation, increased carotid artery intima-media thickness, and arterial
stiffness, which are independent of obesity and other established risk factors.
More recent work has identified NAFLD as a risk factor not only for premature
coronary heart disease and cardiovascular events, but also for early subclinical 
abnormalities in myocardial structure and function. Thus, we conducted a
systematic review and meta-analysis to test the hypothesis that NAFLD is
associated with evidence of subclinical cardiac structural and functional
abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/213737 
PMCID: PMC4529899
PMID: 26273598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Curr Med Chem. 2015;22(25):2991-3012.

Flavonoids and Related Compounds in Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Therapy.

Pisonero-Vaquero S, González-Gallego J, Sánchez-Campos S, García-Mediavilla
MV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biomedicine (IBIOMED), Campus Universitario, 24071, Leon, Spain. 
mvgarm@unileon.es.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the hepatic manifestation of metabolic
syndrome, is one of the most common chronic liver diseases, which may progress to
fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD is characterized by the
accumulation of lipids in the liver arising from multiple factors: increased
fatty acid uptake, increased de novo lipogenesis, reduced fatty acid oxidation
and very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) secretion. Most therapeutic approaches
for this disease are often directed at reducing body mass index and improving
insulin resistance through lifestyle modifications, bariatric surgery and
pharmacological treatments. Nevertheless, there is increasing evidence that the
use of natural compounds, as polyphenols, exert multiple benefits on the
disorders associated with NAFLD. These molecules seem to be able to regulate the 
expression of genes mainly involved in de novo lipogenesis and fatty acid
oxidation, which contributes to their lipid-lowering effect in the liver. Their
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antifibrogenic and antilipogenic properties seem 
to confer on them a great potential as strategy for preventing NAFLD progression.
In this review, we summarized the effects of these compounds, especially
flavonoids, and their mechanisms of action, that have been reported in several
studies carried out in in vitro and in vivo models of NAFLD.


PMID: 26242257  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


250. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol. 2015 Nov;154:94-103. doi:
10.1016/j.jsbmb.2015.07.020. Epub 2015 Aug 1.

Glucocorticoids and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Woods CP(1), Hazlehurst JM(1), Tomlinson JW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Centre for Diabetes Endocrinology & Metabolism (OCDEM), Churchill
Hospital, Headington, Oxford, OX3 7LJ, UK. (2)Oxford Centre for Diabetes
Endocrinology & Metabolism (OCDEM), Churchill Hospital, Headington, Oxford, OX3
7LJ, UK. Electronic address: Jeremy.tomlinson@ocdem.ox.ac.uk.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of the
global obesity and metabolic disease epidemic and is rapidly becoming the leading
cause of liver cirrhosis and indication for liver transplantation worldwide. The 
hallmark pathological finding in NAFLD is excess lipid accumulation within
hepatocytes, but it is a spectrum of disease ranging from benign hepatic
steatosis to steatohepatitis through to fibrosis, cirrhosis and risk of
hepatocellular carcinoma. The exact pathophysiology remains unclear with a
multi-hit hypothesis generally accepted as being required for inflammation and
fibrosis to develop after initial steatosis. Glucocorticoids have been implicated
in the pathogenesis of NAFLD across all stages. They have a diverse array of
metabolic functions that have the potential to drive NAFLD acting on both liver
and adipose tissue. In the fasting state, they are able to mobilize lipid,
increasing fatty acid delivery and in the fed state can promote lipid
accumulation. Their action is controlled at multiple levels and in this review
will outline the evidence base for the role of GCs in the pathogenesis of NAFLD
from cell systems, rodent models and clinical studies and describe interventional
strategies that have been employed to modulate glucocorticoid action as a
potential therapeutic strategy.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsbmb.2015.07.020 
PMID: 26241028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Metabolism. 2015 Oct;64(10):1215-23. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2015.07.003. Epub
2015 Jul 8.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and statins.

Tziomalos K(1), Athyros VG(2), Paschos P(3), Karagiannis A(2).

Author information: 
(1)First Propaedeutic Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, Aristotle 
University of Thessaloniki, AHEPA Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. Electronic
address: ktziomalos@yahoo.com. (2)Second Propaedeutic Department of Internal
Medicine, Medical School, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Hippokration
Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. (3)Second Department of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Hippokration Hospital,
Thessaloniki, Greece.

OBJECTIVE: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most frequent cause of
elevated transaminase levels and affects approximately one third of the general
population. Patients with NAFLD are at increased risk for cardiovascular events, 
which represent the leading cause of death in this population. We discuss the
safety and efficacy of statins in this population.
MATERIALS/METHODS: We reviewed the most recent literature on the safety of
statins in patients with NAFLD and on their effects on liver histology and
cardiovascular events.
RESULTS: It appears that statins can be safely administered to patients with
NAFLD, including those with elevated transaminase levels (<3 times the upper
limit of normal). Post-hoc analyses of randomized controlled trials also suggest 
that statins might reduce cardiovascular morbidity in this population. On the
other hand, there are few and controversial data on the effects of statins on
liver histology in patients with NAFLD.
CONCLUSIONS: Statins appear to be safe and might also reduce cardiovascular
events in patients with NAFLD. Ongoing and future studies will clarify whether
statins might also have a role in the treatment of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.metabol.2015.07.003 
PMID: 26234727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Adv Pharmacol. 2015;74:303-72. doi: 10.1016/bs.apha.2015.04.002. Epub 2015 Jun
27.

Translational Implications of the Alcohol-Metabolizing Enzymes, Including
Cytochrome P450-2E1, in Alcoholic and Nonalcoholic Liver Disease.

Song BJ(1), Akbar M(2), Jo I(3), Hardwick JP(4), Abdelmegeed MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, Laboratory of Membrane
Biochemistry and Biophysics, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, 
Bethesda, Maryland, USA. Electronic address: bj.song@nih.gov. (2)Section of
Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, Laboratory of Membrane Biochemistry and
Biophysics, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, Bethesda,
Maryland, USA. (3)Department of Molecular Medicine, Ewha Womans University School
of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. (4)Biochemistry and Molecular Pathology in
Department of Integrative Medical Sciences, Northeast Ohio Medical University,
Rootstown, Ohio, USA.

Fat accumulation (hepatic steatosis) in alcoholic and nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease is a potentially pathologic condition which can progress to
steatohepatitis (inflammation), fibrosis, cirrhosis, and carcinogenesis. Many
clinically used drugs or some alternative medicine compounds are also known to
cause drug-induced liver injury, which can further lead to fulminant liver
failure and acute deaths in extreme cases. During liver disease process, certain 
cytochromes P450 such as the ethanol-inducible cytochrome P450-2E1 (CYP2E1) and
CYP4A isozymes can be induced and/or activated by alcohol and/or high-fat diets
and pathophysiological conditions such as fasting, obesity, and diabetes.
Activation of these P450 isozymes, involved in the metabolism of ethanol, fatty
acids, and various drugs, can produce reactive oxygen/nitrogen species directly
and/or indirectly, contributing to oxidative modifications of DNA/RNA, proteins
and lipids. In addition, aldehyde dehydrogenases including the mitochondrial low 
Km aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH2), responsible for the metabolism of
acetaldehyde and lipid aldehydes, can be inactivated by various hepatotoxic
agents. These highly reactive acetaldehyde and lipid peroxides, accumulated due
to ALDH2 suppression, can interact with cellular macromolecules DNA/RNA, lipids, 
and proteins, leading to suppression of their normal function, contributing to
DNA mutations, endoplasmic reticulum stress, mitochondrial dysfunction,
steatosis, and cell death. In this chapter, we specifically review the roles of
the alcohol-metabolizing enzymes including the alcohol dehydrogenase, ALDH2,
CYP2E1, and other enzymes in promoting liver disease. We also discuss
translational research opportunities with natural and/or synthetic antioxidants, 
which can prevent or delay the onset of inflammation and liver disease.

2015 Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.apha.2015.04.002 
PMID: 26233911  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Adv Pharmacol. 2015;74:85-111. doi: 10.1016/bs.apha.2015.03.001. Epub 2015 May
11.

Polymorphic Variants of Cytochrome P450: Relevance to Cancer and Other Diseases.

Daly AK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Medical School,
Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom. Electronic address: a.k.daly@ncl.ac.uk.

Associations of cytochrome P450 (CYP) polymorphisms with risk of disease
development have been reported widely. For lung cancer, a large number of studies
on CYP1A1, CYP2D6, and CYP2A6 polymorphisms have been performed. However, recent 
studies, including meta-analyses and genome-wide association studies, suggest
that only the CYP2A6 association, where genotypes associated with low activity
decrease susceptibility possibly due to slower nicotine metabolism, appears
significant. Associations with lung cancer susceptibility have also been reported
for CYP1A2, CYP1B1, and CYP2E1 polymorphisms but these, though biologically
plausible, have not been well replicated. For cancers where exposure to
xenobiotics other than tobacco smoke affects risk, CYP polymorphisms may also be 
relevant. Examples include CYP3A for hepatocellular carcinoma due to aflatoxin
exposure, CYP1A2 for colon cancer associated with heterocyclic arylamine exposure
and CYP2E1 for nitrosamine-related nasopharyngeal cancer. For other diseases, a
well-established example relates to CYP1B1 where homozygosity for rare mutations 
occurs in primary congenital glaucoma. Rare CYP1B1 mutations and possibly
polymorphisms may also contribute to risk for more common forms of glaucoma.
CYP2C isoforms and CYP2J2 contribute to extrahepatic metabolism of arachidonic
acid to epoxyeicosanoic acids which have effects in the cardiovascular system.
Genotype for these isoforms may be relevant to risk of cardiovascular disease but
evidence is still lacking. CYP2C19 poor metabolizers may be at increased risk of 
endometriosis, and CYP2E1 genotype may modulate risk of development of alcoholic 
liver disease. In conclusion, CYP polymorphisms are relevant to risk for some
diseases but this may have been overstated in earlier studies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.apha.2015.03.001 
PMID: 26233904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Dec;33(12):1245-53. doi: 10.1007/s40273-015-0316-5.

Economic and Quality-of-Life Implications of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Younossi ZM(1,)(2), Henry L(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Inova Fairfax Hospital, 3300 Gallows Road, Falls
Church, VA, 22042, USA. zobair.younossi@inova.org. (2)Betty and Guy Beatty Center
for Integrated Research, Inova Health System, Falls Church, VA, USA.
zobair.younossi@inova.org. (3)Department of Medicine, Inova Fairfax Hospital,
3300 Gallows Road, Falls Church, VA, 22042, USA. (4)Betty and Guy Beatty Center
for Integrated Research, Inova Health System, Falls Church, VA, USA. (5)Center
for Outcomes Research in Liver Diseases, Washington DC, USA.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a very common chronic liver disease 
worldwide, is on the rise following the trend of increasing prevalence of
obesity, is the second most common indication for liver transplantation, and is
an important cause for hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite the increasing
recognition of NAFLD as an important chronic liver disease, little has been
published on the economic and health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) impact of
NAFLD. We reviewed the current literature related to the economics and HR-QOL of 
NAFLD and found that increased costs and decreased HR-QOL were associated with
NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-015-0316-5 
PMID: 26233836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2015 Oct;309(7):H1101-11. doi:
10.1152/ajpheart.00094.2015. Epub 2015 Jul 31.

Translational approaches to understanding metabolic dysfunction and
cardiovascular consequences of obstructive sleep apnea.

Drager LF(1), Polotsky VY(2), O'Donnell CP(3), Cravo SL(4), Lorenzi-Filho G(5),
Machado BH(6).

Author information: 
(1)Hypertension Unit, Heart Institute (InCor), University of São Paulo Medical
School, São Paulo, Brazil; Hypertension Unit, Renal Division, University of São
Paulo Medical School, São Paulo, Brazil; luciano.drager@incor.usp.br. (2)Division
of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland; (3)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical
Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania; (4)Department of Physiology, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Federal
University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; (5)Sleep Laboratory, Pulmonary
Division, Heart Institute (InCor), University of São Paulo Medical School, São
Paulo, Brazil; and. (6)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine of Ribeirao
Preto, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is known to be independently associated with
several cardiovascular diseases including hypertension, myocardial infarction,
and stroke. To determine how OSA can increase cardiovascular risk, animal models 
have been developed to explore the underlying mechanisms and the cellular and
end-organ targets of the predominant pathophysiological disturbance in
OSA-intermittent hypoxia. Despite several limitations in translating data from
animal models to the clinical arena, significant progress has been made in our
understanding of how OSA confers increased cardiovascular risk. It is clear now
that the hypoxic stress associated with OSA can elicit a broad spectrum of
pathological systemic events including sympathetic activation, systemic
inflammation, impaired glucose and lipid metabolism, and endothelial dysfunction,
among others. This review provides an update of the basic, clinical, and
translational advances in our understanding of the metabolic dysfunction and
cardiovascular consequences of OSA and highlights the most recent findings and
perspectives in the field.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.00094.2015 
PMCID: PMC4816265
PMID: 26232233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


256. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jul 28;21(28):8516-26. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i28.8516.

Alcohol liver disease: A review of current therapeutic approaches to achieve
long-term abstinence.

García ML(1), Blasco-Algora S(1), Fernández-Rodríguez CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)María Luisa Gutiérrez García, Sara Blasco-Algora, Conrado M
Fernández-Rodríguez, Service of Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario
Fundación, Alcorcón, Av Budapest-1, 28922 Alcorcón, Madrid, Spain.

Harmful alcohol drinking may lead to significant damage on any organ or system of
the body. Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is the most prevalent cause of advanced
liver disease in Europe. In ALD, only alcohol abstinence was associated with a
better long-term survival. Therefore, current effective therapeutic strategy
should be oriented towards achieving alcohol abstinence or a significant
reduction in alcohol consumption. Screening all primary care patients to detect
those cases with alcohol abuse has been proposed as population-wide preventive
intervention in primary care. It has been suggested that in patients with mild
alcohol use disorder the best approach is brief intervention in the primary care 
setting with the ultimate goal being abstinence, whereas patients with
moderate-to-severe alcohol use disorder must be referred to specialized care
where detoxification and medical treatment of alcohol dependence must be
undertaken.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i28.8516 
PMCID: PMC4515834
PMID: 26229395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Nov;13(12):2062-70. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2015.07.029. Epub 2015 Jul 27.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Review: Diagnosis, Treatment, and Outcomes.

Ahmed A(1), Wong RJ(2), Harrison SA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Liver Transplant Program,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California. (2)Division of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Alameda Health System, Highland Hospital Campus,
Oakland, California. (3)Division of Gastroenterology, San Antonio Military
Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Texas. Electronic address:
Stephen.a.harrison.mil@mail.mil.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of abnormal
serum aminotransferase levels in both developed and developing countries.
Patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a subset of NAFLD, are at risk
for progressive liver disease and in need of effective treatment options. A
practical approach may be pursued by identifying patients with NAFLD with the
highest likelihood for histologic evidence of NASH. Despite decades of clinical
trials, no single treatment can be recommended to all patients with NASH.
Importantly, there is no evidence that pioglitazone or vitamin E improves
fibrosis. Bariatric surgeries may improve hepatic histology in morbidly obese
patients with NASH, although randomized clinical trials are lacking. Currently,
NASH is the second leading etiology of liver disease among adults awaiting liver 
transplantation in the United States. The primary and secondary prevention of
NAFLD may require aggressive strategies for managing obesity, diabetes, and
metabolic syndrome.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2015.07.029 
PMID: 26226097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015;9(10):1243-5. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1074860. Epub 2015 Jul 29.

Understanding the association between developing a fatty liver and subsequent
cardio-metabolic complications.

Miele L(1), Targher G(2).

Author information: 
(1)a 1 Catholic University of Rome, Liver Unit, Rome, Italy. (2)b 2 University of
Verona, Medicine, piazzale Stefani 1, Verona, 37126, Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in Western countries and is also predicted to become the most
frequent indication for liver transplantation by 2030. In the last decade, it has
become evident that the clinical burden of NAFLD is not restricted to
liver-related morbidity or mortality, but there is now compelling evidence that
NAFLD is a multisystem disease, affecting many extra-hepatic organs. In this
article, we discuss the evidence linking NAFLD with important cardiometabolic
complications (mainly Type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease) and the
putative underlying mechanisms by which NAFLD may contribute to the development
of these complications.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1074860 
PMID: 26224399  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Free Radic Res. 2015;49(12):1405-18. doi: 10.3109/10715762.2015.1078461. Epub
2015 Aug 25.

Endoplasmic reticulum stress and Oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Ashraf NU(1,)(2), Sheikh TA(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR) , New Delhi , India.
(2)b PK-PD and Toxicology Division, CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine
, Canal Road, Jammu Tawi , Jammu and Kashmir , India.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of
metabolic syndrome. The underlying causes of the disease progression in NAFLD are
unclear. Recent evidences suggest endoplasmic reticulum stress in the development
of lipid droplets (steatosis) and subsequent generation of reactive oxygen
species (ROS) in the progression to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The
signalling pathway activated by disruption of endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
homoeostasis, called as unfolded protein response, is linked with membrane
biosynthesis, insulin action, inflammation and apoptosis. ROS are important
mediators of inflammation. Protein folding in ER is linked to ROS. Therefore
understanding the basic mechanisms that lead to ER stress and ROS in NAFLD have
become the topics of immense interest. The present review focuses on the role of 
ER stress and ROS in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. We also highlight the cross talk 
between ER stress and oxidative stress which suggest and encourage the
development of therapeutics for NAFLD. Further we have reviewed various
strategies used for the management of NAFLD/NASH and limitations of such
strategies. Our review therefore highlights the need for newer strategies with
regards to ER stress and oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.3109/10715762.2015.1078461 
PMID: 26223319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Mayo Clin Proc. 2015 Sep;90(9):1233-46. doi: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2015.06.013. Epub
2015 Jul 26.

Recommendations for Diagnosis, Referral for Liver Biopsy, and Treatment of
Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis.

Spengler EK(1), Loomba R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of Iowa
Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City. (2)NAFLD Translational Research Unit, Division 
of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, and Division of Epidemiology,
Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California San Diego 
School of Medicine, La Jolla, CA. Electronic address: roloomba@ucsd.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the primary cause of chronic liver
disease in the United States, afflicting an estimated 80 to 100 million
Americans. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is a spectrum of liver diseases
composed of nonalcoholic fatty liver and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
Although nonalcoholic fatty liver has a negligible risk of progression, patients 
with NASH often develop cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma. Although liver
biopsy is required to diagnose NASH, only patients with a high risk of NASH or
advanced fibrosis require this evaluation. Despite the high prevalence of NAFLD, 
well-defined screening recommendations are currently lacking. In this review,
suggestions for screening, diagnosis, and initial work-up of NAFLD are given on
the basis of established guidelines and recent publications. Proposed drug
treatments of NASH are also discussed, highlighting the study outcomes, as well
as proposed uses and limitations of these drugs. The literature was searched in
PubMed using search terms nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis, with filters of "English language." A date range of January 1,
2000, to May 1, 2015, was used for the search. The bibliographies of key
references were also searched manually, and seminal publications before the year 
2000 were included.

Copyright © 2015 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2015.06.013 
PMCID: PMC4567478
PMID: 26219858  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Curr Med Chem. 2015;22(25):2954-71.

The Pros and the Cons for the Use of Silybin-Rich Oral Formulations in Treatment 
of Liver Damage (NAFLD in Particular).

Rosso N, Marin V, Giordani A, Persiani S, Sala F, Cavicchioli L, Rovati LC,
Tiribelli C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fondazione Italiana Fegato, Area Science Park Basovizza, SS14 km 163.5, 34149 
Trieste, Italy. natalia.rosso@csf.units.it.

The increasing prevalence of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) worldwide 
is becoming a challenge for the modern global care system. The lipotoxic process 
is characterized by an oxidative stress followed by a burst of the inflammatory
response, prompting the wound healing process (fibrosis), which can ultimately
lead to the development of cirrhosis and the subsequent complications. There is
no consensus concerning an effective pharmacological treatment. Therefore, there 
is a need for effective therapeutic compounds. Silibinin the major active
compound of Milk Thistle may be a potential candidate mainly due to its
anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-fibrotic properties. In spite of the
large number of data obtained in experimental models, the translation of the
evidence in clinical setting is far to be conclusive. The aim of this paper is to
critically review the aspects of the use of the different formulations of
Silibinin in several experimental and clinical settings and to provide hints on
the needed future studies.


PMID: 26219393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Gene. 2015 Oct 15;571(1):1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.07.071. Epub 2015 Jul 26.

Microsomal epoxide hydrolase 1 (EPHX1): Gene, structure, function, and role in
human disease.

Václavíková R(1), Hughes DJ(2), Souček P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Toxicogenomics Unit, National Institute of Public Health, Prague, Czech
Republic. (2)Centre for Systems Medicine, Department of Physiology, Royal College
of Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin 2, Ireland. (3)Toxicogenomics Unit, National
Institute of Public Health, Prague, Czech Republic; Biomedical Centre, Faculty of
Medicine in Plzen, Charles University in Prague, Plzen, Czech Republic.
Electronic address: pavel.soucek@szu.cz.

Microsomal epoxide hydrolase (EPHX1) is an evolutionarily highly conserved
biotransformation enzyme for converting epoxides to diols. Notably, the enzyme is
able to either detoxify or bioactivate a wide range of substrates. Mutations and 
polymorphic variants in the EPHX1 gene have been associated with susceptibility
to several human diseases including cancer. This review summarizes the key
knowledge concerning EPHX1 gene and protein structure, expression pattern and
regulation, and substrate specificity. The relevance of EPHX1 for human pathology
is especially discussed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.07.071 
PMCID: PMC4544754
PMID: 26216302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S18-23. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.06.012. Epub 2015 Jul 26.

Inflammasome activation in the liver: Focus on alcoholic and non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis.

Szabo G(1), Iracheta-Vellve A(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Massachusetts Medical School, Department of Medicine, LRB 215,
364, Plantation Street, 01605 Worcester, United States. Electronic address:
gyongyi.szabo@umassmed.edu. (2)University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Department of Medicine, LRB 215, 364, Plantation Street, 01605 Worcester, United 
States.

Upregulation of the inflammatory cascade is a major element both in the
progression of steatohepatitis to severe alcoholic hepatitis as well as in the
progression of NASH to advanced NASH with fibrosis. The mechanisms underpinning
these changes are only partially understood. Activation of the inflammatory
cascade requires multiple stimuli and in this report, we discuss the role of
inflammasomes that activate IL-1β as well as the sterile and pathogen-derived
danger signals that results in inflammasome activation and inflammation in
alcoholic and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. The dynamics of inflammasome
activation, the cell types involved and the trigger signals appear to be somewhat
different between ASH and NASH. Further studies are needed to dissect the
pathology-related differences between these two major forms of steatohepatitis.
Clinical and therapeutic implications of inflammasome activation in
steatohepatitis are also discussed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.06.012 
PMID: 26216030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Obes Rev. 2015 Oct;16(10):871-82. doi: 10.1111/obr.12308. Epub 2015 Jul 27.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease as a consequence of autonomic imbalance and
circadian desynchronization.

Sabath E(1), Báez-Ruiz A(1), Buijs RM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Institute for Biomedical Research, 
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico City, Mexico.

The circadian system, headed by the suprachiasmatic nucleus, synchronizes
behaviour and metabolism according to the external light-dark cycle through
neuroendocrine and autonomic signals. Metabolic diseases, such as steatosis,
obesity and glucose intolerance, have been associated with conditions of
circadian misalignment wherein the feeding schedule has been moved to the resting
phase. Here we describe the physiological processes involved in liver lipid
accumulation and show how they follow a circadian pattern importantly regulated
by both the autonomic nervous system and the feeding-fasting cycle. We propose
that an unbalanced activity of the sympathetic-parasympathetic branches between
organs induced by circadian misalignment provides the conditions for the
development and progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

© 2015 World Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/obr.12308 
PMID: 26214605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2015 Apr-Jun;119(2):346-52.

NONALCOHOLIC FATTY LIVER DISEASE AND ITS COMPLICATIONS--ASSESSING THE POPULATION 
AT RISK. A SMALL SERIES REPORT AND LITERATURE REVIEW.

Livadariu R, Timofte D, Danilă R, Ionescu L, Diaconu C, Soroceanu P, Sângeap AM, 
Drug VL, Trifan A.

The aim of the study was to highlight correlations between serum biochemical
markers and different degrees of liver inflammation or fibrosis revealed by liver
biopsy in morbidly obese patients. We also wanted to emphasize that the
occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is increasingly associated with
obesity, metabolic syndrome and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.MATERIAL AND
METHODS: A clinical retrospective study was carried out on a series of 13
patients operated for morbid obesity in our surgical unit. Included in this study
were only the obese patients referred for bariatric surgery without other risk
factors for liver disease and in whom a liver biopsy was taken during metabolic
surgery.
RESULTS: The pathology report revealed different stages of nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease in all 13 patients: pathological features of steatohepatitis (7
patients), hepatic steatosis (5 patients) and lesions specific for evolving
cirrhosis (1 patient). Regardless of the pathological changes of the liver,
except the patient with evolving cirrhosis, none of these patients showed changes
in classical liver function blood tests.
DISCUSSIONS: Hepatic alteration in obese patients, ranging from simple steatosis 
to steatohepatitis or even cirrhosis, is not always correlated with the values of
classical biological liver function tests. Literature data suggest the
involvement of adipokines in the development and progression of steatosis as the 
hepatic expression of metabolic and chronic inflammation syndrome occurring in
obese patients. Furthermore, these proteins secreted by adipose tissue seem to be
related to the HCC occurrence. However, none of these studies show the exact
pathway followed by the hepatic cell from simple fatty liver to hepatocellular
carcinoma.
CONCLUSIONS: finding and selecting the population at risk for fatty liver disease
progression and for HCC development among obese patients is mandatory.


PMID: 26204635  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2015 Sep;18(5):490-5. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0000000000000203.

Fructose and liver function--is this behind nonalcoholic liver disease?

Jin R(1), Vos MB.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, School of
Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose was to summarize recent advances in the
understanding of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) pathophysiology and the
role of fructose in NAFLD.
RECENT FINDINGS: Epidemiological studies continue to point to a strong
association between high fructose intake and NAFLD and its severity. New studies 
of NAFLD reveal the importance of upregulated de novo lipogenesis as a key
feature in its pathophysiology along with increased visceral adiposity and
alteration of gut microbiome. Studies of fructose in NAFLD show how this nutrient
may uniquely exacerbate the phenotype of NAFLD. The timing of exposure to
fructose may be important with early (in utero) exposure being particularly
harmful.
SUMMARY: Fructose is a potentially modifiable environmental exposure that appears
to exacerbate NAFLD through multiple mechanisms. Although larger, longer clinical
studies are still needed, it appears that limitation of fructose sources in the
diet is beneficial in NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0000000000000203 
PMID: 26203597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Rev Med Chil. 2015 May;143(5):627-36. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872015000500012.

[Second Consensus of the Chilean Society of Endocrinology and Diabetes about
insulin resistance].

[Article in Spanish]

Pollak F, Araya V, Lanas A, Sapunar J, Arrese M, Aylwin CG, Bezanilla CG,
Carrasco E, Carrasco F, Codner E, Díaz E, Durruty P, Galgani J, García H, Lahsen 
R, Liberman C, López G, Maíz A, Mujica V, Poniachik J, Sir T, Soto N, Valderas J,
Villaseca P, Zavala C.

Insulin resistance is a prevalent condition commonly associated with unhealthy
lifestyles. It affects several metabolic pathways, increasing risk of
abnormalities at different organ levels. Thus, diverse medical specialties should
be involved in its diagnosis and treatment. With the purpose of unifying criteria
about this condition, a scientific-based consensus was elaborated. A
questionnaire including the most important topics such as cardio-metabolic risk, 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and polycystic ovary syndrome, was designed and
sent to national experts. When no agreement among them was achieved, the Delphi
methodology was applied. The main conclusions reached are that clinical findings 
are critical for the diagnosis of insulin resistance, not being necessary blood
testing. Acquisition of a healthy lifestyle is the most important therapeutic
tool. Insulin-sensitizing drugs should be prescribed to individuals at high risk 
of disease according to clinically validated outcomes. There are specific
recommendations for pregnant women, children, adolescents and older people.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872015000500012 
PMID: 26203576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2016;16(1):12-8.

Creatine and the Liver: Metabolism and Possible Interactions.

Barcelos RP, Stefanello ST, Mauriz JL, Gonzalez-Gallego J, Soares FA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquimica e Biologia Molecular, Centro de Ciencias Naturais e
Exatas, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul,
Brazil. felix@ufsm.br.

The process of creatine synthesis occurs in two steps, catalyzed by
L-arginine:glycine amidinotransferase (AGAT) and guanidinoacetate
N-methyltransferase (GAMT), which take place mainly in kidney and liver,
respectively. This molecule plays an important energy/pH buffer function in
tissues, and to guarantee the maintenance of its total body pool, the lost
creatine must be replaced from diet or de novo synthesis. Creatine administration
is known to decrease the consumption of Sadenosyl methionine and also reduce the 
homocysteine production in liver, diminishing fat accumulation and resulting in
beneficial effects in fatty liver and non-alcoholic liver disease. Different
studies have shown that creatine supplementation could supply brain energy,
presenting neuroprotective effects against the encephalopathy induced by
hyperammonemia in acute liver failure. Creatine is also taken by many athletes
for its ergogenic properties. However, little is known about the adverse effects 
of creatine supplementation, which are barely described in the literature, with
reports of mainly hypothetical effects arising from a small number of scientific 
publications. Antioxidant effects have been found in several studies, although
one of the theories regarding the potential for toxicity from creatine
supplementation is that it can increase oxidative stress and potentially form
carcinogenic compounds.


PMID: 26202197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Drugs. 2015 Aug;75(12):1373-92. doi: 10.1007/s40265-015-0437-3.

Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis: Limited Available Treatment Options but Promising 
Drugs in Development and Recent Progress Towards a Regulatory Approval Pathway.

Filozof C(1), Goldstein BJ, Williams RN, Sanyal A.

Author information: 
(1)Covance Clinical Development Services, Osprey House, Maidenhead Office Park,
Maidenhead, UK, claudia.filozof@covance.com.

The prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) is increasing world-wide in parallel to the increase of
the obesity epidemic. Insulin resistance (IR) and the accumulation of
triglyceride-derived toxic lipid metabolites play a key role in its pathogenesis.
Multiple biomarkers are being evaluated for the non-invasive diagnosis of NASH.
However, a percutaneous liver biopsy is still the gold standard method; the
minimal diagnostic criteria include the presence of >5% macrovesicular steatosis,
inflammation, and liver cell ballooning. Several pharmaceutical agents have been 
evaluated for the treatment of NASH; however, no single therapy has been approved
so far. Due to the increasing prevalence and the health burden, there is a high
need to develop therapeutic strategies for patients with NASH targeting both
those with early-stage disease as well as those with advanced liver fibrosis.
There are unique challenges in the design of studies for these target
populations. Collaborative efforts of health authorities, medical disease
experts, and the pharmaceutical industry are ongoing to align options for a
registrational pathway. Several companies pursuing different mechanisms of action
are nearing the end of phase II with their candidates. This manuscript reviews
those compounds with a variety of mode of actions that have been evaluated and/or
are currently being tested with the goal of achieving a NAFLD/NASH indication.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-015-0437-3 
PMCID: PMC4532706
PMID: 26201461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Wiley Interdiscip Rev RNA. 2015 Sep-Oct;6(5):581-93. doi: 10.1002/wrna.1295. Epub
2015 Jul 21.

'Micro-managers' of hepatic lipid metabolism and NAFLD.

Liu W(1,)(2), Cao H(1,)(2), Yan J(3), Huang R(4), Ying H(1,)(2,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Food Safety Research, Institute for Nutritional Sciences,
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China. (2)Shanghai Xuhui
Central Hospital, Shanghai Clinical Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Shanghai, China. (3)Model Animal Research Center, and MOE Key Laboratory of Model
Animals for Disease Study, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China. (4)SIBS (Institute
of Health Sciences)-Changhai Hospital Joint Center for Translational Research,
Institutes for Translational Research (CAS-SMMU), Shanghai, China. (5)Key
Laboratory of Food Safety Risk Assessment, Ministry of Health, Beijing, China.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is tightly associated with insulin
resistance, type 2 diabetes, and obesity. As the defining feature of NAFLD,
hepatic steatosis develops as a consequence of metabolic dysregulation of de novo
lipogenesis, fatty acid uptake, fatty acid oxidation, and triglycerides (TG)
export. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of endogenous small noncoding RNAs, play
critical roles in various biological processes through regulating gene expression
at post-transcriptional level. A growing body of evidence suggests that miRNAs
not only maintain hepatic TG homeostasis under physiological condition, but also 
participate in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. In this review, we focus on the current
knowledge of the hepatic miRNAs associated with the development of liver
steatosis and the regulatory mechanisms involved, which might be helpful to
further understand the nature of NAFLD and provide a sound scientific basis for
the drug development.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/wrna.1295 
PMID: 26198708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Biomolecules. 2015 Jul 21;5(3):1563-79. doi: 10.3390/biom5031563.

Roles of Chemokines and Chemokine Receptors in Obesity-Associated Insulin
Resistance and Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Xu L(1), Kitade H(2), Ni Y(3), Ota T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Metabolism and Nutrition, Brain/Liver Interface Medicine
Research Center, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa 920-8640, Japan.
liangxu1023@gmail.com. (2)Department of Cell Metabolism and Nutrition,
Brain/Liver Interface Medicine Research Center, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa
920-8640, Japan. hiro.kitacchi@gmail.com. (3)Department of Cell Metabolism and
Nutrition, Brain/Liver Interface Medicine Research Center, Kanazawa University,
Kanazawa 920-8640, Japan. shali0145@gmail.com. (4)Department of Cell Metabolism
and Nutrition, Brain/Liver Interface Medicine Research Center, Kanazawa
University, Kanazawa 920-8640, Japan. tota@staff.kanazawa-u.ac.jp.

Abundant evidence has demonstrated that obesity is a state of low-grade chronic
inflammation that triggers the release of lipids, aberrant adipokines,
pro-inflammatory cytokines, and several chemokines from adipose tissue. This
low-grade inflammation underlies the development of insulin resistance and
associated metabolic comorbidities such as type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). During this development, adipose tissue
macrophages accumulate through chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 2 and the ligand
for this receptor, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), is considered to
be pivotal for the development of insulin resistance. To date, the chemokine
system is known to be comprised of approximately 40 chemokines and 20 chemokine
receptors that belong to the seven-transmembrane G protein-coupled receptor
family and, as a result, chemokines appear to exhibit a high degree of functional
redundancy. Over the past two decades, the physiological and pathological
properties of many of these chemokines and their receptors have been elucidated. 
The present review highlights chemokines and chemokine receptors as key
contributing factors that link obesity to insulin resistance, T2DM, and NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5031563 
PMCID: PMC4598764
PMID: 26197341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S104-8. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.06.001. Epub 2015 Jul 17.

Proangiogenic factors in the development of HCC in alcoholic cirrhosis.

Machado MV(1), Cortez-Pinto H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gastrenterologia, Hospital Santa Maria, CHLN; Unidade de
Nutrição e Metabolismo, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(2)Departamento de Gastrenterologia, Hospital Santa Maria, CHLN; Unidade de
Nutrição e Metabolismo, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
Electronic address: hlcortezpinto@netcabo.pt.

Alcoholic liver disease, the most common cause of liver cirrhosis, is associated 
with an increased risk for hepatocellular carcinoma. Angiogenic factors have been
implicated in pathophysiology of cirrhosis, and of hepatocellular carcinoma, and 
in particular of alcoholic liver cirrhosis, due to alcohol induced hypoxia
associated with increased hepatic oxygen consumption. In one study, it was found 
that among genetic polymorphisms in proangiogenic factors, KDR and VEFGA may
confer an increased risk of HCC, in patients with ALD. There is need of further
studies of the proangiogenic factors in HCC, in order to help us define their use
as prognostic markers and also as markers of response to treatment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.06.001 
PMID: 26193870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S109-14. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.06.005. Epub 2015 Jul 17.

Management of alcohol recurrence before and after liver transplantation.

Marroni CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Transplant Adult Group-Irmandade da Santa Casa de Misericórdia de Porto 
Alegre, Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, 
RS, Brazil. Electronic address: nmarroni@terra.com.br.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of chronic liver disease worldwide
and can lead to steatosis, steatohepatitis, fibrosis, cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma. The primary effective treatment for patients with ALD
is total alcohol abstinence, although sometimes impossible, liver transplant (LT)
is the gold standard treatment for end-stage ALD, which represents the second
most common diagnosis among patients undergoing this procedure. Liver transplant 
in ALD has better results than those for other etiologies. The alcohol
consumption recidivism after LT is frequent and 10% to 15% of these resume heavy 
drinking with consequences to the new liver. The "6-month rule" of abstinence is 
an arbitrary threshold used in many transplant centers and has never been shown
to affect survival after LT. The optimal abstinence period in pre-transplant
remains unclear. The patients in the pre- and post-transplant period need
evaluation of a multidisciplinary team, as psychiatrist, addiction specialists,
including counselling and attendance to support groups. The impact of alcohol
relapse on post-transplant outcomes is not entirely clear but is worse with
continuing heavy drinking, with poorer survival beyond the fifth post-transplant 
year malignancy and cardiovascular disease and not recurrent liver failure. Acute
alcoholic hepatitis, in careful selected cases, should be transplanted and have
comparable survival outcomes. Prevention of alcoholic recidivism has proved to be
the most important treatment after liver transplantation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.06.005 
PMID: 26193869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S86-91. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.006. Epub 2015 Jul 17.

Chronic alcohol drinking: Liver and pancreatic cancer?

Zakhari S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1250 Eye Street, NW, suite 400, Washington, DC 20005, USA. Electronic address:
Samir.zakhari@discus.org.

Cancer is a multifactorial disease that results from complex interactions of
numerous risk factors - genetic and environmental - over time, eventually leading
to the diseased phenotypes. Thus, while epidemiological studies can point to risk
factors, they cannot determine cause and effect relationships, and are unable to 
give biological and clinical insights into carcinogenesis. The link between any
risk factor and carcinogenesis needs to be validated in experimental models. This
is particularly true in epidemiological studies on alcohol consumption and its
consequences. While there is no doubt that heavy alcohol consumption has
devastating health effects, the inconsistencies in alcohol-related
epidemiological studies and cancer suffer from possible sources of the
variability in outcomes, ranging from inaccuracy of self-report of consumption to
the problem of correlating cancer that started decades earlier to current or
recent alcohol consumption. To further study the interactions between alcohol and
cancer, the use of "Molecular Pathological Epidemiology" (MPE) advocated by Ogino
et al. for dissecting the interplay between etiological factors, cellular and
molecular characteristics, and disease progression in cancer is appropriate. MPE 
does not consider cancer as a single entity, rather it integrates analyses of
epidemiological studies with the macroenvironment and molecular and
microenvironment. This approach allows investigating the relationships between
potential etiological agents and cancer based on molecular signatures. More
research is needed to fully elucidate the link between heavy alcohol consumption 
and pancreatic cancer, and to further investigate the roles of acetaldehyde and
FAEEs in pancreatic carcinogenesis.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.006 
PMID: 26193868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S7-S11. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.008. Epub 2015 Jul 17.

Combination therapy: New hope for alcoholic hepatitis?

Gao B(1), Shah VH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Liver Diseases, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. Electronic address:
bgao@mail.nih.gov. (2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, MN, USA.

Alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is a severe form of alcoholic liver disease with high
mortality. The pathogenesis of AH is not fully understood, but it is generally
believed that inflammation is a key factor leading to liver failure in AH.
Steroids, which have broad immunosuppressive effects, have been used for the
treatment of AH over the last forty years. Steroids elicit modest improvement in 
short-term survival rate in patients with severe AH, but also cause severe side
effects. Several specific inflammatory targets (e.g., IL-1, LPS, and gut
microbiota) are currently under investigation for the treatment of AH with the
goal to obviate or reduce steroid administration. In addition to inflammation,
impaired liver regeneration is another major cause of liver failure in AH, which 
deteriorates further after steroid treatment because inflammation plays a key
role in promoting liver repair. Interleukin-22 (IL-22) is a promising drug for
the treatment of AH because of its hepatoprotective and anti-fibrotic functions
and relatively few known side effects. In addition, IL-22 treatment also
ameliorates bacterial infection and kidney injury, two major complications
associated with severe AH. IL-22 is currently under investigation in preclinical 
and clinical studies and may hold great promise for AH by providing more
beneficial effects and fewer side effects than current therapies.

Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.008 
PMID: 26193867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Int J Urol. 2015 Nov;22(11):982-90. doi: 10.1111/iju.12877. Epub 2015 Jul 20.

Emerging links between non-neurogenic lower urinary tract symptoms secondary to
benign prostatic obstruction, metabolic syndrome and its components: A systematic
review.

Russo GI(1), Castelli T(1), Urzì D(1), Privitera S(1), La Vignera S(2),
Condorelli RA(2), Calogero AE(2), Favilla V(1), Cimino S(1), Morgia G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, University of Catania, Catania, Italy. (2)Department of
Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Catania, Catania, Italy.

Comment in
    Int J Urol. 2015 Nov;22(11):993.
    Int J Urol. 2015 Nov;22(11):992.
    Int J Urol. 2015 Nov;22(11):991.

We carried out a systematic review in order to determine the connection between
lower urinary tract symptoms secondary to bladder outlet obstruction and
metabolic syndrome with its components. We searched the Cochrane Central Register
of Controlled Trials, PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Database of Systematic Review 
and Web of Science from their inception until January 2015 to identify all
eligible studies on the effect of metabolic syndrome (or component factors) on
the presence or severity of lower urinary tract symptoms/bladder outlet
obstruction in men. This analysis was carried out according to the STrengthening 
the Reporting of OBservational studies in Epidemiology guidelines. In total, 19
studies were identified as eligible for this systematic review. The quality
assessment score was ≥50% in more than half of the studies (11/19). The evidence 
synthesis showed a positive association between metabolic syndrome, number of
components and lower urinary tract symptoms/bladder outlet obstruction. In
particular, the major endocrine aberrations of this connection are central
obesity and hypertriglyceridemia. The links between insulin resistance and lower 
urinary tract symptoms/bladder outlet obstruction should be better investigated. 
Ethnic disparities in all examined studies showed a different impact of metabolic
syndrome on lower urinary tract symptoms/bladder outlet obstruction severity and 
such influence still remain unclear. The relationship between metabolic syndrome 
and lower urinary tract symptoms/bladder outlet obstruction open the way for
introducing physical activity and diet as recognized first-line interventions for
treating lower urinary tract symptoms. However, this connection should be
investigated in two different ethnic cohorts (i.e. Asian vs Caucasian) in order
to better understand the impact of ethnic disparities on metabolic syndrome and
lower urinary tract symptoms/bladder outlet obstruction severity.

© 2015 The Japanese Urological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/iju.12877 
PMID: 26193757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Nov;27(11):1237-48. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000429.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and carotid artery atherosclerosis in children
and adults: a meta-analysis.

Madan SA(1), John F, Pyrsopoulos N, Pitchumoni CS.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine/Montefiore
Medical Center, New York City, New York bDepartment of Medicine, Division of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School/Saint
Peters University Hospital, New Brunswick cDepartment of Medicine, Division of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School/University
Hospital, Newark, New Jersey, USA.

Observational studies suggest that nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
associated with increased carotid intimal medial thickness (C-IMT) and carotid
plaques in both children and adults. We carried out a meta-analysis to evaluate
the relationship between NAFLD and carotid atherosclerosis measured as C-IMT and 
carotid plaque prevalence. Medline (Ovid), PubMed, Web of Science, and CINAHL
databases were searched from 1946 to September 2014, complemented with a manual
review of references of the published articles for studies that compared C-IMT or
carotid plaque prevalence in adults and children. Results were pooled using both 
fixed and random effects models. Of the studies identified, 20 were suitable for 
testing the effect of NAFLD on C-IMT in adults, 13 for testing the effect of
NAFLD on carotid plaque prevalence in adults, and five for testing the effect of 
NAFLD on C-IMT in the pediatric population. The pooled data from 20 studies
(19,274 adult participants: NAFLD=8652, controls=10,622) showed significantly
increased C-IMT in patients with NAFLD, compared with controls without NAFLD,
according to both fixed [standardized mean difference (SMD)=0.251, 95% confidence
interval (CI): 0.220-0.282, P<0.001] and random effects models (SMD=0.944, 95%
CI: 0.728-1.160, P<0.001). NAFLD was also found to be associated with a higher
carotid artery plaque prevalence when compared with controls, according to both
fixed (OR=1.273, 95% CI=1.162-1.394, P<0.001) and random effects models
(OR=1.769, 95% CI: 1.213-2.581, P=0.003), on pooling of 13 studies (14,445 adult 
participants: NAFLD=5399 and controls=9046). Analysis of pooled data from five
studies in the pediatric population (1121 pediatric participants: NAFLD=312 and
controls=809) also found NAFLD to be associated with significantly increased
C-IMT according to fixed (SMD=0.995, 95% CI: 0.840-1.150, P<0.001) and random
effects models (1.083, 95% CI: 0.457-1.709, P=0.001). NAFLD is associated with
increased C-IMT in both children and adults, and with increased carotid plaque
prevalence in adults. Individuals identified with carotid disease should be
evaluated for NAFLD and vice versa.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000429 
PMID: 26193052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Oct;27(10):1126-9. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000434.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease-related cardiovascular risk: Is there an
association with blood hemoglobin levels?

Tanoglu A(1), Kara M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, GATA Haydarpasa Training Hospital, Istanbul,
Turkey.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease
in Western countries. There is emerging evidence on the relationship between
NAFLD and increased cardiovascular risk. NAFLD is strongly associated with
metabolic syndrome, but several other entities play a role in the pathogenesis of
NAFLD more than metabolic syndrome. Currently, studies suggest that elevated
hemoglobin levels are associated not only with the existence of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis but also with the severity of hepatic fibrosis. In this review,
we aimed to discuss the potential role of high hemoglobin levels in the
pathogenesis of NAFLD and NAFLD-associated cardiovascular risk.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000434 
PMID: 26193051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S29-34. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.007. Epub 2015 Jul 17.

Synergy between NAFLD and AFLD and potential biomarkers.

Lakshman R(1), Shah R(2), Reyes-Gordillo K(2), Varatharajalu R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Lipid Research Laboratory, VA Medical Center and Department of Biochemistry
and Molecular Medicine, The George Washington University, 50 Irving Street,
Washington, DC 20422, NW, USA. Electronic address: raj.lakshman@va.gov. (2)Lipid 
Research Laboratory, VA Medical Center and Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Medicine, The George Washington University, 50 Irving Street,
Washington, DC 20422, NW, USA.

Fatty liver (hepatosteatosis) is the earliest abnormality in the pathogenesis of 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and alcoholic fatty liver disease
(AFLD) due either to metabolic risk factors associated with insulin resistance
and/or metabolic syndrome in the absence of alcohol consumption or to chronic
alcohol abuse. When unchecked, both NAFLD and AFLD lead to steatohepatitis,
fibrosis, cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and eventual death. A number 
of common mechanisms contribute to the above various stages of hepatocyte injury,
including lipotoxicity, endotoxin release, oxidative and ER stress leading to
increased pro-inflammatory cytokines that stimulate hepatic fibrogenesis and
cirrhosis by activating the quiescent hepatic stellate cells (HSC) into
myofibroblasts. Significantly, patients with either NAFLD or AFLD respond
favorably to early treatment modalities to reduce hepatic fat accumulation and
consequent increased inflammatory signalling and activation of hepatic stellate
cells. Although the pathogenic pathways associated with NAFLD and AFLD are
seemingly similar, differentiation of the molecular mechanism/s of the
pathogenesis of these liver diseases is critical in identifying the unique
molecular signatures, especially in the early diagnosis of NAFLD and AFLD.
Current clinical practice requires the invasive biopsy procedure for the
conclusive diagnosis of NAFLD and AFLD. Micro RNAs (miRNAs) are ∼22 nucleotide
non-coding sequences that bind to the 3'-untranslated region of target
transcripts and regulate gene expression by degradation of target mRNAs or
inhibition of translation. Emerging studies may prove to establish miRNAs as
excellent non-invasive tools for the early diagnosis of various stages of liver
diseases.

Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.007 
PMID: 26189985  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S51-9. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.005. Epub 2015 Jul 17.

Liver fibrosis: Common mechanisms and antifibrotic therapies.

Schuppan D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Translational Immunology and Research Center for Immunotherapy,
University of Mainz Medical Center, Mainz, Germany; Division of Gastroenterology,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA.
Electronic address: dschuppa@bidmc.harvard.edu.

Liver fibrosis and in particular cirrhosis have become major endpoints in
clinical trials of patients with chronic liver diseases. Here, viral hepatitis,
alcoholic and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis have become the major etiologies. We 
have made great progress in our understanding of the mechanisms and the cell
biology of liver fibrosis and have already made the transition from preclinical
testing of antifibrotic agents and strategies towards clinical translation. There
continues to be an urgent need for specific antifibrotic therapies, despite the
advent of highly potent antiviral agents that can even induce regression of
advanced fibrosis. This review addresses central mechanisms and cells to be
targeted, current antifibrotic drug trials, and the state of non-invasive
biomarker development that is key to rapid clinical progress and to a
personalized treatment of fibrosis.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.005 
PMID: 26189980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S41-5. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.015. Epub 2015 Jul 17.

Therapeutic management of alcoholic hepatitis.

Mathurin P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'hépato-gastroentérologie, hôpital Claude-Huriez, 1(er) étage est,
avenue Michel-Polonovski, 59037 Lille, France. Electronic address:
philippe.mathurin@chru-lille.fr.

Several investigators have given priority to treatment of AH, as this entity is
associated with significant early mortality. Patients at significant risk of
early death are identified by the use of prognostic models. The Lille model
highlights the benefits obtained from strategy integrating the impact of
treatment upon the evaluated endpoint. Survival impact of corticosteroids is
significant in complete and partial responders, whereas it appeared negligible in
null-responders. Infection screening is warranted, but should not contraindicate 
steroids. In terms of mechanisms, non-response to steroids is the key factor in
development of infection and prediction of survival. For patients with severe
alcoholic hepatitis failing to medical therapy can be identified earlier and have
a 6-month survival around 30%; early liver transplantation in those patients is
attractive but highly controversial as it challenges the 6-month abstinence rule 
prior to LT.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.015 
PMID: 26189979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Hepatology. 2015 Nov;62(5):1417-32. doi: 10.1002/hep.27999. Epub 2015 Oct 1.

Comparative effectiveness of pharmacological interventions for nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis: A systematic review and network meta-analysis.

Singh S(1,)(2), Khera R(3), Allen AM(1), Murad MH(4), Loomba R(2,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN. (2)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of
Medicine, University of California, San Diego, CA. (3)Department of Internal
Medicine, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA. (4)Knowledge
Synthesis Unit, Robert D. and Patricia E. Kern Center for the Science of Health
Care Delivery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN. (5)NAFLD Translational Research Unit, 
La Jolla, CA. (6)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Family and Preventive
Medicine, University of California, San Diego, CA.

We performed a Bayesian network meta-analysis combining direct and indirect
treatment comparisons to assess the comparative effectiveness of pharmacological 
agents for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Through
systematic literature review, we identified nine randomized, controlled trials
(RCTs) including 964 patients with biopsy-proven NASH, comparing vitamin E,
thiazolidinediones (TZDs), pentoxifylline, or obeticholic acid to one another or 
placebo. The primary outcome was improvement in fibrosis stage; secondary
outcomes were improvement in ballooning degeneration, lobular inflammation, and
steatosis. We reported relative risks (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs)
from direct meta-analysis and 95% credible intervals (CrIs) from Bayesian network
meta-analysis, and used Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and
Evaluation (GRADE) criteria to appraise quality of evidence. Moderate-quality
evidence supports the use of pentoxifylline (RR, 0.26; 95% CrI: 0.05-1.00) and
obeticholic acid (RR, 0.81; 95% CI: 0.70-0.95) over placebo in improving
fibrosis. High-quality evidence supports the effect of vitamin E, TZDs, and
obeticholic acid over placebo in improving ballooning degeneration. All four
interventions seemed to have at least moderate-quality evidence over placebo to
improve steatosis. Moderate-quality evidence supports that TZDs, pentoxifylline, 
and obeticholic acid decrease lobular inflammation. All the head-to-head
comparisons were supported by very-low-quality evidence except for superiority of
TZDs over vitamin E on improving steatosis and lobular inflammation, which had
moderate-quality evidence.CONCLUSIONS: Based on direct and network meta-analysis,
pentoxifylline and obeticholic acid improve fibrosis, and vitamin E, TZDs, and
obeticholic acid improve ballooning degeneration in patients with NASH. Future
comparative trials of combination therapies targeting distinct histological
features are warranted.

© 2015 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.27999 
PMID: 26189925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


283. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr. 2015 Sep;39(1 Suppl):8S-17S. doi:
10.1177/0148607115595974. Epub 2015 Jul 17.

Clinically Relevant Mechanisms of Lipid Synthesis, Transport, and Storage.

Kalish BT(1), Fell GL(2), Nandivada P(2), Puder M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts. (2)Department of Surgery and The Vascular Biology Program,
Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Department of Surgery and The Vascular Biology Program, Boston Children's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
Mark.Puder@childrens.harvard.edu.

Lipids not only are fundamental nutrients but also serve as basic structural
components of cells and as multifunctional signaling molecules. Lipid metabolism 
pathways underlie basic processes in health and disease and are the targets of
novel therapeutics. In this review, we explore the molecular control of lipid
synthesis, trafficking, and storage, with a focus on clinically relevant
pathways. To illustrate the clinical relevance of molecular lipid regulation, we 
highlight how these biochemical processes contribute to the pathogenesis of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, a component of the metabolic syndrome and a
paradigmatic example of lipid dysregulation.

© 2015 American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition.

DOI: 10.1177/0148607115595974 
PMID: 26187937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S2-6. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.023. Epub 2015 Jul 15.

Autophagy in alcoholic liver disease, self-eating triggered by drinking.

Wang L(1), Khambu B(2), Zhang H(2), Yin XM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine, Indiana
University, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA; College of Animal Science and Veterinary
Medicine, Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an, 271018 Shandong, China.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine, Indiana
University, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. (3)Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN
46202, USA. Electronic address: xmyin@iu.edu.

Macroautophagy (autophagy) is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism. It is
important for normal cellular function and also plays critical roles in the
etiology and pathogenesis of a number of human diseases. In alcohol-induced liver
disease, autophagy is a protective mechanism against the liver injury caused by
alcohol. Autophagy is activated in acute ethanol treatment but could be
suppressed in chronic and/or high dose treatment of alcohol. The selective
removal of lipid droplets and/or damaged mitochondria is likely the major mode of
autophagy in reducing liver injury. Understanding the dynamics of the autophagy
process and the approach to modulate autophagy could help finding new ways to
battle against alcohol-induced liver injury.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.023 
PMID: 26186877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015;9(8):1031-7. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1052065.

Autophagy in ethanol-exposed liver disease.

Wang LR(1), Zhu GQ, Shi KQ, Braddock M, Zheng MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection and Liver Diseases, Liver Research Center, the First
Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325000, China.

Ethanol metabolism in hepatocytes causes the generation of reactive oxygen
species, endoplasmic reticulum stress and alterations in mitochondrial energy and
REDOX metabolism. In ethanol-exposed liver disease, autophagy not only acts as a 
cleanser to remove damaged organelles and cytosolic components, but also
selectively clears specific targets such as lipid droplets and damaged
mitochondria. Moreover, ethanol appears to play a role in protecting hepatocytes 
from apoptosis at certain concentrations. This article describes the evidence,
function and potential mechanism of autophagy in ethanol-exposed liver disease
and the controversy surrounding the effects of ethanol on autophagy.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1052065 
PMID: 26186640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Dig Liver Dis. 2015 Oct;47(10):819-25. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.05.021. Epub 2015 
Jun 8.

Diagnosis and treatment of nutritional deficiencies in alcoholic liver disease:
Overview of available evidence and open issues.

Rossi RE(1), Conte D(2), Massironi S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology and Endoscopy Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda-Ospedale
Maggiore Policlinico, Italy; Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation,
Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy. Electronic address:
robertaelisa.rossi@gmail.com. (2)Gastroenterology and Endoscopy Unit, Fondazione 
IRCCS Ca' Granda-Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Italy; Department of
Pathophysiology and Transplantation, Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan,
Italy. (3)Gastroenterology and Endoscopy Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca'
Granda-Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Italy.

Malnutrition is common in alcoholic liver disease and is associated with high
rates of complications and mortality. In this article, the current literature was
reviewed to highlight the relevance of proper nutritional management providing
levels of evidence, when available. A PubMed search was performed for
English-language publications from 1980 through 2014 with the keywords: alcoholic
liver disease, nutritional deficiencies, nutritional support, enteral nutrition, 
parenteral nutrition, and protein-energy malnutrition. Manuscripts focused on
nutritional approach in patients with alcoholic liver disease were selected.
Although nutritional support for malnourished patients improves the outcome of
hospitalization, surgery, transplantation and reduces the complications of liver 
disease and the length of hospital stay, specific guidelines are scanty. Both
enteral and parenteral nutrition appear to improve nutritional parameters and
liver function; however data on survival is often conflicting. As micronutrient
depletion is common in alcoholic liver disease and each deficiency produces
specific sequelae, all cirrhotic patients should be screened at baseline for
deficiencies of micronutrient and supplemented as needed. In summary,
protein-energy malnutrition and micronutrient depletion are clinical concerns in 
alcoholic liver disease. Nutritional therapy, including enteral nutrition,
parenteral nutrition and micronutrient supplementation should be part of the
multidisciplinary management of these patients.

Copyright © 2015 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.05.021 
PMID: 26164399  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S35-40. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.014. Epub 2015 Jul 6.

Genetic polymorphisms and oxidative stress in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH): A mini review.

Oliveira CP(1), Stefano JT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology (LIM-07), University of São Paulo School of
Medicine, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: cpm@usp.br. (2)Department of
Gastroenterology (LIM-07), University of São Paulo School of Medicine, São Paulo,
Brazil.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common form of liver
disease, thus becoming an epidemic in the Western world with a major impact on
public health. NAFLD encompasses a large spectrum of disease ranging from simple 
steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and may progress to fibrosis,
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The role of genetic polymorphisms
is not clear. Evidence supports the hypothesis that genetic factors are involved 
in the predisposition to NAFLD, and thus should emphasize the polygenic nature of
the disease as a limiting factor in these studies. However, the polymorphic
allele associated with increased hepatic steatosis appears to be associated with 
various different combinations of phenotypes, including increase or decrease of
the biochemical and clinical parameters. It is possible that SNPs in genes
involved in excessive fatty acid oxidation would predispose to NASH. On the other
hand, the SNPs could determine the inadequate mitochondrial overload during times
of excessive FFA supply. However due to the multiple hits involving some
pathways, a brief review of genetic variants on mediators of oxidative stress,
inflammation and lipid metabolism pathways is presented. It is clear that the
discovery of genetic and environmental associations, robust enough to direct the 
treatment and to trace specific prevention strategies would only be possible with
studies examining the susceptibility of NAFLD in a number of individuals
considerably higher than assessed so far. These studies need a large number of
well phenotyped cases and controls and certainly require national and
international collaboration.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.014 
PMID: 26160475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep;39 Suppl 1:S46-50. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.012. Epub 2015 Jul 6.

Novel therapeutic targets for steatohepatitis.

Sanyal AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of Internal
Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, MCV Box 980341,
Richmond, VA 23298-0341, United States. Electronic address: asanyal@mcvh-vcu.edu.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in the Western hemisphere and is growing as an indication for liver
transplantation. There are currently no approved therapies for NAFLD, especially 
its aggressive phenotype non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). However, there has
been an explosion of information related to NASH that provides detailed data on
the molecular pathogenesis of NASH and its progression to cirrhosis. The current 
review summarizes the pathophysiological rationale for the selection of specific 
targets for the treatment of NASH and provides an overview of the current
strategies being used for the treatment of NASH and the pathophysiological
rationale for the use of these strategies. Specifically, those targets that are
being studied in both alcoholic and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis are also
mentioned.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2015.05.012 
PMID: 26160474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Dig Dis. 2015;33(4):598-607. doi: 10.1159/000375353. Epub 2015 Jul 6.

Challenges and Management of Liver Cirrhosis: Practical Issues in the Therapy of 
Patients with Cirrhosis due to NAFLD and NASH.

Traussnigg S(1), Kienbacher C, Halilbasic E, Rechling C, Kazemi-Shirazi L, Hofer 
H, Munda P, Trauner M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Medical University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of the
metabolic syndrome and comprises a liver disease spectrum ranging from steatosis 
to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with risk of progression to liver
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Associated metabolic conditions and
comorbidities such as obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases are common
and require concerted management. Adiponutrin (PNPLA3) variants may help to
identify NAFLD patients at higher risk for liver disease progression towards
advanced fibrosis and HCC. The therapeutic options in NAFLD/NASH include
lifestyle modification, pharmacological treatment, bariatric surgery for patients
with morbid obesity and treatment of complications of liver cirrhosis and HCC,
including liver transplantation. Insulin sensitizers and antioxidative treatment 
strategies with vitamin E are among the best-established pharmacological
approaches, but both drugs have long-term safety issues and there is limited
evidence in cirrhotic patients. Treatment of concomitant/underlying metabolic
conditions with statins or metformin may also have beneficial effects on portal
hypertension, complications of liver cirrhosis and HCC prevention. The bile acid 
receptor FXR may be a promising novel therapeutic target for the treatment of
NAFLD/NASH, fibrosis and portal hypertension, but the prognostic implications of 
associated changes in low- and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol require
further studies. Morbidly obese NASH patients can benefit from bariatric surgery 
which may reduce liver fibrosis but carries a risk of decompensation in patients 
with advanced liver cirrhosis. When carefully selected, patients with NASH
cirrhosis undergoing liver transplantation have a good outcome. This review
summarizes recent progress in the management of patients with liver cirrhosis due
to NASH.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000375353 
PMID: 26159280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2015;15(14):1187-94.

The Role of Epigenetics in the Progression of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Aguilar-Olivos NE, Oria-Hernández J, Ponciano-Rodríguez G, Chávez-Tapia NC, Uribe
M, Méndez-Sánchez N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Unit, Medica Sur Clinic & Foundation, Puente de Piedra 150,
Col. Toriello Guerra, ZP 14050, Mexico City, Mexico. nmendez@medicasur.org.mx.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease encompasses a spectrum of pathologies ranging
from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Patients with
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis have increased risk of cirrhosis, liver failure and
hepatocellular carcinoma. About 25% of subjects with simple steatosis progress to
steatohepatitis; nowadays, the detailed pathological factors influencing the
progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease remains unclear. It is proposed 
that genetic and environmental factors interact to determine the disease
phenotype. Epigenetics could explain some relationships between genes and
external influences. The epigenetic changes that have been related to
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease are DNA methylation, onecarbon metabolism,
histone modifications and the presence of micro-RNA. DNA methylation and
micro-RNAs have been investigated in human samples, whereas histone modifications
have only been studied until now in animal and cellular models. The aim of this
study is to review the most relevant information about epigenetic changes in
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.


PMID: 26156419  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Clin Biochem. 2015 Sep;48(13-14):923-30. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2015.06.023. 
Epub 2015 Jul 4.

Gut-liver axis, nutrition, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Kirpich IA(1), Marsano LS(2), McClain CJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department of
Medicine, University of Louisville School of Medicine, 40202, Louisville, KY,
USA; Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Louisville School
of Medicine, 40202, Louisville, KY, USA. Electronic address:
I0kirp01@louisville.edu. (2)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and
Nutrition, Department of Medicine, University of Louisville School of Medicine,
40202, Louisville, KY, USA. Electronic address: luis.marsano@louisville.edu.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department of
Medicine, University of Louisville School of Medicine, 40202, Louisville, KY,
USA; Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Louisville School
of Medicine, 40202, Louisville, KY, USA; Robley Rex Veterans Medical Center,
40202, Louisville, KY, USA. Electronic address: cjmccl01@louisville.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a spectrum of diseases
involving hepatic fat accumulation, inflammation with the potential progression
to fibrosis and cirrhosis over time. NAFLD is often associated with obesity,
insulin resistance, and diabetes. The interactions between the liver and the gut,
the so-called "gut-liver axis", play a critical role in NAFLD onset and
progression. Compelling evidence links the gut microbiome, intestinal barrier
integrity, and NAFLD. The dietary factors may alter the gut microbiota and
intestinal barrier function, favoring the occurrence of metabolic endotoxemia and
low grade inflammation, thereby contributing to the development of obesity and
obesity-associated fatty liver disease. Therapeutic manipulations with prebiotics
and probiotics to modulate the gut microbiota and maintain intestinal barrier
integrity are potential agents for NAFLD management. This review summarizes the
current knowledge regarding the complex interplay between the gut microbiota,
intestinal barrier, and dietary factors in NAFLD pathogenesis. The concepts
addressed in this review have important clinical implications, although more work
needs to be done to understand how dietary factors affect the gut barrier and
microbiota, and to comprehend how microbe-derived components may interfere with
the host's metabolism contributing to NAFLD development.

Copyright © 2015 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2015.06.023 
PMCID: PMC4558208
PMID: 26151226  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Clin Transplant. 2015 Sep;29(9):728-37. doi: 10.1111/ctr.12585. Epub 2015 Aug 11.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease following liver transplantation: a clinical
review.

Merola J(1), Liapakis A(2), Mulligan DC(1), Yoo PS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Transplantation and Immunology, Department of Surgery, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. (2)Division of Digestive
Diseases, Department of Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
CT, USA.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is rapidly becoming the leading indication
for liver transplantation (LT) in the United States. While post-transplantation
outcomes are similar to other indications for transplant, recent evidence has
suggested that reduction in risk factors for post-transplant metabolic syndrome
may impose a significant survival benefit in this patient population.
Cardiovascular mortality is the leading cause of death following transplantation 
for NASH. While pre-transplant pharmacologic and surgical approaches have been
utilized to reduce cardiovascular risk factors following transplantation, the
effectiveness of these treatment approaches in the post-transplant setting is
poorly defined. Studies are urgently needed in the treatment of this rapidly
growing population.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ctr.12585 
PMID: 26147308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


293. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jun 28;21(24):7427-35. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i24.7427.

Liver fibrosis markers of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Enomoto H(1), Bando Y(1), Nakamura H(1), Nishiguchi S(1), Koga M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hirayuki Enomoto, Shuhei Nishiguchi, Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic 
Disease, Department of Internal Medicine, Hyogo College of Medicine, Hyogo
663-8501, Japan.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the major causes of chronic
liver injury. NAFLD includes a wide range of clinical conditions from simple
steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), advanced fibrosis, and liver
cirrhosis. The histological findings of NASH indicate hepatic steatosis and
inflammation with characteristic hepatocyte injury (e.g., ballooning
degeneration), as is observed in the patients with alcoholic liver disease. NASH 
is considered to be a potentially health-threatening disease that can progress to
cirrhosis. A liver biopsy remains the most reliable diagnostic method to
appropriately diagnose NASH, evaluate the severity of liver fibrosis, and
determine the prognosis and optimal treatment. However, this invasive technique
is associated with several limitations in routine use, and a number of biomarkers
have been developed in order to predict the degree of liver fibrosis. In the
present article, we review the current status of noninvasive biomarkers available
to estimate liver fibrosis in the patients with NASH. We also discuss our recent 
findings on the use of the glycated albumin-to-glycated hemoglobin ratio, which
is a new index that correlates to various chronic liver diseases, including NASH.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i24.7427 
PMCID: PMC4481437
PMID: 26139988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Cell Stress Chaperones. 2015 Nov;20(6):885-92. doi: 10.1007/s12192-015-0618-8.
Epub 2015 Jul 3.

The detection and role of heat shock protein 70 in various nondisease conditions 
and disease conditions: a literature review.

Qu B(1), Jia Y(2), Liu Y(2), Wang H(2), Ren G(2), Wang H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine, Taishan Hospital, No. 3 Tianwaicun Street, Taian City,
Shandong, 271000, People's Republic of China. qubaoge@sina.com. (2)Internal
Medicine, Taishan Hospital, No. 3 Tianwaicun Street, Taian City, Shandong,
271000, People's Republic of China.

As an intracellular polypeptide, heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) can be exposed on 
the plasma membrane and/or released into the circulation. However, the role of
HSP70 in various nondisease and disease conditions remains unknown. Quantitative 
methods for the detection of HSP70 have been used in clinical studies, revealing 
that an increase in circulating HSP70 is associated with various types of
exercise, elderly patients presenting with inflammation, mobile phones,
inflammation, sepsis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, carotid
intima-media thickness, glutamine-treated ill patients, mortality, diabetes
mellitus, active chronic glomerulonephritis, and cancers. Circulating HSP70
decreases with age in humans and in obstructive sleep apnea, arteriosclerosis,
atrial fibrillation (AF) following coronary artery bypass surgery, nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease, moderate-to-severe alcoholic fatty liver disease, hepatic
steatosis, and Helicobacter pylori infection. In conclusion, quantitative methods
can be used to detect HSP70, particularly in determining circulating HSP70
levels, using more convenient and rapid screening methods. Studies have shown
that changes in HSP70 are associated with various nondisease and disease
conditions; thus, HSP70 might be a novel potential biomarker reflecting various
nondisease conditions and also the severity of disease conditions. However, the
reliability and accuracy, as well as the underlying mechanism, of this
relationship remain poorly understood, and large-sample clinical research must be
performed to verify the role.

DOI: 10.1007/s12192-015-0618-8 
PMCID: PMC4595429
PMID: 26139132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015;9(9):1139-41. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1063417. Epub 2015 Jul 9.

In search of the magic bullet: can liver inflammation and fibrosis be reversed
with medications?

Zimmermann HW(1), Tacke F.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Medicine III, University Hospital Aachen, Pauwelsstrasse 30,
52074 Aachen, Germany.

Recent clinical studies comprising patients successfully treated for viral
hepatitis have shown that liver fibrogenesis may be reverted, even at later
stages including during bridging fibrosis and cirrhosis. Intensive research has
identified numerous potential novel targets in liver disease. Multiple innovative
compounds have now entered clinical trials, mostly in non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) and NASH-associated cirrhosis due to their outstanding
epidemiological relevance. In general, regression from liver fibrosis follows
four major mechanistic principles: termination of chronic damage, shifting the
cellular bias from inflammation to resolution, deactivation of myofibroblasts and
direct matrix degradation. Obeying these principles, several promising approaches
are currently evaluated, for example, targeting inflammatory macrophages via
inhibition of chemokine CCL2, its receptor CCR2 or galectin-3, bone
marrow-derived cell transfer, or antibodies against matrix-stabilizing lysyl
oxidase-like-2. The ongoing trials will reveal which of the many potential
targets prove to have clinical efficacy, bearing in mind that fibrosis
reversibility is less likely to be achieved in humans than in animal models.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1063417 
PMID: 26138749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


296. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 1;10(7):e0127782. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127782.
eCollection 2015.

Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse Elastography for the Non-Invasive Evaluation of 
Hepatic Fibrosis in Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Patients: A Systematic
Review & Meta-Analysis.

Liu H(1), Fu J(2), Hong R(2), Liu L(2), Li F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Chongqing Cancer Institute, No. 181 Han Yu
Road, Shapingba District, Chongqing, 400030, China. (2)Department of Ultrasonic
Medicine, Chongqing Cancer Institute, No. 181 Han Yu Road, Shapingba District,
Chongqing, 400030, China.

BACKGROUND: In order to better monitor non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) 
patients at higher risk for HCC, there is a need for non-invasive diagnostic
approaches to screen for the presence of advanced fibrosis in these patients. The
aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis will be to evaluate the
diagnostic efficacy of ARFI elastography in detecting hepatic fibrosis in NAFLD
patients.
METHODS: Relevant studies were identified from systematic searches of several
major electronic databases (PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Central Register of 
Controlled Trials). The primary outcomes were the summary sensitivity, summary
specificity, the diagnostic odds ratio, and the summary receiver operating
characteristic curve (SROC) of ARFI elastography in detecting significant
fibrosis (defined as 4>F≥2) in NAFLD patients. Study quality was assessed using
the Quality Assessment of Studies of Diagnostic Accuracy included in Systematic
Review (QUADAS-2).
RESULTS: The summary sensitivity and specificity of ARFI in detecting significant
fibrosis were 80.2% (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.758-0.842; p = 0.0000) and
85.2% (95% CI: 0.808-0.890), p = 0.1617), respectively. The pooled diagnostic
odds ratio of ARFI in detecting significant fibrosis was 30.13 (95% CI: 12.08-75;
chi-squared = 14.59, p = 0.0237). The area under the SROC curve (AUC) was 0.898
(standard error (SE): 0.031) with a Q* index of 0.830 (SE: 0.033).
CONCLUSIONS: ARFI elastography appears to be modestly accurate in detecting
significant fibrosis in NAFLD patients. Future studies in this field should
provide head-to-head comparisons of ARFI elastography versus other elastographic 
imaging modalities in NAFLD patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127782 
PMCID: PMC4489183
PMID: 26131717  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Liver Int. 2015 Oct;35(10):2203-17. doi: 10.1111/liv.12903. Epub 2015 Jul 23.

Hyperinsulinaemia and insulin signalling in the pathogenesis and the clinical
course of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Chettouh H(1,)(2), Lequoy M(1,)(2,)(3), Fartoux L(1,)(2,)(3), Vigouroux
C(1,)(2,)(4,)(5), Desbois-Mouthon C(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S 938, Centre de Recherche
Saint-Antoine, Paris, France. (2)INSERM, UMR_S 938, Centre de Recherche
Saint-Antoine, Paris, France. (3)Service d'Hépatologie, AP-HP, Hôpital
Saint-Antoine, Paris, France. (4)Laboratoire Commun de Biologie et Génétique
Moléculaires AP-HP, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, Paris, France. (5)ICAN, Institute of
Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, France.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most prevalent cancer and is one of
the leading causes of cancer-related death. The risk factors for HCC include
cirrhosis, chronic viral hepatitis, heavy alcohol intake and metabolic diseases
such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Insulin resistance is a 
common denominator of all of these conditions and is tethered to
hyperinsulinaemia. Here, we give an overview of the recent advances linking
hyperinsulinaemia to HCC development and progression. In particular, we summarise
the underlying causes of hyperinsulinaemia in the setting of chronic liver
diseases. We present epidemiological evidence linking metabolic diseases to HCC
risk and HCC-related mortality, as well as the pathogenic cellular and molecular 
mechanisms explaining this relation. A better understanding of the mechanisms by 
which insulin participates in HCC biology might ultimately provide novel
opportunities for prevention and treatment.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12903 
PMID: 26123841  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:597134. doi: 10.1155/2015/597134. Epub 2015 May 18.

The Dual Role of Nrf2 in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Regulation of
Antioxidant Defenses and Hepatic Lipid Metabolism.

Chambel SS(1), Santos-Gonçalves A(1), Duarte TL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Basic and Clinical Research on Iron Biology Group, Instituto de Biologia
Molecular e Celular (IBMC), Universidade do Porto, Rua do Campo Alegre 823,
4150180 Porto, Portugal ; Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde,
Universidade do Porto, Portugal.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a progressive liver disease with
ever-growing incidence in the industrialized world. It starts with the simple
accumulation of lipids in the hepatocyte and can progress to the more severe
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which is associated with inflammation,
fibrosis, and cirrhosis. There is increasing awareness that reactive oxygen
species and electrophiles are implicated in the pathogenesis of NASH.
Transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a
positive regulator of the expression of a battery of genes involved in the
protection against oxidative/electrophilic stress. In rodents, Nrf2 is also known
to participate in hepatic fatty acid metabolism, as a negative regulator of genes
that promote hepatosteatosis. We review relevant evidence in the literature that 
these two mechanisms may contribute to the protective role of Nrf2 in the
development of hepatic steatosis and in the progression to steatohepatitis,
particularly in young animals. We propose that age may be a key to explain
contradictory findings in the literature. In summary, Nrf2 mediates the crosstalk
between lipid metabolism and antioxidant defense mechanisms in experimental
models of NAFLD, and the nutritional or pharmacological induction of Nrf2
represents a promising potential new strategy for its prevention and treatment.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/597134 
PMCID: PMC4450261
PMID: 26120584  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Am J Chin Med. 2015;43(4):601-20. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X15500378. Epub 2015 Jun
28.

Traditional Chinese Herbal Medicine Penthorum chinense Pursh: A Phytochemical and
Pharmacological Review.

Wang A(1), Lin L(1), Wang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine and Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macau, China.

Penthorum chinense Pursh (ganhuangcao), a traditional Chinese medicine, is used
for the prevention and treatment of liver diseases, including hepatitis B,
hepatitis C, and alcoholic liver damage. A wide range of investigations have been
carried out on this herbal medicine from pharmacognosy to pharmaceuticals, as
well as pharmacology. The extract of P. chinense was reported to have significant
liver protective effects through anti-oxidation, reduction of key enzyme levels, 
inhibition of hepatitis B virus DNA replication, and promotion of bile secretion.
Based on the current knowledge, flavonoids and phenols are considered to be
responsible for P. chinense's bioactivities. The main purpose of this review is
to provide comprehensive and up-to-date knowledge of the phytochemical and
pharmacological studies performed on P. chinense during the past few decades.
Moreover, it intends to provide new insights into the research and development of
this herbal medicine.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X15500378 
PMID: 26119956  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Recent Pat Food Nutr Agric. 2015;7(2):75-82.

Soybean and Processed Soy Foods Ingredients, and Their Role in Cardiometabolic
Risk Prevention.

Imai S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1404-1 Katakura, Hachioji, Tokyo, 192-0982 Japan. imaishi@stf.teu.ac.jp.

Soybeans contain various components with potential health benefits effects, but
the impact of soy foods and processed soy foods on human health has gone
progressively characterized. Soy foods are the traditional Asian diets; however
because of their intended health benefits they have gone popular in Westerners,
especially postmenopausal women. There are lots of biologically active soybean
constituents that might lead to the possible health benefits of soy, and almost
consideration has concentrated on the isoflavones, which have both hormonal and
nonhormonal activities. The various other constituents of soybeans (saponins, soy
protein or peptides, lecithin, and flavonoids) have differing biological
activities. These include hormonal, immunological, bacteriological and digestive 
effects. This review is the broad assessment of the literature comprehensive the 
health effects of soy constituents that are of superlative interest. The health
benefits of soy foods on four diseases-cardiovascular disease (CVD),
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), obesity and diabetes-are the focus of 
the review.


PMID: 26118770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Dig Dis Sci. 2015 Dec;60(12):3513-24. doi: 10.1007/s10620-015-3772-z. Epub 2015
Jun 26.

Interactions of Hepatitis B Virus Infection with Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver
Disease: Possible Mechanisms and Clinical Impact.

Lin CW(1,)(2), Huang XL(1,)(2), Liu HL(1,)(2), Wang Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Guangdong Provincial Key
Laboratory of Viral Hepatitis Research, Department of Infectious Diseases and
Hepatology Unit, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou,
510515, China. (2)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Zhujiang Hospital,
Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510280, China. (3)State Key Laboratory of
Organ Failure Research, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Viral Hepatitis
Research, Department of Infectious Diseases and Hepatology Unit, Nanfang
Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
yanwang@smu.edu.cn.

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major etiology of chronic liver disease
worldwide. In the past decade, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has
emerged as a common liver disorder in general population. Accordingly, the
patient number of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) concomitant with NAFLD grows rapidly.
The present article reviewed the recent studies aiming to explore the
relationship between CHB and NAFLD from different aspects, including the relevant
pathogenesis of CHB and NAFLD, the intracellular molecular mechanisms overlaying 
HBV infection and hepatic steatosis, and the observational studies with animal
models and clinical cohorts for analyzing the coincidence of the two diseases. It
is concluded that although numerous cross-links have been suggested between the
molecular pathways in HBV infection and NAFLD pathogenesis, regarding whether HBV
infection can substantially interfere with the occurrence of NAFLD or vice versa 
in the patients, there is still far from a conclusive agreement.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-015-3772-z 
PMID: 26112990  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 Jan;31(1):23-31. doi: 10.1111/jgh.13026.

Incretin-based therapies for the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: 
A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Carbone LJ(1), Angus PW(2), Yeomans ND(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia. (2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Austin Health,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a leading cause 
of chronic liver disease in Western societies. Despite its significance, there
are no well-proven pharmacological treatments. Two novel classes of potential
pharmacotherapies are the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RA)
and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP-4I), collectively known as
incretin-based therapies. These have several metabolic and anti-inflammatory
actions that may be of benefit in NAFLD. The aim of this meta-analysis was to
evaluate their efficacy via a structured retrieval and pooled analysis of
relevant studies.
METHODS: Studies were sourced from electronic databases and meeting abstracts.
Main inclusion criteria were original studies investigating treatment of adults
with NAFLD using GLP-1 RA/DPP-4I. Key outcomes were a change in serum alanine
transaminase (ALT), as a marker of liver inflammation, and improvement in disease
status measured by imaging or histology.
RESULTS: Initial searching retrieved 1357 peer-reviewed articles and abstracts.
Four studies met all inclusion and exclusion criteria. There were a total of 136 
participants with NAFLD and concomitant type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
Meta-analysis (random-effects model) revealed a significant decrease in serum ALT
following treatment (mean reduction 14.1 IU/L, 95% confidence intervals [CI]
8.3-19.8, P < 0.0001). In two studies with imaging and tissue data, treatment was
found to significantly reduce steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis.
CONCLUSION: The significant decrease in a key biochemical marker of hepatic
inflammation following treatment with incretin-based therapies, as well as
improvements in imaging and histology, suggests these agents may be effective
options for managing NAFLD with comorbid T2DM.

© 2015 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.13026 
PMID: 26111358  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nutrients. 2015 Jun 19;7(6):4995-5019. doi: 10.3390/nu7064995.

Hepatic Steatosis as a Marker of Metabolic Dysfunction.

Fabbrini E(1), Magkos F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Nutrition and Atkins Center of Excellence in Obesity
Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.
efabbrini@dom.wustl.edu. (2)Center for Human Nutrition and Atkins Center of
Excellence in Obesity Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St.
Louis, MO 63110, USA. fmagkos@dom.wustl.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the liver manifestation of the
complex metabolic derangements associated with obesity. NAFLD is characterized by
excessive deposition of fat in the liver (steatosis) and develops when hepatic
fatty acid availability from plasma and de novo synthesis exceeds hepatic fatty
acid disposal by oxidation and triglyceride export. Hepatic steatosis is
therefore the biochemical result of an imbalance between complex pathways of
lipid metabolism, and is associated with an array of adverse changes in glucose, 
fatty acid, and lipoprotein metabolism across all tissues of the body.
Intrahepatic triglyceride (IHTG) content is therefore a very good marker (and in 
some cases may be the cause) of the presence and the degree of multiple-organ
metabolic dysfunction. These metabolic abnormalities are likely responsible for
many cardiometabolic risk factors associated with NAFLD, such as insulin
resistance, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia. Understanding the factors
involved in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of NAFLD will lead to a better
understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the metabolic complications of
obesity, and hopefully to the discovery of novel effective treatments for their
reversal.

DOI: 10.3390/nu7064995 
PMCID: PMC4488828
PMID: 26102213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Pancreatology. 2015 Jul;15(4 Suppl):S44-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pan.2015.05.477. Epub
2015 Jun 12.

Calcium signaling and secretion in cholangiocytes.

Guerra MT(1), Nathanson MH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Digestive Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, Yale
University School of Medicine, USA. (2)Section of Digestive Diseases, Department 
of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, USA. Electronic
address: michael.nathanson@yale.edu.

Alcoholic hepatitis affects up to one-third of individuals who abuse alcohol and 
can be associated with high mortality. Although this disorder is characterized by
hepatocellular damage, steatosis and neutrophil infiltration, recent evidence
suggests that cholestasis or impaired bile secretion may be a frequent occurrence
as well. Bile secretion results from the concerted activity of hepatocytes and
cholangiocytes, the epithelial cells that line the bile ducts. Hepatocytes
secrete bile acids and conjugated products into the bile canaliculi, which then
are modified by cholangiocytes through secretion of bicarbonate and water to give
rise to the final secreted bile. Here the molecular mechanisms regulating bile
secretion in cholangiocytes are reviewed. Moreover, we discuss how the expression
of intracellular Ca(2+) channels might be regulated in cholangiocytes, plus
evidence that components of the Ca(2+) signaling machinery are altered in a range
of cholestatic diseases of the bile ducts.

Copyright © 2015 IAP and EPC. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pan.2015.05.477 
PMCID: PMC4603373
PMID: 26100660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Surg Oncol. 2015 Sep;24(3):187-93. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2015.06.010. Epub 2015
Jun 12.

Management of colon cancer in patients with cirrhosis: A review.

Sabbagh C(1), Cosse C(2), Chauffert B(3), Nguyen-Khac E(4), Joly JP(4), Yzet
T(5), Regimbeau JM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Digestive and Oncologic Surgery, Amiens University Hospital,
Amiens, France; Jules Verne University of Picardie, Amiens, France; INSERM Unit
1088, University of Picardie, Amiens, France. (2)Department of Digestive and
Oncologic Surgery, Amiens University Hospital, Amiens, France; Jules Verne
University of Picardie, Amiens, France; Clinical Research Centre, Amiens
University Hospital, Amiens, France. (3)Jules Verne University of Picardie,
Amiens, France; Department of Oncology, Amiens University Hospital, Amiens,
France. (4)Department of Gastroenterology, Amiens University Hospital, Amiens,
France. (5)Department of Radiology, Amiens University Hospital, Amiens, France.
(6)Department of Digestive and Oncologic Surgery, Amiens University Hospital,
Amiens, France; Jules Verne University of Picardie, Amiens, France; INSERM Unit
EA4294, University of Picardie, Amiens, France. Electronic address:
regimbeau.jean-marc@chu-amiens.fr.

INTRODUCTION: The incidence of cirrhosis is increasing in parallel with that of
hepatitis C and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Patients with colon cancer and
liver cirrhosis constitute an important at-risk group. Many colorectal surgeons
and oncologists are not familiar with the management of colon cancer in patients 
with cirrhosis. Here, we review the literature on the management and prognosis of
patients with both colon cancer and cirrhosis.
METHODS: The MEDLINE, PubMed and the Cochrane Library electronic databases were
systematically searched with appropriate keywords. Only publications in French or
English were selected.
RESULTS/CONCLUSION: For most studies, the level of evidence is weak. Child A
patients should probably be managed in the same way as general population,
although they have an elevated risk of morbidity and a five-year survival rate of
just 70%. Child B and C patients should be managed more cautiously, although no
specific recommendations can be made at present. For colon surgery, laparotomy
should be preferred in patients with cirrhosis. The role of adjuvant chemotherapy
is unclear, since survival is strongly associated with the improvements in liver 
function. Oxaliplatin appears to be associated with an elevated post-chemotherapy
morbidity rate in patients with portal hypertension.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2015.06.010 
PMID: 26093942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Gastroenterology. 2015 Oct;149(4):958-70.e12. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2015.06.006. 
Epub 2015 Jun 16.

Comparative Effectiveness of Pharmacological Interventions for Severe Alcoholic
Hepatitis: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis.

Singh S(1), Murad MH(2), Chandar AK(3), Bongiorno CM(4), Singal AK(5), Atkinson
SR(6), Thursz MR(6), Loomba R(7), Shah VH(8).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of California San Diego, La Jolla,
California. Electronic address: sis040@ucsd.edu. (2)Knowledge and Evaluation
Research Unit, Robert D. and Patricia E. Kern Center for the Science of Health
Care Delivery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. (3)Division of Gastroenterology
and Liver Diseases, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.
(4)Department of Library Services, Mayo Clinic-St. Mary's Hospital Library,
Rochester, Minnesota. (5)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University 
of Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama. (6)Division of Hepatology, Imperial College,
London, United Kingdom. (7)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, 
and Division of Epidemiology, Department of Family and Preventive Medicine,
University of California, San Diego, California. (8)Division of Gastroenterology 
and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2015 Oct;149(4):857-9.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Severe alcoholic hepatitis (AH) has high mortality. We
assessed the comparative effectiveness of pharmacological interventions for
severe AH, through a network meta-analysis combining direct and indirect
treatment comparisons.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic literature review, through February 2015, for 
randomized controlled trials of adults with severe AH (discriminant function ≥32 
and/or hepatic encephalopathy) that compared the efficacy of active pharmacologic
interventions (corticosteroids, pentoxifylline, and N-acetylcysteine [NAC], alone
or in combination) with each other or placebo, in reducing short-term mortality
(primary outcome) and medium-term mortality, acute kidney injury, and/or
infections (secondary outcomes). We performed direct and Bayesian network
meta-analysis for all treatments, and used Grading of Recommendations Assessment,
Development and Evaluation criteria to appraise quality of evidence.
RESULTS: We included 22 randomized controlled trials (2621 patients) comparing 5 
different interventions. In a direct meta-analysis, only corticosteroids
decreased risk of short-term mortality. In a network meta-analysis, moderate
quality evidence supported the use of corticosteroids alone (relative risk [RR], 
0.54; 95% credible interval [CrI], 0.39-0.73) or in combination with
pentoxifylline (RR, 0.53; 95% CrI, 0.36-0.78) or NAC (RR, 0.15; 95% CI,
0.05-0.39), to reduce short-term mortality; low quality evidence showed that
pentoxifylline also decreased short-term mortality (RR, 0.70; 95% CrI,
0.50-0.97). The addition of NAC, but not pentoxifylline, to corticosteroids may
be superior to corticosteroids alone for reducing short-term mortality. No
treatment was effective in reducing medium-term mortality. Imprecise estimates
and the small number of direct trials lowered the confidence in several
comparisons.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with severe AH, pentoxifylline and corticosteroids
(alone and in combination with pentoxifylline or NAC) can reduce short-term
mortality. No treatment decreases risk of medium-term mortality.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2015.06.006 
PMID: 26091937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:984578. doi: 10.1155/2015/984578. Epub 2015 May 18.

How Inflammation Impinges on NAFLD: A Role for Kupffer Cells.

Duarte N(1), Coelho IC(1), Patarrão RS(1), Almeida JI(2), Penha-Gonçalves C(3),
Macedo MP(4).

Author information: 
(1)CEDOC, NOVA Medical School, Faculdade de Ciências Médicas (NMS/FCM),
Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Edifício CEDOC II, Rua Câmara Pestana, Nos. 6, 6A,
6B, Laboratory 3.8, Piso 3, 1150-082 Lisboa, Portugal ; Instituto Gulbenkian de
Ciência (IGC), Rua da Quinta Grande 6, 2780-156 Oeiras, Portugal. (2)Instituto
Gulbenkian de Ciência (IGC), Rua da Quinta Grande 6, 2780-156 Oeiras, Portugal.
(3)Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência (IGC), Rua da Quinta Grande 6, 2780-156
Oeiras, Portugal ; APDP-ERC Portuguese Diabetes Association Education and
Research Center, Rua do Salitre, No. 118-120, 1250-203 Lisbon, Portugal.
(4)CEDOC, NOVA Medical School, Faculdade de Ciências Médicas (NMS/FCM),
Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Edifício CEDOC II, Rua Câmara Pestana, Nos. 6, 6A,
6B, Laboratory 3.8, Piso 3, 1150-082 Lisboa, Portugal ; APDP-ERC Portuguese
Diabetes Association Education and Research Center, Rua do Salitre, No. 118-120, 
1250-203 Lisbon, Portugal.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is rapidly becoming the most prevalent
cause of liver disease worldwide and afflicts adults and children as currently
associated with obesity and insulin resistance. Even though lately some advances 
have been made to elucidate the mechanism and causes of the disease much remains 
unknown about NAFLD. The aim of this paper is to discuss the present knowledge
regarding the pathogenesis of the disease aiming at the initial steps of NAFLD
development, when inflammation impinges on fat liver deposition. At this stage,
the Kupffer cells attain a prominent role. This knowledge becomes subsequently
relevant for the development of future diagnostic, prevention, and therapeutic
options for the management of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/984578 
PMCID: PMC4450298
PMID: 26090470  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:979515. doi: 10.1155/2015/979515. Epub 2015 May 19.

Gut Microbiota: Association with NAFLD and Metabolic Disturbances.

Lau E(1), Carvalho D(1), Freitas P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Centro Hospitalar São
João, Institute for Research and Innovation in Health Sciences, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Porto, Alameda Professor Hernâni Monteiro, 4200-319
Porto, Portugal.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the hepatic expression of metabolic syndrome,
being frequently associated with obesity, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia.
Recent lines of evidence have demonstrated a role of gut microbiota in insulin
resistance, obesity, and associated metabolic disturbances, raising the interest 
in its relationship with NAFLD pathogenesis. Therefore, intestinal microbiota has
emerged as a potential factor involved in NAFLD, through different pathways,
including its influence in energy storage, lipid and choline metabolism, ethanol 
production, immune balance, and inflammation. The main objective of this review
is to address the pathogenic association of gut microbiota to NAFLD. This
comprehension may allow the development of integrated strategies to modulate
intestinal microbiota in order to treat NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/979515 
PMCID: PMC4452311
PMID: 26090468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:437107. doi: 10.1155/2015/437107. Epub 2015 May 18.

Developmental Programming of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Effect of
Early Life Nutrition on Susceptibility and Disease Severity in Later Life.

Li M(1), Reynolds CM(1), Segovia SA(1), Gray C(1), Vickers MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Liggins Institute and Gravida: National Centre for Growth and Development,
University of Auckland, Auckland 1142, New Zealand.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is fast becoming the most common liver
disease globally and parallels rising obesity rates. The developmental origins of
health and disease hypothesis have linked alterations in the early life
environment to an increased risk of metabolic disorders in later life. Altered
early life nutrition, in addition to increasing risk for the development of
obesity, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease in offspring, is now
associated with an increased risk for the development of NAFLD. This review
summarizes emerging research on the developmental programming of NAFLD by both
maternal obesity and undernutrition with a particular focus on the possible
mechanisms underlying the development of hepatic dysfunction and potential
strategies for intervention.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/437107 
PMCID: PMC4450221
PMID: 26090409  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


310. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jun 14;21(22):6820-34. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i22.6820.

Cardiovascular risk across the histological spectrum and the clinical
manifestations of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: An update.

Athyros VG(1), Tziomalos K(1), Katsiki N(1), Doumas M(1), Karagiannis A(1),
Mikhailidis DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vasilios G Athyros, Niki Katsiki, Michael Doumas, Asterios Karagiannis, Second
Propedeutic Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, Aristotle University
of Thessaloniki, Hippokration Hospital, 55132 Thessaloniki, Greece.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered to be an independent
cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factor. However, simple steatosis has a benign 
clinical course without excess mortality. In contrast, the advanced form of
NAFLD, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with liver fibrosis increases
mortality by approximately 70%, due to an increase in CVD mortality by
approximately 300%. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) may be caused by NAFLD/NASH and 
it substantially increases CVD risk, especially in the presence of type 2
diabetes mellitus. Moreover, CKD may trigger NAFLD/NASH deterioration in a
vicious cycle. NAFLD/NASH is also related to increased arterial stiffness (AS),
an independent CVD risk factor that further raises CVD risk. Diagnosis of
advanced liver fibrosis (mainly by simple non-invasive tests), CKD, and increased
AS should be made early in the course of NAFLD and treated appropriately.
Lifestyle measures and statin treatment may help resolve NAFLD/NASH and
beneficially affect the CVD risk factors mentioned above.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i22.6820 
PMCID: PMC4462722
PMID: 26078558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


311. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jun 14;21(22):6817-9. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i22.6817.

What are the effects of proton pump inhibitors on the small intestine?

Fujimori S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Shunji Fujimori, Department of Gastroenterology, Nippon Medical School,
Graduate School of Medicine, Tokyo 113-8603, Japan.

Generally, proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) have great benefit for patients with
acid related disease with less frequently occurring side effects. According to a 
recent report, PPIs provoke dysbiosis of the small intestinal bacterial flora,
exacerbating nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced small intestinal injury.
Several meta-analyses and systematic reviews have reported that patients treated 
with PPIs, as well as post-gastrectomy patients, have a higher frequency of small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) compared to patients who lack the
aforementioned conditions. Furthermore, there is insufficient evidence that these
conditions induce Clostridium difficile infection. At this time, PPI-induced
dysbiosis is considered a type of SIBO. It now seems likely that intestinal
bacterial flora influence many diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease,
diabetes mellitus, obesity, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and autoimmune
diseases. When attempting to control intestinal bacterial flora with probiotics, 
prebiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation, etc., the influence of acid
suppression therapy, especially PPIs, should not be overlooked.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i22.6817 
PMCID: PMC4462721
PMID: 26078557  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Annu Rev Nutr. 2015;35:215-37. doi: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071813-105336. Epub 2015
May 6.

Autophagy and Lipid Droplets in the Liver.

Martinez-Lopez N(1), Singh R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine.

Autophagy is a conserved quality-control pathway that degrades cytoplasmic
contents in lysosomes. Autophagy degrades lipid droplets through a process termed
lipophagy. Starvation and an acute lipid stimulus increase autophagic
sequestration of lipid droplets and their degradation in lysosomes. Accordingly, 
liver-specific deletion of the autophagy gene Atg7 increases hepatic fat content,
mimicking the human condition termed nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. In this
review, we provide insights into the molecular regulation of lipophagy, discuss
fundamental questions related to the mechanisms by which autophagosomes recognize
lipid droplets and how ATG proteins regulate membrane curvature for lipid droplet
sequestration, and comment on the possibility of cross talk between lipophagy and
cytosolic lipases in lipid mobilization. Finally, we discuss the contribution of 
lipophagy to the pathophysiology of human fatty liver disease. Understanding how 
lipophagy clears hepatocellular lipid droplets could provide new ways to prevent 
fatty liver disease, a major epidemic in developed nations.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071813-105336 
PMID: 26076903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Rom J Intern Med. 2015 Jan-Mar;53(1):3-12.

Chronic Kidney Disease--Chronic Liver Disease. An Immunologic Cross-talk.

Gluhovschi G, Petrică L, Sporea I, Timar R, Curescu M, Velciov S, Gluhovschi C.

The relationship between the kidney and other organs is notable. The best known
is the relation with the cardiovascular system. Relationships with other organs
are less studied, although their involvement sometimes dominates the clinical
picture and the outcome of disease. The paper analyzes the kidney-liver
relationship, namely chronic kidney disease and chronic liver disease from an
immune viewpoint. The immune system operates as a unitary whole. There is an
interdependence between the immune system of the liver, considered a lymphoid
organ, and the kidney, whose participation in immune processes is well-known. The
most important chronic liver diseases are viral hepatitis B and C. Infection with
these viruses can lead to renal involvement, producing mainly glomerular disease.
At the same time, secondary glomerulonephritis can cause an unfavorable outcome
of the primary disease. The relationship between chronic liver disease and
chronic kidney disease during chronic B and C hepatitis occurs via circulating
immune complexes or complexes formed in situ. Cell-mediated immunity is also
involved. The antiviral treatment of B and C hepatitis is also aimed at secondary
glomerular disease. The participation of immune mechanisms raises the question of
administering immunomodulating medication, a type of medication that influences
viral replication--this is why it is associated with antiviral medication. Other 
two chronic liver diseases, namely liver cirrhosis, in which the main mechanism
is a toxic one, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis can produce via immune
mechanisms glomerular involvement. In its turn, chronic kidney disease in
advanced stages causes lipid metabolism disturbances with hypertriglyceridemia,
which can influence fatty loading of the liver in the above-mentioned liver
diseases. One can speak about a cross-talk between the liver and the kidney, in
which immune mechanisms play an important role.

DOI: 10.1515/rjim-2015-0001 
PMID: 26076555  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Can J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Jun-Jul;29(5):241-52.

Nonmedicinal interventions in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Neuman MG, Nanau RM, Cohen LB.

Unhealthy diet and lack of physical exercise are responsible for fat accumulation
in the liver, which may lead to liver disease. Histologically, the severity of
the disease has two stages: nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NAFLD is defined by the presence of
steatosis with no evidence of cellular injury such as hepatocyte ballooning. NASH
is a distinct entity from NAFLD, and is characterized by the presence of
inflammation with hepatocytes damage, with or without fibrosis. While several
therapeutic strategies have been proposed to improve this condition, the present 
review aims to discuss nonmedicinal interventions used to reduce liver
involvement or to prevent the disease altogether. The authors investigated
dietary patterns and vitamin deficiencies associated with NAFLD, and their role
in enhancing disease severity. Additionally, they reviewed the role of exercise
and the use of interventions, such as as intragastric balloon and bariatric
surgery, for improving disease progression. The authors propose monitoring
disease progression or repair by following changes in cytoadipokine levels.


PMCID: PMC4467484
PMID: 26076224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


315. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jun 7;21(21):6444-50. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i21.6444.

Controversy in the diagnosis of pediatric non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Marzuillo P(1), Grandone A(1), Perrone L(1), Miraglia Del Giudice E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pierluigi Marzuillo, Anna Grandone, Laura Perrone, Emanuele Miraglia del
Giudice, Department of women and children and general and specialized surgery,
Seconda Università degli Studi di Napoli, 80138 Naples, Italy.

In the last years childhood obesity has reached epidemic diffusion with about 200
million school-age children worldwide being overweight or obese. Simultaneously, 
also the prevalence of obesity comorbidities has been increased and the
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become the most common form of
liver disease in childhood. Also if there are some not-invasive diagnostic
possibilities, the diagnostic gold standard is represented by hepatic biopsy
giving to the clinicians the possibility to both diagnose the NAFLD and evaluate 
its progression to fibrosis or cirrhosis with greater certainty than other
techniques. The use of liver biopsy in clinical practice causes debate among
health care providers. Most patients with NAFLD have a good prognosis and,
therefore, the risks of a liver biopsy seem to outweigh the clinical benefits. It
represents an impractical screening procedure because it is both expensive and
invasive and, moreover, sampling error of liver biopsy can result in substantial 
misdiagnosis and staging inaccuracies because histological lesions of
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis are unevenly distributed throughout the liver
parenchyma. The liver biopsy limitations have led the clinicians to use, also if 
highly imperfect, non-invasive methods to diagnose and stage NAFLD. In this
editorial the main diagnostic controversies in pediatric NAFLD are examined.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i21.6444 
PMCID: PMC4458755
PMID: 26074683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Prog Lipid Res. 2015 Jul;59:106-25. doi: 10.1016/j.plipres.2015.05.002. Epub 2015
Jun 11.

Strategies, models and biomarkers in experimental non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease research.

Willebrords J(1), Pereira IV(2), Maes M(3), Crespo Yanguas S(4), Colle I(5), Van 
Den Bossche B(6), Da Silva TC(7), de Oliveira CP(8), Andraus W(9), Alves VA(10), 
Cogliati B(11), Vinken M(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of In Vitro Toxicology and Dermato-Cosmetology, Faculty of Medicine
and Pharmacy, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 103, 1090 Brussels,
Belgium. Electronic address: joost.willebrords@vub.ac.be. (2)Department of
Pathology, School of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science, University of São
Paulo, Av. Prof. Dr. Orlando Marques de Paiva, 87, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic 
address: isabelveloso@gmail.com. (3)Department of In Vitro Toxicology and
Dermato-Cosmetology, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, Vrije Universiteit
Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 103, 1090 Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address:
michael.mc.maes@vub.ac.be. (4)Department of In Vitro Toxicology and
Dermato-Cosmetology, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, Vrije Universiteit
Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 103, 1090 Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address:
sara.crespo.yanguas@vub.ac.be. (5)Department of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, 
Algemeen Stedelijk Ziekenhuis Campus Aalst, Merestraat 80, 9300 Aalst, Belgium.
Electronic address: isabelle.colle@asz.be. (6)Department of Abdominal Surgery and
Hepato-Pancreatico-Biliary Surgery, Algemeen Stedelijk Ziekenhuis Campus Aalst,
Merestraat 80, 9300 Aalst, Belgium. Electronic address:
bert.vandenbossche@asz.be. (7)Department of Pathology, School of Veterinary
Medicine and Animal Science, University of São Paulo, Av. Prof. Dr. Orlando
Marques de Paiva, 87, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: terezacs@usp.br.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology, Clinical Division, Hepatology Branch,
University of São Paulo School of Medicine, Av. Dr. Arnaldo, 455, São Paulo,
Brazil. Electronic address: cpm@usp.br. (9)Department of Gastroenterology,
University of São Paulo School of Medicine, Av. Dr. Arnaldo, 455, São Paulo,
Brazil. Electronic address: wellingtonandraus@gmail.com. (10)Laboratory of
Medical Investigation, Department of Pathology, University of São Paulo School of
Medicine, Av. Dr. Arnaldo, 455, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address:
venancio@uol.com.br. (11)Department of Pathology, School of Veterinary Medicine
and Animal Science, University of São Paulo, Av. Prof. Dr. Orlando Marques de
Paiva, 87, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: bcogliati@gmail.com.
(12)Department of In Vitro Toxicology and Dermato-Cosmetology, Faculty of
Medicine and Pharmacy, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 103, 1090
Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address: mvinken@vub.ac.be.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease encompasses a spectrum of liver diseases,
including simple steatosis, steatohepatitis, liver fibrosis and cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is currently the most
dominant chronic liver disease in Western countries due to the fact that hepatic 
steatosis is associated with insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes mellitus,
obesity, metabolic syndrome and drug-induced injury. A variety of chemicals,
mainly drugs, and diets is known to cause hepatic steatosis in humans and
rodents. Experimental non-alcoholic fatty liver disease models rely on the
application of a diet or the administration of drugs to laboratory animals or the
exposure of hepatic cell lines to these drugs. More recently, genetically
modified rodents or zebrafish have been introduced as non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease models. Considerable interest now lies in the discovery and development
of novel non-invasive biomarkers of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, with
specific focus on hepatic steatosis. Experimental diagnostic biomarkers of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, such as (epi)genetic parameters and
'-omics'-based read-outs are still in their infancy, but show great promise. In
this paper, the array of tools and models for the study of liver steatosis is
discussed. Furthermore, the current state-of-art regarding experimental
biomarkers such as epigenetic, genetic, transcriptomic, proteomic and metabonomic
biomarkers will be reviewed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plipres.2015.05.002 
PMCID: PMC4596006
PMID: 26073454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


317. J Huazhong Univ Sci Technolog Med Sci. 2015 Jun;35(3):333-6. doi:
10.1007/s11596-015-1433-2. Epub 2015 Jun 14.

Review on the effect of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists and dipeptidyl 
peptidase-4 inhibitors for the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Li CL(1), Zhao LJ, Zhou XL, Wu HX, Zhao JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to
Shandong University, Jinan, 250021, China, lcl1633@sina.com.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common liver disease and it
represents the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome, which includes type 2
diabetes mellitus (T2DM), dyslipidemia, central obesity and hypertension.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogues and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4)
inhibitors were widely used to treat T2DM. These agents improve glycemic control,
promote weight loss and improve lipid metabolism. Recent studies have
demonstrated that the GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) is present and functional in human 
and rat hepatocytes. In this review, we present data from animal researches and
human clinical studies that showed GLP-1 analogues and DPP-4 inhibitors can
decrease hepatic triglyceride (TG) content and improve hepatic steatosis,
although some effects could be a result of improvements in metabolic parameters. 
Multiple hepatocyte signal transduction pathways and mRNA from key enzymes in
fatty acid metabolism appear to be activated by GLP-1 and its analogues. Thus,
the data support the need for more rigorous prospective clinical trials to
further investigate the potential of incretin therapies to treat patients with
NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11596-015-1433-2 
PMID: 26072069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015;9(8):1055-67. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1056156. Epub 2015 Jun 12.

Physiology and pathophysiology of liver lipid metabolism.

Ponziani FR(1), Pecere S, Gasbarrini A, Ojetti V.

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, Agostino Gemelli Hospital, Rome,
Italy.

Liver lipid metabolism and its modulation are involved in many pathologic
conditions, such as obesity, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, diabetes
mellitus, atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. Metabolic disorders seem to
share a similar background of low-grade chronic inflammation, even if the
pathophysiological mechanisms leading to tissue and organ damage have not been
completely clarified yet. The accumulation of neutral lipids in the liver is now 
recognized as a beneficial and protective mechanism; on the other hand,
lipoperoxidation is involved in the development and progression of non-alcoholic 
steatohepatitis. The role of the gut microbiota in liver lipid metabolism has
been the object of recent scientific investigations. It is likely that the gut
microbiota is involved in a complex metabolic modulation and the translocation of
gut microflora may also contribute to maintaining the low-grade inflammatory
status of metabolic syndrome. Therefore, lipid metabolism pathology has vague
limits and complex mechanisms, and the knowledge of these is essential to guide
diagnostic and therapeutic decisions.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1056156 
PMID: 26070860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Hepatol Int. 2015 Jul;9(3):406-15. doi: 10.1007/s12072-015-9640-2. Epub 2015 Jun 
12.

The gut microbiota of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: current methods and their
interpretation.

van Best N(1), Jansen PL, Rensen SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, NUTRIM School of Nutrition and Translational Research
in Metabolism, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

The role of intestinal bacteria in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease is increasingly acknowledged. Recently developed microbial profiling
techniques are beginning to shed light on the nature of gut microbiota
alterations in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. In this review, we summarize the
gut microbiota composition changes that have been reported during different
stages of human nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and highlight the relation
between bile acids and gut bacteria in this context. In addition, we discuss the 
different methodologies used in microbiota analyses as well as the interpretation
of microbiota data. Whereas the currently available studies have provided useful 
information, future large-scale prospective studies with carefully phenotyped
subjects and sequential sampling will be required to demonstrate a causal role of
gut microbiota changes in the etiology of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s12072-015-9640-2 
PMCID: PMC4473019
PMID: 26067771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:574832. doi: 10.1155/2015/574832. Epub 2015 May 3.

Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis: A Search for Factual Animal Models.

Sanches SC(1), Ramalho LN(1), Augusto MJ(1), da Silva DM(1), Ramalho FS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine of Ribeirão Preto, University of
São Paulo, Avenida Bandeirantes 3900, Monte Alegre, 14049-900 Ribeirão Preto, SP,
Brazil.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by hepatic steatosis,
which occurs in the absence of alcohol abuse. NAFLD can evolve into progressive
liver injury and fibrosis in the form of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
Several animal models have been developed to attempt to represent the
morphological, biochemical, and clinical features of human NASH. The actual
review presents a critical analysis of the most commonly used experimental models
of NAFLD/NASH development. These models can be classified into genetic,
nutritional, and a combination of genetic and nutritional factors. The main
genetic models are ob/ob and db/db mutant mice and Zucker rats. The principal
nutritional models employ methionine- and choline-deficient, high-fat,
high-cholesterol and high-cholate, cafeteria, and high-fructose diets. Currently,
associations between high-fructose and various compositions of high-fat diets
have been widely studied. Previous studies have encountered significant
difficulties in developing animal models capable of reproducing human NASH. Some 
models produce consistent morphological findings, but the induction method
differs significantly compared with the pathophysiology of human NASH. Other
models precisely represent the clinical and etiological contexts of this disease 
but fail to provide accurate histopathological representations mainly in the
progression from steatosis to liver fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/574832 
PMCID: PMC4433658
PMID: 26064924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015 Jul;15(7):1061-75. doi:
10.1517/14712598.2015.1052789.

Metreleptin and generalized lipodystrophy and evolving therapeutic perspectives.

Tchang BG(1), Shukla AP, Aronne LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Weill Cornell Medical College, Comprehensive Weight Control Center, Division
of Endocrinology, Diabetes & Metabolism , 1165 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065 ,
USA ljaronne@med.cornell.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Metreleptin was recently approved by the Food and Drug
Administration for the treatment of generalized lipodystrophy, a condition
characterized by leptin deficiency. Its efficacy as hormone replacement therapy
suggests broader applications in diseases also characterized by leptin
abnormalities, such as familial partial lipodystrophy (FPLD), non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD), and common obesity. Metreleptin, in conjunction with other
pharmacologic interventions, has the potential to address one of the most
widespread epidemics of our time, obesity.
AREAS COVERED: This review covers the physiology of leptin, the pharmacologic
properties of recombinant methionyl human leptin (R-metHu-Leptin, metreleptin),
evidence for metreleptin's efficacy in the treatment of generalized lipodystrophy
from both completed and ongoing clinical trials, safety concerns, and future
directions in metreleptin research.
EXPERT OPINION: Metreleptin's approval for generalized lipodystrophy is the first
step in defining and expanding its role to other metabolic diseases. Clinical
trials are underway to delineate its efficacy in FPLD, human immunodeficiency
virus/highly active anti-retroviral therapy-associated acquired lipodystrophy
(HAL), and NAFLD. Additionally, there is growing data that support a therapeutic 
role in obesity. One of the barriers to development, however, is metreleptin's
safety and immunogenicity. Further advances in biologic compatibility are
required before metreleptin can be approved for additional indications.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1052789 
PMID: 26063386  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


322. JAMA. 2015 Jun 9;313(22):2263-73. doi: 10.1001/jama.2015.5370.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a systematic review.

Rinella ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.

Erratum in
    JAMA. 2015 Oct 13;314(14):1521.

IMPORTANCE: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and its subtype nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis affect approximately 30% and 5%, respectively, of the US
population. In patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, half of deaths are due
to cardiovascular disease and malignancy, yet awareness of this remains low.
Cirrhosis, the third leading cause of death in patients with nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease, is predicted to become the most common indication for liver
transplantation.
OBJECTIVES: To illustrate how to identify patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease at greatest risk of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and cirrhosis; to
discuss the role and limitations of current diagnostics and liver biopsy to
diagnose nonalcoholic steatohepatitis; and to provide an outline for the
management of patients across the spectrum of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
EVIDENCE REVIEW: PubMed was queried for published articles through February 28,
2015, using the search terms NAFLD and cirrhosis, mortality, biomarkers, and
treatment. A total of 88 references were selected, including 16 randomized
clinical trials, 44 cohort or case-control studies, 6 population-based studies,
and 7 meta-analyses.
FINDINGS: Sixty-six percent of patients older than 50 years with diabetes or
obesity are thought to have nonalcoholic steatohepatitis with advanced fibrosis. 
Even though the ability to identify the nonalcoholic steatohepatitis subtype
within those with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease still requires liver biopsy,
biomarkers to detect advanced fibrosis are increasingly reliable. Lifestyle
modification is the foundation of treatment for patients with nonalcoholic
steatosis. Available treatments with proven benefit include vitamin E,
pioglitazone, and obeticholic acid; however, the effect size is modest (<50%) and
none is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The association between 
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and cardiovascular disease is clear, though
causality remains to be proven in well-controlled prospective studies. The
incidence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease-related hepatocellular carcinoma is
increasing and up to 50% of cases may occur in the absence of cirrhosis.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Between 75 million and 100 million individuals in the 
United States are estimated to have nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and its
potential morbidity extends beyond the liver. It is important that primary care
physicians, endocrinologists, and other specialists be aware of the scope and
long-term effects of the disease. Early identification of patients with
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis may help improve patient outcomes through treatment 
intervention, including transplantation for those with decompensated cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2015.5370 
PMID: 26057287  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Jul;12(7):387-400. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2015.94. Epub 2015 Jun 9.

Inflammasome activation and function in liver disease.

Szabo G(1), Petrasek J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, LRB 215,
364 Plantation Street, Worcester, MA 01605, USA.

Inflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of most acute and chronic liver
diseases. Inflammasomes are multiprotein complexes that can sense danger signals 
from damaged cells and pathogens and assemble to mediate caspase-1 activation,
which proteolytically activates the cytokines IL-1β and IL-18. In contrast to
other inflammatory responses, inflammasome activation uniquely requires two
signals to induce inflammation, therefore setting an increased threshold. IL-1β, 
generated upon caspase-1 activation, provides positive feed-forward stimulation
for inflammatory cytokines, thereby amplifying inflammation. Inflammasome
activation has been studied in different human and experimental liver diseases
and has been identified as a major contributor to hepatocyte damage, immune cell 
activation and amplification of liver inflammation. In this Review, we discuss
the different types of inflammasomes, their activation and biological functions
in the context of liver injury and disease progression. Specifically, we focus on
the triggers of inflammasome activation in alcoholic steatohepatitis and NASH,
chronic HCV infection, ischaemia-reperfusion injury and paracetamol-induced liver
injury. The application and translation of these discoveries into therapies
promises novel approaches in the treatment of inflammation in liver disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2015.94 
PMID: 26055245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2015 Jul;41(5):488-93. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1550433. Epub
2015 Jun 6.

Vascular Disease in Patients with Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Potze W(1), Siddiqui MS(2), Sanyal AJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Surgical Research Laboratory, Department of Surgery, University Medical Center
Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. (2)Division of
Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of Internal Medicine,
Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, Richmond, Virginia.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is increasingly being diagnosed and is
considered to be the most frequent chronic liver disorder in Western countries.
It represents a histopathological spectrum ranging from simple hepatic steatosis 
to steatohepatitis and finally cirrhosis. NAFLD is considered as the hepatic
manifestation of the metabolic syndrome and is associated with increased
mortality. Increasing evidence now suggests that NAFLD is also associated with
higher cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity and mortality independent of
conventional cardiometabolic risk factors (such as obesity, insulin resistance,
and diabetes mellitus). The exact mechanisms linking NAFLD to increased CVD risk 
are still incompletely understood and likely reflect multiple coexisting
pathways. Recent evidence suggests a contributive effect of an altered hemostasis
in patients with NAFLD. For example, patients with NAFLD have higher levels of
prothrombotic factors (e.g., von Willebrand factor, fibrinogen, factor VII
activity, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), which correlate with underlying
histological severity of the disease. The current review focuses on these
hemostatic abnormalities in NAFLD and the link with increased CVD risk.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1550433 
PMID: 26049073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Biomolecules. 2015 Jun 3;5(2):1099-121. doi: 10.3390/biom5021099.

Advances and New Concepts in Alcohol-Induced Organelle Stress, Unfolded Protein
Responses and Organ Damage.

Ji C(1).

Author information: 
(1)GI/Liver Division, Research Center for Liver Disease, Department of Medicine, 
Keck School of Medicine of USC, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
CA 90033, USA. chengji@usc.edu.

Alcohol is a simple and consumable biomolecule yet its excessive consumption
disturbs numerous biological pathways damaging nearly all organs of the human
body. One of the essential biological processes affected by the harmful effects
of alcohol is proteostasis, which regulates the balance between biogenesis and
turnover of proteins within and outside the cell. A significant amount of
published evidence indicates that alcohol and its metabolites directly or
indirectly interfere with protein homeostasis in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
causing an accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins, which triggers the
unfolded protein response (UPR) leading to either restoration of homeostasis or
cell death, inflammation and other pathologies under severe and chronic alcohol
conditions. The UPR senses the abnormal protein accumulation and activates
transcription factors that regulate nuclear transcription of genes related to ER 
function. Similarly, this kind of protein stress response can occur in other
cellular organelles, which is an evolving field of interest. Here, I review
recent advances in the alcohol-induced ER stress response as well as discuss new 
concepts on alcohol-induced mitochondrial, Golgi and lysosomal stress responses
and injuries.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5021099 
PMCID: PMC4496712
PMID: 26047032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nutrients. 2015 Jun 3;7(6):4453-64. doi: 10.3390/nu7064453.

Low-Density Lipoprotein Receptor-Related Protein 6 (LRP6) Is a Novel Nutritional 
Therapeutic Target for Hyperlipidemia, Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease, and
Atherosclerosis.

Go GW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food and Nutrition, Kookmin University, Seoul 136-702, Korea.
gwgo@kookmin.ac.kr.

Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6) is a member of the
low-density lipoprotein receptor family and has a unique structure, which
facilitates its multiple functions as a co-receptor for Wnt/β-catenin signaling
and as a ligand receptor for endocytosis. The role LRP6 plays in metabolic
regulation, specifically in the nutrient-sensing pathway, has recently garnered
considerable interest. Patients carrying an LRP6 mutation exhibit elevated levels
of LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and fasting glucose, which cooperatively
constitute the risk factors of metabolic syndrome and atherosclerosis. Since the 
discovery of this mutation, the general role of LRP6 in lipid homeostasis,
glucose metabolism, and atherosclerosis has been thoroughly researched. These
studies have demonstrated that LRP6 plays a role in LDL receptor-mediated LDL
uptake. In addition, when the LRP6 mutant impaired Wnt-LRP6 signaling,
hyperlipidemia, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and atherosclerosis developed.
LRP6 regulates lipid homeostasis and body fat mass via the nutrient-sensing
mechanistic target of the rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. Furthermore, the mutant LRP6 
triggers atherosclerosis by activating platelet-derived growth factor
(PDGF)-dependent vascular smooth muscle cell differentiation. This review
highlights the exceptional opportunities to study the pathophysiologic
contributions of LRP6 to metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular diseases, which
implicate LRP6 as a latent regulator of lipid metabolism and a novel therapeutic 
target for nutritional intervention.

DOI: 10.3390/nu7064453 
PMCID: PMC4488795
PMID: 26046396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Dig Dis. 2015;33(3):440-6. doi: 10.1159/000371699. Epub 2015 May 27.

Bile Acid Signaling: Mechanism for Bariatric Surgery, Cure for NASH?

Kohli R(1), Myronovych A, Tan BK, Salazar-Gonzalez RM, Miles L, Zhang W, Oehrle
M, Sandoval DA, Ryan KK, Seeley RJ, Setchell KD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of
Pediatrics, and Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA.

Bariatric surgery is the most effective and durable treatment option for obesity 
today. More importantly, beyond weight loss, bariatric procedures have many
advantageous metabolic effects including reversal of obesity-related liver
disease--nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH is an important comorbidity of
obesity given that it is a precursor to the development of liver cirrhosis that
may necessitate liver transplantation in the long run. Simultaneously, we and
others have observed increased serum bile acids in humans and animals that
undergo bariatric surgery. Specifically, our preclinical studies have included
experimental procedures such as 'ileal transposition' or bile diversion and
established procedures such as Roux-en-Y gastric bypass and the adjustable
gastric band. Importantly, these effects are not simply the result of weight loss
since our data show that the resolution of NASH and increase in serum bile acids 
are not seen in rodents that lose an equivalent amount of weight via food
restriction. In particular, we have studied the role of altered bile acid
signaling, in the potent impact of a bariatric procedure termed 'vertical sleeve 
gastrectomy' (VSG). In this review we focus on the mechanisms of NASH resolution 
and weight loss after VSG surgery. We highlight the fact that bariatric surgeries
can be used as 'laboratories' to dissect the mechanisms by which these procedures
work to improve obesity and fatty liver disease. We describe key bile acid
signaling elements that may provide potential therapeutic targets for
'bariatric-mimetic technologies' that could produce benefits similar to bariatric
surgery--but without the surgery!

2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000371699 
PMID: 26045281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Dig Dis. 2015;33(3):426-32. doi: 10.1159/000371698. Epub 2015 May 27.

Use of farnesoid X receptor agonists to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Sanyal AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Virgnia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, Richmond, Va., USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is a common cause of liver related morbidity and
mortality. It is closely linked to underlying insulin resistance. It has recently
been shown that bile acids modulate insulin signaling and can improve insulin
resistance in cell based and animal studies. These effects are mediated in part
by activation of farnesoid x receptors by bile acids. In human studies, FXR
agonists improve insulin resistance and have recently been shown to improve
NAFLD. The basis for the use of FXR agonists for the treatment of NAFLD and early
human experience with such agents is reviewed in this paper.

2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000371698 
PMID: 26045279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Dig Dis. 2015;33(3):346-50. doi: 10.1159/000371679. Epub 2015 May 27.

Relationship between Obesity, Gut Microbiome and Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Development.

Hara E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cancer Biology, The Cancer Institute, Japanese Foundation for
Cancer Research (JFCR), Tokyo, Japan.

During the past several decades, the percentage of excess bodyweight and obese
adults and children has increased dramatically, and is becoming one of the most
serious public health problems worldwide. Extensive epidemiological studies have 
revealed that there is a strong link between obesity and some common cancers.
However, the exact molecular mechanisms linking obesity and cancer are not fully 
understood yet. Recently, we have reported that dietary or genetic obesity
provokes alterations of gut microbiota profile, thereby increasing the levels of 
deoxycholic acid (DCA), a secondary bile acid produced solely by the
7α-dehydroxylation of primary bile acids carried out by gut bacteria. The
enterohepatic circulation of DCA provokes DNA damage and consequent cellular
senescence in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) which, in turn, secrete various
inflammatory and tumor-promoting factors in the liver, thus facilitating
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development in mice. Interestingly, signs of
senescence-associated secretory phenotypes were also observed in the HSCs in the 
area of HCC arising in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, implying that 
a similar pathway is likely to contribute to at least certain aspects of
obesity-associated HCC development in humans as well. In this review, I will
provide an overview of our recent work and discuss the next steps, focusing on
the potential clinical implications of our findings.

2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000371679 
PMID: 26045268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2015 Jun;17(6):23. doi: 10.1007/s11894-015-0447-z.

A comprehensive review of noninvasive liver fibrosis tests in pediatric
nonalcoholic Fatty liver disease.

Mansoor S(1), Collyer E, Alkhouri N.

Author information: 
(1)Cleveland Clinic Children's Hospital, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH,
44195, USA, mansoos@ccf.org.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its spectrum ranging from simple
steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and fibrosis have been
increasing in the pediatric population. The presence and severity of fibrosis in 
patients with NAFLD are important prognostic factors for the risk of disease
progression to cirrhosis. The gold standard for staging liver fibrosis is a liver
biopsy. However, given the risks of this procedure, especially in the pediatric
population, the development of noninvasive markers to diagnose and monitor
progression of NAFLD is desirable. This paper will review recently developed
noninvasive methods for diagnosing liver fibrosis in children with NAFLD. These
include simple fibrosis scores, advanced biochemical markers, and radiologic
imaging studies. Simple fibrosis scores use readily available laboratory tests;
available one include AST/ALT ratio, AST to platelet ratio index (APRI), fibrosis
(FIB)-4 index, NAFLD fibrosis score (NFS), pediatric NAFLD fibrosis index (PNFI),
and pediatric NALFD fibrosis score (PNFS). Advanced biochemical markers include
biomarkers of hepatocyte cell death such as cytokeratin 18 fragment levels, and
markers of extracellular matrix turnover such as the Enhanced Liver Fibrosis
(ELF) test and hyaluronic acid. Radiologic imaging studies estimate liver
stiffness as a surrogate for liver fibrosis; these include transient elastography
(TE), magnetic resonance elastography (MRE), and acoustic radiation force impulse
imaging (ARFI).

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-015-0447-z 
PMID: 26031832  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Curr Drug Targets. 2015;16(12):1347-55.

Natural Products on Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Xu JY, Zhang L, Li ZP, Ji G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Digestive Disease Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, 725 south Wanping Road, Shanghai 200032, China. jiliver@vip.sina.com.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic disorder of lipid and
carbohydrate metabolism and is often associated with endoplasmic reticulum
stress, energy homeostasis dysregulation, and inflammation at cellular and
molecular levels. Use of currently available anti-hyperlipidemia, hypoglycemia,
or anti-inflammation drugs to treat NAFLD has not achieved desirable outcomes. A 
growing attention thus has been paid towards natural products as an alternative
means in treating NALFD. Some of the natural products apparently possess the
properties of ameliorating symptoms of NAFLD through restoration of lipid and
carbohydrate metabolism and energy homeostasis. Data from recent animal and human
studies concerning the use of natural products in the treatment of NAFLD are
analyzed, and the potential underlying mechanisms are discussed.


PMID: 26028044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Curr Drug Targets. 2015;16(12):1274-80.

Apolipoprotein A5: Extracellular and Intracellular Roles in Triglyceride
Metabolism.

Forte TM(1), Ryan RO.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Prevention of Obesity, Diabetes and Cardiovascular Disease,
Children`s Hospital Oakland Research Institute, Oakland, CA 94609, USA.
tforte@chori.org.

This review addresses two major functions of apolipoprotein (apo) A5 including
(1) its role in maintaining normal plasma levels of circulating triglyceride (TG)
and (2) its role as a component of hepatic lipid droplets. ApoA5 is synthesized
solely in the liver and circulating concentrations are extremely low. In the
plasma, ApoA5 associates with TG-rich lipoproteins and enhances TG hydrolysis and
remnant lipoprotein clearance. ApoA5 loss-of-function single nucleotide
polymorphisms are associated with reduced lipolysis, poor remnant clearance and
concomitantly, hypertriglyceridemia. Although there have been substantial
breakthroughs in understanding pathophysiology associated with secreted ApoA5,
there is a paucity of knowledge on the functionality of intracellular ApoA5.
However, recent studies indicate that overexpression of intracellular ApoA5 is
positively associated with accumulation of TG-rich lipid droplets in hepatocytes.
It is thought that ApoA5 may have a causal role in non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) and thus, may serve as a target for developing therapeutics for
NAFLD.


PMID: 26028042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Curr Drug Targets. 2015;16(12):1315-23.

IL-17 Axis Driven Inflammation in Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Progression.

Giles DA, Moreno-Fernandez ME, Divanovic S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunobiology Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center TCHRF 
- Location S, Room #S.5.409 3333 Burnet Avenue Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3039 U.S.A.
senad.divanovic@cchmc.org.

Obesity is a primary risk factor for the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD). NAFLD, the most common chronic liver disease in the world,
represents a spectrum of disorders that range from steatosis (NAFL) to
steatohepatitis (NASH) to cirrhosis. It is anticipated that NAFLD will soon
surpass chronic hepatitis C infection as the leading cause for needing liver
transplantation. Despite its clinical and public health significance no specific 
therapies are available. Although the etiology of NAFLD is multifactorial and
remains largely enigmatic, it is well accepted that inflammation is a central
component of NAFLD pathogenesis. Despite the significance, critical immune
mediators, loci of immune activation, the immune signaling pathways and the
mechanism(s) underlying disease progression remain incompletely understood.
Recent findings have focused on the role of Interleukin 17 (IL-17) family of
proinflammatory cytokines in obesity and pathogenesis of obesity-associated
sequelae. Notably, obesity favors a Th17 bias and is associated with increased
IL-17A expression in both humans and mice. Further, in mice, IL-17 axis has been 
implicated in regulation of both obesity and NAFLD pathogenesis. However, despite
these recent advances several important questions require further evaluation
including: the relevant cellular source of IL-17A production; the critical IL-
17RA-expressing cell type; the critical liver infiltrating immune cells; and the 
underlying cellular effector mechanisms. Addressing these questions may aid in
the identification and development of novel therapeutic targets for prevention of
inflammation- driven NAFLD progression.


PMCID: PMC4929857
PMID: 26028039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Diagn Interv Radiol. 2015 Jul-Aug;21(4):355-60. doi: 10.5152/dir.2015.14505.

Imaging patterns of fatty liver in pediatric patients.

Özcan HN(1), Oğuz B, Haliloğlu M, Orhan D, Karçaaltıncaba M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Hacettepe University School of Medicine, Ankara,
Turkey. musturayk@yahoo.com.

Fatty liver can present as focal, diffuse, heterogeneous, and multinodular forms.
Being familiar with various patterns of steatosis can enable correct diagnosis.
In patients with equivocal findings on ultrasonography, magnetic resonance
imaging can be used as a problem solving tool. New techniques are promising for
diagnosis and follow-up. We review imaging patterns of steatosis and new
quantitative methods such as proton density fat fraction and magnetic resonance
elastography for diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in children.

DOI: 10.5152/dir.2015.14505 
PMCID: PMC4498433
PMID: 26027765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Arch Toxicol. 2015 Oct;89(10):1681-93. doi: 10.1007/s00204-015-1538-1. Epub 2015 
May 31.

Dual effect of red wine on liver redox status: a concise and mechanistic review.

Silva P(1), Fernandes E(2), Carvalho F(3).

Author information: 
(1)UCIBIO-REQUIMTE, Laboratory of Histology and Embryology, Institute of
Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar (ICBAS), University of Porto, Rua de Jorge
Viterbo Ferreira no. 228, 4050-313, Porto, Portugal. psilva@icbas.up.pt.
(2)UCIBIO-REQUIMTE, Department of Chemical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy,
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal. (3)UCIBIO-REQUIMTE, Department of
Biological Sciences, Laboratory of Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of
Porto, Rua de Jorge Viterbo Ferreira no. 228, 4050-313, Porto, Portugal.
felixdc@ff.up.pt.

Chronic ethanol consumption is a strong risk factor for the development of liver 
disease. Multiple mechanisms are involved in ethanol-mediated liver injury;
oxidative stress being pointed has an important factor. However, it should be
noted that moderate consumption of red wine has been associated with
hepatoprotective effects, mainly due to the antioxidant effect of resveratrol,
one of its polyphenolic compounds. In this paper, the potential molecular
mechanisms through which the protective effects of resveratrol counteract the
oxidative effect of ethanol and the way as this dual effect impacts liver
oxidative stress are reviewed. Mechanistic evaluation of modulation of oxidative 
signaling pathways by ethanol and resveratrol may explain the pathogenesis of
various liver diseases and ultimately to disclose possible pharmacological
therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-015-1538-1 
PMID: 26026610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Endocrine. 2016 Feb;51(2):211-21. doi: 10.1007/s12020-015-0640-8. Epub 2015 May
30.

Evidence that non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and polycystic ovary syndrome are
associated by necessity rather than chance: a novel hepato-ovarian axis?

Targher G(1), Rossini M(2), Lonardo A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
University and Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Piazzale
Stefani, 1, 37126, Verona, Italy. giovanni.targher@univr.it. (2)Section of
Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, University and Azienda Ospedaliera
Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Verona, Italy. (3)Outpatient Liver Clinic and 
Division of Internal Medicine - Department of Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural
Sciences, NOCSAE, Baggiovara, Azienda USL, University of Modena and Reggio
Emilia, Modena, Italy.

Comment in
    Ann Hepatol. 2015 Nov-Dec;14(6):941-3.

Increasing evidence suggests that non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and
polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) are associated with obesity, insulin resistance,
metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease, cirrhosis, and liver tumors. On these
grounds, we have hypothesized that NAFLD and PCOS occur more frequently than
expected by chance alone. We have tested this hypothesis by reviewing the
clinical and biological evidence that supports a significant association between 
NAFLD and PCOS. PubMed was extensively searched for articles published through
March 2015 using the keywords "nonalcoholic fatty liver disease" or "fatty liver"
combined with "PCOS." Several cross-sectional and case-control studies have
consistently demonstrated that the prevalence of NAFLD is remarkably increased in
young women with PCOS, independent of overweight/obesity and other coexisting
metabolic syndrome features, and that these women are more likely to have the
more severe forms of NAFLD (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, advanced fibrosis, and
cirrhosis). Accumulating evidence suggests that NAFLD, especially its
necro-inflammatory form, may exacerbate hepatic and systemic insulin resistance
and releases multiple pro-inflammatory, pro-coagulant, and pro-fibrogenic
mediators that may play important roles in the pathophysiology of PCOS. These
findings call for more active and systematic search for NAFLD among women with
PCOS. Conversely, gastroenterologists/hepatologists need to be aware of the
presence of PCOS among female patients with NAFLD and compatible clinical
features. Finally, all these patients should undergo regular follow-up not only
for liver-related complications but also for cardio-metabolic diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-015-0640-8 
PMID: 26024975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Rocz Panstw Zakl Hig. 2015;66(2):97-105.

Health effects of changes in the structure of dietary macronutrients intake in
western societies.

Okręglicka K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Hygiene, Medical University of Warsaw,
Oczki street 3, 02-007 Warsaw, Poland.

A Western-type diet, characterized by a significant share of highly processed and
refined foods and high content of sugars, salt, fat and protein from red meat,
has been recognized as an important factor contributing to the development of
metabolic disorders and the obesity epidemic around the world. Excessive body fat
causes metabolic pathologies, such as insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes,
dyslipidemia, cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease and cancer. According to the World Health Organization 1.5 billion adults
are overweight, nearly 500 million are obese and 220 million suffer from type 2
diabetes. The Western-type diet is also associated with an increased incidence of
chronic kidney disease. It is known that a combination of nutrients typical for
this diet contributes to impaired renal function, renal steatosis and
inflammation, hypertension and dysfunctional renal hormonal regulation. The
Western diet is also associated with a chronic inflammatory process that is
involved in all stages of atherosclerosis development and is increasingly
recognized as a universal mechanism of various chronic degenerative diseases,
such as autoimmune diseases, some neoplasms or osteoporosis. The present article 
is focused on the results of the most recent research investigating the effects
of dietary macronutrients and the type of fatty acids on selected mechanisms
associated with the occurrence of the most common diet-related diseases.


PMID: 26024397  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


338. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 May 21;21(19):5813-22. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i19.5813.

Liver involvement in pediatric celiac disease.

Anania C(1), De Luca E(1), De Castro G(1), Chiesa C(1), Pacifico L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Caterina Anania, Ester De Luca, Giovanna De Castro, Lucia Pacifico, Department
of Pediatrics and Child Neuropsychiatry, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Viale
Regina Elena, 324 00161 Rome, Italy.

Celiac disease (CD) is an intestinal inflammatory disease that manifests in
genetically susceptible individuals when exposed to dietary gluten. It is a
common chronic disorder, with a prevalence of 1% in Europe and North America.
Although the disease primarily affects the gut, the clinical spectrum of CD is
remarkably varied, and the disease can affect many extraintestinal organs and
systems, including the liver. The hepatic dysfunction presenting in CD ranges
from asymptomatic liver enzyme elevations or nonspecific reactive hepatitis
(cryptogenic liver disorders), to chronic liver disease. In this article, we
review the clinical presentations and possible mechanisms of CD-related liver
injury to identify strategies for the diagnosis and treatment of these disorders 
in childhood.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i19.5813 
PMCID: PMC4438015
PMID: 26019445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


339. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 May 21;21(19):5794-804. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i19.5794.

Pathophysiology after pancreaticoduodenectomy.

Kang CM(1), Lee JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Chang Moo Kang, Jin Ho Lee, Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic
Surgery, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul 120-752, South Korea.

Pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) will result in removal of important multiorgans in
upper intestinal tract and subsequently secondary physiologic change. In the
past, surgeons just focused on the safety of surgical procedure; however, PD is
regarded as safe and widely applied to treatment of periampullary lesions.
Practical issues after PD, such as, effect of duodenectomy, metabolic
surgery-like effect, alignment effect of gastrointestinal continuity, and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease were summarized and discussed.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i19.5794 
PMCID: PMC4438013
PMID: 26019443  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Dig Dis Sci. 2015 Nov;60(11):3194-202. doi: 10.1007/s10620-015-3728-3. Epub 2015 
May 28.

Prevalence of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Economy.

Zhu JZ(1), Dai YN(2), Wang YM(3), Zhou QY(4), Yu CH(5), Li YM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, No. 79, Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003, China.
jzzhu@live.com. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital,
College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, No. 79, Qingchun Road, Hangzhou,
310003, China. daiyn@zju.edu.cn. (3)Department of Gastroenterology, The First
Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, No. 79, Qingchun
Road, Hangzhou, 310003, China. yumingwang@yeah.net. (4)Department of Statistics, 
Columbian College of Arts and Science, The George Washington University,
Washington, DC, USA. qyzhou.gwu@live.com. (5)Department of Gastroenterology, The 
First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, No. 79,
Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003, China. way2phd@163.com. (6)Department of
Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang
University, No. 79, Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003, China. ymli.zju@live.com.

BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a growing health issue
around the world.
AIM: This study is to investigate whether adult prevalence of NAFLD correlates
with national economic status.
METHODS: Literature search on PubMed database was conducted to identify eligible 
records fully published before September 2014. Gross national income (GNI) per
capita was chosen to evaluate national economic status. Pearson coefficient,
linear regression, and unpaired t test were performed in the statistical
analyses.
RESULTS: Twenty-one population-based surveys (seven in East Asia, five in South
Asia, three in Middle East, and six in Europe) were included. The pooled
prevalence of NAFLD was 24.24%, and the global prevalence was positively
correlated with GNI per capita (r = 0.4782, P = 0.0283). Europe witnessed a
higher prevalence (28.04%) than Middle East (12.95%, P = 0.0092) and East Asia
(19.24%, P = 0.0083). Male presented a higher prevalence than female (P = 0.019),
especially in Europe (P = 0.0132) and in Caucasians (P = 0.0383). Furthermore,
male prevalence and rural prevalence individually were correlated with economic
status (r = 0.5725, P = 0.0257 and r = 0.7389, P = 0.0060). Lastly, the urban
(23.93%) witnessed a higher prevalence than the rural or the urban + rural
(12.65%, P = 0.0141) in the countries of GNI per capita <$10,000.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggested that countries with higher economic status tend
to present a higher prevalence of NAFLD. It is believed to provide a distinctive 
epidemiologic perspective to global situation of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-015-3728-3 
PMID: 26017679  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Hepatol Int. 2015 Jul;9(3):399-405. doi: 10.1007/s12072-015-9634-0. Epub 2015 May
28.

Twist in hepatocellular carcinoma: pathophysiology and therapeutics.

Zou H(1), Feng X, Cao JG.

Author information: 
(1)Medical College Affiliated to Hunan Normal University, Changsha, 410013,
Hunan, China, zouhui3080@hotmail.com.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related
disease worldwide. Although HCC is mainly associated with viral hepatitis and
alcoholic cirrhosis, numerous physiological and biochemical events are associated
with HCC progression. The transcription factor Twist, which plays a key role in
epithelial to mesenchymal transition, is reported to be associated with HCC.
Overexpression of Twist causes various biochemical changes, such as increase of
cell proliferation, reduction of apoptosis, cell cycle deregulation, generation
of hepatic cancer stem cells, and in some cases, drug resistance. These changes
result in various physiological changes, such as angiogenesis, cellular migration
and invasion, and vasculogenic mimicry, which ultimately causes hepatocellular
metastasis. Interestingly, targeting Twist via different strategies, especially
small RNA technology, has shown promising therapeutic potential for future HCC
treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s12072-015-9634-0 
PMID: 26016463  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Hepatol Int. 2015 Jul;9(3):366-72. doi: 10.1007/s12072-015-9627-z. Epub 2015 May 
28.

Pattern and profile of chronic liver disease in acute on chronic liver failure.

Abbas Z(1), Shazi L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatogastroenterology, Sindh Institute of Urology and
Transplantation (SIUT), Karachi, Pakistan, drzabbas@gmail.com.

The etiology of the chronic liver disease (CLD) in patients with acute on chronic
liver failure (ACLF) may vary from region to region. The major cause of
underlying CLD is viral (hepatitis B and C) in the East, while it is alcohol
related in the West and in some parts of the Indian subcontinent. Autoimmune
liver disease and Wilson's disease are the major underlying etiologies in the
pediatric age group. The patients with CLD without cirrhosis should be included
when defining ACLF. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease related chronic liver
insult in patients with known risk factors for progressive disease should be
taken as a chronic liver disease in the setting of ACLF, whereas fatty liver with
normal aminotransferases in low risk patients should not. The patients with CLD
and previous decompensation should be excluded. Diagnosis of chronic liver
disease in the setting of ACLF is made by history, physical examination and
previously available or recent laboratory, endoscopic or radiological
investigations. A liver biopsy through the transjugular route may help in cases
where the presence of underlying CLD or its cause is not clear. The need of liver
biopsy in ACLF should, however, be individualized. Standardization of liver
biopsy assessment is essential for a uniform approach to the diagnosis and
treatment of CLD and acute insult. Tools to measure liver stiffness may aid in
identifying patients with advanced fibrosis. Studies are needed to validate the
performance of these tests in the setting of ACLF.

DOI: 10.1007/s12072-015-9627-z 
PMID: 26016461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Rev Med Liege. 2015 Feb;70(2):86-91.

[Cirrhotic cardiomyopathy: a brief overview].

[Article in French]

Marchetta S, Delwaide J, Lancellotti R.

Even though cardiac disorders were described in alcoholic cirrhosis more than
fifty years ago, cirrhotic cardiomyopathy was not defined until the end of the
eighties. The term is used to describe all the cardiac structural and functional 
abnormalities observed in cirrhotic patients without any underlying cardiac
disease. This cardiomyopathy is characterized by impaired systolic function,
often unmasked during stress, diastolic dysfunction, and electrophysiological
abnormalities. It can be detected by the electrocardiogram, transthoracic
echocardiography and measurements of cardiac biomarkers (BNP). The
pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this disease are complex: anomalies of
adrenergic transduction pathways, alterations of myocyte membrane fluidity,
fibrosis, cardiac hypertrophy, hormonal disturbances, and various ion channels
derangements. To date, there is no specific treatment. Liver transplantation may 
be curative. The possibility of such a condition must be taken into account, when
a TIPS or a liver transplantation are considered.


PMID: 26011993  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Endocrinol Invest. 2015 Aug;38(8):817-25. doi: 10.1007/s40618-015-0315-6. Epub 
2015 May 24.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and decreased bone mineral density: is there a
link?

Targher G(1), Lonardo A, Rossini M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
University and Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Piazzale
Stefani, 1, 37126, Verona, Italy, giovanni.targher@univr.it.

Comment in
    J Endocrinol Invest. 2015 Aug;38(8):931-2.

PURPOSE: Liver diseases are associated with decreased bone mineral density (BMD) 
and evidence suggests that nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects
several extra-hepatic organs, interacting with the regulation of multiple
endocrine and metabolic pathways. This review focuses on the rapidly expanding
body of evidence that supports a strong association between NAFLD and the risk of
decreased BMD, expression of low bone mass (osteoporosis), or reduced
mineralization (osteomalacia).
METHODS: We identified studies by searching PubMed for original articles
published in English through March 2015 using the keywords "nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease" or "fatty liver" combined with "bone mineral density",
"osteoporosis", or "osteomalacia".
RESULTS: Recent cross-sectional and case-control studies involving both adults
and children have consistently shown that patients with NAFLD exhibit a greater
prevalence of decreased BMD compared with age-, sex-, and body mass index-matched
healthy controls. Accumulating clinical and experimental evidence suggests that
NAFLD may contribute to the pathophysiology of low BMD, possibly through the
direct contribution of NAFLD to whole-body and hepatic insulin resistance and/or 
the systemic release of multiple pro-inflammatory, pro-coagulant, and
pro-fibrogenic mediators.
CONCLUSIONS: Although more research is needed before firm conclusions can be
drawn, it appears that there is a non-chance, statistical association between
NAFLD and low BMD. This finding argues for more careful monitoring and evaluation
of BMD among patients with NAFLD. The potential contribution of NAFLD itself to
the development and progression of decreased BMD warrants further study.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-015-0315-6 
PMID: 26003827  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Future Microbiol. 2015;10(5):889-902. doi: 10.2217/fmb.15.13.

Systematic review on intervention with prebiotics/probiotics in patients with
obesity-related nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Tarantino G(1), Finelli C.

Author information: 
(1)2Centro Ricerche Oncologiche di Mercogliano, Istituto Nazionale Per Lo Studio 
E La Cura Dei Tumori 'Fondazione Giovanni Pascale', IRCCS, Mercogliano (Av),
Italy.

BACKGROUND: The gut microbiota is modulated by metabolic derangements, such as
nutrition overload and obesity.
AIM: The aim of this systematic review is to summarize the role of these gut
modifiers in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and obesity.
METHODS: A systematic search of MEDLINE (from 1946), PubMed (from 1946) and
EMBASE (from 1949) databases through May 2014 was carried out to identify
relevant articles. The search terms were 'probiotic' AND 'NAFLD', 'prebiotic' AND
'NAFLD', 'antibiotic' AND 'NAFLD', 'probiotics' AND 'obesity', 'prebiotic' AND
'obesity' or 'antibiotic' AND 'obesity'; these terms were searched as text word
in 'clinical trials' and as exploded medical subject headings where possible.
RESULTS: The evidence in the literature is scant, due to the scarcity of
appropriately powered, randomized, controlled clinical trials, involving various 
centers and population of different origin.
CONCLUSION: Although probiotics and prebiotics have been proposed in the
treatment and prevention of patients with obesity-related NAFLD, their
therapeutic use is not supported by high-quality clinical studies.

DOI: 10.2217/fmb.15.13 
PMID: 26000656  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2015 Sep;1353:1-20. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12787. Epub 2015 May 21.

Insulin resistance in clinical and experimental alcoholic liver disease.

Carr RM(1), Correnti J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is the number one cause of liver failure worldwide;
its management costs billions of healthcare dollars annually. Since the advent of
the obesity epidemic, insulin resistance (IR) and diabetes have become common
clinical findings in patients with ALD; and the development of IR predicts the
progression from simple steatosis to cirrhosis in ALD patients. Both clinical and
experimental data implicate the impairment of several mediators of insulin
signaling in ALD, and experimental data suggest that insulin-sensitizing
therapies improve liver histology. This review explores the contribution of
impaired insulin signaling in ALD and summarizes the current understanding of the
synergistic relationship between alcohol and nutrient excess in promoting hepatic
inflammation and disease.

© 2015 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.12787 
PMCID: PMC4623941
PMID: 25998863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015;9(8):1039-53. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1049155. Epub 2015 May 20.

Non-invasive diagnostic approach to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: current
evidence and future perspectives.

Festi D(1), Schiumerini R, Marasco G, Scaioli E, Pasqui F, Colecchia A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Bologna, S.Orsola
Hospital, Via Massarenti 9, 40138 Bologna, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a new epidemic liver disease, thus, its
early diagnosis and the identification of those patients with the worst prognosis
is mandatory. Liver biopsy is still the diagnostic gold standard, even if it is
associated to a significant rate of complications; moreover, the interpretation
of histological samples is not always univocal. Several non-invasive alternative 
scores have been proposed for the diagnostic approach to non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease. This article evaluates the performance of the currently available 
non-invasive diagnostic strategies. The authors also suggest a potential
diagnostic algorithm, with two or more non-invasive techniques, to increase the
overall accuracy for identifying patients with worst prognosis, and to minimize
the recourse to liver biopsy.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1049155 
PMID: 25993881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Proc Nutr Soc. 2015 Aug;74(3):208-14. doi: 10.1017/S0029665115002050. Epub 2015
May 20.

Relevance of liver fat to the impact of dietary extrinsic sugars on lipid
metabolism.

Griffin BA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences,University of Surrey,Guildford GU2 7WG,UK.

In contrast to the decline in mortality from many non-infectious, chronic
diseases in the UK, death from liver disease has increased exponentially in men
and women over the past 40 years. This is primarily because of the over
consumption of alcohol, but also the increased prevalence of obesity, which is
linked to early pathology through the accumulation of liver fat.
Supra-physiological intakes of fructose-containing sugar can produce acute,
adverse effects on lipid metabolism, and deliver excess energy that increases
bodyweight and the deposition of fat in sites other than adipose tissue,
including the liver. This review addresses the variable metabolic origins of
liver fat, and the key importance of postprandial lipid metabolism in this
respect. The effects of supra-physiological intakes of sugar are also considered 
in context of the real world and established threshold for the adverse effects of
sugar on cardio-metabolic risk factors. The review concludes that while the
average intake of sugar in the UK falls well below this critical threshold,
intakes in subgroups of adults, and especially adolescents, may be cause for
concern. There is also evidence to suggest that raised liver fat, acquired, in
part, through an impaired removal of postprandial lipaemia, can increase
sensitivity to the adverse effects of sugar at all ages.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665115002050 
PMID: 25992705  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


349. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 May 14;21(18):5695-706. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i18.5695.

Prevalence of fatty liver disease and the economy in China: A systematic review.

Zhu JZ(1), Zhou QY(1), Wang YM(1), Dai YN(1), Zhu J(1), Yu CH(1), Li YM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jin-Zhou Zhu, Yu-Ming Wang, Yi-Ning Dai, Chao-Hui Yu, You-Ming Li, Department 
of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou 310003, Zhejiang Province, China.

AIM: To investigate the relationship between the economy and the adult prevalence
of fatty liver disease (FLD) in mainland China.
METHODS: Literature searches on the PubMed and Chinese National Knowledge
Infrastructure databases were performed to identify eligible studies published
before July 2014. Records were limited to cross-sectional surveys or baseline
surveys of longitudinal studies that reported the adult prevalence of FLD and
recruited subjects from the general population or community. The gross domestic
product (GDP) per capita was chosen to assess the economic status. Multiple
linear regression and Loess regression were chosen to fit the data and calculate 
the 95%CIs. Fitting and overfitting of the models were considered in choosing the
appropriate models.
RESULTS: There were 27 population-based surveys from 26 articles included in this
study. The pooled mean prevalence of FLD in China was 16.73% (95%CI:
13.92%-19.53%). The prevalence of FLD was correlated with the GDP per capita and 
survey years in the country (adjusted R (2) = 0.8736, P GDP per capita = 0.00426,
P years = 0.0000394), as well as in coastal areas (R (2) = 0.9196, P GDP per
capita = 0.00241, P years = 0.00281). Furthermore, males [19.28% (95%CI:
15.68%-22.88%)] presented a higher prevalence than females [14.1% (95%CI:
11.42%-16.61%), P = 0.0071], especially in coastal areas [21.82 (95%CI:
17.94%-25.71%) vs 17.01% (95%CI: 14.30%-19.89%), P = 0.0157]. Finally, the
prevalence was predicted to reach 20.21% in 2020, increasing at a rate of 0.594% 
per year.
CONCLUSION: This study reveals a correlation between the economy and the
prevalence of FLD in mainland China.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i18.5695 
PMCID: PMC4427696
PMID: 25987797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


350. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2016 Jan;50(1):69-74. doi: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000000340.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Mean Platelet Volume: A Systemic Review and 
Meta-analysis.

Madan SA(1), John F, Pitchumoni CS.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine/Montefiore
Medical Center, New York City, NY †Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School
/Saint Peters University Hospital Program, New Brunswick, NJ.

Comment in
    J Clin Gastroenterol. 2015 Nov-Dec;49(10):888.

BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is linked to obesity,
metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease. Increased mean platelet volume
(MPV), a marker of platelet activity, is associated with acute myocardial
infarction, stroke, thrombosis, and increased mortality after myocardial
infarction. The purpose of this study was to perform a meta-analysis to
investigate the relationship between NAFLD and MPV.
METHODOLOGY: A systematic search of MEDLINE (Ovid), PubMed, and CINAHL databases 
from 1950 to May 2014, complemented with manual review of references of published
articles for studies comparing MPV in patients with and without NAFLD was done.
Results were pooled using both fixed and random effects model.
RESULTS: Our analysis from pooling of data from 8 observational studies including
1428 subjects (NAFLD=842 and non-NAFLD=586) showed that MPV was significantly
higher in patients with NAFLD than those without. The standardized mean
difference in MPV between NAFLD and controls was 0.457 (95% confidence interval: 
0.348-0.565, P<0.001) using fixed and 0.612 (95% confidence interval:
0.286-0.938, P<0.001) using random effects model.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that MPV is significantly higher in patients
with NAFLD, indicating the presence of increased platelet activity in such
patients. Future research is needed to investigate whether this increased MPV is 
associated with increased cardiovascular disease in patients with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000000340 
PMID: 25984978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 Jan;14(1):5-12; quiz e9-10. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2015.05.001. Epub 2015 May 11.

Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Latinos.

Saab S(1), Manne V(2), Nieto J(3), Schwimmer JB(4), Chalasani NP(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Digestive Diseases, Departments of Medicine and Surgery,
University of California Los Angeles School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California.
Electronic address: SSaab@mednet.ucla.edu. (2)Department of Medicine, Akron
General Medical Center, Akron, Ohio. (3)Borland-Groover Clinic, Jacksonville,
Florida. (4)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department
of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego School of Medicine, San Diego,
California. (5)Division of Gastroenterology/Hepatology, Department of Medicine,
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a serious public health concern that 
affects almost one third of the US population. The prevalence of NAFLD varies
among ethnic/racial groups, with the Latin American population being affected
disproportionately. The severity of NAFLD also may be greater in the Latino
population. The increased prevalence and severity of NAFLD in Latino Americans
likely is related to the interplay between issues such as genetic factors, access
to health care, or the prevalence of chronic diseases such as metabolic syndrome 
or diabetes. In this review, we summarize the current literature on the
prevalence and risk factors of NAFLD that are seen to be more common in the
Latino population in the United States. Finally, we discuss available treatment
options, medical and surgical, that are available for NAFLD and how they affect
the Latino population. Health care providers need to address modifiable risk
factors that impact the natural history as well as treatment outcomes for NAFLD
among Latinos. Additional efforts are needed to improve awareness and health care
utilization for Latinos.

Copyright © 2016 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2015.05.001 
PMID: 25976180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 May;35(2):146-56. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1550054. Epub 2015
May 14.

Liver fibrosis in alcoholic liver disease.

Bataller R(1), Gao B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, North Carolina. (2)Laboratory of Liver
Diseases, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

Excessive alcohol consumption causes a wide spectrum of liver disease, ranging
from simple steatosis to severe forms of liver injury such as steatohepatitis,
liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, and liver cancer. Moreover, alcohol consumption also
accelerates liver fibrosis in patients with other types of liver diseases such as
viral hepatitis and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Virtually all clinical
complications of alcoholic liver disease occur in patients with established
fibrosis and cirrhosis, thus making fibrosis a key parameter for treatment and
prognosis of patients. Here, the authors review diagnosis, management, and
antifibrotic therapy of alcoholic liver fibrosis. They discuss both the unique
features of alcoholic liver fibrosis and the similarities to liver fibrosis from 
other etiologies, and review molecular pathogenesis and animal models. Finally,
future directions for basic and clinical research on alcoholic liver fibrosis are
proposed.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1550054 
PMID: 25974900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 May;35(2):132-45. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1550065. Epub 2015
May 14.

Fibrosis in nonalcoholic Fatty liver disease: mechanisms and clinical
implications.

Angulo P(1), Machado MV(2), Diehl AM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Digestive Disease and Nutrition, University of Kentucky Medical
Center, Lexington, Kentucky. (2)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of
Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is tightly associated with obesity and
the metabolic syndrome in the United States and other Western countries. It is
also the liver disease most rapidly increasing in prevalence in the United
States, and has become a major indication for liver transplantation worldwide.
Compelling evidence shows that the degree of liver fibrosis dictates liver
prognosis in NAFLD. This review focuses on fibrosis based on clinical and basic
perspectives. The authors summarize the physiopathology of fibrosis development
and progression in NAFLD, highlighting its molecular mechanisms, clinical
consequences of fibrosis, the diagnostic approach and management strategies.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1550065 
PMID: 25974899  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Annu Rev Nutr. 2015;35:475-516. doi: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071714-034434. Epub
2015 May 13.

Health Benefits of Long-Term Weight-Loss Maintenance.

Rueda-Clausen CF(1), Ogunleye AA, Sharma AM.

Author information: 
(1)Obesity Research & Management, Clinical Research Unit, Department of Medicine,
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 
2E1 Canada; email: ruedacla@ualberta.ca , aogunley@ualberta.ca ,
amsharm@ualberta.ca.

Obesity is a chronic and complex medical condition associated with a large number
of complications affecting most organs and systems through multiple pathways.
Strategies for weight management include behavioral, pharmacological, and
surgical interventions, all of which can result in a reduction in obesity-related
comorbidities and improvements in quality of life. However, subsequent weight
regain often reduces the durability of these improvements. The objective of this 
article is to review evidence supporting the long-term effects of intentional
weight loss on morbidity, mortality, quality of life, and health-care cost.
Overall, considerable evidence suggests that intentional weight loss is
associated with clinically relevant benefits for the majority of obesity-related 
comorbidities. However, the degree of weight loss that must be achieved and
sustained to reap these benefits varies widely between comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071714-034434 
PMID: 25974699  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2015 Apr;19(8):1517-9.

Prevention of vascular damage with Lisosan G wheat extract: the in vitro basis
for a clinical investigation.

Sacco R(1), Pucci L, Sivozhelezov V, Pellegrini L, Giacomelli L, Longo V.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Gastroenterologia, UO Gastroenterologia e Malattie del
Ricambio, Azienda Ospedaliero Universitaria Pisana, Cisanello Hospital, Pisa,
Italy. r.sacco@ao-pisa.toscana.it.

Vascular damage and impairment play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Nutraceutical supplements might have a 
role in reducing vascular damage, provided that their efficacy is proven by
controlled studies and is supported by a mechanistic rationale. Therefore, the
use of nutraceutical supplements can have some effects also in the prevention of 
NFLD. Epidemiological evidence correlates the intake of whole grain and
whole-grain products with a reduced occurrence of vascular disease. Lisosan G is 
a powder obtained from Triticum Sativum (wheat), which is registered with the
Italian Ministry of Health as a nutritional supplement. In vivo, Lisosan G has
been shown to protect against cisplatin induced toxicity, and the use of this
compound in the prevention of cirrhosis and steatosis has been recently been
proposed thanks to its marked anti-oxidant activity. We discuss here the
rationale for further investigation on this compound in the prevention of NAFLD.


PMID: 25967728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Can J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 May;29(4):209-17.

Molecular signalling in hepatocellular carcinoma: Role of and crosstalk among
WNT/ß-catenin, Sonic Hedgehog, Notch and Dickkopf-1.

Giakoustidis A, Giakoustidis D, Mudan S, Sklavos A, Williams R.

Hepatocellular carcinoma is the sixth most common cancer worldwide. In the
majority of cases, there is evidence of existing chronic liver disease from a
variety of causes including viral hepatitis B and C, alcoholic liver disease and 
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Identification of the signalling pathways used by
hepatocellular carcinoma cells to proliferate, invade or metastasize is of
paramount importance in the discovery and implementation of successfully targeted
therapies. Activation of Wnt/β-catenin, Notch and Hedgehog pathways play a
critical role in regulating liver cell proliferation during development and in
controlling crucial functions of the adult liver in the initiation and
progression of human cancers. β-catenin was identified as a protein interacting
with the cell adhesion molecule E-cadherin at the cell-cell junction, and has
been shown to be one of the most important mediators of the Wnt signalling
pathway in tumourigenesis. Investigations into the role of Dikkopf-1 in
hepatocellular carcinoma have demonstrated controversial results, with a
decreased expression of Dickkopf-1 and soluble frizzled-related protein in
various cancers on one hand, and as a possible negative prognostic indicator of
hepatocellular carcinoma on the other. In the present review, the authors focus
on the Wnt⁄β-catenin, Notch and Sonic Hedgehog pathways, and their interaction
with Dikkopf-1 in hepatocellular carcinoma.


PMCID: PMC4444031
PMID: 25965442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Am J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jun;110(6):846-56. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2015.137. Epub 2015 
May 12.

PNPLA3 Gene Polymorphism Is Associated With Predisposition to and Severity of
Alcoholic Liver Disease.

Salameh H(1), Raff E(2), Erwin A(3), Seth D(4), Nischalke HD(5), Falleti E(6),
Burza MA(7), Leathert J(8), Romeo S(9), Molinaro A(7), Corradini SG(10), Toniutto
P(11), Spengler U, Daly A(12), Day CP(12), Kuo YF(13), Singal AK(14).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston, Texas, USA. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Alabama,
Birmingham, Alabama, USA. (3)Genomic Medicine Institute, Cleveland Clinic
Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. (4)1] Drug Health Services, Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital, Camperdown, New South Wales, Australia [2] Centenary Institute of
Cancer Medicine and Cell Biology, Camperdown, New South Wales, Australia [3]
Faculty of Medicine, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(6)Laboratory Medicine-Istituto Patologia Clinica, Azienda Ospedaliero
Universitaria, Udine, Italy. (7)Institute of Medicine, Department of Molecular
and Clinical Medicine, Wallenberg Laboratory, University of Gothenburg,
Gothenburg, Sweden. (8)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University
Medical School, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. (9)1] Institute of Medicine, Department 
of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Wallenberg Laboratory, University of
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden [2] Department of Medical and Surgical Science,
University Magna Grecia of Catanzaro, Clinical Nutrition Unit, Germaneto,
Catanzaro, Italy. (10)Department of Clinical Medicine, Division of
Gastroenterology, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy. (11)Department of
Medical Sciences Experimental and Clinical, Medical Liver Transplantation Unit,
University of Udine, Udine, Italy. (12)Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle
University Medical School, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. (13)Department of
Biostatistics, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas, USA.
(14)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Alabama,
Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

Erratum in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jul;110(7):1121. Ulrich, Spengler [corrected to
Spengler, Ulrich].

OBJECTIVES: The genetic polymorphism with an isoleucine-to-methionine
substitution at position 148 (rs738409 C>G) in the patatin-like phospholipase
domain protein 3 (PNPLA3) gene confers risk of steatosis. PNPLA3 polymorphism is 
shown to be associated with alcoholic liver disease (ALD). We performed a
systematic review and meta-analysis to examine association of this genetic
polymorphism with ALD spectrum and its severity.
METHODS: Medline, Embase, and Cochrane Library were searched for studies on
association of PNPLA3 polymorphism and ALD spectrum: alcoholic fatty liver (AFL),
alcoholic liver injury (ALI), alcoholic cirrhosis (AC), and hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC). Pooled data are reported as odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence 
interval. Heterogeneity was assessed using the I(2) statistics and publication
bias using Egger's test and Begg and Mazumdar's test. Individual participant data
obtained from five studies were used for subgroup analyses.
RESULTS: Among 10 studies included in this pooled analysis, compared with
controls, OR for rs738409 CG and GG among ALI patients was 1.45 (1.24-1.69) and
2.22 (1.50-3.28), respectively, compared with CC. Respective OR among AC patients
was 2.09 (1.79-2.44) and 3.37 (2.49-4.58) and among AC patients with HCC was 2.87
(1.61-5.10) and 12.41 (6.99-22.03). Data for AFL were inconsistent. Among ALD
patients, OR of CG and GG genotypes was 2.62 (1.73-3.97) and 8.45 (2.52-28.37),
respectively, for AC compared with fatty liver (FL) patients. Similar OR for AC
compared with ALI was 1.98 (1.24-3.17) and 3.86 (1.18-12.60). The OR for CG and
GG genotypes among AC patients for HCC occurrence was 1.43 (0.76-2.72) and 2.81
(1.57-5.01), respectively. Individual participant data analysis showed age to
predispose to AC among ALI patients.
CONCLUSIONS: PNPLA3 genetic polymorphism (rs738409 C>G) is associated with
increased risk for the entire spectrum of ALD among drinkers including ALI, AC,
and HCC. Studies are needed to clarify association of PNPLA3 polymorphism and
steatosis in alcoholics. PNPLA3 gene may potentially be a therapeutic target in
ALD.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2015.137 
PMID: 25964223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Front Biosci (Schol Ed). 2015 Jun 1;7:46-57.

Epigenetic crosstalk: a molecular language in human metabolic disorders.

Martinez-Jimenez CP, Sandoval J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Epigenetics and Biology Program (PEBC), Bellvitge Biomedical Research
Institute (IDIBELL), 3rd Floor, Hospital, Duran i Reynals, Av.Gran Via de
L'Hospitalet 199, 203, 08908 L'Hospitalet, de Llobregat, Barcelona, Catalonia,
Spain, jsandoval@idibell.cat.

Technological breakthroughs are emphasizing the impact of epigenetic mechanisms
in human health highlighting the importance of a fine-tune orchestration of DNA
methylation, micro RNAs, histone modifications, and chromatin structure.
Transcriptional regulators sense the concentration of intermediary metabolites
associated to a wide variety of biological processes including the long-term
imprinting and heritable DNA methylation. Recent epigenetic mechanisms associated
with cholesterol and lipid homeostasis have a critical impact in the
susceptibility, development and progression of complex diseases such as type 2
diabetes mellitus, non-alcoholic fatty liver, obesity and metabolic syndrome. The
heritability of epigenetic states emerge as an additional level of complexity
where the extension of somatic as well as inherited epigenetic modifications may 
require a thoughtful reconsideration in many human diseases related with
metabolic disorders.


PMID: 25961686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Cleve Clin J Med. 2015 Apr;82(4):226-36. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.82a.14048.

Alcoholic hepatitis: Challenges in diagnosis and management.

Dugum M(1), Zein N(2,)(3), McCullough A(2,)(4), Hanouneh I(2,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medicine Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
Cleveland, OH, USA. (2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Digestive
Disease Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA. (3)Associate Professor, 
Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH, USA. (4)Professor, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of 
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA. (5)Assistant Professor,
Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH, USA. E-mail: hanouni2@ccf.org.

Comment in
    Cleve Clin J Med. 2015 Jun;82(6):335-6.
    Cleve Clin J Med. 2015 Jun;82(6):335.

Alcoholic hepatitis, in its severe form, is a devastating acute condition that
requires early recognition and specialized tertiary medical care. This paper
summarizes its epidemiology, pathophysiology, assessment, and treatment.

Copyright © 2015 Cleveland Clinic.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.82a.14048 
PMID: 25955457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


360. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 May 7;21(17):5131-7. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i17.5131.

Liver plays a central role in asymmetric dimethylarginine-mediated organ injury.

Ferrigno A(1), Di Pasqua LG(1), Berardo C(1), Richelmi P(1), Vairetti M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Andrea Ferrigno, Laura G Di Pasqua, Clarissa Berardo, Plinio Richelmi,
Mariapia Vairetti, Department of Internal Medicine and Therapeutics, University
of Pavia, 27100 Pavia, Italy.

Asymmetric-dimethylarginine (ADMA) competes with L-arginine for each of the three
isoforms of nitric oxide synthase: endothelial; neuronal; inducible. ADMA is
synthesized by protein methyltransferases followed by proteolytic degradation.
ADMA is metabolized to citrulline and dimethylamine, by dimethylarginine
dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH) and enters cells through cationic amino-acid
transporters extensively expressed in the liver. The liver plays a crucial role
in ADMA metabolism by DDAH-1 and, as has been recently demonstrated, it is also
responsible for ADMA biliary excretion. A correlation has been demonstrated
between plasma ADMA levels and the degree of hepatic dysfunction in patients
suffering from liver diseases with varying aetiologies: plasma ADMA levels are
increased in patients with liver cirrhosis, alcoholic hepatitis and acute liver
failure. The mechanism by which liver dysfunction results in raised ADMA
concentrations is probably due to impaired activity of DDAH due to severe
inflammation, oxidative stress, and direct damage to DDAH. High plasma ADMA
levels are also relevant as they are associated with the onset of multi-organ
failure (MOF). Increased plasma concentration of ADMA was identified as an
independent risk factor for MOF in critically-ill patients causing enhanced
Intensive Care Unit mortality: a significant reduction in nitric oxide synthesis,
leading to malperfusion in various organs, eventually culminating in multi organs
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i17.5131 
PMCID: PMC4419053
PMID: 25954086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Nutrients. 2015 May 5;7(5):3219-39. doi: 10.3390/nu7053219.

Can skin exposure to sunlight prevent liver inflammation?

Gorman S(1), Black LJ(2), Feelisch M(3), Hart PH(4), Weller R(5).

Author information: 
(1)Telethon Kids Institute, University of Western Australia, 100 Roberts Rd,
Subiaco, Western Australia 6008, Australia. shelley.gorman@telethonkids.org.au.
(2)Telethon Kids Institute, University of Western Australia, 100 Roberts Rd,
Subiaco, Western Australia 6008, Australia. lucinda.black@telethonkids.org.au.
(3)Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Southampton, Southampton General Hospital, Southampton, SO16 6YD, UK.
M.Feelisch@soton.ac.uk. (4)Telethon Kids Institute, University of Western
Australia, 100 Roberts Rd, Subiaco, Western Australia 6008, Australia.
prue.hart@telethonkids.org.au. (5)University of Edinburgh, MRC Centre for
Inflammation Research, Edinburgh, EH16 4TJ, UK. richard.weller@ed.ac.uk.

Liver inflammation contributes towards the pathology of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD). Here we discuss how skin exposure to sunlight may suppress liver
inflammation and the severity of NAFLD. Following exposure to sunlight-derived
ultraviolet radiation (UVR), the skin releases anti-inflammatory mediators such
as vitamin D and nitric oxide. Animal modeling studies suggest that exposure to
UVR can prevent the development of NAFLD. Association studies also support a
negative link between circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D and NAFLD incidence or
severity. Clinical trials are in their infancy and are yet to demonstrate a clear
beneficial effect of vitamin D supplementation. There are a number of potentially
interdependent mechanisms whereby vitamin D could dampen liver inflammation, by
inhibiting hepatocyte apoptosis and liver fibrosis, modulating the gut microbiome
and through altered production and transport of bile acids. While there has been 
a focus on vitamin D, other mediators induced by sun exposure, such as nitric
oxide may also play important roles in curtailing liver inflammation.

DOI: 10.3390/nu7053219 
PMCID: PMC4446748
PMID: 25951129  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


362. J Biol Chem. 2015 Jun 19;290(25):15380-9. doi: 10.1074/jbc.R115.658823. Epub 2015
May 6.

1-Deoxysphingolipids Encountered Exogenously and Made de Novo: Dangerous
Mysteries inside an Enigma.

Duan J(1), Merrill AH Jr(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Schools of Biology and Chemistry & Biochemistry, and the Parker H.
Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience, Georgia Institute of
Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332. (2)From the Schools of Biology and Chemistry 
& Biochemistry, and the Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and
Bioscience, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332
al.merrill@biology.gatech.edu.

The traditional backbones of mammalian sphingolipids are 2-amino, 1,3-diols made 
by serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT). Many organisms additionally produce
non-traditional, cytotoxic 1-deoxysphingoid bases and, surprisingly, mammalian
SPT biosynthesizes some of them, too (e.g. 1-deoxysphinganine from L-alanine).
These are rapidly N-acylated to 1-deoxy-"ceramides" with very uncommon
biophysical properties. The functions of 1-deoxysphingolipids are not known, but 
they are certainly dangerous as contributors to sensory and autonomic
neuropathies when elevated by inherited SPT mutations, and they are noticeable in
diabetes, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, serine deficiencies, and other diseases.
As components of food as well as endogenously produced, these substances are
mysteries within an enigma.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.R115.658823 
PMCID: PMC4505451
PMID: 25947379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Pediatr Rev. 2015 May;36(5):198-205; quiz 206. doi: 10.1542/pir.36-5-198.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Fusillo S(1), Rudolph B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Children's
Hospital at Montefiore, Bronx, NY. (2)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and 
Nutrition, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Children's Hospital at
Montefiore, Bronx, NY.

On the basis of strong research and consensus, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in children and is soon to be the most
common indication for liver transplantation in adults. Although the disease
begins as simple steatosis, some patients may progress to nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) and cirrhosis, making early identification and treatment
critical.• The diagnosis of NAFLD can be challenging because patients are
typically asymptomatic, with no major clinical symptoms of liver disease.
Overweight and obese children are at the highest risk for disease. (1)(2)• On the
basis of moderate research and consensus, serum ALT is usually mildly elevated
but is an imperfect test with a low sensitivity for detecting NAFLD at commonly
used thresholds.(10) Liver biopsy is still considered the gold standard for
diagnosis but is too invasive for population-level screening and is often used
selectively. Novel, noninvasive diagnostic modalities and serum biomarkers are
currently being studied but warrant further validation, especially in children.• 
On the basis of moderate research and consensus, assessing serum liver tests in
any overweight or obese child is reasonable.Liver disease should be suspected if 
the serum ALT is ‡22 U/L(0.37 mkat/L) in girls and ‡25 U/L (0.42 mkat/L) in boys.
(10)Subspecialist referral should be considered for those with a normal BMI,
persistent ALT elevation longer than 6 months,specific symptoms of advanced liver
disease such as splenomegaly, or concerning laboratory findings on selected
screening tests.• On the basis of strong research evidence, weight loss is the
most efficacious treatment for NAFLD.• On the basis of some research and
consensus, initiation of vitamin E therapy (400 IU BID) may be started, although 
its use probably should be restricted to those children with biopsy-proven
disease. (12)• On the basis of some research and consensus, novel
elastography-based imaging modalities are being studied in children and several
drugs show promise in treating NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1542/pir.36-5-198 
PMID: 25934909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Eur J Pediatr. 2015 Jun;174(6):715-46. doi: 10.1007/s00431-015-2551-3. Epub 2015 
Apr 29.

Childhood obesity and its physical and psychological co-morbidities: a systematic
review of Australian children and adolescents.

Sanders RH(1), Han A, Baker JS, Cobley S.

Author information: 
(1)Exercise and Sport Science, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Sydney, 
Cumberland Campus C42, 75 East Street, Sydney, NSW, 2141, Australia,
ross.sanders@sydney.edu.au.

Australia is predicted to have the highest overweight/obesity rate in the world
by 2022 outranking the USA and UK. The purpose of this systematic review was to
evaluate the associations between childhood obesity and physical and
psychological health co-morbidities. Therefore, a systematic literature search
was conducted from six databases (2004-2014). Studies were included if they
investigated obesity-related co-morbidities with participants residing in
Australia aged 0-18 years. Forty-seven studies fulfilled selection criteria.
Evidence suggests that overweight/obese Australian children and adolescents,
compared to normal-weight peers, had more cardio-metabolic risk factors and
higher risk factors of non-alcohol fatty liver disease and were experiencing more
negative psychological outcomes (depression, low self-esteem and lower scores of 
health-related quality of life). Many other health consequences have either not
been investigated in Australia, or as frequently as in other
countries.CONCLUSIONS: Given Australia's current overweight/obesity prevalence
and trajectory, Australia-based studies are needed to identify the suspected
co-morbidities, understand the range of individual, social and environmental
mechanisms driving obesity, and help identify policies, interventions and
strategies that will change the future trajectory and 'disease burden' both in
Australia and internationally.
WHAT IS KNOWN: • Trend analyses have shown that obesity prevalence in Australia
is increasing and will outrank UK and the USA by 2022. • Every third Australian
child/adolescent between 5 and 19 years old is predicted to be classified as
overweight or obese by 2025. • Childhood obesity is associated with multiple
immediate physical and psychological health co-morbidities as well as
co-morbidities in adulthood. These have often been identified and examined
individually. What is New: • This paper presents a holistic picture of childhood 
obesity and the associated multiple co-morbidities in Australia. • The extensive 
health-related outcomes from childhood obesity and those requiring further
research are identified. • The findings of this paper will influence the
development of local/regional, state and national strategies to change
Australia's future trajectory.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-015-2551-3 
PMID: 25922141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Clin Liver Dis. 2015 May;19(2):361-79. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2015.01.012. Epub 2015 
Mar 12.

Nonalcoholic Fatty liver disease, diabetes, obesity, and hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Noureddin M(1), Rinella ME(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases, USC Keck School of Medicine, 
2011 Zonal Avenue, HMR 101, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA. (2)Division of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine, 676 North Saint Clair, Arkes Pavillion 14-005, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. 
Electronic address: m-rinella@northwestern.edu.

Diabetes and obesity are associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
and an increased incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). NAFLD is the
commonest cause of chronic liver disease. HCC can develop in NAFLD patients even 
without cirrhosis, suggesting an association between the metabolic process and
HCC and raising a concern that many cancers could be missed given high NAFLD
prevalence and screening limitations. The increasing prevalence of these
conditions and lack of effective treatments necessitate a better understanding of
their connection. This article defines the known interrelationships and common
pathways between NAFLD, diabetes, obesity and HCC and possible chemoprevention
strategies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2015.01.012 
PMID: 25921668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


366. J Hepatol. 2015 Apr;62(1 Suppl):S65-75. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.02.041.

Current efforts and trends in the treatment of NASH.

Ratziu V(1), Goodman Z(2), Sanyal A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Université Pierre et Marie Curie, ICAN - Institute for Cardiometabolism and
Nutrition, Hôpital Pitié Salpêtrière, Paris, France. Electronic address:
vlad.ratziu@upmc.fr. (2)Center for Liver Diseases, Inova Fairfax Hospital, 3300
Gallows Road, Falls Church, VA 22042, USA. (3)Division of Gastroenterology,
Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of Internal Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth 
University School of Medicine, Richmond, VA, USA.

Of all the aspects of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the slowest
advances have occurred in the therapeutic field. Thirty-five years after its
formal description and after 15 years of intense scrutiny from researchers
worldwide, there is still no approved drug for the treatment of non-alcoholic
steatohepatits (NASH). In the meantime, progress in the understanding of
pathophysiology, diagnosis - both invasive and non-invasive, epidemiology and
even natural history have been substantial or, at times, spectacular. In
contrast, hepatitis C virus (HCV) therapy underwent constant improvement and even
before the great acceleration of the past few years, patients were already being 
offered approved therapies that were increasingly more efficient. What then
explains such a slow pace of therapeutic advances in NASH, and will this change
in the near future? Here we will review commonly-held myths that have diverted
attention from therapy of NASH, obstacles that have slowed down industrial
development of drugs for this indication, and recent achievements that will
create better conditions for drug development programs. We will also briefly
review current knowledge of non-pharmacological and pharmacological management in
this early era of NASH therapies.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.02.041 
PMID: 25920092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


367. J Hepatol. 2015 Apr;62(1 Suppl):S47-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.12.012.

NAFLD: a multisystem disease.

Byrne CD(1), Targher G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton,
Southampton, UK; Southampton National Institute for Health Research, Biomedical
Research Centre, University Hospital Southampton, UK. Electronic address:
cdtb@soton.ac.uk. (2)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism,
Department of Medicine, University and Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria
Integrata of Verona, Verona, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in Western countries that is predicted to become also the most
frequent indication for liver transplantation by 2030. Over the last decade, it
has been shown that the clinical burden of NAFLD is not only confined to
liver-related morbidity and mortality, but there is now growing evidence that
NAFLD is a multisystem disease, affecting extra-hepatic organs and regulatory
pathways. For example, NAFLD increases risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM),
cardiovascular (CVD) and cardiac diseases, and chronic kidney disease (CKD).
Although the primary liver pathology in NAFLD affects hepatic structure and
function to cause morbidity and mortality from cirrhosis, liver failure and
hepatocellular carcinoma, the majority of deaths among NAFLD patients are
attributable to CVD. This narrative review focuses on the rapidly expanding body 
of clinical evidence that supports the concept of NAFLD as a multisystem disease.
The review discusses the factors involved in the progression of liver disease in 
NAFLD and the factors linking NAFLD with other extra-hepatic chronic diseases,
such as T2DM, CVD, cardiac diseases and CKD. The review will not discuss NAFLD
treatments as these are discussed elsewhere in this issue of the Journal. For
this review, PubMed was searched for articles using the keywords "non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease" or "fatty liver" combined with "diabetes", "cardiovascular
(or cardiac) disease", "cardiovascular mortality" or "chronic kidney disease"
between 1990 and 2014. Articles published in languages other than English were
excluded.

Copyright © 2014 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.12.012 
PMID: 25920090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Hepatol. 2015 Apr;62(1 Suppl):S38-46. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.03.006.

Trends in the management and burden of alcoholic liver disease.

Mathurin P(1), Bataller R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Service Maladie de l'Appareil Digestif and INSERM U995, Univ Lille 2, CHRU
Lille, France. Electronic address: philippe.mathurin@chru-lille.fr.
(2)Departments of Medicine and Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address: ramon_bataller@med.unc.edu.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is the most prevalent cause of advanced liver
disease in Europe and is the leading cause of death among adults with excessive
alcohol consumption. There is a dose-response relationship between the amount of 
alcohol consumed and the risk of ALD. The relative risk of cirrhosis increases in
subjects who consume more than 25 g/day. The burden of alcohol-attributable liver
cirrhosis and liver cancer is high and is entirely preventable. Health agencies
should develop population-based policies to reduce the prevalence of harmful
and/or hazardous alcohol consumption and foster research in this field to provide
new diagnostic and therapeutic tools. Disease progression of patients with ALD is
heavily influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Non-invasive
methods for the diagnosis of fibrosis have opened new perspectives in the early
detection of advanced ALD in asymptomatic patients. Alcoholic hepatitis, the most
severe form of ALD, carries a high short-term mortality (around 30-50% at 3
months). Corticosteroids improve short-term survival in patients with severe
alcoholic hepatitis but duration of therapy should be adapted to early response. 
Liver transplantation is the best option for patients with severe liver
dysfunction. However, alcohol relapse after transplantation remains a critical
issue and drinking habits of transplanted patients need to be routinely screened.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.03.006 
PMCID: PMC5013530
PMID: 25920088  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Hepatol. 2015 Apr;62(1 Suppl):S131-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.11.045.

Acute-on-chronic liver failure: A new syndrome that will re-classify cirrhosis.

Arroyo V(1), Moreau R(2), Jalan R(3), Ginès P(4); EASL-CLIF Consortium CANONIC
Study.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Unit, Hospital Clinic, University of Barcelona, IDIBAPS, Barcelona,
Spain. (2)Inserm Unité 1149, Centre de Recherche sur l'inflammation (CRI) Paris, 
UMR S_1149, Université Paris Diderot, París, DHU UNITY, Service d'Hepatologie,
Hôpital Beaujon, APHP, Clichy, France. (3)Liver Failure Group, Institute for
Liver and Digestive Health, Royal Free Hospital, UCL, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Liver Unit, Hospital Clinic, University of Barcelona, Insitut d'Investigacions
Biomediques August Pi I Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Centro de Investigacion Biomedica en
Red Enfermedades Hepaticas y Digestivas (CIBEReHD), Instituto Reina Sofia de
Investigacion en Nefrologia (IRSIN), Spain. Electronic address:
pgines@clinic.ub.es.

Acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) is a recently recognized syndrome
characterized by acute decompensation (AD) of cirrhosis and organ/system
failure(s) (organ failure: liver, kidney, brain, coagulation, circulation and/or 
respiration) and extremely poor survival (28-day mortality rate 30-40%). ACLF
occurs in relatively young patients. It is especially frequent in alcoholic- and 
untreated hepatitis B associated-cirrhosis, in addition it is related to
bacterial infections and active alcoholism, although in 40% of cases no
precipitating event can be identified. It may develop at any time during the
course of the disease in the patient (from compensated to long-standing
cirrhosis). The development of ACLF occurs in the setting of a systemic
inflammation, the severity of which correlates with the number of organ failures 
and mortality. Systemic inflammation may cause ACLF through complex mechanisms
including an exaggerated inflammatory response and systemic oxidative stress to
pathogen- or danger/damage-associated molecular patterns (immunopathology) and/or
alteration of tissue homeostasis to inflammation caused either by the pathogen
itself or through a dysfunction of tissue tolerance. A scoring system composed of
three scores (CLIF-C OFs, CLIF-C AD, and CLIF-C ACLFs) specifically designed for 
patients with AD, with and without ACLF, allows a step-wise algorithm for a
rational indication of therapy. The management of ACLF should be carried out in
enhanced or intensive care units. Current therapeutic measures comprise the
treatment for associated complications, organ failures support and liver
transplantation.

Copyright © 2014 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.11.045 
PMID: 25920082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Jul;27(7):755-68. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000375.

Bariatric surgery and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Bower G(1), Athanasiou T, Isla AM, Harling L, Li JV, Holmes E, Efthimiou E, Darzi
A, Ashrafian H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, Imperial College
Healthcare NHS Trust at St Mary's Hospital, London, UK.

The rising prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is associated
with the increasing global pandemic of obesity. These conditions cluster with
type II diabetes mellitus and the metabolic syndrome to result in
obesity-associated liver disease. The benefits of bariatric procedures on
diabetes and the metabolic syndrome have been recognized for some time, and there
is now mounting evidence to suggest that bariatric procedures improve liver
histology and contribute to the beneficial resolution of NAFLD in obese patients.
These beneficial effects derive from a number of weight-dependent and
weight-independent mechanisms including surgical BRAVE actions (bile flow
changes, restriction of stomach size, anatomical gastrointestinal rearrangement, 
vagal manipulation, enteric hormonal modulation) and subsequent effects such as
reduced lipid intake, adipocytokine secretion, modulation of gut flora,
improvements in insulin resistance and reduced inflammation. Here, we review the 
clinical investigations on bariatric procedures for NAFLD, in addition to the
mounting mechanistic data supporting these findings. Elucidating the mechanisms
by which bariatric procedures may resolve NAFLD can help enhance surgical
approaches for metabolic hepatic dysfunction and also contribute toward
developing the next generation of therapies aimed at reducing the burden of
obesity-associated liver disease.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000375 
PMID: 25919774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Obes Surg. 2015 Dec;25(12):2280-9. doi: 10.1007/s11695-015-1691-x.

Bariatric Surgery and Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: a Systematic Review of
Liver Biochemistry and Histology.

Bower G(1), Toma T(1), Harling L(1), Jiao LR(1,)(2), Efthimiou E(1,)(3), Darzi
A(1), Athanasiou T(1), Ashrafian H(4,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Imperial College
Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK. (3)Department of Bariatric Surgery, Chelsea and
Westminster Hospital, London, UK. (4)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial
College London, London, UK. h.ashrafian@imperial.ac.uk. (5)Department of
Bariatric Surgery, Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, London, UK.
h.ashrafian@imperial.ac.uk. (6)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic
Surgery, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK.
h.ashrafian@imperial.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is becoming a leading cause
of global liver disease that is associated with the rising prevalence of obesity 
worldwide. There is now increasing clinical and mechanistic evidence reporting on
the metabolic and weight loss effects of bariatric surgery on improving NAFLD in 
obese patients.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this paper was to quantify the effects of bariatric
surgery on NAFLD by appraising the modulation between pre- and post-operative
liver enzyme levels (as markers of liver injury) and liver histology.
METHODS: A systematic review of studies reporting pre-operative and
post-operative liver enzymes or liver histology was done in obese patients with
NAFLD undergoing bariatric surgery. Data were meta-analysed using random-effects 
modelling. Subgroup analysis, quality scoring and risk of bias were assessed.
RESULTS: Bariatric surgery is associated with a significant reduction in the
weighted incidence of a number of histological features of NAFLD including
steatosis (50.2 and 95 %CI of 35.5-65.0), fibrosis (11.9 and 95 %CI of 7.4-16.3
%), hepatocyte ballooning (67.7 and 95 %CI 56.9-78.5) and lobular inflammation
(50.7 and 95 %CI 26.6-74.8 %). Surgery is also associated with a reduction in
liver enzyme levels, with statistically significant reductions in ALT (11.36 u/l,
95 %CI 8.36-14.39), AST (3.91 u/l, 95 %CI 2.23-5.59), ALP (10.55 u/l, 95 %CI
4.40-16.70) and gamma-GT (18.39 u/l, 95 %CI 12.62-24.16). Heterogeneity in
results was high.
CONCLUSIONS: Bariatric surgery is associated with a significant improvement in
both histological and biochemical markers of NAFLD. Future studies must focus on 
higher levels of evidence to better identify the benefits of bariatric surgery on
liver disease in order to enhance future treatment strategies in the management
of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-015-1691-x 
PMID: 25917981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Curr Drug Targets. 2015;16(12):1301-14.

Antioxidant Mechanisms in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Liu W, Baker SS, Baker RD, Zhu L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Digestive Diseases and Nutrition Center, Department of Pediatrics, The State
University of New York at Buffalo, 3435 Main Street, 422BRB, Buffalo, NY 14214,
USA. lixinzhu@buffalo.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a broad spectrum of
histological abnormalities with clinical presentations ranging from hepatic
steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Some NAFLD patients may
progress to cirrhosis and ultimately hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Hepatic
steatosis, the hallmark of NAFLD, is defined by the accumulation of triglycerides
(TGs) in more than 5% of the hepatocytes. NASH is characterized by inflammation
along with variable degrees of fibrosis in addition to steatosis. NAFLD has been 
considered to be the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome (MS), as it is
frequently associated with MS conditions such as insulin resistance (IR) and
obesity. Hepatic steatosis mainly results from disrupted homeostasis of lipid
metabolism in the setting of IR. Although the mechanism underlying the
progression from steatosis to NASH is still not fully elucidated, mounting
evidence has suggested oxidative stress (OS) to be a key driving force. Elevated 
OS has been well documented in NAFLD patients. OS can cause direct damages to
lipid, protein, and DNA molecules and trigger the inflammatory and fibrogenesis
signaling pathways, which promotes the progression from steatosis to NASH. OS may
also have various effects on antioxidant defense mechanisms. Overproduced
reactive oxygen species (ROS) may directly deplete antioxidant molecules such as 
glutathione (GSH) and inhibit the activities of antioxidant enzymes such as
superoxide dismutase (SOD). ROS may also induce the expression of antioxidant
genes to counteract the OS effects. The aim of this review is to discuss
oxidative stress and antioxidant mechanisms in NAFLD.


PMID: 25915484  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


373. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Apr 21;21(15):4432-9. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i15.4432.

Noninvasive imaging assessment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: focus on
liver scintigraphy.

Tovo CV(1), de Mattos AZ(1), Coral GP(1), Branco FS(1), Suwa E(1), de Mattos
AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cristiane Valle Tovo, Angelo Zambam de Mattos, Gabriela Perdomo Coral,
Fernanda Schild Branco, Eiji Suwa, Angelo Alves de Mattos, Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de
Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre 90430-080, Brazil.

Noninvasive diagnoses of nonalcoholic fatty-liver disease (NAFLD) involve the use
of serologic markers and imaging methods, such as conventional ultrasonography
(US), computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. Although these methods
are reliable for the noninvasive detection of moderate to severe fatty changes in
the liver, they are not reliable for detecting nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) and fibrosis. New imaging technologies, such as US-based transient
elastography, acoustic radiation force impulse and magnetic resonance-based
elastography, can reportedly be used to determine the severity of liver fibrosis 
associated with NASH. In this context, the field of nuclear medicine through
liver scintigraphy has recently been proposed, and is being explored for use in
the diagnosis of NASH. More importantly, nuclear medicine may contribute to the
distinction between simple steatosis and NASH. For example, the enhanced release 
of cytokines and the decrease in the phagocytic activity of Kupffer cells play
important roles in the pathogenesis of NASH. Removal of technetium-99m colloid
from circulation by Kupffer cell phagocytosis therefore provides a valuable
imaging technique. Thus, nuclear medicine is poised to provide useful tools for
the evaluation of patients with NAFLD. However, the evidence is still scarce, and
more studies with larger samples are needed to identify their role before they
are used in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i15.4432 
PMCID: PMC4402290
PMID: 25914452  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Curr Probl Diagn Radiol. 2015 Sep-Oct;44(5):449-61. doi:
10.1067/j.cpradiol.2015.03.004. Epub 2015 Mar 20.

Neurologic Manifestations of Chronic Liver Disease and Liver Cirrhosis.

Sureka B(1), Bansal K(1), Patidar Y(1), Rajesh S(1), Mukund A(1), Arora A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology/Interventional Radiology, Institute of Liver and
Biliary Sciences, D-1, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi, India. (2)Department of
Radiology/Interventional Radiology, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, D-1,
Vasant Kunj, New Delhi, India. Electronic address: aroradrankur@yahoo.com.

The normal functioning of brain is intimately as well as intricately interrelated
with normal functioning of the liver. Liver plays a critical role of not only
providing vital nutrients to the brain but also of detoxifying the splanchnic
blood. Compromised liver function leads to insufficient detoxification thus
allowing neurotoxins (such as ammonia, manganese, and other chemicals) to enter
the cerebral circulation. In addition, portosystemic shunts, which are common
accompaniments of advanced liver disease, facilitate free passage of neurotoxins 
into the cerebral circulation. The problem is compounded further by additional
variables such as gastrointestinal tract bleeding, malnutrition, and concurrent
renal failure, which are often associated with liver cirrhosis. Neurologic damage
in chronic liver disease and liver cirrhosis seems to be multifactorial primarily
attributable to the following: brain accumulation of ammonia, manganese, and
lactate; altered permeability of the blood-brain barrier; recruitment of
monocytes after microglial activation; and neuroinflammation, that is, direct
effects of circulating systemic proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis 
factor, IL-1β, and IL-6. Radiologist should be aware of the conundrum of
neurologic complications that can be encountered in liver disease, which include 
hepatic encephalopathy, hepatocerebral degeneration, hepatic myelopathy,
cirrhosis-related parkinsonism, cerebral infections, hemorrhage, and osmotic
demyelination. In addition, neurologic complications can be exclusive to certain 
disorders, for example, Wilson disease, alcoholism (Wernicke encephalopathy,
alcoholic cerebellar degeneration, Marchiafava-Bignami disease, etc). Radiologist
should be aware of their varied clinical presentation and radiological
appearances as the diagnosis is not always straightforward.

Copyright © 2015 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1067/j.cpradiol.2015.03.004 
PMID: 25908229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Handb Exp Pharmacol. 2016;233:221-49. doi: 10.1007/164_2015_8.

Immune Cells and Metabolism.

Chatzigeorgiou A(1,)(2,)(3), Chavakis T(4,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pathobiochemistry, Technische Universität Dresden,
Fetscherstrasse 74, 01307, Dresden, Germany.
antonios.chatzigeorgiou@uniklinikum-dresden.de. (2)Institute for Clinical
Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden,
Germany. antonios.chatzigeorgiou@uniklinikum-dresden.de. (3)Paul Langerhans
Institute Dresden, German Center for Diabetes Research, Dresden, Germany.
antonios.chatzigeorgiou@uniklinikum-dresden.de. (4)Department of Clinical
Pathobiochemistry, Technische Universität Dresden, Fetscherstrasse 74, 01307,
Dresden, Germany. (5)Institute for Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine,
Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany. (6)Paul Langerhans Institute
Dresden, German Center for Diabetes Research, Dresden, Germany.

Low-grade inflammation in the obese AT (AT) and the liver is a critical player in
the development of obesity-related metabolic dysregulation, including insulin
resistance, type 2 diabetes and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Myeloid as 
well as lymphoid cells infiltrate the AT and the liver and expand within these
metabolic organs as a result of excessive nutrient intake, thereby exacerbating
tissue inflammation. Macrophages are the paramount cell population in the field
of metabolism-related inflammation; as obesity progresses, a switch takes place
within the AT environment from an M2-alternatively activated macrophage state to 
an M1-inflammatory macrophage-dominated milieu. M1-polarized macrophages secrete 
inflammatory cytokines like TNF in the obese AT; such cytokines contribute to
insulin resistance in adipocytes. Besides macrophages, also CD8+ T cells promote 
inflammation in the AT and the liver and thereby the deterioration of the
metabolic balance in adipocytes and hepatocytes. Other cells of the innate
immunity, such as neutrophils or mast cells, interfere with metabolic homeostasis
as well. On the other hand, eosinophils or T-regulatory cells, the number of
which in the AT decreases in the course of obesity, function to maintain
metabolic balance by ameliorating inflammatory processes. In addition,
eosinophils and M2-polarized macrophages may contribute to "beige" adipogenesis
under lean conditions; beige adipocytes are located predominantly in the
subcutaneous AT and have thermogenic and optimal energy-dispensing properties
like brown adipocytes. This chapter will summarize the different aspects of the
regulation of homeostasis of metabolic tissues by immune cells.

DOI: 10.1007/164_2015_8 
PMID: 25903417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Curr Diab Rep. 2015 Jun;15(6):607. doi: 10.1007/s11892-015-0607-4.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes: common pathophysiologic
mechanisms.

Saponaro C(1), Gaggini M, Gastaldelli A.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiometabolic Risk Unit, Institute of Clinical Physiology, CNR, via Moruzzi 
1, 56100, Pisa, Italy, chiara.saponaro@gmail.com.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an independent risk factor for
advanced liver disease, type 2 diabetes (T2DM), and cardiovascular diseases. The 
prevalence of NAFLD in the general population is around 30 %, but it is up to
three times higher in those with T2DM. Among people with obesity and T2DM, the
NAFLD epidemic also is worsening. Therefore, it is important to identify early
metabolic alterations and to prevent these diseases and their progression. In
this review, we analyze the pathophysiologic mechanisms leading to NAFLD,
particularly, those common to T2DM, such as liver and muscle insulin resistance. 
However, it is mainly adipose tissue insulin resistance that results in increased
hepatic de novo lipogenesis, inflammation, and lipotoxicity. Although genetics
predispose to NAFLD, an unhealthy lifestyle, including high-fat/high-sugar diets 
and low physical activity, increases the risk. In addition, alterations in gut
microbiota and environmental chemical agents, acting as endocrine disruptors, may
play a role.

DOI: 10.1007/s11892-015-0607-4 
PMID: 25894944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


377. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Apr 14;21(14):4103-10. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i14.4103.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, metabolic risk factors, and hepatocellular
carcinoma: an open question.

Streba LA(1), Vere CC(1), Rogoveanu I(1), Streba CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Letiția Adela Maria Streba, Internal Medicine, Medical Semiology, University
of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, 200639 Craiova, Romania.

Non-alcoholic liver disease (NAFLD) defines liver abnormalities ranging from
simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis with or without cirrhosis
development, occurring in the absence of significant alcohol consumption, use of 
teratogenic medication, or hereditary disorders. The association between NAFLD
and metabolic syndrome is well documented and widely recognized. Obesity, type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and dyslipidemia are the most common metabolic risk
factors associated with NAFLD. Among the components of metabolic syndrome,
current evidence strongly indicates obesity and diabetes as hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC) risk factors. There is also growing evidence that suggests an
increased risk of HCC in NAFLD patients, even surpassing other etiologies in some
high-income countries. Epidemiologic data demonstrate a parallel rise in
prevalence of obesity, diabetes, NAFLD, and HCC. As obesity and its related
diseases have steadily afflicted larger populations, HCC incidence is expected to
increase in the future. Pathophysiologic mechanisms that underlie NAFLD
development and subsequent progression to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and
cirrhosis (insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia, oxidative stress, hepatic
stellate cell activation, cytokine/adipocytokine signaling pathways, and genetic 
and environmental factors) appear to play a significant role in the development
of NAFLD-related HCC. However, a comprehensive view of molecular mechanisms
linking obesity, T2DM, and NAFLD-related HCC, as well as the exact sequence of
molecular events, is still not understood in its entirety. Good-quality data are 
still necessary, and efforts should continue towards better understanding the
underlying carcinogenic mechanisms of NAFLD-related HCC. In this paper, we aimed 
to centralize the most important links supporting these relationships, focusing
on obesity, T2DM, and NAFLD-related HCC, as well as point out the major gaps in
knowledge regarding the underlying molecular mechanisms behind them.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i14.4103 
PMCID: PMC4394070
PMID: 25892859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Curr Drug Targets. 2015;16(12):1324-31.

Targeting the Gut Microbiota for the Treatment of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver
Disease.

Mouzaki M(1), Bandsma R.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital for Sick Children, 555 University Avenue, Toronto ON, Canada.
Marialena.mouzaki@sickkids.ca.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a challenge not only due to its
rising prevalence but also, and perhaps more importantly, due to the lack of
sustainable treatment options. Intestinal microbiota are thought to participate
in the development and progression of NAFLD and their manipulation is, hence,
being investigated as a treatment aim. This review summarizes the involvement of 
intestinal microbiota in the pathogenesis on NAFLD. In addition, we synthesize
the results of the most recent animal and human studies aimed at treating
dysbiosis seen in patients with NAFLD. Lastly, we review the evidence regarding
the efficacy of manipulating short chain fatty acid and bile acid signaling in
the treatment of NAFLD.


PMID: 25882223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Immunol Rev. 2015 May;265(1):143-55. doi: 10.1111/imr.12279.

Hepatitis regulation by the inflammasome signaling pathway.

Negash AA(1), Gale M Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Innate Immunity and Immune Disease, Department of Immunology,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.

Hepatitis is damage and inflammation of the liver. It is triggered by both
environmental and endogenous insults and is a platform for developing liver
cirrhosis and cancer. Both innate and adaptive immune activation contribute to
hepatic inflammation and disease. Viral hepatitis is the most common form of
hepatitis and is typically associated with chronic viral infection.
Alcohol-induced and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis are two rising hepatic
problems. The innate immune inflammasome signaling cascade mediates the
production of essential proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and
IL-18. These cytokines regulate hepatic cell interaction and crosstalk of the
various inflammatory pathways and influence disease outcome.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imr.12279 
PMID: 25879290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Mediators Inflamm. 2015;2015:815721. doi: 10.1155/2015/815721. Epub 2015 Mar 19.

OSAS-related inflammatory mechanisms of liver injury in nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease.

Paschetta E(1), Belci P(2), Alisi A(3), Liccardo D(3), Cutrera R(4), Musso G(1), 
Nobili V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, University of Turin, Corso Regina Margherita, 10132 Turin,
Italy. (2)Department of Medical Sciences, San Giovanni Battista Hospital,
University of Turin, Corso Bramante 14, 10124 Turin, Italy. (3)Hepato-Metabolic
Disease Unit, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital and IRCCS, S. Onofrio Square 4,
00165 Rome, Italy. (4)Pneumology Unit, Sleep and Noninvasive Ventilation
Laboratory, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital and IRCCS, S. Onofrio Square 4,
00165 Rome, Italy.

Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) is a common sleep disorder, affecting
over 4% of the general population, and is associated with metabolic syndrome and 
cardiovascular disease, independent of obesity and traditional risk factors. OSAS
has been recently connected to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most
common chronic liver disease in the world, which can be found in 30% of the
general adult population. Several studies suggest that the chronic intermittent
hypoxia (CIH) of OSAS patients may per se trigger liver injury, inflammation, and
fibrogenesis, promoting NAFLD development and the progression from steatosis to
steatohepatitis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. In NAFLD patients,
liver disease may be caused by hypoxia both indirectly by promoting inflammation 
and insulin resistance and directly by enhancing proinflammatory cytokine
production and metabolic dysregulation in liver cells. In this review, we focus
on molecular mechanisms linking OSAS to NAFLD, including hypoxia inducible factor
(HIF), nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), YKL-40, unfolded protein response, and
hypoxic adipose tissue inflammation, which all could provide novel potential
therapeutic approaches for the management of NAFLD patients with OSAS.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/815721 
PMCID: PMC4383458
PMID: 25873773  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2015 Jun;240(6):809-20. doi: 10.1177/1535370215579161.
Epub 2015 Apr 13.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: update on pathogenesis, diagnosis, treatment
and the role of S-adenosylmethionine.

Noureddin M(1), Mato JM(2), Lu SC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA shelly.lu@cshs.org.
(2)Ibaizabal Kalea, 101, 48170 Zamudio, Bizkaia, Spain. (3)Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is currently the most common liver
disease worldwide affecting over one-third of the population in the U.S. It has
been associated with obesity, type 2 diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and insulin
resistance and is initiated by the accumulation of triglycerides in hepatocytes. 
Isolated hepatic steatosis (IHS) remains a benign process, while a subset
develops superimposed inflammatory activity and progression to nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) with or without fibrosis. However, the molecular
mechanisms underlying NAFLD progression are not completely understood. Liver
biopsy is still required to differentiate IHS from NASH as easily accessible
noninvasive biomarkers are lacking. In terms of treatments for NASH,
pioglitazone, vitamin E, and obeticholic acid have shown some benefit. All of
these agents have potential complications associated with long-term use.
Nowadays, a complex hypothesis suggests that multiple parallel hits are involved 
in NASH development. However, the 'key switch' between IHS and NASH remains to be
discovered. We have recently shown that knocking out enzymes involved in
S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe) metabolism, the main biological methyl donor in
humans that is abundant in the liver, will lead to NASH development in mice. This
could be due to the fact that a normal SAMe level is required to establish the
proper ratio of phosphatidylethanolamine to phosphatidylcholine that has been
found to be important in NAFLD progression. New data from humans have also
suggested that these enzymes play a role in the pathogenesis of NAFLD and that
some of SAMe cycle metabolites may serve as noninvasive biomarkers of NASH. In
this review, we discuss the evidence of the role of SAMe in animal models and
humans with NAFLD and how studying this area may lead to the discovery of new
noninvasive biomarkers and possibly personalized treatment for NASH.

© 2015 by the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine.

DOI: 10.1177/1535370215579161 
PMCID: PMC4818965
PMID: 25873078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2015 May;39(5):763-75. doi: 10.1111/acer.12704.

Alcoholic liver disease: the gut microbiome and liver cross talk.

Hartmann P(1), Seebauer CT, Schnabl B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality
worldwide. Alcoholic fatty liver disease can progress to steatohepatitis,
alcoholic hepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. Patients with alcohol abuse show
quantitative and qualitative changes in the composition of the intestinal
microbiome. Furthermore, patients with ALD have increased intestinal permeability
and elevated systemic levels of gut-derived microbial products. Maintaining
eubiosis, stabilizing the mucosal gut barrier, or preventing cellular responses
to microbial products protect from experimental ALD. Therefore, intestinal
dysbiosis and pathological bacterial translocation appear fundamental for the
pathogenesis of ALD. This review highlights causes for intestinal dysbiosis and
pathological bacterial translocation, their relationship, and consequences for
ALD. We also discuss how the liver affects the intestinal microbiota.

Copyright © 2015 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12704 
PMCID: PMC4402724
PMID: 25872593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Mar Drugs. 2015 Apr 13;13(4):2196-214. doi: 10.3390/md13042196.

Anti-obesity activity of the marine carotenoid fucoxanthin.

Gammone MA(1), D'Orazio N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Human and Clinical Nutrition Unit, Department of Medical, Oral and
Biotechnological Sciences, Via Dei Vestini, University G. D'Annunzio, 66013
Chieti, Italy. m.alessandra.gammone@gmail.com. (2)Human and Clinical Nutrition
Unit, Department of Medical, Oral and Biotechnological Sciences, Via Dei Vestini,
University G. D'Annunzio, 66013 Chieti, Italy. ndorazio@unich.it.

Nowadays the global tendency towards physical activity reduction and an augmented
dietary intake of fats, sugars and calories is leading to a growing propagation
of overweight, obesity and lifestyle-related diseases, such diabetes,
hypertension, dyslipidemia and metabolic syndrome. In particular, obesity,
characterized as a state of low-level inflammation, is a powerful determinant
both in the development of insulin resistance and in the progression to type 2
diabetes. A few molecular targets offer hope for anti-obesity therapeutics. One
of the keys to success could be the induction of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) in
abdominal white adipose tissue (WAT) and the regulation of cytokine secretions
from both abdominal adipose cells and macrophage cells infiltrated into adipose
tissue. Anti-obesity effects of fucoxanthin, a characteristic carotenoid, exactly
belonging to xanthophylls, have been reported. Nutrigenomic studies reveal that
fucoxanthin induces UCP1 in abdominal WAT mitochondria, leading to the oxidation 
of fatty acids and heat production in WAT. Fucoxanthin improves insulin
resistance and decreases blood glucose levels through the regulation of cytokine 
secretions from WAT. The key structure of anti-obesity effect is suggested to be 
the carotenoid end of the polyene chromophore, which contains an allenic bond and
two hydroxyl groups. Fucoxanthin, which can be isolated from edible brown
seaweeds, recently displayed its many physiological functions and biological
properties. We reviewed recent studies and this article aims to explain essential
background of fucoxanthin, focusing on its promising potential anti-obesity
effects. In this respect, fucoxanthin can be developed into promising marine
drugs and nutritional products, in order to become a helpful functional food.

DOI: 10.3390/md13042196 
PMCID: PMC4413207
PMID: 25871295  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Sci. 2015 Jul;22(7):512-8. doi: 10.1002/jhbp.245. Epub
2015 Apr 13.

Recent advancement of molecular mechanisms of liver fibrosis.

Seki E(1), Brenner DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, 8700 Beverly Blvd, DAVIS, Suite D2099, Los Angeles, CA, 90048, USA.
Ekihiro.Seki@cshs.org. (2)School of Medicine, University of California San Diego,
La Jolla, CA, USA.

Liver fibrosis occurs in response to any etiology of chronic liver injury
including hepatitis B and C, alcohol consumption, fatty liver disease,
cholestasis, and autoimmune hepatitis. Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) are the
primary source of activated myofibroblasts that produce extracellular matrix
(ECM) in the liver. Various inflammatory and fibrogenic pathways contribute to
the activation of HSCs. Recent studies also discovered that liver fibrosis is
reversible and activated HSCs can revert to quiescent HSCs when causative agents 
are removed. Although the basic research for liver fibrosis has progressed
remarkably, sensitive and specific biomarkers as non-invasive diagnostic tools,
and effective anti-fibrotic agents have not been developed yet. This review
highlights the recent advances in cellular and molecular mechanisms of liver
fibrosis, especially focusing on origin of myofibroblasts, inflammatory
signaling, autophagy, cellular senescence, HSC inactivation, angiogenesis, and
reversibility of liver fibrosis.

© 2015 Japanese Society of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery.

DOI: 10.1002/jhbp.245 
PMCID: PMC4668270
PMID: 25869468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2015 Apr;14(2):139-44.

Beneficial mechanisms of aerobic exercise on hepatic lipid metabolism in
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Guo R(1), Liong EC, So KF, Fung ML, Tipoe GL.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Anatomy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China. tgeorge@hku.hk.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) refers to any fatty liver
disease that is not due to excessive use of alcohol. NAFLD probably results from 
abnormal hepatic lipid metabolism and insulin resistance. Aerobic exercise is
shown to improve NAFLD. This review aimed to evaluate the molecular mechanisms
involved in the beneficial effects of aerobic exercise on NAFLD.
DATA SOURCE: We searched articles in English on the role of aerobic exercise in
NAFLD therapy in PubMed.
RESULTS: The mechanisms of chronic aerobic exercise in regulating the outcome of 
NAFLD include: (i) reducing intrahepatic fat content by down-regulating sterol
regulatory element-binding protein-1c and up-regulating peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor gamma expression levels; (ii) decreasing hepatic 
oxidative stress through modulating the reactive oxygen species, and enhancing
antioxidant enzymes such as catalase and glutathione peroxidase; (iii)
ameliorating hepatic inflammation via the inhibition of pro-inflammatory
mediators such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta; (iv)
attenuating mitochondrial dependent apoptosis by reducing cytochrome C released
from the mitochondria to the cytosol; and (v) inducing hepato-protective
autophagy.
CONCLUSION: Aerobic exercise, via different mechanisms, significantly decreases
the fat content of the liver and improves the outcomes of patients with NAFLD.


PMID: 25865685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Ann Hepatol. 2015 May-Jun;14(3):299-303.

Obesity as a cause of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Kew MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Groote Schuur Hospital and University of Cape Town,
Cape Town, and University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.

During recent years the incidence of obesity has increased significantly, and in 
some instances rapidly, in many resource-rich countries. Paralleling this
increase has been an increase in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma. It
has been estimated that as many as 90% of obese adults will develop the metabolic
syndrome. The worldwide incidence of this syndrome in adults at this time ranges 
from 9 to 34%. Furthermore, obesity in childhood increases the risk of obesity in
adulthood, and hence the development of the metabolic syndrome and hepatocellular
carcinoma. Ten to 20% of patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease progress
to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, and 8.3% of the latter develop cirrhosis. Up to
50% of these patients with cirrhosis, and a significant proportion of those
without cirrhosis, progress to hepatocellular carcinoma. Much remains to be
learnt about the mechanisms by which obesity and the metabolic syndrome cause
hepatocellular carcinoma, although insulin resistance, increased tissue necrosis 
factor activity, alterations in serum lipids, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
and non-alcoholic steatosis play important roles. There is also increasing
evidence that gut microbiota play a role in the development of the metabolic
syndrome and hence of hepatocellular carcinoma.


PMID: 25864208  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


387. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Apr 7;21(13):4038-47. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i13.4038.

Osteoporosis and bone fractures in alcoholic liver disease: a meta-analysis.

Bang CS(1), Shin IS(1), Lee SW(1), Kim JB(1), Baik GH(1), Suk KT(1), Yoon JH(1), 
Kim YS(1), Kim DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Chang Seok Bang, Sung Wha Lee, Jin Bong Kim, Gwang Ho Baik, Ki Tae Suk, Jai
Hoon Yoon, Yeon Soo Kim, Dong Joon Kim, Department of Internal Medicine, Hallym
University College of Medicine, Chuncheon 200-704, South Korea.

AIM: To evaluate the association between alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and bone
fractures or osteoporosis.
METHODS: Non-randomized studies were identified from databases (PubMed, EMBASE,
and the Cochrane Library). The search was conducted using Boolean operators and
keywords, which included "alcoholic liver diseases", "osteoporosis", or "bone
fractures". The prevalence of any fractures or osteoporosis, and bone mineral
density (BMD) were extracted and analyzed using risk ratios and standardized mean
difference (SMD). A random effects model was applied.
RESULTS: In total, 15 studies were identified and analyzed. Overall, ALD
demonstrated a RR of 1.944 (95%CI: 1.354-2.791) for the development of bone
fractures. However, ALD showed a RR of 0.849 (95%CI: 0.523-1.380) for the
development of osteoporosis. BMD was not significantly different between the ALD 
and control groups, although there was a trend toward lower BMD in patients with 
ALD (SMD in femur-BMD: -0.172, 95%CI: -0.453-0.110; SMD in spine-BMD: -0.169,
95%CI: -0.476-0.138). Sensitivity analyses showed consistent results.
CONCLUSION: Current publications indicate significant associations between bone
fractures and ALD, independent of BMD or the presence of osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i13.4038 
PMCID: PMC4385554
PMID: 25852292  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


388. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Apr 7;21(13):3777-85. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i13.3777.

Current pharmacological therapies for nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Takahashi Y(1), Sugimoto K(1), Inui H(1), Fukusato T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yoshihisa Takahashi, Toshio Fukusato, Department of Pathology, Teikyo
University School of Medicine, Tokyo 173-8605, Japan.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is
considered to be a hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome, and its incidence
is rapidly increasing worldwide. It is currently the most common chronic liver
disease. NASH can progress to liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, and
may result in liver-related death. Currently, the principal treatment for
NAFLD/NASH is lifestyle modification by diet and exercise. However,
pharmacological therapy is indispensable because obese patients with NAFLD often 
have difficulty maintaining improved lifestyles. The pathogenesis of NAFLD/NASH
has not been completely elucidated. However, insulin resistance, inflammatory
cytokines, and oxidative stress are thought to be important in the development
and/or progression of the disease. Currently, insulin sensitizers
(thiazolidinediones) and antioxidants (vitamin E) seem to be the most promising
therapeutic agents for NAFLD/NASH, and lipid-lowering drugs, pentoxifylline,
angiotensin receptor blockers, and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids also have
promise. However, there is a lack of consensus regarding the most effective and
appropriate pharmacotherapy for NAFLD/NASH. Animal experiments suggest that
herbal medicines and natural products may be promising therapeutic agents for
NAFLD/NASH, but their efficacy and safety are yet to be investigated in human
studies. In this paper, we review the existing and potential pharmacological
therapies for NAFLD/NASH.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i13.3777 
PMCID: PMC4385525
PMID: 25852263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Curr Drug Targets. 2015;16(12):1293-300.

Identification of Lipid Species Linked to the Progression of Non-Alcoholic Fatty 
Liver Disease.

Kawano Y(1), Nishiumi S, Saito M, Yano Y, Azuma T, Yoshida M.

Author information: 
(1)Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, 7-5-1, Kusunoki-cho, Chuo-ku,
Kobe, Hyogo 650- 0017, Japan. kawanoy@med.kobe-u.ac.jp.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is histologically characterized by the 
aberrant accumulation of lipid droplets in the liver, which is positively
correlated with insulin resistance. Within the spectrum of this disease, patients
can develop hepatitis and cirrhosis; i.e., non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). 
The mechanisms responsible for the progression of NAFLD are not fully understood.
Triacylglycerol (TAG), which is mainly found in lipid droplets, is currently
considered to act as a buffer against the accumulation of non-TAG toxic lipid
species. In line with this, recent studies have revealed that insulin resistance 
is driven by the accumulation of phosphatidic acid and diacylglycerol in
hepatocytes and that cholesterol-overloaded stellate cells are associated with
fibrosis in the liver. Therefore, it is important to identify the toxic lipid
species that contribute to NAFLD progression in order to clarify the pathogenesis
of NASH and find novel targets for its treatment. In this review, we divided
lipids into five classes; i.e., into fatty acyls, glycerophospholipids,
glycerolipids, sphingolipids, and sterol lipids, and described their molecular
structures, distributions, and metabolism under physiological conditions, as well
as the contributions they make to the progression of NAFLD.


PMID: 25850622  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2015 May;31(3):184-91. doi:
10.1097/MOG.0000000000000176.

Aging and liver disease.

Kim IH(1), Kisseleva T, Brenner DA.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Internal Medicine, Chonbuk National University Medical School, 
Jeonju, South Korea bDepartment of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Aging is a condition in which a person gradually loses the
ability to maintain homeostasis, due to structural alteration or dysfunction.
Aging is a major risk factor for most chronic diseases. As the liver has a
remarkable ability to regenerate, this review assessed the effect of aging on
clinical liver disease with references to preclinical models when relevant to
pathogenesis.
RECENT FINDINGS: Aging has been shown to not only enhance vulnerability to acute 
liver injury but also increase susceptibility of the fibrotic response. Aging is 
associated with the severity and poor prognosis of various liver diseases
including nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, alcoholic liver disease, hepatitis C,
and liver transplantation.
SUMMARY: Treatment of older patients with liver disease may require different or 
longer interventions. Transplantation of an older liver will be less tolerant of 
subsequent injury. Future studies are needed to understand more about the
molecular mechanism of aging and contribute to the development of a noble
treatment strategy that can block the progression of aging-induced liver
diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000176 
PMCID: PMC4736713
PMID: 25850346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Saudi J Gastroenterol. 2015 Mar-Apr;21(2):64-70. doi: 10.4103/1319-3767.153812.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: Noninvasive methods of diagnosing hepatic
steatosis.

AlShaalan R, Aljiffry M, Al-Busafi S, Metrakos P, Hassanain M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Department 
of Oncology, McGill University Health Center, Montreal Quebec, Canada, .

Comment in
    Saudi J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jul-Aug;21(4):259.

Hepatic steatosis is the buildup of lipids within hepatocytes. It is the simplest
stage in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). It occurs in approximately 30%
of the general population and as much as 90% of the obese population in the
United States. It may progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, which is a state 
of hepatocellular inflammation and damage in response to the accumulated fat.
Liver biopsy remains the gold standard tool to diagnose and stage NAFLD. However,
it comes with the risk of complications ranging from simple pain to
life-threatening bleeding. It is also associated with sampling error. For these
reasons, a variety of noninvasive radiological markers, including ultrasound,
computed tomography, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and the controlled
attenuation parameter using transient elastography and Xenon-133 scan have been
proposed to increase our ability to diagnose NAFLD, hence avoiding liver biopsy. 
The aim of this review is to discuss the utility and accuracy of using available 
noninvasive diagnostic modalities for fatty liver in NAFLD.

DOI: 10.4103/1319-3767.153812 
PMCID: PMC4392577
PMID: 25843191  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2015 May;10(5):519-40. doi:
10.1517/17460441.2015.1032241. Epub 2015 Apr 3.

The application of engineered liver tissues for novel drug discovery.

Lin C(1), Ballinger KR, Khetani SR.

Author information: 
(1)Colorado State University, School of Biomedical Engineering , 200 W. Lake St, 
1301 Campus Delivery, Fort Collins, CO 80523-1374 , USA.

INTRODUCTION: Drug-induced liver injury remains a major cause of drug attrition. 
Furthermore, novel drugs are being developed for treating liver diseases.
However, differences between animals and humans in liver pathways necessitate the
use of human-relevant liver models to complement live animal testing during
preclinical drug development. Microfabrication tools and synthetic biomaterials
now allow for the creation of tissue subunits that display more physiologically
relevant and long-term liver functions than possible with declining monolayers.
AREAS COVERED: The authors discuss acellular enzyme platforms, two-dimensional
micropatterned co-cultures, three-dimensional spheroidal cultures, microfluidic
perfusion, liver slices and humanized rodent models. They also present the use of
cell lines, primary liver cells and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived human
hepatocyte-like cells in the creation of cell-based models and discuss in silico 
approaches that allow integration and modeling of the datasets from these models.
Finally, the authors describe the application of liver models for the discovery
of novel therapeutics for liver diseases.
EXPERT OPINION: Engineered liver models with varying levels of in vivo-like
complexities provide investigators with the opportunity to develop assays with
sufficient complexity and required throughput. Control over cell-cell
interactions and co-culture with stromal cells in both two dimension and three
dimension are critical for enabling stable liver models. The validation of liver 
models with diverse sets of compounds for different applications, coupled with an
analysis of cost:benefit ratio, is important for model adoption for routine
screening. Ultimately, engineered liver models could significantly reduce drug
development costs and enable the development of more efficacious and safer
therapeutics for liver diseases.

DOI: 10.1517/17460441.2015.1032241 
PMID: 25840592  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Clin Chim Acta. 2015 May 20;445:161-6. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2015.03.031. Epub 2015 
Apr 1.

Squamous cell carcinoma antigen in hepatocellular carcinoma: Ready for the prime 
time?

Montagnana M(1), Danese E(2), Lippi G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life and Reproduction Sciences, University Hospital of Verona,
37134 Verona, Italy. Electronic address: martina.montagnana@univr.it.
(2)Department of Life and Reproduction Sciences, University Hospital of Verona,
37134 Verona, Italy. (3)Laboratory of Clinical Chemistry and Hematology, Academic
Hospital of Parma, 43126 Parma, Italy.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common form of primary liver cancer
and the third cause of cancer deaths. The leading predisposing condition is
represented by an underlying viral hepatitis, mainly sustained by hepatitis B and
C viruses. Since the cumulative risk of developing HCC can be as high as 30-fold 
in patients with infectious cirrhosis, a timely diagnosis is necessary for
establishing an appropriate treatment in these patients. The armamentarium of
diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in patients with HCC currently entails
alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and a limited number of innovative biomarkers, among
which squamous cell carcinoma antigen (SCCA) and its immune complexes are among
the most widely investigated. The clinical data published so far and reviewed in 
this article seemingly suggest that neither total serum SSCA or its isoform 1
(i.e., SCCA1) may be ready for the prime time for management of patients with
HCC. More interesting evidence has emerged from studies investigating the serum
values of SCCA-IgM, since the diagnostic performance of this biomarker was found 
to be frequently superior to that of AFP and, even more importantly, the
combination of SCCA-IgM and AFP was characterized by a much better sensitivity
than either biomarker alone, with only a modest decrease of specificity. Larger
studies are needed before these preliminary findings can be generalized, but the 
combined use of AFP and SCCA-IgM represents an appealing perspective in diagnosis
and prognostication of HCC.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2015.03.031 
PMID: 25840050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Metabolism. 2015 Jul;64(7):780-92. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2015.02.003. Epub 2015 
Feb 23.

Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress Response in Non-alcoholic Steatohepatitis: The
Possible Role of Physical Exercise.

Passos E(1), Ascensão A(2), Martins MJ(3), Magalhães J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine and Instituto de Investigação 
e Inovação em Saúde, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal; Research Centre in
Physical Activity, Health and Leisure, Faculty of Sport, University of Porto,
Porto, Portugal. (2)Research Centre in Physical Activity, Health and Leisure,
Faculty of Sport, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal. (3)Department of
Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine and Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em
Saúde, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal. (4)Research Centre in Physical
Activity, Health and Leisure, Faculty of Sport, University of Porto, Porto,
Portugal. Electronic address: jmaga@fade.up.pt.

Sedentary lifestyle coupled with excessive consumption of high caloric food has
been related to the epidemic increase of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which
can progress from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
fibrosis, cirrhosis and, eventually, may culminate in hepatocellular carcinoma.
Although the precise mechanisms underlying the progression of NASH are not
completely understood, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) dysfunction seems to play a key
role in the process. Hepatic ER stress has been associated to hepatic steatosis, 
insulin resistance, inflammation, oxidative stress and hepatocyte death,
contributing to liver dysfunction. Physical exercise seems to be the most
effective preventive and therapeutic non-pharmacological strategy to mitigate
several features related to NASH, possibly targeting most of the referred
mechanisms associated with the pathophysiology of ER-related NASH. Nevertheless, 
little is known about the impact of physical exercise on NASH-related ER stress. 
In this review, we will discuss the ER stress associated to NASH conditions and
highlight the possible benefits of physical exercise in the attenuation and/or
reversion of NASH-related ER stress.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.metabol.2015.02.003 
PMID: 25838034  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


395. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Mar 28;21(12):3449-61. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i12.3449.

Genome-based nutrition: an intervention strategy for the prevention and treatment
of obesity and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Roman S(1), Ojeda-Granados C(1), Ramos-Lopez O(1), Panduro A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sonia Roman, Claudia Ojeda-Granados, Omar Ramos-Lopez, Arturo Panduro,
Department of Molecular Biology in Medicine, Civil Hospital of Guadalajara, "Fray
Antonio Alcalde", Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico and Health Sciences Center,
University of Guadalajara, Guadalajara, Jalisco 44280, Mexico.

Obesity and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis are increasing in westernized countries,
regardless of their geographic location. In Latin America, most countries,
including Mexico, have a heterogeneous admixture genome with Amerindian, European
and African ancestries. However, certain high allelic frequencies of several
nutrient-related polymorphisms may have been achieved by past gene-nutrient
interactions. Such interactions may have promoted the positive selection of
variants adapted to regional food sources. At present, the unbalanced diet
composition of the Mexicans has led the country to a 70% prevalence rate of
overweightness and obesity due to substantial changes in food habits, among other
factors. International guidelines and intervention strategies may not be adequate
for all populations worldwide because they do not consider disparities in genetic
and environmental factors, and thus there is a need for differential prevention
and management strategies. Here, we provide the rationale for an intervention
strategy for the prevention and management of obesity-related diseases such as
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis based on a regionalized genome-based diet. The
components required to design such a diet should focus on the specific ancestry
of each population around the world and the convenience of consuming traditional 
ethnic food.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i12.3449 
PMCID: PMC4375566
PMID: 25834309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Clin Obes. 2014 Oct;4(5):243-53. doi: 10.1111/cob.12068. Epub 2014 Jul 28.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in obese adults: clinical aspects and current
management strategies.

Pallayova M(1), Taheri S.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, PJ Safarik University, Kosice, Slovak Republic.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver
disorder whose prevalence is strongly linked to the current epidemic of obesity
in many western countries. The prevalence of NAFLD is two to four times higher in
populations with pre-existing metabolic comorbidities than in the general
population. The diagnosis of primary NAFLD involves establishing the presence of 
hepatic steatosis or steatohepatitis by imaging or histology, along with
establishing the non-alcoholic nature of the disease process and excluding
competing aetiologies for hepatic steatosis. Among the indirect serum biomarkers,
the NAFLD fibrosis score can help to identify patients with NAFLD and with higher
likelihood of having fibrosis or cirrhosis. A liver biopsy should be considered
in NAFLD patients at increased risk for steatohepatitis/advanced fibrosis and in 
cases where a liver biopsy is necessary to exclude co-existing chronic liver
diseases and other aetiologies for hepatic steatosis. The treatment and
management recommendations for obesity-associated NAFLD are aimed towards weight 
reduction. The currently available interventions employed to promote weight loss 
and improve the metabolic responses in NAFLD include lifestyle modification,
pharmacotherapy and bariatric surgery.

© 2014 The Authors. Clinical Obesity © 2014 World Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/cob.12068 
PMID: 25825857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Clin Med (Lond). 2015 Apr;15(2):179-85. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.15-2-179.

Alcoholic liver disease - the extent of the problem and what you can do about it.

Hazeldine S(1), Hydes T(2), Sheron N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Fiona Stanley Hospital, Murdoch, Australia; (2)Faculty of Medicine, University
of Southampton, Southampton, UK; (3)University of Southampton, Southampton, UK,
and scientific advisor to the European Public Health Alliance, Brussels, Belgium,
and RCP representative to the European Health and Alcohol Forum, Brussels,
Belgium nick.sheron@soton.ac.uk.

It takes upwards of ten years for alcohol-related liver disease to progress from 
fatty liver through fibrosis to cirrhosis to acute on chronic liver failure. This
process is silent and symptom free and can easily be missed in primary care,
usually presenting with advanced cirrhosis. At this late stage, management
consists of expert supportive care, with prompt identification and treatment of
bleeding, sepsis and renal problems, as well as support to change behaviour and
stop harmful alcohol consumption. There are opportunities to improve care by
bringing liver care everywhere up to the standards of the best liver units, as
detailed in the Lancet Commission report. We also need a fundamental rethink of
the technologies and approaches used in primary care to detect and intervene in
liver disease at a much earlier stage. However, the most effective and
cost-effective measure would be a proper evidence-based alcohol strategy.

© 2015 Royal College of Physicians.

DOI: 10.7861/clinmedicine.15-2-179 
PMID: 25824072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Orv Hetil. 2015 Apr 5;156(14):543-51. doi: 10.1556/OH.2015.30123.

[Non-invasive assessment of fatty liver].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Egresi A(1), Lengyel G(1), Hagymási K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar II. Belgyógyászati Klinika
Budapest Szentkirályi u. 46. 1088.

As the result of various harmful effects (infectious agents, metabolic diseases, 
unhealthy diet, obesity, toxic agents, autoimmune processes) hepatic damage may
develop, which can progress towards liver steatosis, and fibrosis as well. The
most common etiological factors of liver damages are hepatitis B and C infection,
alcohol consumption and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Liver biopsy is
considered as the gold standard for the diagnosis of chronic liver diseases. Due 
to the dangers and complications of liver biopsy, studies are focused on
non-invasive markers and radiological imaging for liver steatosis, progression of
fatty liver, activity of the necroinflammation and the severity of the fibrosis. 
Authors review the possibilities of non-invasive assessment of liver steatosis.
The statistical features of the probes (positive, negative predictive values,
sensitivity, specificity) are reviewed. The role of radiological imaging is also 
discussed. Although the non-invasive methods discussed in this article are useful
to assess liver steatosis, further studies are needed to validate to follow
progression of the diseases and to control therapeutic response.

Publisher: A májat érő különböző károsító hatások miatt (fertőző ágensek,
anyagcserezavarok, nem megfelelő táplálkozás, elhízás, toxikus ártalmak,
autoimmun folyamatok) kóros májműködés, májkárosodás jön létre, amely a máj
elzsírosodásához, illetve kötőszövetes átépüléséhez vezethet. A májműködés
zavarainak leggyakoribb okai a hepatitis B- és C-vírusok, az alkoholfogyasztás,
illetve a nem alkoholos zsírmájbetegség. Napjainkban a májbetegségek kórisméjének
arany standardja a szövettani vizsgálat. A májbiopszia veszélyei és szövődményei 
miatt azonban világszerte nagy az igény olyan, nem invazív jelzőmolekulák,
pontrendszerek kidolgozására, képalkotó eljárások fejlesztésére, amelyek az
elzsírosodás mértékét, illetve későbbiekben a betegség lefolyását, a gyulladásos 
aktivitást és a fibrosis fokát is jól jelzik. A szerzők összefoglaló
közleményükben áttekintik a májelzsírosodás nem invazív jellemzésének
lehetőségeit. Bemutatják a próbák mutatóit (pozitív, negatív prediktív érték,
érzékenység, fajlagosság). Kitérnek a képalkotó eljárások klinikai alkalmazásaira
is. Az ismertetett módszerek közül több hasznos, nem invazív eljárás a steatosis 
értékelésében, a betegség lefolyásának és a terápiás válasz nyomon követésében,
de pontos megítélésükre további vizsgálatok szükségesek. Orv. Hetil., 2015,
156(14), 543–551.
DOI: 10.1556/OH.2015.30123 
PMID: 25819147  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2015;2015:172493. doi: 10.1155/2015/172493. Epub 2015 Mar
1.

P2X7 receptor as a key player in oxidative stress-driven cell fate in
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Chatterjee S(1), Das S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Health and Disease Laboratory, Department of Environmental
Health Sciences, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.

Incidences of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease parallels increase in the global
obesity epidemic. NAFLD has been shown to be associated with risks of
cardiometabolic disorders and kidney disturbances. It is accompanied by insulin
and leptin resistance that complicate the diagnosis and treatment of this public 
health menace. Though significant research is underway for understanding the
molecular mechanisms of NAFLD and its subsequent inflammatory and fibrotic
manifestations like nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, the role of purinergic
receptors has been unclear. It is increasingly being recognized that damage
associated molecular patterns like NAD and ATP that are released from injured
cells via hepatocellular injury either by oxidative stress or lipotoxicity from
steatosis activate the purinergic receptor. Based on evidence from inflammatory
responses in the airways and vasculature and autoimmune complications in humans
and rodents, it is beyond doubt that hepatocellular inflammation such as that
seen in NASH can result from the activation of purinergic receptors. This event
can result in the formation of inflammasomes and can be an important pathway for 
the progression of NASH. The present review evaluates the current knowledge of
the role of oxidative stress and its signaling via P2X7 receptors in
hepatocellular injury that might contribute to the NASH pathophysiology.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/172493 
PMCID: PMC4359843
PMID: 25815106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Chest. 2015 Aug;148(2):550-8. doi: 10.1378/chest.14-1925.

Hepatorenal Disorders.

Al-Khafaji A, Nadim MK, Kellum JA.

Renal dysfunction is common in patients with end-stage liver disease (ESLD); it
takes on many forms from acute to chronic renal injury and may involve a variety 
of mechanisms. Hepatorenal syndrome (HRS) is a specific type of hepatorenal
disorder (HRD) with a unique pathophysiology. HRS is characterized by splanchnic 
arterial vasodilatation and decreased effective intravascular volume that leads
to renal vasoconstriction and decreased renal blood flow. The incidence of HRS in
relation to other forms of HRD is unknown; however, it is estimated that 35% to
40% patients with ESLD and ascites eventually develop the condition. Two subtypes
of HRS have been described. Type 1 HRS is rapidly progressive, whereas the renal 
function in type 2 HRS deteriorates slowly over weeks or months. Type 1 HRS may
be precipitated by sepsis or acute alcoholic hepatitis and occasionally develops 
in patients who already have type 2 HRS. The diagnosis of HRS is based on the
exclusion of other causes of renal dysfunction because no specific test is
available. The definitive treatment of HRS is liver transplant. As a bridge to
liver transplant, medical management with volume expansion and the use of
vasoconstrictors is often implemented. A transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic 
shunt has been attempted in treating HRS, although there is little evidence of
its efficacy compared with standard therapy. Renal replacement therapy is often
used if the patient is a liver transplant candidate. Artificial liver assist
devices are in the research phase.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.14-1925 
PMID: 25811649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2015 May;41(10):917-27. doi: 10.1111/apt.13164. Epub 2015
Mar 23.

Review article: Alcohol and gut microbiota - the possible role of gut microbiota 
modulation in the treatment of alcoholic liver disease.

Vassallo G(1), Mirijello A, Ferrulli A, Antonelli M, Landolfi R, Gasbarrini A,
Addolorato G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Catholic University of Rome, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Alcohol abuse represents the most common cause of liver disease in
the Western countries. Pre-clinical and clinical studies showed that alcohol
consumption affects amount and composition of gut microbiota. Moreover, gut flora
plays an important role in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver injury.
AIM: To review the relationship between alcohol administration and changes on gut
microbiota, its involvement in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease, and
how gut microbiota modulation could be a target for the treatment of alcoholic
liver disease.
METHODS: Articles were identified using the PubMed database with the search terms
'Alcohol', 'Gut Microbiota', 'Alcoholic liver disease', 'Probiotic', 'Prebiotic',
'Symbiotic' and 'Antibiotic'. English-language articles were screened for
relevance. Full review of publications for the relevant studies was conducted,
including additional publications that were identified from individual article
reference lists.
RESULTS: Alcohol abuse induces changes in the composition of gut microbiota,
although the exact mechanism for this alteration is not well known. The
translocation of bacterial products into the portal blood appears to play a key
role in alcohol-induced liver damage. Several studies show that the modulation of
gut microbiota seem to be a promising strategy to reduce alcohol-induced liver
injury.
CONCLUSIONS: Further studies are needed to better understand the relationship
between alcohol administration and changes in gut microbiota, and its involvement
in alcoholic liver disease. Moreover larger studies are needed to confirm the
preliminary results on the therapeutic effects of gut microbiota modulation.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.13164 
PMID: 25809237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Curr Drug Targets. 2015;16(12):1281-92.

The link between Hepatic Vitamin A Metabolism and Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver
Disease.

Chen G(1).

Author information: 
(1)229 Jessie Harris Building, 1215 West Cumberland Avenue, Knoxville, Tennessee 
37996, USA. gchen6@utk.edu.

The liver is essential for the control of glucose and lipid metabolism. Excessive
accumulation of fat in the liver disturbs its function and leads to the
development of fatty liver diseases. The nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
is a common type of fatty liver disease found in patients who have not consumed
significant amount of alcohol. Multiple factors and cell types contribute to the 
development and progression of NAFLD. Diets contain macronutrients with energy
and micronutrients with regulatory roles. As an essential micronutrient, vitamin 
A (VA), plays critical roles in various physiological functions including the
regulation of glucose and lipid homeostasis in the liver. The body's VA is mainly
stored in quiescent hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) in the liver. Hepatocytes
actively metabolize VA, and change glucose and lipid metabolism in response to VA
metabolites. Interestingly, the activated HSCs lose their VA content and
contribute to the NAFLD progression. Significant number of studies have been
conducted to investigate the link between VA metabolism and NAFLD development.
This review is to summarize current literatures that discuss the changes of VA
metabolism occurring locally between hepatocytes and HSCs, and intracellularly in
hepatocytes during the course of NAFLD development. It appears that factors
derived from HSCs and hepatocytes mutually affect each other, which contributes
to NAFLD development. Additionally, this review discusses the potential mechanism
by which excessive VA metabolism increases lipogenesis and contributes to fat
accumulation in hepatocytes. It offers potential future directions for the study 
of the role of VA metabolism in the NAFLD development.


PMID: 25808650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2015;15(6):459-66.

MicroRNAs Contribute to Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Song Y, Wang F, Huang Q, Cao Y, Zhao Y, Yang C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Digestive Disease Institute,
Shanghai Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of Medicine, 389 Xin Cun Road,
Shanghai 200065, China. changqingyang_tj@hotmail.com.

Hepatocellular carcinoma is a leading unnatural death worldwide, and it causes
second most common cancer related death. Hepatocellular carcinoma development is 
distinct from other types of cancer, which is usually based on hepatic cirrhosis 
resulted from various etiologies including viral hepatitis, non-alcoholic liver
diseases and alcohol abuse. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a group of small, non-coding
sequences with approximate 20~ bp in length, which post-transcriptionally
regulates target genes to control multiple biological activities. Recent studies 
have indicated that miRNAs contribute to hepatocellular carcinoma, indicating
that targeting miRNAs might be a novel therapeutic strategy for the management of
hepatocellular carcinoma. In this review, we summarized recent advances in the
role of miRNAs in hepatocellular carcinoma, and also discussed the potential
therapeutic and prognostic values of miRNAs in hepatocellular carcinoma.


PMID: 25807945  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


404. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Mar 21;21(11):3223-31. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i11.3223.

Biomarkers in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease-the emperor has no clothes?

Sanal MG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Madhusudana Girija Sanal, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris
Park Avenue, Bronx, NY 10461, United States.

Fatty liver is present in over ten percentage of the world population and it is a
growing public health problem. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is not a 
single disease, but encompasses a spectrum of diseases of different etiologies.
It is difficult to find highly specific and sensitive diagnostic biomarkers when 
a disease is very complex. Therefore, we should aim to find relevant prognostic
markers rather than accurate diagnostic markers which will help to minimize the
frequency of liver biopsies to evaluate disease progression. There are several
biomarker panels commercially available, however, there is no clear evidence that
more sophisticated panels are better compared to simple criteria such as,
presence of diabetes over five years, metabolic syndrome, obesity, obstructive
sleep apnea, aspartate transaminase/alanine transaminase (ALT) ratio > 0.8 or
ferritin levels > 1.5 times normal in patients with over six month history of
raised ALT and/or ultrasonological evidence of fat in the liver. Currently the
biomarker panels are not a replacement for a liver biopsy. However the need and
benefit of liver biopsy in NAFLD is questionable because there is no convincing
evidence that biopsy and detailed staging of NAFLD improves the management of
NAFLD and benefits the patient. After all there is no evidence based treatment
for NAFLD other than management of lifestyle and components of "metabolic
syndrome".

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i11.3223 
PMCID: PMC4363751
PMID: 25805928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


405. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Mar 21;21(11):3214-22. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i11.3214.

Ghrelin-ghrelin O-acyltransferase system in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease.

Zhang SR(1), Fan XM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Shao-Ren Zhang, Xiao-Ming Fan, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 
Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, Shanghai 201508, China.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is currently considered as the most
common liver disease in Western countries, and is rapidly becoming a serious
threat to public health worldwide. However, the underlying mechanisms leading to 
the development of NAFLD are still not fully understood. The ghrelin-ghrelin
O-acyltransferase (GOAT) system has recently been found to play a crucial role in
both the development of steatosis and its progression to nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis. Ghrelin, the natural ligand of the growth hormone secretagogue
receptor, is a 28-amino acid peptide possessing a unique acylation on the serine 
in position 3 catalyzed by GOAT. The ghrelin-GOAT system is involved in insulin
resistance, lipid metabolism dysfunction, and inflammation, all of which play
important roles in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. A better understanding of
ghrelin-GOAT system biology led to the identification of its potential roles in
NAFLD. Molecular targets modulating ghrelin-GOAT levels and the biologic effects 
are being studied, which provide a new insight into the pathogenesis of NAFLD.
This review probes into the possible relationship between the ghrelin-GOAT system
and NAFLD, and considers the potential mechanisms by which the ghrelin-GOAT
system brings about insulin resistance and other aspects concerning NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i11.3214 
PMCID: PMC4363750
PMID: 25805927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Jul;151:99-106. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2015.03.005. Epub 
2015 Mar 21.

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in precision medicine: Unraveling the factors that
contribute to individual variability.

Clarke JD(1), Cherrington NJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ
85721, United States. (2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of
Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, United States. Electronic address:
cherrington@pharmacy.arizona.edu.

There are numerous factors in individual variability that make the development
and implementation of precision medicine a challenge in the clinic. One of the
main goals of precision medicine is to identify the correct dose for each
individual in order to maximize therapeutic effect and minimize the occurrence of
adverse drug reactions. Many promising advances have been made in identifying and
understanding how factors such as genetic polymorphisms can influence drug
pharmacokinetics (PK) and contribute to variable drug response (VDR), but it is
clear that there remain many unidentified variables. Underlying liver diseases
such as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) alter absorption, distribution,
metabolism, and excretion (ADME) processes and must be considered in the
implementation of precision medicine. There is still a profound need for clinical
investigation into how NASH-associated changes in ADME mediators, such as
metabolism enzymes and transporters, affect the pharmacokinetics of individual
drugs known to rely on these pathways for elimination. This review summarizes the
key PK factors in individual variability and VDR and highlights NASH as an
essential underlying factor that must be considered as the development of
precision medicine advances. A multifactorial approach to precision medicine that
considers the combination of two or more risk factors (e.g. genetics and NASH)
will be required in our effort to provide a new era of benefit for patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2015.03.005 
PMCID: PMC4457694
PMID: 25805597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2015 Oct;67:188-93. doi: 10.1016/j.biocel.2015.03.009.
Epub 2015 Mar 20.

Decoding liver injury: A regulatory role for histone modifications.

Tian W(1), Xu Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cardiovascular Disease and Molecular Intervention, Department of
Pathophysiology, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210029, China.
Electronic address: tian@njmu.edu.cn. (2)Laboratory of Cardiovascular Disease and
Molecular Intervention, Department of Pathophysiology, Nanjing Medical
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210029, China. Electronic address: yjxu@njmu.edu.cn.

As a primary metabolic, endocrine, immune-regulatory, and detoxification organ in
the human body, the liver is constantly exposed to various stressors.
Nutritional, humoral, viral, and/or chemical challenges act either singularly or 
combinatorially to inflict injuries on the liver. In a complex process of fencing
off these injurious signals the liver undergoes profound morphological and
functional alterations paralleling a shift in cellular transcriptome. The
epigenetic machinery, including histone/DNA modifying enzymes, chromatin
remodeling proteins, and non-coding regulatory RNAs, plays an important role in
liver injury programming transcriptional events, a clear understanding of which
holds the key to devising effective interventional solutions. Here, we summarize 
recent advances in the studies on epigenetic regulation of liver injury focusing 
on the role of histone modifications. This article is part of a Directed Issue
entitled: Epigenetics dynamics in development and disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biocel.2015.03.009 
PMID: 25801055  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Pancreatology. 2015 Jul;15(4 Suppl):S61-5. doi: 10.1016/j.pan.2015.03.003. Epub
2015 Mar 10.

Metabolic reprogramming and cell fate regulation in alcoholic liver disease.

Tsukamoto H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Southern California Research Center ALPD and Cirrhosis and Department of
Pathology, Keck School of Medicine of the University of Southern California,
Greater Los Angeles VA Healthcare System, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic
address: htsukamo@med.usc.edu.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) should be defined as a life-style metabolic
disease. Its pathogenesis is driven by altered cell fate of both parenchymal and 
non-parenchymal liver cell types, contributing to different pathologic spectra. A
critical turning point in progression of ALD is chronic alcoholic steatohepatitis
(ASH) or alcoholic neutrophilic hepatitis (AH), which markedly predisposes
patients to most devastating ALD sequela, cirrhosis and liver cancer.RESULTS: Our
research identifies the pivotal roles of unique metabolic reprogramming in M1
activation of hepatic macrophages (HM) and myofibroblastic activation (MF) of
hepatic stellate cells (HSC) in the genesis of inflammation and fibrosis, the two
key histological features of chronic ASH and neutrophilic AH. For M1 HM
activation, heightened proinflammatory iron redox signaling in endosomes or
caveosomes results from altered iron metabolism and storage, promoting IKK/NF-kB 
activation via interactive activation of p21ras, TAK1, and PI3K. For MF cell fate
regulation of HSC, activation of the morphogen Wnt pathway caused by the nuclear 
protein NECDIN or the single-pass trans-membrane protein DLK1, reprograms lipid
metabolism via MeCP2-mediated epigenetic repression of the key HSC quiescence
gene Ppar-γ.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings from these studies re-enforce the importance of
metabolic reprogramming in cell fate regulation required for the pathogenesis of 
ALD.

Copyright © 2015 IAP and EPC. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pan.2015.03.003 
PMCID: PMC4515387
PMID: 25800177  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Orv Hetil. 2015 Mar 29;156(13):503-9. doi: 10.1556/OH.2015.30119.

[ALR, the multifunctional protein].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Balogh T(1), Szarka A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Budapesti Műszaki és Gazdaságtudományi Egyetem, Vegyészmérnöki és Biomérnöki
Kar Alkalmazott Biotechnológia és Élelmiszer-tudományi Tanszék, Biokémiai és
Molekuláris Biológiai Laboratórium Budapest. (2)Budapesti Műszaki és
Gazdaságtudományi Egyetem, Vegyészmérnöki és Biomérnöki Kar Alkalmazott
Biotechnológia és Élelmiszer-tudományi Tanszék, Biokémiai és Molekuláris
Biológiai Laboratórium Budapest Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar 
Orvosi Vegytani Molekuláris Biológiai és Patobiokémiai Intézet Budapest Pf. 260
1444.

ALR is a mystic protein. It has a so called "long" 22 kDa and a "short" 15 kDa
forms. It has been described after partial hepatectomy and it has just been
considered as a key protein of liver regeneration. At the beginning of the 21st
century it has been revealed that the "long" form is localized in the
mitochondrial intermembrane space and it is an element of the mitochondrial
protein import and disulphide relay system. Several proteins of the substrates of
the mitochondrial disulphide relay system are necessary for the proper function
of the mitochondria, thus any mutation of the ALR gene leads to mitochondrial
diseases. The "short" form of ALR functions as a secreted extracellular growth
factor and it promotes the protection, regeneration and proliferation of
hepatocytes. The results gained on the recently generated conditional ALR mutant 
mice suggest that ALR can play an important role in the pathogenesis of alcoholic
and non-alcoholic steatosis. Since the serum level of ALR is modified in several 
liver diseases it can be a promising marker molecule in laboratory diagnostics.

Publisher: Az ALR fehérje egy igazi misztikum. A fehérje egy hosszabb, 22 kDa-os 
és egy rövidebb, 15 kDa-os formában létezik. A hetvenes években részleges
hepatectomián átesett állatokban fedezték fel és kizárólag a májregeneráció egyik
kulcsfehérjéjének tartották. A 2000-es évek elején kiderült, hogy a „hosszú”
forma a mitokondriális intermembrán terében lokalizálódik és kisméretű fehérjék
mitokondriális importjának és oxidatív foldingjának kapcsolt folyamatában vesz
részt. A rendszer szubsztrátjai között több, alapvető mitokondriális
folyamatokban nélkülözhetetlen fehérje megtalálható, ezért az ALR génjében
bekövetkező mutációk mitokondriális rendellenességekhez vezethetnek. Az ALR
„rövid” formája az emlősök szervezetében szekretált extracelluláris növekedési
faktorként funkcionál, és változatos módokon képes elősegíteni a hepatocyták
védelmét, regenerációját és proliferációját. A közelmúltban előállított
kondicionális ALR-mutáns egereken nyert eredmények arra utalnak, hogy fontos
szerepet kaphat az alkoholos és nem alkoholos steatosis kialakulásában is.
Tekintve, hogy számos, májat érintő elváltozás során megváltozik szérumszintje,
ígéretes markermolekula-jelölt a laboratóriumi diagnosztikában. Orv. Hetil.,
2015, 156(13), 503–509.
DOI: 10.1556/OH.2015.30119 
PMID: 25796277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Sci Rep. 2015 Mar 20;5:9284. doi: 10.1038/srep09284.

Association between patatin-like phospholipase domain containing 3 gene (PNPLA3) 
polymorphisms and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a HuGE review and
meta-analysis.

Xu R(1), Tao A(1), Zhang S(2), Deng Y(1), Chen G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Ultrasound, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine and Gene Therapy Center, Tongji Hospital,
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan,
People's Republic of China.

We conducted a meta-analysis to assess the association between patatin-like
phospholipase domain-containing 3 (PNPLA3) rs738409 polymorphism and nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its subtypes simple steatosis(SS) and
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The study-specific odds ratios (ORs) and 95%
confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using fixed-effects or random-effects 
models, with assessment for heterogeneity and publication bias. Twenty-three
case-control studies involving 6071 NAFLD patients and 10366 controls were
identified. The combined results showed a significant association between NAFLD
risk and the rs738409 polymorphism in all genetic models (additive model: OR =
3.41, 95% CI = 2.57-4.52; P < 0.00001). In addition, evidence indicated that the 
rs738409 polymorphism was significantly associated with NASH in all genetic
models (additive model: OR = 4.44, 95% CI = 3.39-5.82; P < 0.00001). The subgroup
and sensitivity analyses showed that these changes were not influenced by the
ethnicities and ages of subjects or by the source of controls. The rs738409
polymorphism was only significantly associated with risk of simple steatosis in
the allele contrast and had no effect in the other genetic models. These findings
suggest that the rs738409 polymorphism in PNPLA3 gene confers high
cross-ethnicity risk for NAFLD and NASH development.

DOI: 10.1038/srep09284 
PMCID: PMC4366950
PMID: 25791171  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Apr;12(4):231-42. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2015.35. Epub 2015 Mar 17.

Alcoholic liver disease: mechanisms of injury and targeted treatment.

Louvet A(1), Mathurin P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service des Maladies de L'appareil Digestif et Unité INSERM 995, Hôpital
Huriez, Rue Polonovski, 59037 Lille Cedex, France.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a complex process that includes a wide spectrum 
of hepatic lesions, from steatosis to cirrhosis. Cell injury, inflammation,
oxidative stress, regeneration and bacterial translocation are key drivers of
alcohol-induced liver injury. Alcoholic hepatitis is the most severe form of all 
the alcohol-induced liver lesions. Animal models of ALD mainly involve mild liver
damage (that is, steatosis and moderate inflammation), whereas severe alcoholic
hepatitis in humans occurs in the setting of cirrhosis and is associated with
severe liver failure. For this reason, translational studies using humans and
human samples are crucial for the development of new therapeutic strategies.
Although multiple attempts have been made to improve patient outcome, the
treatment of alcoholic hepatitis is still based on abstinence from alcohol and
brief exposure to corticosteroids. However, nearly 40% of patients with the most 
severe forms of alcoholic hepatitis will not benefit from treatment. We suggest
that future clinical trials need to focus on end points other than mortality.
This Review discusses the main pathways associated with the progression of liver 
disease, as well as potential therapeutic strategies targeting these pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2015.35 
PMID: 25782093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


412. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Mar 14;21(10):2875-82. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i10.2875.

Chemokine ligand 2 and paraoxonase-1 in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: The
search for alternative causative factors.

Camps J(1), Joven J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jordi Camps, Jorge Joven, Unitat de Recerca Biomèdica, Hospital Universitari
de Sant Joan, Institut d'Investigació Sanitària Pere Virgili, Universitat Rovira 
i Virgili, 43201 Reus, Spain.

The incidence and prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
constantly increasing. Despite this is apparently associated with the growing
increase in obesity, insulin resistance and obesity-related metabolic
disturbances their presence is not a necessary or sufficient condition to explain
the accumulation of fat in the liver. Conversely, NAFLD is a predictor of other
metabolic risks. NAFLD is currently the most frequent chronic liver disease but
should not be considered benign or anecdotic because a considerable proportion of
patients with NAFLD progress to cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease.
Consequently, the search for alternative molecular mechanisms with therapeutic
implications in NAFLD and associated disorders deserves a careful consideration. 
Mitochondria are possible targets as these organelles generate energy from
nutrient oxidation. Some findings, generated in patients with extreme obesity and
in murine models, support the notion that NAFLD could be a mitochondrial disease.
This is plausible because mitochondrial dysfunction affects the accumulation of
lipids in hepatocytes and promotes lipid peroxidation, the production of reactive
oxygen species, the release of cytokines causing inflammation and cell death.
Here we discuss basic research and mechanistic studies targeting the role of
chemokine ligand 2 in liver inflammation and that of the paraoxonases in the
oxidative stress. Their combination and association with mitochondrial
dysfunction may uncover mechanisms underlying the progression of NAFLD and may
help to identify novel therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i10.2875 
PMCID: PMC4356906
PMID: 25780284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2015 May;31(3):175-83. doi:
10.1097/MOG.0000000000000175.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: new treatments.

Hardy T(1), Anstee QM, Day CP.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Group, Institute of Cellular Medicine, The Medical School,
Newcastle University, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the most common cause of
liver dysfunction in the western world because of its close association with
obesity, insulin resistance and dyslipidaemia. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) is a particular health concern due to the increased morbidity and
mortality associated with progressive disease. At present, without specific
targeted pharmacological therapies, the mainstay of therapy remains weight loss
through dietary modification and lifestyle change; thus, the purpose of this
review is to summarize the recent evidence for current and emerging therapies in 
NASH.
RECENT FINDINGS: Some existing medications, including pioglitazones and
angiotensin receptor antagonists, may be repurposed to help treat this condition.
Vitamin E may improve histology in NASH, but safety issues limit its use.
Recently, a number of novel agents specifically targeting nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease pathogenesis have entered clinical trials, including the farnesoid 
X receptor agonist obeticholic acid, which has shown significant histological
improvements in steatohepatitis and fibrosis.
SUMMARY: Diet/lifestyle modification remains the mainstay of treatment. For
patients with NASH and advanced fibrosis, current liver-directed pharmacotherapy 
with vitamin E and pioglitazone offer some benefits; obeticholic acid appears
promising and is currently being tested. Comorbidities must be diagnosed and
treated; cardiovascular disease remains a primary cause of death in these
patients.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000175 
PMCID: PMC4482455
PMID: 25774446  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Clin Chim Acta. 2015 May 20;445:25-33. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2015.03.006. Epub 2015 
Mar 12.

MicroRNA responses to environmental liver carcinogens: Biological and clinical
significance.

Nicolaidou V(1), Koufaris C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life and Health Sciences, University of Nicosia, Cyprus; Center 
for the study of Haematological Malignancies, Nicosia, Cyprus. (2)Department of
Cytogenetics and Genomic, Cyprus Institute of Neurology and Genetics, Cyprus.
Electronic address: costask@cing.ac.cy.

A large number of biological, chemical, and dietary factors have been implicated 
in the development of liver cancer. These involve complex and protracted
interactions between genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors. The survival
rate for patients diagnosed with late-stage liver cancer is currently low due to 
the aggressive nature of the disease and resistance to therapy. An increasing
body of evidence has offered support for the crucial role of non-coding microRNA 
(miRNA) in directing hepatic responses to environmental risk factors for liver
cancer. In this review we focus on miRNA responses to environmental liver cancer 
risk factors and their potential biological and clinical significance.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2015.03.006 
PMID: 25773117  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Eur J Nutr. 2015 Jun;54(4):497-507. doi: 10.1007/s00394-015-0877-2. Epub 2015 Mar
16.

Effects of red wine on postprandial stress: potential implication in
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease development.

Peluso I(1), Manafikhi H, Reggi R, Palmery M.

Author information: 
(1)Food and Nutrition Center of the Agricultural Research Council (CRA-NUT), Via 
Ardeatina 546, 00178, Rome, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Red wine consumption is considered to be protective against
oxidative stress. Diet strongly influences non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,
which is associated with oxidative stress and is considered the hepatic
manifestation of the metabolic syndrome.
METHODS: We reviewed the available evidence that investigated the effects of red 
wine on the postprandial-induced metabolic and oxidative stress in humans.
RESULTS: After red wine consumption with meal, despite the improvement in
non-enzymatic antioxidant capacity and lipoperoxidation markers, the influence of
confounding factors such as uric acid should be taken into account. Both uric
acid and triglycerides increases, induced by ethanol, could cause liver damage.
On the other hand, further researches are required in order to understand the
meaning of the induction of antioxidant enzymes by red wine and red wine
polyphenols in the context of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, inconsistent and contrasting findings exist regarding 
the potential benefits of red wine consumption against postprandial stress.

DOI: 10.1007/s00394-015-0877-2 
PMID: 25772634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Endocr Metab Immune Disord Drug Targets. 2015;15(2):145-50.

Adiponectin as a Target in Obesity-related Inflammatory State.

Ohashi K, Yuasa D, Shibata R, Murohara T, Ouchi N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Cardiovascular Medicine, Nagoya University Graduate School of
Medicine, 65 Tsurumai, Showa-Ku, Nagoya, Japan. nouchi@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

Accumulating evidence indicates that low grade inflammation is closely associated
with obesity-related disorders including type 2 diabetes, hypertension and
atherosclerosis. Adiponectin is a fat-derived plasma protein with
anti-inflammatory functions. Circulating levels of adiponectin are decreased in
obese states, and these conditions are broadly associated with various
obesity-related diseases. Furthermore, adiponectin has direct protective
functions against cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, non-alcoholic 
steatohepatitis (NASH) and chronic kidney disease (CKD). In this review, we will 
focus on the protective functions of adiponectin against these obesity-related
diseases from the view point of its anti-inflammatory properties.


PMID: 25772181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Exp Mol Pathol. 2015 Apr;98(2):304-7. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2015.03.007. Epub 2015
Mar 7.

How to prevent alcoholic liver disease.

French SW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA 90509, United States. Electronic
address: french7@ucla.edu.

Betaine supplements of alcoholic beverages are proposed to prevent the
development of alcoholic liver disease in patients that abuse alcohol. This
recommendation is based on the observation of studies where it has been shown in 
binge drinking and chronic ethanol feeding animal models that betaine prevents
liver injury resulting from high blood alcohol levels. The basic observation is
that betaine added to ethanol being ingested increases the elimination rate of
blood alcohol, which prevents the blood alcohol levels (BALs) from reaching high 
levels. The mechanism of how betaine does this is postulated to be that betaine
causes the increase in the elimination rate by increasing the metabolic rate
which generates NAD the rate limiting cofactor of alcohol oxidation by ADH.
Betaine does this most likely by supporting the methylation of norepinephrine to 
form epinephrine by phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase. Epinephrine is 5 to
10-fold more active than norepinephrine in increasing the metabolic rate.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2015.03.007 
PMCID: PMC4388812
PMID: 25758202  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Yao Xue Xue Bao. 2014 Nov;49(11):1483-90.

[Recent advances in curcumin and its derivatives for treatment of liver
diseases].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun Y, Peng ML.

Curcumin is a principal polyphenolic curcuminoid extracted from turmeric rhizome,
which has been used for treating inflammation of joints, ulcers, jaundice and
other disorders in Asian traditional medicine. In recent years, many studies have
indicated that curcumin plays important roles in treatment of liver diseases.
Curcumin attenuates liver injury and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease by
lowering the release of inflammation cytokines, minimizing oxidative stress,
enhancing the sensitivity of insulin and altering lipid metabolism. Curcumin
shows potent anti-fibrosis activity, contributing to inhibit the activation of
hepatic stellate cells and reduce the deposition of extracellular matrix by its
regulation of PPAR-γ, NF-ΚB and TGF-β signaling pathways. Moreover, curcumin
exhibits anti-cancer effect by inducing G2/M phase cell cycle arrest and
apoptosis in several hepatoma cell lines. However, poor water solubility and low 
bioavailability of curcumin limit its clinical applications. To overcome its
limited systemic bioavailability, many new approaches have been explored to
deliver curcumin effectively. This article focuses on advances in the effects of 
curcumin and its derivatives for treatment of liver injury, non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease, liver fibrosis and hepatocarcinoma.


PMID: 25757271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


419. J Viral Hepat. 2015 Oct;22(10):769-76. doi: 10.1111/jvh.12399. Epub 2015 Mar 6.

Alcoholic hepatitis and HCV interactions in the modulation of liver disease.

Punzalan CS(1), Bukong TN(1), Szabo G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
MA, USA.

Most HCV-infected patients regularly consume alcohol. Alcoholic liver disease
(ALD) and chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection together are the most common 
causes of liver disease worldwide. Although both factors independently cause
liver disease, they synergistically promote rapid liver disease progression with 
devastating outcomes for patients. This review focuses on the prevalence,
clinical characteristics and molecular pathophysiologic mechanisms of HCV
infection associated with alcohol abuse. Recent findings have centred on the
synergistic effect of alcohol and HCV on viral replication, hepatocyte apoptosis,
oxidative stress, alcohol-induced 'leaky gut', miR-122 and immune dysregulation. 
Clinical and basic research findings presented here summarize key scientific
findings with the aim of highlighting potential areas for new therapies and
identifying ways of optimizing current treatments for alcoholics with HCV
infection.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jvh.12399 
PMCID: PMC4966284
PMID: 25754333  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Obes Rev. 2015 May;16(5):393-405. doi: 10.1111/obr.12271. Epub 2015 Mar 5.

Paediatric non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: an overview.

AlKhater SA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric, Dammam University, Dammam, Saudi Arabia.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a progressive disease that
encompasses a spectrum of liver diseases, ranging from simple steatosis to
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Data related to survival in children are
scarce, but these data firmly associate NAFLD with higher risks of hepatic and
non-hepatic morbidities and mortalities compared with the general population.
More recently, the association between NAFLD and cardiovascular disease among
children has increasingly been recognized. Given that obesity is a major risk
factor for the disease, paediatric NAFLD is becoming a global issue, paralleling 
the dramatic rise in obesity worldwide. NASH, which is more common in obese
children, has the potential to advance to liver fibrosis and failure. It is
unclear why certain patients undergo such transformation but this susceptibility 
is likely related to an interaction between a genetically susceptible host and
the surrounding environment. Currently, treatment is largely conservative and
includes lifestyle modification, attainable through healthy weight reduction via 
diet and exercise. In this review, current knowledge about NAFLD in children is
summarized. This review aims to increase the awareness of the medical community
about a hidden public health issue and to identify current gaps in the literature
while providing directions for future research.

© 2015 World Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/obr.12271 
PMID: 25753407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Mar 5;16(3):5161-79. doi: 10.3390/ijms16035161.

Potential epigenetic mechanism in non-alcoholic Fatty liver disease.

Sun C(1), Fan JG(2), Qiao L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai 200092, China. csun7682@163.com. (2)Department of
Gastroenterology, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of
Medicine, Shanghai 200092, China. fattyliver2004@126.com. (3)Storr Liver Centre, 
Westmead Millennium Institute for Medical Research, University of Sydney, the
Westmead Clinical School, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, NSW 2145, Australia.
liang.qiao@sydney.edu.au.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by excessive fat
accumulation in the liver. It ranges from simple steatosis to its more aggressive
form, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which may develop into hepatic
fibrosis, cirrhosis, or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) if it persists for a long 
time. However, the exact pathogenesis of NAFLD and the related metabolic
disorders remain unclear. Epigenetic changes are stable alterations that take
place at the transcriptional level without altering the underlying DNA sequence. 
DNA methylation, histone modifications and microRNA are among the most common
forms of epigenetic modification. Epigenetic alterations are involved in the
regulation of hepatic lipid metabolism, insulin resistance, mitochondrial damage,
oxidative stress response, and the release of inflammatory cytokines, all of
which have been implicated in the development and progression of NAFLD. This
review summarizes the current advances in the potential epigenetic mechanism of
NAFLD. Elucidation of epigenetic factors may facilitate the identification of
early diagnositic biomarkers and development of therapeutic strategies for NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms16035161 
PMCID: PMC4394469
PMID: 25751727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Dig Liver Dis. 2015 Mar;47(3):181-90. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2014.09.020. Epub 2014
Nov 18.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a precursor of the metabolic syndrome.

Lonardo A(1), Ballestri S(2), Marchesini G(3), Angulo P(4), Loria P(5).

Author information: 
(1)AUSL Modena and University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Department of
Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural Sciences, Division of Internal Medicine, NOCSAE 
- Baggiovara, Modena, Italy. Electronic address: a.lonardo@libero.it. (2)AUSL
Modena, Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Internal Medicine, Hospital 
of Pavullo, Pavullo nel Frignano, Italy. (3)"Alma Mater Studiorum" University,
Unit of Metabolic Diseases and Clinical Dietetics, Bologna, Italy. (4)University 
of Kentucky, Division of Digestive Diseases & Nutrition, Section of Hepatology,
Medical Center, Lexington, KY, USA. (5)AUSL Modena and University of Modena and
Reggio Emilia, Department of Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural Sciences, Division 
of Internal Medicine, NOCSAE - Baggiovara, Modena, Italy.

The conventional paradigm of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease representing the
"hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome" is outdated. We identified and 
summarized longitudinal studies that, supporting the association of nonalcoholic 
fatty liver disease with either type 2 diabetes mellitus or metabolic syndrome,
suggest that nonalcoholic fatty liver disease precedes the development of both
conditions. Online Medical databases were searched, relevant articles were
identified, their references were further assessed and tabulated data were
checked. Although several cross-sectional studies linked nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease to either diabetes and other components of the metabolic syndrome, we
focused on 28 longitudinal studies which provided evidence for nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease as a risk factor for the future development of diabetes. Moreover, 
additional 19 longitudinal reported that nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
precedes and is a risk factor for the future development of the metabolic
syndrome. Finally, molecular and genetic studies are discussed supporting the
view that aetiology of steatosis and lipid intra-hepatocytic compartmentation are
a major determinant of whether fatty liver is/is not associated with insulin
resistance and metabolic syndrome. Data support the novel paradigm of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease as a strong determinant for the development of
the metabolic syndrome, which has potentially relevant clinical implications for 
diagnosing, preventing and treating metabolic syndrome.

Copyright © 2014 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2014.09.020 
PMID: 25739820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2015 May;31(3):192-8. doi: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000169.

Vibration-controlled transient elastography: a practical approach to the
noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis.

Tapper EB(1), Afdhal NH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Liver Center, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Therapeutic advances for hepatitis C and the increasing
prevalence on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease are reshaping the diagnostic
approach to disease staging in clinical hepatology. Well tolerated, inexpensive
and reliable alternatives to liver biopsy are a critical need for clinicians and 
patients alike.
RECENT FINDINGS: Vibration-controlled transient elastography (VCTE, also known as
'transient elastography') is a robust, point-of-care tool for the noninvasive
assessment of liver fibrosis. This tool efficiently prioritizes the treatment for
patients with viral hepatitis at risk for advanced liver disease and identifies
the subgroups with metabolic or cholestatic liver disease who are at the highest 
risk. Rather than staging fibrosis, VCTE provides an accurate risk estimate of
advanced fibrosis. In addition, it is increasingly recognized that elastography
can predict outcomes including hepatic decompensation and mortality. The ideal
use of this tool is to perform it in conjunction with a serologic marker of
fibrosis to confirm its findings.
SUMMARY: When combined with serologic markers of fibrosis, VCTE allows the vast
majority of patients to avoid a liver biopsy.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000169 
PMID: 25730177  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2015 Dec 15;418 Pt 1:55-65. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2015.02.018. 
Epub 2015 Feb 24.

Metabolic syndrome and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: Is insulin resistance
the link?

Asrih M(1), Jornayvaz FR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Service of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Centre Hospitalier
Universitaire Vaudois, Rue du Bugnon 46, Lausanne 1011, Switzerland. (2)Service
of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire
Vaudois, Rue du Bugnon 46, Lausanne 1011, Switzerland. Electronic address:
Francois.Jornayvaz@chuv.ch.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a disease composed of different risk factors such as
obesity, type 2 diabetes or dyslipidemia. The prevalence of this syndrome is
increasing worldwide in parallel with the rise in obesity. Nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD) is now the most frequent chronic liver disease in western
countries, affecting more than 30% of the general population. NAFLD encompasses a
spectrum of liver manifestations ranging from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), fibrosis and cirrhosis, which may ultimately progress to 
hepatocellular carcinoma. There is accumulating evidence supporting an
association between NAFLD and MetS. Indeed, NAFLD is recognized as the liver
manifestation of MetS. Insulin resistance is increasingly recognized as a key
factor linking MetS and NAFLD. Insulin resistance is associated with excessive
fat accumulation in ectopic tissues, such as the liver, and increased circulating
free fatty acids, which can further promote inflammation and endoplasmic
reticulum stress. This in turn aggravates and maintains the insulin resistant
state, constituting a vicious cycle. Importantly, evidence shows that most of the
patients developing NAFLD present at least one of the MetS traits. This review
will define MetS and NAFLD, provide an overview of the common pathophysiological 
mechanisms linking MetS and NAFLD, and give a perspective regarding treatment of 
these ever growing metabolic diseases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2015.02.018 
PMID: 25724480  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 May;9(5):671-83. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1003209. Epub 2015 Feb 26.

Management and diagnosis of fatty liver disease.

Schneier AT(1), Citti CC, Dieterich DT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Liver Diseases, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai,1
Gustave Levy Place, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is a common cause of chronic liver disease and
has been an increasingly studied topic of research as the obesity epidemic has
been growing. There is a significant morbidity and mortality with uncontrolled
steatohepatitis, which can progress to fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular
carcinoma. The prevalence of this disease has been estimated to be roughly
one-third of the western population, thought to be largely due to diet and
sedentary lifestyle. Several treatments have been studied including vitamin E,
insulin-sensitizing agents and ursodeoxycholic acid; however, the only treatment 
shown to improve the histologic changes of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is
weight loss. Given the proven benefit of weight loss, there may be reason to
screen at-risk populations; however, limited availability of other
disease-modifying treatments may limit the cost-benefit ratios. A better
understanding of the diagnosis and management of this condition is required to
alter the course of this modifiable disease.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1003209 
PMID: 25716275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Metab Syndr Relat Disord. 2015 Aug;13(6):235-8. doi: 10.1089/met.2015.1502. Epub 
2015 Feb 25.

A Perspective on Metabolic Syndrome and Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Targher G(1), Byrne CD(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)1 Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, 
University and Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata of Verona , Verona,
Italy . (2)2 Nutrition and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Southampton , Southampton, United Kingdom . (3)3 Southampton National Institute
for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital Southampton ,
Southampton, United Kingdom .

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is increasingly being diagnosed
worldwide and is strongly associated with the features of metabolic syndrome. In 
this brief review, we discuss two key questions relating to NAFLD and metabolic
syndrome: (1) Does NAFLD predict the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
metabolic syndrome, or is it simply an epiphenomenon? (2) Are there differences
between metabolic syndrome-associated NAFLD and NAFLD associated with genetic
variation in the patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing 3 (PNPLA3) gene?
Accumulating evidence indicates that NAFLD is not simply the hepatic
manifestation of the metabolic syndrome, but is a pathogenic determinant of the
syndrome. Genetic variation within the PNPLA3 gene (e.g., I148M homozygosity)
confers a higher risk of developing more severe histological features of NAFLD,
but a lower risk of developing metabolic syndrome traits. We suggest that future 
research is now required to elucidate whether both metabolic syndrome-related
NAFLD and PNPLA3-related NAFLD produce the same risk of developing extrahepatic
complications.

DOI: 10.1089/met.2015.1502 
PMID: 25714786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Ann Transplant. 2015 Feb 25;20:112-5. doi: 10.12659/AOT.893797.

The first Polish liver transplantation after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery for
morbid obesity: a case report and literature review.

Marszałek R(1), Ziemiański P(1), Łągiewska B(1), Pacholczyk M(1),
Domienik-Karłowicz J(2), Trzebicki J(3), Wierzbicki Z(1), Jankowski K(2),
Kosieradzki M(1), Wasiak D(4), Jonas M(1), Pruszczyk P(2), Durlik M(5), Lisik
W(1), Chmura A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery and Transplantology, Transplantation Institute, 
Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland. (2)Department of Internal Medicine 
and Cardiology with The Centre of Diagnosis and Treatment of Venous
Thromboembolic Disease, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland. (3)1st
Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care, Medical University of Warsaw,
Warsaw, Poland. (4)Department of Surgical and Transplant Nursing, Medical
University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland. (5)Department of Transplant Medicine and
Nephrology, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Morbid obesity is associated with liver pathology, most commonly
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) leading to cirrhosis. However, the morbid
obesity impedes qualification for organ transplantation.
CASE REPORT: We present a case report of a 56-year-old woman who underwent
bariatric procedure followed by liver transplantation (LTx). Her initial weight
was 130.2 kg (BMI 50.9 kg/m2). The patient had a history of arterial
hypertension, diabetes, gonarthrosis, and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome and no
history of alcohol abuse. She underwent Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB)
procedure. The routine intraoperative liver biopsy revealed fibrosis (III°),
steatosis (II°), and intra-acinar inﬂammation. The operation led to a substantial
loss of weight. Two years after the surgery the patient was referred to the
Transplantation Clinic of Department of General Surgery and Transplantology with 
suspicion of liver failure due to advanced cirrhosis, which could be a result of 
previously diagnosed NASH and, probably, excessive alcohol use after bariatric
surgery. The patient was qualified for elective LTx, which was performed 3 years 
after the RYGB. Immediately before LTx, the patient's weight was 65 kg (BMI 25.4 
kg/m²). The postoperative period was complicated by bleeding into the peritoneal 
cavity, which required reoperation. She also had renal failure, requiring renal
replacement therapy. One year after LTx, she showed stable liver function with
normal transaminases activity and bilirubin concentration, remission of diabetes,
and good renal function.
CONCLUSIONS: Steatohepatitis in morbidly obese patients may lead to cirrhosis.
Bariatric procedure can be a bridge to liver transplantation for morbidly obese
patients with advanced liver fibrosis.

DOI: 10.12659/AOT.893797 
PMID: 25711520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Curr Drug Targets. 2015;16(12):1372-80.

Discovery of Novel Anti-Diabetic Drugs by Targeting Lipid Metabolism.

Zhou X, Xu J, Shi Y, Ye JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology for Diabetes Group, Health Innovations Research
Institute and School of Health Sciences, RMIT University, PO Box 71, Melbourne,
Victoria 3083, Australia. jiming.ye@rmit.edu.au.

Accumulation of toxic lipids is the most common etiology of insulin resistance in
type 2 diabetes and associated metabolic disorders such as obesity and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Understanding of the underlying mechanisms has
revealed various opportunities to target key regulators in lipid metabolic
pathways for the treatment of metabolic diseases. Here, we review the discovery
and development of potential anti-diabetic drugs with primary effects on cellular
targets leading to reductions of intracellular lipids in key organs. We will
particularly focus on AMPK, SIRT1, PGC-1α, SREBP-1c, ChREBP, ACC, PPARs and HSPs 
which either stimulate in fatty acid oxidation (energy expenditure) or inhibit de
novo lipogenesis.


PMID: 25706109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 May;9(5):603-27. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.1007955. Epub 2015 Feb 19.

Role of ultrasound in the diagnosis and treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease and its complications.

Ballestri S(1), Romagnoli D, Nascimbeni F, Francica G, Lonardo A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Internal Medicine, Hospital of Pavullo - Department of Internal
Medicine, Azienda USL, Pavullo, Modena 41126, Italy.

We review the role of liver ultrasonography (US) and related techniques as
non-invasive tools in predicting metabolic derangements, liver histology, portal 
hypertension and cardiovascular risk as well as allowing early diagnosis and
management of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease. In this setting, US detects fatty changes as low as ≥20% and hepatic
steatosis identified ultrasonographically, in its turn, closely mirrors coronary 
and carotid atherosclerosis burden. Semi-quantitative US indices (to exclude
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis) and sonoelastography (to quantify fibrosis) help in
predicting liver histology and selecting patients to submit to liver biopsy.
Surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma conducted through biannual US is
mandatory and US has a role in guiding locoregional treatment and in evaluating
the efficacy of treatment. High-intensity focused ultrasound can be delivered
with precision resulting in coagulative necrosis of hepatocellular carcinoma
without puncturing the liver. Costs and inconveniences have so far hampered its
diffusion.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.1007955 
PMID: 25694178  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Curr Opin Crit Care. 2015 Apr;21(2):163-70. doi: 10.1097/MCC.0000000000000186.

Liver transplantation in the context of organ shortage: toward extension and
restriction of indications considering recent clinical data and ethical
framework.

Lucidi V(1), Gustot T, Moreno C, Donckier V.

Author information: 
(1)aLiver Transplant Unit, Department of Abdominal Surgery, Université Libre de
Bruxelles (ULB) bLiver Transplant Unit, Department of Gastroenterology,
Hepatopancreatology, and Digestive Oncology, Hôpital Erasme, Université Libre de 
Bruxelles (ULB), Brussels, Belgium.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The scarcity of liver grafts requires to optimize the results 
of transplantation. Extensions and alternatives of liver transplantation have to 
be regularly evaluated.
RECENT FINDINGS: Acute-on-chronic liver failure and severe alcoholic hepatitis
may represent potential extensions of transplant indications. In these diseases, 
selected patients could obtain a significant benefit from liver transplantation, 
whereas long-term outcomes and global impact on waiting lists remain to be
evaluated prospectively. Alternatives to transplantation may be represented by
recent progress in the management of hepatitis C and the treatment of
hepatocellular carcinoma. In hepatitis C, new drug combinations may improve the
disease control, reducing the progression to cirrhosis and also the risk of
post-transplant reinfection allowing to anticipate a future decrease in the
indications for transplantation and retransplantation in these patients. In
hepatocellular carcinoma, thanks to improvements in operative techniques and
better identification of prognostic factors of cancer recurrency, surgical
resection or radiofrequency destruction could appear now as true alternatives to 
transplant in highly selected patients.
SUMMARY: Before implementation of these potential changes into decisional
algorithms for listing and organ allocation, their consequences, either for
patient's individual benefit or for global transplant outcomes, should be closely
evaluated using objective long-term end points and taking into account the
ethical recommendations for organ transplantation.

DOI: 10.1097/MCC.0000000000000186 
PMID: 25692807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Abdom Imaging. 2015 Apr;40(4):698-708. doi: 10.1007/s00261-015-0373-4.

Ultrasound elastography: liver.

Dhyani M(1), Anvari A, Samir AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), Harvard Medical
School, 55 Fruit Street, Boston, MA, 02114, USA, dhyani.manish@mgh.harvard.edu.

Ultrasound elastography, also termed sonoelastography, is being used increasingly
in clinical practice to aid the diagnosis and management of diffuse liver
disease. Elastography has been shown to be capable of differentiating advanced
and early-stage liver fibrosis, and consequently a major application in clinical 
liver care includes progression to cirrhosis risk stratification through (1)
assessment of liver fibrosis stage in HCV and HBV patients, (2) distinguishing
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis from simple steatosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver 
disease patients, and (3) prognostic evaluation of liver disease is autoimmune
liver disease. In addition, elastographic characterization of focal liver lesions
and evaluation of clinically significant portal hypertension have the potential
to be clinically useful and are areas of active clinical research.

DOI: 10.1007/s00261-015-0373-4 
PMID: 25690689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Curr Atheroscler Rep. 2015 Apr;17(4):500. doi: 10.1007/s11883-015-0500-2.

FXR agonists as therapeutic agents for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Carr RM(1), Reid AE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Pennsylvania, 421 Curie Boulevard,
907 Biomedical Research Building, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA,
Rotonya.Carr@uphs.upenn.edu.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of the
metabolic syndrome and a risk factor for both cardiovascular and hepatic related 
morbidity and mortality. The increasing prevalence of this disease requires novel
therapeutic approaches to prevent disease progression. Farnesoid X receptors are 
bile acid receptors with roles in lipid, glucose, and energy homeostasis.
Synthetic farnesoid X receptor (FXR) agonists have been developed to specifically
target these receptors for therapeutic use in NAFLD patients. Here, we present a 
review of bile acid physiology and how agonism of FXR receptors has been examined
in pre-clinical and clinical NAFLD. Early evidence suggests a potential role for 
synthetic FXR agonists in the management of NAFLD; however, additional studies
are needed to clarify their effects on lipid and glucose parameters in humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s11883-015-0500-2 
PMID: 25690590  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Eur J Clin Invest. 2015 May;45(5):494-503. doi: 10.1111/eci.12423. Epub 2015 Mar 
9.

Low-normal thyroid function and the pathogenesis of common cardio-metabolic
disorders.

van Tienhoven-Wind LJ(1), Dullaart RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University of Groningen and University Medical
Center Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Subclinical hypothyroidism may adversely affect the development of
cardiovascular disease (CVD). Less is known about the role of low-normal thyroid 
function, that is higher thyroid-stimulating hormone and/or lower free thyroxine 
levels within the euthyroid reference range, in the development of
cardio-metabolic disorders. This review is focused on the relationship of
low-normal thyroid function with CVD, plasma lipids and lipoprotein function, as 
well as with metabolic syndrome (MetS), chronic kidney disease (CKD) and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This narrative review, which includes results from
previously published systematic reviews and meta-analyses, is based on clinical
and basic research papers, obtained via MEDLINE and PubMed up to November 2014.
RESULTS: Low-normal thyroid function could adversely affect the development of
(subclinical) atherosclerotic manifestations. It is likely that low-normal
thyroid function relates to modest increases in plasma total cholesterol, LDL
cholesterol and triglycerides, and may convey pro-atherogenic changes in
lipoprotein metabolism and in HDL function. Most available data support the
concept that low-normal thyroid function is associated with MetS, insulin
resistance and CKD, but not with high blood pressure. Inconsistent effects of
low-normal thyroid function on NAFLD have been reported so far.
CONCLUSIONS: Observational studies suggest that low-normal thyroid function may
be implicated in the pathogenesis of CVD. Low-normal thyroid function could also 
play a role in the development of MetS, insulin resistance and CKD, but the
relationship with NAFLD is uncertain. The extent to which low-normal thyroid
function prospectively predicts cardio-metabolic disorders has been
insufficiently established so far.

© 2015 Stichting European Society for Clinical Investigation Journal Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/eci.12423 
PMID: 25690560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nutrients. 2015 Feb 16;7(2):1352-77. doi: 10.3390/nu7021352.

Low-normal thyroid function and novel cardiometabolic biomarkers.

van Tienhoven-Wind LJ(1), Dullaart RP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University of Groningen and University Medical
Center Groningen, Groningen, AV Groningen 19713, The Netherlands.
l.j.n.van.tienhoven-wind@umcg.nl. (2)Department of Endocrinology, University of
Groningen and University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, AV Groningen 19713,
The Netherlands. r.p.f.dullaart@umcg.nl.

The concept is emerging that low-normal thyroid function, i.e., either higher
thyroid-stimulating hormone or lower free thyroxine levels within the euthyroid
reference range, could contribute to the development of atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease. It is possible that adverse effects of low-normal thyroid
function on cardiovascular outcome may be particularly relevant for specific
populations, such as younger people and subjects with high cardiovascular risk.
Low-normal thyroid function probably relates to modest increases in plasma total 
cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides and insulin
resistance, but effects on high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease are inconsistent. Low-normal thyroid function
may enhance plasma cholesteryl ester transfer, and contribute to an impaired
ability of HDL to inhibit oxidative modification of LDL, reflecting
pro-atherogenic alterations in lipoprotein metabolism and HDL function,
respectively. Low-normal thyroid function also confers lower levels of bilirubin,
a strong natural anti-oxidant. Remarkably, all these effects of low-normal
thyroid functional status appear to be more outspoken in the context of chronic
hyperglycemia and/or insulin resistance. Collectively, these data support the
concept that low-normal thyroid function may adversely affect several processes
which conceivably contribute to the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease, beyond effects on conventional lipoprotein measures.

DOI: 10.3390/nu7021352 
PMCID: PMC4344592
PMID: 25690422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


435. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Feb 14;21(6):1718-27. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i6.1718.

Vitamin D: a new player in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease?

Eliades M(1), Spyrou E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Myrto Eliades, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Nutrition, University
of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21201, United States.

Vitamin D through its active form 1a-25-dihydroxyvtamin D [1,25(OH)2D] is a
secosteroid hormone that plays a key role in mineral metabolism. Recent years
have witnessed a significant scientific interest on vitamin D and expanded its
actions to include immune modulation, cell differentiation and proliferation and 
inflammation regulation. As our understanding of the many functions of vitamin D 
has grown, the presence of vitamin D deficiency has become one of the most
prevalent micronutrient deficiencies worldwide. Concomitantly, non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become the most common form of chronic liver
disease in western countries. NAFLD and vitamin D deficiency often coexist and
epidemiologic evidence has shown that both of these conditions share several
cardiometabolic risk factors. In this article we provide an overview of the
epidemiology and pathophysiology linking NAFLD and vitamin D deficiency, as well 
as the available evidence on the clinical utility of vitamin D supplementation in
NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i6.1718 
PMCID: PMC4323447
PMID: 25684936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


436. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Feb 14;21(6):1691-702. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i6.1691.

Gut microbiota and liver diseases.

Minemura M(1), Shimizu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Masami Minemura, the Third Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Toyama, Toyama 930-0194, Japan.

Several studies revealed that gut microbiota are associated with various human
diseases, e.g., metabolic diseases, allergies, gastroenterological diseases, and 
liver diseases. The liver can be greatly affected by changes in gut microbiota
due to the entry of gut bacteria or their metabolites into the liver through the 
portal vein, and the liver-gut axis is important to understand the
pathophysiology of several liver diseases, especially non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease and hepatic encephalopathy. Moreover, gut microbiota play a significant
role in the development of alcoholic liver disease and hepatocarcinogenesis.
Based on these previous findings, trials using probiotics have been performed for
the prevention or treatment of liver diseases. In this review, we summarize the
current understanding of the changes in gut microbiota associated with various
liver diseases, and we describe the therapeutic trials of probiotics for those
diseases.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i6.1691 
PMCID: PMC4323444
PMID: 25684933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Diabet Med. 2015 Sep;32(9):1121-33. doi: 10.1111/dme.12725. Epub 2015 Mar 18.

Practical approach to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in patients with
diabetes.

Tai FW(1), Syn WK(1,)(2), Alazawi W(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Liver Unit, Barts Health NHS Trust, London, UK. (2)Regeneration and Repair
Group, Institute of Hepatology, London, UK. (3)The Blizard Institute, Queen Mary,
University of London, London, UK.

The prevalence of Type 2 diabetes is expected to increase in parallel with
obesity rates and the ageing population. Recent studies show that Type 2 diabetes
is associated with a twofold increase in the risk of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease, a leading cause of chronic liver disease. Individuals with non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis, a more advanced stage of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, are 
specifically at risk of developing fibrosis/cirrhosis (end-stage liver disease)
and hepatocellular carcinoma; therefore, identifying individuals (with Type 2
diabetes) who are likely to develop hepatic complications is paramount. In the
present clinical review, we discuss the potential impact of non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease diagnosis on Type 2 diabetes, and the putative risk factors for
developing non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
fibrosis. We highlight the limitations of currently used tools in non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease diagnosis and staging, and provide an insight into future
developments in the field. We present an example of a non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease screening protocol and discuss the therapeutic options currently
available to our patients.

© 2015 The Authors. Diabetic Medicine © 2015 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/dme.12725 
PMID: 25683343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Gut. 2015 May;64(5):830-41. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2014-306842. Epub 2015 Feb 13.

Pathobiology of liver fibrosis: a translational success story.

Lee YA(1), Wallace MC(1), Friedman SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Liver Diseases, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York,
New York, USA.

Erratum in
    Gut. 2015 Aug;64(8):1337.

Reversibility of hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis following antiviral therapy for
hepatitis B or C has advanced the prospect of developing antifibrotic therapies
for patients with chronic liver diseases, especially non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis. Mechanisms of fibrosis have focused on hepatic stellate cells,
which become fibrogenic myofibroblasts during injury through 'activation', and
are at the nexus of efforts to define novel drug targets. Recent studies have
clarified pathways of stellate cell gene regulation and epigenetics, emerging
pathways of fibrosis regression through the recruitment and amplification of
fibrolytic macrophages, nuanced responses of discrete inflammatory cell subsets
and the identification of the 'ductular reaction' as a marker of severe injury
and repair. Based on our expanded knowledge of fibrosis pathogenesis, attention
is now directed towards strategies for antifibrotic therapies and regulatory
challenges for conducting clinical trials with these agents. New therapies are
attempting to: 1) Control or cure the primary disease or reduce tissue injury; 2)
Target receptor-ligand interactions and intracellular signaling; 3) Inhibit
fibrogenesis; and 4) Promote resolution of fibrosis. Progress is urgently needed 
in validating non-invasive markers of fibrosis progression and regression that
can supplant biopsy and shorten the duration of clinical trials. Both scientific 
and clinical challenges remain, however the past three decades of steady progress
in understanding liver fibrosis have contributed to an emerging translational
success story, with realistic hopes for antifibrotic therapies to treat patients 
with chronic liver disease in the near future.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2014-306842 
PMCID: PMC4477794
PMID: 25681399  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Front Med. 2015 Jun;9(2):173-86. doi: 10.1007/s11684-015-0384-0. Epub 2015 Feb
12.

Metformin and metabolic diseases: a focus on hepatic aspects.

Zheng J(1), Woo SL, Hu X, Botchlett R, Chen L, Huo Y, Wu C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Science, Texas A&M University, College
Station, TX, 77843, USA, zhengjuan25@tamu.edu.

Metformin has been widely used as a first-line anti-diabetic medicine for the
treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D). As a drug that primarily targets the liver,
metformin suppresses hepatic glucose production (HGP), serving as the main
mechanism by which metformin improves hyperglycemia of T2D. Biochemically,
metformin suppresses gluconeogenesis and stimulates glycolysis. Metformin also
inhibits glycogenolysis, which is a pathway that critically contributes to
elevated HGP. While generating beneficial effects on hyperglycemia, metformin
also improves insulin resistance and corrects dyslipidemia in patients with T2D. 
These beneficial effects of metformin implicate a role for metformin in managing 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. As supported by the results from both human
and animal studies, metformin improves hepatic steatosis and suppresses liver
inflammation. Mechanistically, the beneficial effects of metformin on hepatic
aspects are mediated through both adenosine monophosphate-activated protein
kinase (AMPK)-dependent and AMPK-independent pathways. In addition, metformin is 
generally safe and may also benefit patients with other chronic liver diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s11684-015-0384-0 
PMCID: PMC4567274
PMID: 25676019  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Biomolecules. 2015 Feb 5;5(1):76-94. doi: 10.3390/biom5010076.

Hepatitis C, innate immunity and alcohol: friends or foes?

Osna NA(1,)(2), Ganesan M(3,)(4), Kharbanda KK(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Research Service, Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System,
4101 Woolworth Ave, Omaha, NE 68105, USA. nosna@unmc.edu. (2)Department of
Internal Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68105, USA.
nosna@unmc.edu. (3)Research Service, Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa
Health Care System, 4101 Woolworth Ave, Omaha, NE 68105, USA.
murali.ganesan@unmc.edu. (4)Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68105, USA. murali.ganesan@unmc.edu.
(5)Research Service, Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System,
4101 Woolworth Ave, Omaha, NE 68105, USA. kkharbanda@unmc.edu. (6)Department of
Internal Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68105, USA.
kkharbanda@unmc.edu.

Hepatitis C and alcohol are the most widespread causes of liver disease
worldwide. Approximately 80% of patients with a history of hepatitis C and
alcohol abuse develop chronic liver injury. Alcohol consumption in hepatitis C
virus (HCV)-infected patients exacerbates liver disease leading to rapid
progression of fibrosis, cirrhosis and even hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatocytes
are the main sites of HCV-infection and ethanol metabolism, both of which
generate oxidative stress. Oxidative stress levels affect HCV replication and
innate immunity, resulting in a greater susceptibility for HCV-infection and
virus spread in the alcoholic patients. In this review paper, we analyze the
effects of ethanol metabolism and other factors on HCV replication. In addition, 
we illustrate the mechanisms of how HCV hijacks innate immunity and how ethanol
exposure regulates this process. We also clarify the effects of HCV and ethanol
metabolism on interferon signaling-a crucial point for activation of anti-viral
genes to protect cells from virus-and the role that HCV- and ethanol-induced
impairments play in adaptive immunity which is necessary for recognition of
virally-infected hepatocytes. In conclusion, ethanol exposure potentiates the
suppressive effects of HCV on innate immunity, which activates viral spread in
the liver and finally, leads to impairments in adaptive immunity. The
dysregulation of immune response results in impaired elimination of HCV-infected 
cells, viral persistence, progressive liver damage and establishment of chronic
infection that worsens the outcomes of chronic hepatitis C in alcoholic patients.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5010076 
PMCID: PMC4384112
PMID: 25664450  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


441. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Feb 7;21(5):1650-62. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i5.1650.

Central obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease risk after adjusting for
body mass index.

Pang Q(1), Zhang JY(1), Song SD(1), Qu K(1), Xu XS(1), Liu SS(1), Liu C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Qing Pang, Jing-Yao Zhang, Si-Dong Song, Kai Qu, Xin-Sen Xu, Su-Shun Liu,
Chang Liu, Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical College, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061, Shaanxi Province,
China.

AIM: To investigate whether central obesity is associated with nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD) formation after adjusting for general obesity.
METHODS: The online databases PubMed, EMBASE, and ISI Web of Science were
searched for studies estimating the influence of central obesity on NAFLD
occurrence published through April 2014. Studies that did not adjust for body
mass index (BMI) were excluded. In addition, the independent effect of BMI was
also assessed with the included studies. The pooled effect sizes and 95%
confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using random- or fixed-effects models 
based on the degree of heterogeneity. Furthermore, subgroup analyses,
meta-regression, sensitivity analyses, and publication bias were performed.
RESULTS: Twenty eligible studies were identified. The summary odds ratio (OR)
values per-unit increase in waist circumference (WC) and BMI for NAFLD formation 
were 1.07 (95%CI: 1.03-1.10, I (2) = 73.9%, n = 11 studies) and 1.25 (95%CI:
1.13-1.38, I (2) = 88.7%, n = 11 studies), respectively. When the indices were
expressed as binary variables (with the non-obesity group as reference), the
pooled OR in WC, waist-to-hip ratio, and BMI were 2.34 (95%CI: 1.83-3.00, I (2) =
41.8%, n = 7 studies), 4.06 (95%CI: 1.53-10.79, I (2) = 65.7%, n = 3 studies),
and 2.85 (95%CI: 1.60-5.08, I (2) = 57.8%, n = 5 studies), respectively. Using
the same studies as the latter (n = 5), pooled OR in WC was 3.14 (95%CI:
2.07-4.77), which is greater than that in BMI.
CONCLUSION: Central obesity may pose a greater threat to national health than
general obesity, although both are independently associated with increased risk
of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i5.1650 
PMCID: PMC4316109
PMID: 25663786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Atheroscler Suppl. 2015 Feb;17:27-34. doi: 10.1016/S1567-5688(15)50007-X.

The effect of ezetimibe on NAFLD.

Averna M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties - DIBIMIS, School of
Medicine, University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy. Electronic address:
maurizio.averna@unipa.it.

NAFLD has become the most common liver disorder in countries, where obesity, type
2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, and metabolic syndrome are common. The strong 
association between these conditions and the risk of cardiovascular disease make 
treatment crucial. Possible interventions for NAFLD target excess body weight,
insulin resistance, inflammation, oxidative stress or intestinal lipid
absorption. Administration of combination therapy with a statin plus ezetimibe,
associated with lifestyle changes, may represent an effective strategy because of
the strong reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Combination
therapy is often more effective, especially when complementary mechanisms of
action are involved. Ezetimibe is effective and well tolerated in combination
with a number of lipid lowering therapies, including statins, orlistat, and
insulin-sensitizing agents. There is strong evidence from preclinical models to
supporting the use of ezetimibe in this setting. Larger controlled trials are
needed to confirm its effectiveness in patients with NAFLD, to establish the most
efficacious combinations and to determine whether treatment can reverse fibrosis.

© 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1567-5688(15)50007-X 
PMID: 25659874  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2015 Feb;14(1):18-33.

Bile acid signaling through farnesoid X and TGR5 receptors in hepatobiliary and
intestinal diseases.

Stanimirov B(1), Stankov K, Mikov M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Novi Sad, Hajduk Veljkova 3, 21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
bojan.s@uns.ac.rs.

BACKGROUND: The well-known functions of bile acids (BAs) are the emulsification
and absorption of lipophilic xenobiotics. However, the emerging evidences in the 
past decade showed that BAs act as signaling molecules that not only autoregulate
their own metabolism and enterohepatic recirculation, but also as important
regulators of integrative metabolism by activating nuclear and membrane-bound G
protein-coupled receptors. The present review was to get insight into the role of
maintenance of BA homeostasis and BA signaling pathways in development and
management of hepatobiliary and intestinal diseases.
DATA SOURCES: Detailed and comprehensive search of PubMed and Scopus databases
was carried out for original and review articles.
RESULTS: Disturbances in BA homeostasis contribute to the development of several 
hepatobiliary and intestinal disorders, such as non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease, liver cirrhosis, cholesterol gallstone disease, intestinal diseases and 
both hepatocellular and colorectal carcinoma.
CONCLUSION: Further efforts made in order to advance the understanding of
sophisticated BA signaling network may be promising in developing novel
therapeutic strategies related not only to hepatobiliary and gastrointestinal but
also systemic diseases.


PMID: 25655287  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nihon Arukoru Yakubutsu Igakkai Zasshi. 2014 Oct;49(5):219-26.

[Pathogenesis of alcoholic chronic hepatitis].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayashi N, Saito T, Kakuda M, Matsue Y, Minato T, Fukumura A, Ozaki K, Tsuchisima
M, Tsutsumi M.

In 1983, Nei et al. reported that alcoholic chronic hepatitis (ACH)(chronic
hepatitis induced tal area. Recently, the number of alcoholics patients diagnosed
with ACH has been increased In this review, we discussed the characteristics of
liver histopathology and blood chemistry of ACH patients. In ACH, pericellular
fibrosis, ballooned hepatocytes and/or bridging fibrosis, and infiltration of
mononuclear lymphocytes is decreased after 6 to 8 weeks of abstinence from
results suggest that ACH could be one type of alcoholic liver disease. The
precise mechanism by alcohol) as one type of alcoholic liver disease. Since then,
it has been discussed whether alcohol abuse, suggesting that alcohol may play a
role in the infiltration of mononuclear lym ACH is one type of alcoholic liver
disease, because there could be infection of unknown hepatitis virus in
alcoholics and it is not clear why mononuclear lymphocytes infiltrate into the
porphocytes in portal region. After abstinence of alcohol, serum levels of AST,
ALT, and γ-GTP in patients with ACH returned to normal as in other types of
alcoholic liver disease such as alcoholic fatty liver, alcoholic fibrosis,
alcoholic hepatitis and alcoholic liver cirrhosis. These results suggest that ACH
could be one type of alcoholic liver disease. The precise mechanism of the
infiltration of mononuclear lymphocytes into portal areas of ACH patients is not 
known. We propose that the reason for the infiltration of natural killer (T)
cells into portal areas could be due to the influx of endotoxin into portal vein 
resulting from the increased permeability of gut induced by alcohol.


PMID: 25651616  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Intern Med J. 2015 Feb;45(2):214-7. doi: 10.1111/imj.12662.

Treatment of refractory stomal variceal haemorrhage with embolisation and
sclerosis.

Valaydon Z(1), Desmond P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.

Stomal variceal bleeding is a rare but life-threatening complication of
cirrhosis. As it is an uncommon condition, there is little evidence on the
optimum treatment. We report a case of parastomal variceal bleeding in a
cirrhotic and haemodynamically unstable patient. The bleeding had failed to
respond to local therapy and was not amenable to transjugular intrahepatic
portosystemic shunting. The varix was successfully treated under radiological
guidance embolisation in conjunction with Fibrovein (STD Pharmaceuticals, UK)
sclerosis. We propose that Fibrovein sclerosis through angiography should be
considered as an initial treatment option in patients with parastomal variceal
bleeding who are not candidates for transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic
shunting.

© 2015 Royal Australasian College of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/imj.12662 
PMID: 25650536  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


446. J Hepatol. 2015 May;62(5):1196-203. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.01.028. Epub 2015
Jan 31.

Clinical trial watch: reports from the AASLD Liver Meeting®, Boston, November
2014.

Londoño MC(1), Abraldes JG(2), Altamirano J(3), Decaens T(4), Forns X(5).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Unit, Hospital Clínic, IDIBAPS and CIBEREHD, University of Barcelona,
Barcelona, Spain. (2)Cirrhosis Care Clinic (CCC), Liver Unit, Division of
Gastroenterology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. (3)Institut
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), and Vall d'Hebrón
Institut de Recerca (VHIR), Barcelona, Spain. (4)Universités de Grenoble, CHU de 
Grenoble, Pôle DIGI-DUNE, Service d'Hépatologie et de Gastroentérologie, INSERM
U823, Institut Albert Bonniot, Grenoble, France. (5)Liver Unit, Hospital Clínic, 
IDIBAPS and CIBEREHD, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic
address: xforns@clinic.ub.es.

The late and fast developments in the field of viral hepatitis were highly
expected in the 2014 AASLD Liver Meeting®. Several combinations using direct
acting antivirals (DAAs) showed high rates of sustained virological response
(∼95%). Importantly, high cure rates were also demonstrated in patients with
previous treatment failures, decompensated cirrhosis and hepatitis C recurrence
after transplantation, making it clear that the interferon era is over (not so
clear for ribavirin, which might still have a role in difficult-to-treat
populations). Importantly, sustained virological response was associated with an 
improvement in liver function (MELD and Child-Pugh scores) in patients with
advanced liver disease. In the field of liver cirrhosis, there were relevant data
assessing the optimal empirical antibiotic therapy in patients with spontaneous
bacterial peritonitis and high risk of resistant bacteria, as well as studies
evaluating the role of terlipressin in type I hepatorenal syndrome and in septic 
shock. Regarding hepatic encephalopathy, two randomized trials suggest that the
manipulation of the microbioma in patients with cirrhosis may have a role in the 
management of this complication. Some novel data on NASH support the beneficial
effect of bariatric surgery (after failure of lifestyle intervention) in morbid
obese patients with such diagnosis: clinical and histological improvements after 
surgery were evident in most patients with sufficient follow-up. A few controlled
studies focused on the treatment of severe acute alcoholic hepatitis. Finally,
several studies on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) were presented, covering topics
such as ultrasound screening in cirrhosis, cryoablation treatment of early HCC
and the relevance of downstaging in patients with HCC awaiting liver
transplantation.

Copyright © 2015 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2015.01.028 
PMID: 25646885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Liver Int. 2015 Sep;35(9):2072-8. doi: 10.1111/liv.12798. Epub 2015 Feb 15.

Nutritional therapy in cirrhosis or alcoholic hepatitis: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Fialla AD(1), Israelsen M(1), Hamberg O(2), Krag A(1), Gluud LL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Odense University Hospital,
Odense C, Denmark. (2)Department of Hepatology, Copenhagen University Hospital
Rigshospitalet, Koebenhavn, Denmark. (3)Gastrounit, Medical Division, Copenhagen 
University Hospital Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Patients with cirrhosis and alcoholic hepatitis are often
malnourished and have a superimposed stress metabolism, which increases
nutritional demands. We performed a systematic review on the effects of
nutritional therapy vs. no intervention for patients with cirrhosis or alcoholic 
hepatitis.
METHODS: We included trials on nutritional therapy designed to fulfil at least
75% of daily nutritional demand. Authors extracted data in an independent manner.
Random-effects and fixed-effect meta-analyses were performed and the results
expressed as risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Sequential
analyses were performed to evaluate the risk of spurious findings because of
random and systematic errors. Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were performed to
evaluate the risk of bias and sources of between trial heterogeneity.
RESULTS: Thirteen randomized controlled trials with 329 allocated to enteral
(nine trials) or intravenous (four trials) nutrition and 334 controls. All trials
were classed as having a high risk of bias. Random-effects meta-analysis showed
that nutritional therapy reduced mortality 0.80 (95% CI, 0.64 to 0.99). The
result was not confirmed in sequential analysis. Fixed-effect analysis suggested 
that nutrition prevented overt hepatic encephalopathy (0.73; 95% CI, 0.55 to
0.96) and infection (0.66; 95% CI, 0.45 to 0.98, respectively), but the results
were not confirmed in random-effects analyses.
CONCLUSION: Our review suggests that nutritional therapy may have beneficial
effects on clinical outcomes in cirrhosis and alcoholic hepatitis. High-quality
trials are needed to verify our findings.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12798 
PMID: 25645300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Health Technol Assess. 2015 Jan;19(9):1-409, v-vi. doi: 10.3310/hta19090.

Cost-effectiveness of non-invasive methods for assessment and monitoring of liver
fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic liver disease: systematic review 
and economic evaluation.

Crossan C(1), Tsochatzis EA(2), Longworth L(1), Gurusamy K(3), Davidson B(3),
Rodríguez-Perálvarez M(2), Mantzoukis K(2), O'Brien J(2), Thalassinos E(2),
Papastergiou V(2), Burroughs A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University London, Uxbridge, UK.
(2)Sheila Sherlock Liver Centre, Royal Free Hospital and UCL Institute for Liver 
and Digestive Health, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK. (3)Royal Free Campus, UCL 
Medical School, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Liver biopsy is the reference standard for diagnosing the extent of
fibrosis in chronic liver disease; however, it is invasive, with the potential
for serious complications. Alternatives to biopsy include non-invasive liver
tests (NILTs); however, the cost-effectiveness of these needs to be established.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the diagnostic accuracy and cost-effectiveness of NILTs in
patients with chronic liver disease.
DATA SOURCES: We searched various databases from 1998 to April 2012, recent
conference proceedings and reference lists.
METHODS: We included studies that assessed the diagnostic accuracy of NILTs using
liver biopsy as the reference standard. Diagnostic studies were assessed using
the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS-2) tool.
Meta-analysis was conducted using the bivariate random-effects model with
correlation between sensitivity and specificity (whenever possible). Decision
models were used to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the NILTs. Expected costs 
were estimated using a NHS perspective and health outcomes were measured as
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Markov models were developed to estimate
long-term costs and QALYs following testing, and antiviral treatment where
indicated, for chronic hepatitis B (HBV) and chronic hepatitis C (HCV). NILTs
were compared with each other, sequential testing strategies, biopsy and
strategies including no testing. For alcoholic liver disease (ALD), we assessed
the cost-effectiveness of NILTs in the context of potentially increasing
abstinence from alcohol. Owing to a lack of data and treatments specifically for 
fibrosis in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the analysis
was limited to an incremental cost per correct diagnosis. An analysis of NILTs to
identify patients with cirrhosis for increased monitoring was also conducted.
RESULTS: Given a cost-effectiveness threshold of £20,000 per QALY, treating
everyone with HCV without prior testing was cost-effective with an incremental
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £9204. This was robust in most sensitivity
analyses but sensitive to the extent of treatment benefit for patients with mild 
fibrosis. For HBV [hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative)] this strategy had an 
ICER of £28,137, which was cost-effective only if the upper bound of the standard
UK cost-effectiveness threshold range (£30,000) is acceptable. For HBeAg-positive
disease, two NILTs applied sequentially (hyaluronic acid and magnetic resonance
elastography) were cost-effective at a £20,000 threshold (ICER: £19,612);
however, the results were highly uncertain, with several test strategies having
similar expected outcomes and costs. For patients with ALD, liver biopsy was the 
cost-effective strategy, with an ICER of £822.
LIMITATIONS: A substantial number of tests had only one study from which
diagnostic accuracy was derived; therefore, there is a high risk of bias. Most
NILTs did not have validated cut-offs for diagnosis of specific fibrosis stages. 
The findings of the ALD model were dependent on assuptions about abstinence rates
assumptions and the modelling approach for NAFLD was hindered by the lack of
evidence on clinically effective treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: Treating everyone without NILTs is cost-effective for patients with 
HCV, but only for HBeAg-negative if the higher cost-effectiveness threshold is
appropriate. For HBeAg-positive, two NILTs applied sequentially were
cost-effective but highly uncertain. Further evidence for treatment effectiveness
is required for ALD and NAFLD.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42011001561.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta19090 
PMCID: PMC4781028
PMID: 25633908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Arch Dis Child. 2015 Jul;100(7):673-7. doi: 10.1136/archdischild-2014-307985.
Epub 2015 Jan 29.

Paediatric non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a practical overview for
non-specialists.

Mann JP(1), Goonetilleke R(2), McKiernan P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of paediatrics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Children's unit, Hinchingbrooke Hospital, Huntingdon, UK. (3)Liver unit,
Birmingham Children's Hospital, Birmingham, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common paediatric liver
disease with a prevalence of almost 10%; therefore, the majority of affected
patients are under the care of general practitioners and non-specialists. The
condition is caused by central obesity with insulin resistance with additional
factors influencing inflammatory activity (steatohepatitis). Ongoing inflammation
leads to fibrosis and end-stage liver disease, though this will usually occur
after children have transitioned into adult care. However, their main morbidity
and mortality is from type 2 diabetes and complications of atherosclerosis. The
minority of children undergo biopsy but currently there is no other method to
accurately assess the stage of disease. Management is focused at weight loss
through a combination of diet and exercise. Here, we present a current review of 
paediatric NAFLD aimed at non-specialists, with practice points for
implementation.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2014-307985 
PMID: 25633064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Semin Liver Dis. 2015 Feb;35(1):36-42. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1397347. Epub 2015 Jan
29.

MicroRNAs in alcoholic liver disease.

Szabo G(1), Satishchandran A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
Massachusetts.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is characterized by hepatocyte damage, inflammatory
cell activation and increased intestinal permeability leading to the clinical
manifestations of alcoholic hepatitis. Selected members of the family of
microRNAs are affected by alcohol, resulting in an abnormal miRNA profile in the 
liver and circulation in ALD. Increasing evidence suggests that mRNAs that
regulate inflammation, lipid metabolism and promote cancer are affected by
excessive alcohol administration in mouse models of ALD. This communication
highlights recent findings in miRNA expression and functions as they relate to
the pathogenesis of ALD. The cell-specific distribution of miRNAs, as well as the
significance of circulating extracellular miRNAs, is discussed as potential
biomarkers. Finally, the prospects of miRNA-based therapies are evaluated in ALD.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1397347 
PMID: 25632933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


451. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan 28;21(4):1099-107. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i4.1099.

Novel insights into the mechanisms whereby isoflavones protect against fatty
liver disease.

Qiu LX(1), Chen T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Long-Xin Qiu, Tong Chen, School of Life Sciences, Longyan University, Longyan 
364000, Fujian Province, China.

Fatty liver disease (FLD) is a growing public health problem worldwide. There is 
an urgent requirement for alternative and natural medicine to treat this disease.
As phytochemicals, isoflavones have attracted considerable attention for the
prevention of FLD. Numerous studies have revealed that isoflavones protect
against FLD through various pathways which modulate fatty acid β-oxidation, lipid
synthesis, and oxidative stress. Recently, the aldose reductase (AR)/polyol
pathway has been reported to be involved in the development of FLD by modulating 
hepatic fructose production, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)α
activity, cytochrome P450 (CYP)2E1 expression, and gut bacterial
endotoxin-induced cytokine release. It has been reported that some isoflavones
are potent AR inhibitors. Here, we review the anti-FLD actions of isoflavones and
the proposed mechanism whereby isoflavones protect against FLD, with regard to
the AR/polyol pathway. We propose that isoflavones block the AR/polyol pathway
and in turn reduce fructose production and subsequent fat accumulation in the
liver in diabetic or high-glucose-diet mice. In addition, in rodents with
alcoholic liver disease or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease/nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis, inhibition of AR by isoflavones may improve PPARα-mediated fatty
acid oxidation, reduce hepatic steatosis, and attenuate CYP2E1-mediated oxidative
stress or AR/gut bacterial endotoxin-mediated cytokine overproduction, to
alleviate progression of FLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i4.1099 
PMCID: PMC4306153
PMID: 25632182  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


452. IUBMB Life. 2015 Jan;67(1):9-17. doi: 10.1002/iub.1340. Epub 2015 Jan 28.

Modulation of hepatic lipid metabolism by olive oil and its phenols in
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Priore P(1), Cavallo A, Gnoni A, Damiano F, Gnoni GV, Siculella L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences and Technologies,
Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Salento, Lecce,
Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents the most common chronic liver
disease in western countries, being considered the hepatic manifestation of
metabolic syndrome. Cumulative lines of evidence suggest that olive oil, used as 
primary source of fat by Mediterranean populations, may play a key role in the
observed health benefits on NAFLD. In this review, we summarize the state of the 
art of the knowledge on the protective role of both major and minor components of
olive oil on lipid metabolism during NAFLD. In particular, the biochemical
mechanisms responsible for the increase or decrease in hepatic lipid content are 
critically analyzed, taking into account that several studies have often provided
different and/or conflicting results in animal models fed on olive oil-enriched
diet. In addition, new findings that highlight the hypolipidemic and the
antisteatotic actions of olive oil phenols are presented. As mitochondrial
dysfunction plays a key role in the pathogenesis of NAFLD, the targeting of these
organelles with olive oil phenols as a powerful therapeutic approach is also
discussed.

© 2015 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.1340 
PMID: 25631376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Presse Med. 2015 May;44(5):481-5. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2014.09.019. Epub 2015 Jan
24.

[Alcohol consumption after liver transplantation in patients transplanted for
alcoholic cirrhosis].

[Article in French]

Donnadieu-Rigole H(1), Perney P(2), Pageaux GP(3).

Author information: 
(1)CHRU de Montpellier, hôpital Saint-Éloi, service de médecine interne et
addictologie, rue Augustin-Fliche, 34000 Montpellier, France; Université
Montpellier I, 34000 Montpellier, France; U844 Inserm, hôpital Saint-Éloi, 34000 
Montpellier, France. Electronic address: h-donnadieu_rigole@chu-montpellier.fr.
(2)CHRU de Montpellier, hôpital Saint-Éloi, service de médecine interne et
addictologie, rue Augustin-Fliche, 34000 Montpellier, France; Université
Montpellier I, 34000 Montpellier, France. (3)Université Montpellier I, 34000
Montpellier, France; CHRU de Montpellier, hôpital Saint-Éloi, service
d'hépatogastro-entérologie et transplantation hépatique, 34000 Montpellier,
France.

Liver transplantation is the gold standard treatment for terminal cirrhosis and
liver cancer (if no surgical option is available). In France, the leading cause
of liver transplantation is alcoholic cirrhosis. Severe alcohol relapse is often 
considered as a failure and concerns 11 to 26% of cases. The severe relapse
causes a significant decrease in survival after 5 years of follow up, regardless 
of the origin of the transplantation. Predictors of relapse, like pretransplant
abstinence duration, additional psychiatric co-morbidity, age, and level of
social support have been assessed. However, alcohol addiction and liver
transplantation are complex entities that cannot be reduced to a list of
predictive factors. A multidisciplinary approach including an addiction
specialist should identify and minimize the risk of severe relapse.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2014.09.019 
PMID: 25630798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


454. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan 21;21(3):794-802. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i3.794.

PNPLA3 I148M variant in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: demographic and ethnic 
characteristics and the role of the variant in nonalcoholic fatty liver fibrosis.

Chen LZ(1), Xin YN(1), Geng N(1), Jiang M(1), Zhang DD(1), Xuan SY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Li-Zhen Chen, Yong-Ning Xin, Ning Geng, Man Jiang, Ding-Ding Zhang, Shi-Ying
Xuan, Department of Gastroenterology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao 266071,
Shandong Province, China.

Patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing 3 (PNPLA3 or adiponutrin) displays
anabolic and catabolic activities in lipid metabolism, and has been reported to
be significantly associated with liver fat content. Various studies have
established a strong link between the 148 isoleucine to methionine protein
variant (I148M) of PNPLA3 and liver diseases, including nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease (NAFLD). However, detailed demographic and ethnic characteristics of the 
I148M variant and its role in the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver
fibrosis have not been fully elucidated. The present review summarizes the
current knowledge on the association between the PNPLA3 I148M variant and NAFLD, 
and especially its role in the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver fibrosis. 
First, we analyze the impact of demographic and ethnic characteristics of the
PNPLA3 I148M variant and the presence of metabolic syndrome on the association
between PNPLA3 I148M and NAFLD. Then, we explore the role of the PNPLA3 I148M in 
the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver fibrosis, and hypothesize the
underlying mechanisms by speculating a pro-fibrogenic network. Finally, we
briefly highlight future research that may elucidate the specific mechanisms of
the PNPLA3 I148M variant in fibrogenesis, which, in turn, provides a theoretical 
foundation and valuable experimental data for the clinical management of
nonalcoholic fatty liver fibrosis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i3.794 
PMCID: PMC4299331
PMID: 25624712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Psychosomatics. 2015 Jan-Feb;56(1):21-35. doi: 10.1016/j.psym.2014.09.006. Epub
2014 Sep 16.

Risk factors for alcohol relapse following orthotopic liver transplantation: a
systematic review.

Rustad JK(1), Stern TA(2), Prabhakar M(3), Musselman D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurosciences, University of South
Florida Morsani College of Medicine, Tampa, FL (JKR). Electronic address:
jkrustad@health.usf.edu. (2)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA (TAS). (3)Department of
Epidemiology, Robert Stempel College of Public Health & Social Work, Florida
International University, Miami, FL (MP). (4)Department of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, University of Miami Leonard H. Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, FL (DM).

BACKGROUND: Each year, 5000-6000 individuals undergo orthotopic liver
transplantation (OLT) in the United States, and of these, nearly 18% have
alcoholic liver disease. Relapse to alcohol occurs in more than 40% of patients
with OLT for alcoholic liver disease.
OBJECTIVES: We sought to identify factors that predict relapse to alcohol or
medication nonadherence following OLT in patients with alcoholic liver disease
and to review what randomized clinical interventions have addressed these factors
following OLT. Our hypothesis was that there would be factors before and after
OLT that predict relapse to alcohol following OLT, and that these, if targeted,
might improve sobriety and associated outcomes of adherence with medications and 
appointments.
METHODS: We performed a review (focusing on articles published since 2004) with
PubMed and MEDLINE searches using the following search terms: liver
transplantation, recidivism, alcohol relapse, and predictors of alcohol relapse. 
We supplemented the online searches with manual reviews of article reference
lists and selected relevant articles for further review by author consensus.
RESULTS: In largely white populations, prospective studies document that shorter 
length of pretransplantation sobriety is a significant predictor of time to first
drink and time to binge use. Presence of psychiatric comorbidity, high score on
standardized High-risk Alcoholism Relapse Scale, and diagnosis of Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (Fourth Edition) alcohol dependence are
predictive of posttransplantation alcohol relapse. Pretransplantation alcohol use
history variables (e.g., family history of alcoholism) reliably discriminate
between complete abstainers and those who drink, while medical and psychosocial
characteristics at early post-liver transplantation period (e.g., more bodily
pain) maximally discriminate patterns of alcohol use. Alcoholic individuals with 
early-onset, rapidly accelerating moderate use and early-onset, continuously
increasing heavy use have more than double the prevalence of steatohepatitis or
rejection on biopsy and graft failure and more frequent mortality resulting from 
recurrent alcoholic liver disease than late-onset (i.e., peak of heaviest
drinking at 6y posttransplantation) alcohol users do. Fortunately,
pretransplantation screening combined with a structured pretransplantation
management program and a 12-step program attendance reduced recidivism. No
randomized clinical trials have been performed that target pretransplantation
risk factors in individuals with alcoholic liver disease before or after OLT to
improve post-OLT outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Recent research findings suggest that screening can reveal
individuals who are vulnerable to alcohol relapse and targeted intervention can
prevent their relapse to alcohol. Based on existing addiction treatments (e.g.,
relapse prevention plan construction), randomized clinical trials tailored to
post-OLT patients should be conducted to improve their survival and quality of
life.

Copyright © 2014 The Academy of Psychosomatic Medicine. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psym.2014.09.006 
PMID: 25619671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Curr Diabetes Rev. 2015;11(2):64-70.

Is type 2 diabetes mellitus a predisposal cause for developing hepatocellular
carcinoma?

Mukherjee B, Bhattacharya S, Chakraborty S, Satapathy BS, Dey NS, Shaw TK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Jadavpur University, Kolkata-700032, 
India. biswajit55@yahoo.com.

Hepatic cancer stands as one of the frontier causes of cancer related mortality
worldwide. Among the several risk factors already established, type 2 diabetes is
now considered as one of the important risks in progression of liver cancer.
Studies have shown that likelihood of occurrence of liver cancer is many folds
higher in patients diagnosed with type II diabetes compared to patients without
diabetes. Liver plays an important role in metabolism of glucose in our body, so 
may be type II diabetes as it is an important epiphenomenon of hepatic diseases
such as liver cirrhosis, liver failure, fatty liver, chronic hepatitis and
hepatocellular carcinoma. Some reports suggested that extensive change in enzyme 
structures in molecular level in diabetic patients may lead to liver function
damage and hence accelerate hepatic cancer. Other strong links between these two 
diseases are "non alcoholic fatty liver diseases" and "nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis" which are metabolic disorders caused by type II diabetes and
eventually develops hepatocellular carcinoma. However, it still remains
unanswered whether prevention of diabetes would effectively lower the chances of 
developing liver cancer or eliminating diabetes from the population would
effectively reduce the liver cancer incidence. In this review, we will primarily 
focus on the molecular link between type2 diabetes and hepatic cancer and
investigate underlying mechanism to establish type II diabetes as predisposed
cause of hepatic cancer.


PMID: 25619540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Atherosclerosis. 2015 Mar;239(1):192-202. doi:
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2015.01.001. Epub 2015 Jan 13.

A concise review of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Than NN(1), Newsome PN(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Centre of Liver Research and NIHR Biomedical Research Unit in Liver
Diseases, University of Birmingham and University Hospital Birmingham NHS Trust, 
UK. Electronic address: nwenithan@gmail.com. (2)The Centre of Liver Research and 
NIHR Biomedical Research Unit in Liver Diseases, University of Birmingham and
University Hospital Birmingham NHS Trust, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of the
metabolic syndrome and the incidence of which is rising rapidly due to the
increasing epidemic of obesity in both adults and children. The initial
accumulation of fat followed by subsequent inflammation is central to the
development of liver damage, and is critically influenced by host factors
including age, gender, presence of diabetes, genetic polymorphisms and more
recently by the gut microbiome. An increasing body of data suggest that NAFLD is 
also an independent risk factor of cardiovascular disease, which remains the
commonest cause of mortality in such patients. This review focusses on the
pathogenesis of NAFLD, and the evolution of new approaches to the management and 
treatment of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2015.01.001 
PMID: 25617860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Zhongguo Dang Dai Er Ke Za Zhi. 2015 Jan;17(1):107-12.

[Research advances in pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Dai DL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Shenzhen Children's Hospital, Shenzhen,
Guangdong 518036, China. daidong3529@sina.com.

In recent years, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has increased because
of the growing prevalence of obesity and overweight in the pediatric population. 
It has become the most common form of chronic liver diseases in children and the 
related research on NAFLD is expanded. The "two-hit" and "multiple hit"
hypothesis have been widely accepted, and some research has shown that genetic,
diet structure and environmental factors appear to play a crucial role in the
development of pediatric NAFLD. Though it is expected by researchers, there is
not an available satisfactory noninvasive marker for the diagnosis of this
disease. Fortunately, some new non-invasive prediction scores for pediatric NAFLD
have been developed. There is currently no established special therapy, and
lifestyle intervention should be adequate for most cases of NAFLD in children.
This article reviews the advances in the current knowledge and ideas concerning
pediatric NAFLD, and discusses the diagnosis, perspective therapies and scoring
methods for this disease.


PMID: 25616307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2015 May;24(5):611-21. doi:
10.1517/13543784.2015.1006359. Epub 2015 Jan 21.

Early investigational drugs targeting PPAR-α for the treatment of metabolic
disease.

Liu ZM(1), Hu M, Chan P, Tomlinson B.

Author information: 
(1)Tongji University, Shanghai East Hospital, Department of Cardiac Surgery , No 
150, Jimo Road, Shanghai 200120 , China liu.zhongmin@tongji.edu.cn.

INTRODUCTION: The fibrates have been used for many years to treat dyslipidemias
and have also recently been shown to have anti-inflammatory effects. They are
relatively weak PPAR-α agonists and do have some adverse effects. Novel compounds
are in development, which are selective PPAR modulators (SPPARMs) and have more
potent PPAR-α agonist activity. These may prove to have advantages in the
treatment of dyslipidemia, insulin resistance and non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD).
AREAS COVERED: This review focuses on PPAR-α agonists or SPPARMs in development
describing the preclinical and early clinical studies. The information was
obtained by searching the published literature and abstracts from recent
meetings. Ongoing clinical trials were identified using the Clinicaltrial.gov
database.
EXPERT OPINION: There is still a need for new drugs to treat atherogenic
dyslipidemia. The highly potent and selective PPAR-α agonist K-877 has shown
beneficial effects on atherogenic dyslipidemia and absence of some adverse
effects seen with fibrates. The dual PPAR-α/PPAR-δ agonist GFT-505 has shown
favorable results in improving atherogenic dyslipidemia and insulin resistance
and appears to be a potential candidate for the treatment of NAFLD. Long-term
trials are needed to assess the safety and efficacy of these new agents for
cardiovascular and liver outcomes.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.2015.1006359 
PMID: 25604802  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2015 Jan;107(1):10-6.

Association of NAFLD with subclinical atherosclerosis and coronary-artery
disease: meta-analysis.

Ampuero J, Gallego-Durán R, Romero-Gómez M.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have associated non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) with increased risk of cardiovascular disease, using tests of subclinical
atherosclerosis.
AIM: To evaluate the influence of NAFLD on subclinical atherosclerosis and
coronary artery disease (CAD).
METHODS: We reviewed Pubmed and EMBASE. According to inclusion and exclusion
criteria, we selected 14 studies and were classified in two groups. Ten studies
aimed the presence of subclinical atherosclerosis and four studies the presence
of coronary artery disease. To assess subclinical atherosclerosis, we selected
studies with pathological carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) and with presence
of carotid plaques. We considered coronary artery disease when patients showed at
least 50% stenosis at one or more major coronary arteries. NAFLD was assessed by 
ultrasound (US) and liver biopsy.
RESULTS: NAFLD showed a higher prevalence of pathological CIMT [35.1% (351/999)
vs. 21.8% (207/948); p < 0.0001], with OR 2.04 (95% CI: 1.65-2.51). Similarly,
the presence of carotid plaques was higher in NAFLD diagnosed by US [34.2%
(101/295) vs. 12.9% (51/394); p < 0.0001] [OR 2.82 (95% CI: 1.87-4.27)] and
diagnosed by liver biopsy [64.8% (70/108) vs. 31.3% (59/188); p < 0.0001] [OR
4.41 (95% CI: 2.63-7.40)]. On the other hand, four studies assessed CAD in
patients underwent coronary angiogram. Subjects with NAFLD showed 80.4% (492/612)
of CAD, while it was detected in 60.7% (356/586) (p < 0.0001) in patients without
NAFLD. Therefore, NAFLD was associated with a remarkably higher likelihood of
CAD, using random effects model [OR 3.31 (95% CI: 2.21-4.95)] or fixed effects
model [OR 3.13 (95% CI: 2.36-4.16)].
CONCLUSIONS: NAFLD increases the risk of subclinical atherosclerosis and coronary
artery disease. The right management of these patients could modify the natural
history both liver and cardiovascular disease.


PMID: 25603326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Curr Mol Med. 2015;15(1):3-26.

Understanding nutritional interventions and physical exercise in non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease.

Ordonez R, Carbajo-Pescador S, Mauriz JL, Gonzalez-Gallego J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biomedicine (IBIOMED), Campus Universitario, 24071, Leon, Spain. 
jgonga@unileon.es.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in
adults and its prevalence is rising around the world. This pathology is
characterized by accumulation of liver fat, which exceeds 5% of liver weight in
absence of alcohol consumption, viral infection or other hepatic etiology. Since 
NAFLD has been associated with obesity, insulin resistance, diabetes or
alteration of lipid profiles, it is considered as the liver manifestation of
metabolic syndrome. Pathogenic mechanisms of NAFLD have not been clearly
elucidated, but different events such as lipid accumulation, insulin resistance, 
oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and
inflammation are involved. Modifications in lifestyle constitute the first line
for the management of NAFLD. Nutritional interventions include low fat and
carbohydrate diet with higher polyunsaturated fatty acids ingestion. Moreover,
supplementation with antioxidant and cytoprotective agents could be useful to
decrease oxidative stress, inflammation and fibrosis. Physical activity enables
to reduce the expression of lipogenic genes, fat accumulation, or insulin
resistance and improves cardiorespiratory fitness. Benefits have been found
following both aerobic exercise and resistance training, and remain even after
exercise cessation. However, more studies are required to analyze the molecular
and cellular mechanisms involved in nutritional and physical intervention, and to
define the volume of activity required and its association with weight loss. In
this paper, we offer an updated overview of the mechanisms implicated in the
progression of NAFLD, and analyze the beneficial effects of nutritional
interventions and physical exercise in the prevention and treatment of this
condition.


PMID: 25601465  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Clin Biochem. 2015 Apr;48(6):370-6. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2014.12.024. Epub 
2015 Jan 10.

Laboratory assessment of cardiometabolic risk in overweight and obese children.

Sypniewska G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Nicolaus Copernicus University, Collegium
Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Sklodowskiej-Curie 9, 85-094 Bydgoszcz, Poland. Electronic 
address: grazynaodes@interia.pl.

Childhood obesity has been identified as one of the most important risk factors
of developing cardiovascular diseases. The global prevalence of overweight and
obesity among children shows an increasing tendency. Many of overweight or obese 
children will become obese adults with enhanced risk for cardiovascular diseases.
Childhood obesity is often accompanied by serious consequences such as
dyslipidemia, hypertension, diabetes, pro-inflammatory state and non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease. Hypertension, high LDL-cholesterol and triglyceride
concentrations, insulin resistance, inflammation and disturbances in
adipocytokines secretion are associated with endothelial dysfunction which
precedes the development of atherosclerosis. Obese children and adolescents with 
a clinically-proven non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which is currently
recognized as the hepatic component of metabolic syndrome, are at more severe
cardiovascular risk compared with normal-weight. Obesity-related insulin
resistance is highly prevalent in children and adolescents, and is associated
with the increased lifetime risk of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
Adipokines contribute to obesity-atherosclerosis relationships yet among several 
recently discovered adipokines only few (adiponectin, resistin, chemerin,
fibroblast growth factor 21, apelin) have been partly studied in obese pediatric 
population. The aim of this review was to describe the spectrum of cardiovascular
abnormalities observed in children with overweight and obesity and the role of
laboratory in the assessment of cardiometabolic risk in order to differentiate
between healthy obese and those at risk to most effectively prevent progression
of cardiovascular disease in childhood.

Copyright © 2015 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2014.12.024 
PMID: 25583095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Clin J Gastroenterol. 2015 Feb;8(1):1-9. doi: 10.1007/s12328-014-0548-5. Epub
2015 Jan 10.

Clinical features of hepatocellular carcinoma associated with nonalcoholic fatty 
liver disease: a review of human studies.

Oda K(1), Uto H, Mawatari S, Ido A.

Author information: 
(1)Digestive and Lifestyle Diseases, Department of Human and Environmental
Sciences, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences,
8-35-1 Sakuragaoka, Kagoshima, Kagoshima, 890-8544, Japan.

Most cases of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in Japan develop in the background
of chronic liver disease caused by hepatitis C virus (HCV). Recently, however,
HCV-associated HCC has been shown to be decreasing, while non-B and non-C HCC
(NBNC-HCC), which is negative for HCV and hepatitis B virus infection, has
increased. The main cause of NBNC-HCC is alcoholic liver disease, but the recent 
increase of NBNC-HCC is thought to be due to an increase in patients with
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Approximately 10% of NAFLD cases
involve nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and NASH can progress to liver
cirrhosis and its associated complications such as HCC. There are no accurate
data on the percentage of NASH-related HCC among all-cause HCC in Japan, because 
no large-scale investigation has been performed. However, the rate is thought to 
be about 3% of overall HCC, which is lower than that in the United States. The
incidence of HCC in patients with NASH-related cirrhosis is thought to be 2% per 
year, which is lower than that in HCV-related cirrhosis. Risks for NASH-related
HCC include advanced hepatic fibrosis, older age, and being male. NAFLD that
includes NASH is associated with metabolic syndrome, which includes obesity and
diabetes, and metabolic syndrome is a risk factor for HCC. Genetic factors and
dietary patterns may also be related to NASH-related HCC. Thus, regular HCC
surveillance, as performed for patients with viral chronic liver disease, is
required for patients with NAFLD, and diagnostic markers are required for simple,
rapid and specific detection of NASH-related HCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s12328-014-0548-5 
PMID: 25575848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Can J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Dec;28(11):607-18.

Biomarkers in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Neuman MG, Cohen LB, Nanau RM.

BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver condition
characterized by insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes and fat accumulation in the 
liver that may cause hepatic inflammation and progressive scarring leading to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and irreversible liver damage (cirrhosis). As
a result, there has been increased recognition of the need to assess and closely 
monitor individuals for risk factors of components of NAFLD and NASH, as well as 
the severity of these conditions using biomarkers.
AIM: To review the biomarkers used to diagnose and define the severity of NAFLD
and NASH.
METHODS: A comprehensive PubMed and Google Scholar literature search was
performed using the terms "non-alcoholic fatty liver disease", "non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis", as well as the name of each biomarker known to be used.
Articles indexed between 2004 and 2014 were used. Each author read the
publications separately and the results were discussed.
RESULTS: Biomarkers offer a potential prognostic or diagnostic indicator for
disease manifestation, progression or both. Serum biomarkers, including total
cholesterol, triglycerides, insulin resistance and C-peptide, have been used for 
many years. Emerging biomarkers, such as apolipoprotein A1, apolipoprotein B,
leptin, adiponectin, free fatty acids, ghrelin and tumour necrosis factor-alpha, 
have been proposed as tools that could provide valuable complementary information
to that obtained from traditional biomarkers. Moreover, markers of cell death and
mitochondrial dysfunction (cytokeratins) represent powerful predictors of risk.
For biomarkers to be clinically useful in accurately diagnosing and treating
disorders, age-specific reference intervals that account for differences in sex
and ethnic origin are a necessity.
CONCLUSIONS: The present review attempts to provide a comprehensive analysis of
the emerging risk biomarkers of NAFLD and NASH, and to use the clinical
significance and analytical considerations of each biomarker pointing out
sentinel features of disease progression.


PMCID: PMC4277175
PMID: 25575111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Eur J Pediatr. 2015 Feb;174(2):151-67. doi: 10.1007/s00431-014-2476-2. Epub 2015 
Jan 7.

The intestinal microbiota: its role in health and disease.

Biedermann L(1), Rogler G.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Zürich,
Rämistrasse 100, 8091, Zürich, Switzerland, luc.biedermann@usz.ch.

The intestinal microbiota (previously referred to as "intestinal flora") has
entered the focus of research interest not only in microbiology but also in
medicine. Huge progress has been made with respect to the analysis of composition
and functions of the human microbiota. An "imbalance" of the microbiota,
frequently also called a "dysbiosis," has been associated with different diseases
in recent years. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis as two major forms of
inflammatory bowel disease, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and some infectious
intestinal diseases such as Clostridium difficile colitis feature a dysbiosis of 
the intestinal flora. Whereas this is somehow expected or less surprising, an
imbalance of the microbiota or an enrichment of specific bacterial strains in the
flora has been associated with an increasing number of other diseases such as
diabetes, metabolic syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease or
steatohepatitis and even psychiatric disorders such as depression or multiple
sclerosis. It is important to understand the different aspects of potential
contributions of the microbiota to pathophysiology of the mentioned
diseases.CONCLUSION: With the present manuscript, we aim to summarize the current
knowledge and provide an overview of the different concepts on how bacteria
contribute to health and disease in animal models and-more importantly-humans. In
addition, it has to be borne in mind that we are only at the very beginning to
understand the complex mechanisms of host-microbial interactions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-014-2476-2 
PMID: 25563215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Mar;27(3):193-9. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000254.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease as a potential risk factor of cardiovascular
disease.

Luo J(1), Xu L, Li J, Zhao S.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Cardiology, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South
University bDepartment of The Second Chest Medicine, The Affiliated Cancer
Hospital of Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South University, Changsha,
Hunan, People's Republic of China.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic component of the
metabolic syndrome. The aim of this review is to summarize the available data
linking NAFLD with cardiovascular disease (CVD). The following topics are
reviewed: (a) the clinical evidence linking NAFLD to increased prevalence of CVD;
(b) the relationship between NAFLD (which is diagnosed by liver biopsy, serum
liver enzymes, or ultrasonography) and incidence of CVD; (c) the mechanism
linking NAFLD to CVD and clinical implication; and (d) the potential impact of
NAFLD treatment on cardiac complications. CVD dictates the outcome (or outcomes) 
in patients with NAFLD more frequently and to a greater extent than does the
progression of liver disease. NAFLD patients have a higher risk of all-cause
death than the general population, mainly because of CVD or liver-related causes.
The biologic mechanism linking NAFLD and CVD might be associated with various
factors, involving a complex interaction among insulin resistance, oxidative
stress, abnormal adipocytokine profile, endothelial dysfunction, lipid
abnormalities, and activation of inflammatory cascade. Lifestyle modifications
and pharmacotherapy are helpful to treat patients with NAFLD. NAFLD is likely to 
be associated with an increased risk of CVD, and raises the possibility that
NAFLD may not only be a marker but also an early mediator of CVD.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000254 
PMID: 25563143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


467. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Dec 28;20(48):18070-91. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i48.18070.

Adipokines and proinflammatory cytokines, the key mediators in the pathogenesis
of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Stojsavljević S(1), Gomerčić Palčić M(1), Virović Jukić L(1), Smirčić Duvnjak
L(1), Duvnjak M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sanja Stojsavljević, Marija Gomerčić Palčić, Lucija Virović Jukić, Marko
Duvnjak, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Clinic of Internal
medicine, Clinical hospital center "Sestre milosrdnice'', 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a condition in which excess fat
accumulates in the liver of a patient with no history of alcohol abuse or other
causes for secondary hepatic steatosis. The pathogenesis of NAFLD and
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) has not been fully elucidated. The "two-hit" 
hypothesis is probably a too simplified model to elaborate complex pathogenetic
events occurring in patients with NASH. It should be better regarded as a
multiple step process, with accumulation of liver fat being the first step,
followed by the development of necroinflammation and fibrosis. Adipose tissue,
which has emerged as an endocrine organ with a key role in energy homeostasis, is
responsive to both central and peripheral metabolic signals and is itself capable
of secreting a number of proteins. These adipocyte-specific or enriched proteins,
termed adipokines, have been shown to have a variety of local, peripheral, and
central effects. In the current review, we explore the role of adipocytokines and
proinflammatory cytokines in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. We particularly focus on 
adiponectin, leptin and ghrelin, with a brief mention of resistin, visfatin and
retinol-binding protein 4 among adipokines, and tumor necrosis factor-α,
interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1, and briefly IL-18 among proinflammatory cytokines. We
update their role in NAFLD, as elucidated in experimental models and clinical
practice.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i48.18070 
PMCID: PMC4277948
PMID: 25561778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Int Immunopharmacol. 2015 Feb;24(2):335-45. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2014.12.024.
Epub 2015 Jan 3.

An overview of effective therapies and recent advances in biomarkers for chronic 
liver diseases and associated liver cancer.

Chatterjee R(1), Mitra A(2).

Author information: 
(1)E.S.I. Hospital, Belur, West Bengal, India. (2)University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. Electronic address: amitra@mdanderson.org.

Chronic liver diseases (CLDs) such as hepatitis, alcoholic liver disease,
nonalcoholic fatty liver, and their downstream effect cancer affect more than a
billion of people around the world both symptomatically and asymptomatically. The
major limitation for early detection and suitable medical management of CLDs and 
liver cancer is either the absent of symptoms or their similar manifestations as 
other diseases. This detection impediment has led to a steady increase in the
number of people suffering from CLDs with an ultimate outcome of liver failure
and undergoing transplantation. A better understanding of CLD pathogenesis has
helped us to develop novel therapies for patients who are at greatest risk for
CLD progression to the most serious disease cancer. With the discovery of
aberrant molecular pathways in CLDs, it is now possible to delineate a road map
for selecting targeted therapies for CLDs. Technological advances in imaging as
well as the availability of several stable, sensitive, early, noninvasive
biomarkers for distinguishing different stages of CLDs and cancer have greatly
facilitated both drug target identification and real-time monitoring of response 
to therapy. Biomarkers are the most useful in clinical practice for liver
diseases like hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which is associated with secretion 
of various tumor-related proteins or nucleotides in peripheral circulation. The
need for the identification of CLD biomarkers remains high. This article reviews 
the etiologies of CLDs, the results of recent clinical trials of treatments for
CLDs, and development of noninvasive methodologies for detecting CLDs and
monitoring their progression toward HCC.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2014.12.024 
PMID: 25560752  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Alcohol Alcohol. 2015 Mar;50(2):164-72. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agu096. Epub 2015 Jan
3.

Assessing and treating alcohol relapse risk in liver transplantation candidates.

Dom G(1), Wojnar M(2), Crunelle CL(3), Thon N(4), Bobes J(5), Preuss UW(6),
Addolorato G(7), Seitz HK(8), Wurst FM(9).

Author information: 
(1)Collaborative Antwerp Psychiatric Research Institute (CAPRI), Antwerp
University (UA), Antwerpen, Belgium geert.dom@uantwerpen.be. (2)Medical
University of Warsaw, Warszawa, Poland. (3)Collaborative Antwerp Psychiatric
Research Institute (CAPRI) & Department of Toxicology, Antwerp University (UA),
Antwerpen, Belgium. (4)Universitätsklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie II, 
Salzburg, Austria. (5)University of Oviedo, CIBERSAM, Oviedo, Spain. (6)Hospital 
of Prignitz, Perleberg, Germany. (7)Catholic University of Rome & Gemelli
Hospital, Rome, Italy. (8)Center of Alcohol Research, Liver Disease and
Nutrition, Salem Medical Center, Heidelberg, Germany. (9)Universitätsklinik für
Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie II, Christian-Doppler-Klinik & Gemeinnützige
Salzburger Landeskliniken Betriebsgesellschaft mbH, Salzburg, Austria.

In Europe between 30 and 50% of all liver transplantations (LTX) are done within 
the context of chronic end-stage alcoholic liver disease (ALD). However,
post-operatively 20-25% of these patients lapse or relapse into heavy alcohol
use. Thus, assessment of alcohol relapse risk before enlisting and therapeutic
follow-up during and after LTX is of utmost importance. However, as yet there are
enormous differences between European countries and between transplant centers,
with regard to the assessment methods and criteria and the implementation of
therapeutic follow-up. Only the so-called '6-month abstinence' rule is widely
used. However, there are not much scientific data validating its use in
predicting relapse. Thus, there is a clear need of a more homogeneous approach,
which was the focus of a symposium of the European Federation of Addiction
Societies during the 14th conference of the European Society for Biomedical
Research on Alcoholism, 2013 (ESBRA), entitled 'Liver transplantation: A European
perspective'. In a follow-up on this symposium, the authors aim to sum up the
evidence of psychiatric assessment criteria and psychiatric treatment
interventions relevant in the context of patient selection and patient follow-up 
within ALD transplantation procedures. Based upon these findings, we propose
elements of a procedure that can serve as a first step toward a model of good
practice regarding addiction-specialist input within the pre- and
post-transplantation period.

© The Author 2015. Medical Council on Alcohol and Oxford University Press. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agu096 
PMID: 25557607  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2015 Jun 20;22(18):1703-18. doi: 10.1089/ars.2014.6154.
Epub 2015 Feb 18.

Isolevuglandin adducts in disease.

Salomon RG(1), Bi W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.

SIGNIFICANCE: A diverse family of lipid-derived levulinaldehydes, isolevuglandins
(isoLGs), is produced by rearrangement of endoperoxide intermediates generated
through both cyclooxygenase (COX) and free radical-induced cyclooxygenation of
polyunsaturated fatty acids and their phospholipid esters. The formation and
reactions of isoLGs with other biomolecules has been linked to alcoholic liver
disease, Alzheimer's disease, age-related macular degeneration, atherosclerosis, 
cardiac arythmias, cancer, end-stage renal disease, glaucoma, inflammation of
allergies and infection, mitochondrial dysfunction, multiple sclerosis, and
thrombosis. This review chronicles progress in understanding the chemistry of
isoLGs, detecting their production in vivo and understanding their biological
consequences.
CRITICAL ISSUES: IsoLGs have never been isolated from biological sources, because
they form adducts with primary amino groups of other biomolecules within seconds.
Chemical synthesis enabled investigation of isoLG chemistry and detection of
isoLG adducts present in vivo.
RECENT ADVANCES: The first peptide mapping and sequencing of an isoLG-modified
protein present in human retina identified the modification of a specific lysyl
residue of the sterol C27-hydroxylase Cyp27A1. This residue is preferentially
modified by iso[4]LGE2 in vitro, causing loss of function. Adduction of less than
one equivalent of isoLG can induce COX-associated oligomerization of the amyloid 
peptide Aβ1-42. Adduction of isoLGE2 to phosphatidylethanolamines causes gain of 
function, converting them into proinflammatory isoLGE2-PE agonists that foster
monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: Among the remaining questions on the biochemistry of isoLGs
are the dependence of biological activity on isoLG isomer structure, the
structures and mechanism of isoLG-derived protein-protein and DNA-protein
cross-link formation, and its biological consequences.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2014.6154 
PMCID: PMC4484713
PMID: 25557218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2015 Apr;11(4):523-32. doi:
10.1517/17425255.2014.999664. Epub 2015 Jan 2.

Farnesoid x receptor in human metabolism and disease: the interplay between gene 
polymorphisms, clinical phenotypes and disease susceptibility.

Koutsounas I(1), Theocharis S, Delladetsima I, Patsouris E, Giaginis C.

Author information: 
(1)National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, First Department of Pathology,
Medical School , Athens , Greece.

INTRODUCTION: Farnesoid x receptor (FXR) belongs to the group of nuclear
receptors (NRs), which regulate the expression of various genes by binding to DNA
either as a monomer or a heterodimer with retinoid x receptor.
AREAS COVERED: FXR affects several metabolic pathways through its specific target
genes, regulating bile acid (BA) synthesis and homeostasis, glucose and lipid
metabolism, also exhibiting a crucial role in intestinal bacterial growth and
liver regeneration. Additionally, FXR is involved in the pathogenesis of
different cholestatic diseases, as well as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and primary idiopathic BA malabsorption.
EXPERT OPINION: Analyses of certain FXR polymorphisms revealed associations with 
clinical phenotypes and susceptibility to various human diseases. FXR
single-nucleotide polymorphisms seem to be correlated with differences in glucose
homeostasis, gallstone formation, intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy, IBD and 
therapeutic response to hypolipidemic therapy, among studied populations.
Unfortunately, little data are still available and more studies remain to be done
to determine the contribution of FXR polymorphisms in estimating risk factors and
clinical outcomes for several diseases.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.2014.999664 
PMID: 25553772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


472. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Dec 21;20(47):17756-72. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i47.17756.

Pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease: role of oxidative metabolism.

Ceni E(1), Mello T(1), Galli A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Elisabetta Ceni, Tommaso Mello, Andrea Galli, Gastroenterology Unit,
Department of Experimental and Clinical Biochemical Sciences, University of
Florence, 50139 Florence, Italy.

Alcohol consumption is a predominant etiological factor in the pathogenesis of
chronic liver diseases, resulting in fatty liver, alcoholic hepatitis,
fibrosis/cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Although the pathogenesis
of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) involves complex and still unclear biological
processes, the oxidative metabolites of ethanol such as acetaldehyde and reactive
oxygen species (ROS) play a preeminent role in the clinical and pathological
spectrum of ALD. Ethanol oxidative metabolism influences intracellular signaling 
pathways and deranges the transcriptional control of several genes, leading to
fat accumulation, fibrogenesis and activation of innate and adaptive immunity.
Acetaldehyde is known to be toxic to the liver and alters lipid homeostasis,
decreasing peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors and increasing sterol
regulatory element binding protein activity via an AMP-activated protein kinase
(AMPK)-dependent mechanism. AMPK activation by ROS modulates autophagy, which has
an important role in removing lipid droplets. Acetaldehyde and aldehydes
generated from lipid peroxidation induce collagen synthesis by their ability to
form protein adducts that activate transforming-growth-factor-β-dependent and
independent profibrogenic pathways in activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs).
Furthermore, activation of innate and adaptive immunity in response to ethanol
metabolism plays a key role in the development and progression of ALD.
Acetaldehyde alters the intestinal barrier and promote lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
translocation by disrupting tight and adherent junctions in human colonic mucosa.
Acetaldehyde and LPS induce Kupffer cells to release ROS and proinflammatory
cytokines and chemokines that contribute to neutrophils infiltration. In
addition, alcohol consumption inhibits natural killer cells that are cytotoxic to
HSCs and thus have an important antifibrotic function in the liver. Ethanol
metabolism may also interfere with cell-mediated adaptive immunity by impairing
proteasome function in macrophages and dendritic cells, and consequently alters
allogenic antigen presentation. Finally, acetaldehyde and ROS have a role in
alcohol-related carcinogenesis because they can form DNA adducts that are prone
to mutagenesis, and they interfere with methylation, synthesis and repair of DNA,
thereby increasing HCC susceptibility.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i47.17756 
PMCID: PMC4273126
PMID: 25548474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


473. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Dec 21;20(47):17737-45. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i47.17737.

Intestinal microbiota and type 2 diabetes: from mechanism insights to therapeutic
perspective.

Han JL(1), Lin HL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jun-Ling Han, Hui-Ling Lin, Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, the
187 Hospital of PLA, Haikou 571159, Hainan Province, China.

The incidence of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) is rapidly increasing worldwide. However,
the pathogenesis of T2DM has not yet been well explained. Recent evidence
suggests that the intestinal microbiota composition is associated with obesity
and T2DM. In this review, we provide an overview about the mechanisms underlying 
the role of intestinal microbiota in the pathogenesis of T2DM. There is clear
evidence that the intestinal microbiota influences the host through its effect on
body weight, bile acid metabolism, proinflammatory activity and insulin
resistance, and modulation of gut hormones. Modulating gut microbiota with the
use of probiotics, prebiotics, antibiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation 
may have benefits for improvement in glucose metabolism and insulin resistance in
the host. Further studies are required to increase our understanding of the
complex interplay between intestinal microbiota and the host with T2DM. Further
studies may be able to boost the development of new effective therapeutic
approaches for T2DM.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i47.17737 
PMCID: PMC4273124
PMID: 25548472  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2015 May;19(5):675-85. doi:
10.1517/14728222.2014.997711. Epub 2014 Dec 30.

Targeting fibroblast growth factor 19 in liver disease: a potential biomarker and
therapeutic target.

Liu WY(1), Xie DM, Zhu GQ, Huang GQ, Lin YQ, Wang LR, Shi KQ, Hu B, Braddock M,
Chen YP, Zheng MH.

Author information: 
(1)The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Liver Research
Center, Department of Infection and Liver Diseases , No. 2 Fuxue Lane, Wenzhou
325000 , China +86 577 88078232 ; +86 577 88078262 ; blueman1320@163.com.

INTRODUCTION: Fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF19) is a member of the hormone-like
FGF family and has activity as an ileum-derived postprandial hormone. It shares
high binding affinity with β-Klotho and together with the FGF receptor (FGFR) 4, 
is predominantly targeted to the liver. The main function of FGF19 in metabolism 
is the negative control of bile acid synthesis, promotion of glycogen synthesis, 
lipid metabolism and protein synthesis.
AREAS COVERED: Drawing on in vitro and in vivo studies, this review discusses
FGF19 and some underlying mechanisms of action of FGF19 as an endocrine hormone
in several liver diseases. The molecular pathway of the FGF19-FGFR4 axis in
non-alcoholic liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma are discussed.
Furthermore, definition of function and pharmacological effects of FGF19 for
liver disease are also presented.
EXPERT OPINION: A series of studies have highlighted a crucial role of FGF19 in
liver disease. However, the conclusions of these studies are partly paradoxical
and controversial. An understanding of the underlying biological mechanisms which
may explain inconsistent findings is especially important for consideration of
potential biomarker strategies and an exploration of the putative therapeutic
efficacy of FGF19 for human liver disease.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2014.997711 
PMID: 25547779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nutrients. 2014 Dec 22;6(12):5933-54. doi: 10.3390/nu6125933.

Simple sugar intake and hepatocellular carcinoma: epidemiological and mechanistic
insight.

Laguna JC(1), Alegret M(2), Roglans N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutic Chemistry,
School of Pharmacy, University of Barcelona, Avda. Joan XXIII s.n., 08028
Barcelona, Spain. jclagunae@ub.edu. (2)Unit of Pharmacology, Department of
Pharmacology and Therapeutic Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, University of
Barcelona, Avda. Joan XXIII s.n., 08028 Barcelona, Spain. alegret@ub.edu. (3)Unit
of Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutic Chemistry, School of 
Pharmacy, University of Barcelona, Avda. Joan XXIII s.n., 08028 Barcelona, Spain.
roglans@ub.edu.

Sugar intake has dramatically increased during the last few decades.
Specifically, there has been a clear trend towards higher consumption of fructose
and high fructose corn syrup, which are the most common added sugars in processed
food, soft drinks and other sweetened beverages. Although still controversial,
this rising trend in simple sugar consumption has been positively associated with
weight gain and obesity, insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Interestingly, all of these metabolic
alterations have also been related to the development of hepatocellular
carcinoma. The purpose of this review is to discuss the evidence coming from
epidemiological studies and data from animal models relating the consumption of
simple sugars, and specifically fructose, with an increased risk of
hepatocellular carcinoma and to gain insight into the putative molecular
mechanisms involved.

DOI: 10.3390/nu6125933 
PMCID: PMC4277008
PMID: 25533006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Nutrients. 2014 Dec 1;6(12):5473-99. doi: 10.3390/nu6125473.

Does vitamin C deficiency promote fatty liver disease development?

Ipsen DH(1), Tveden-Nyborg P(2), Lykkesfeldt J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Disease Biology, Faculty of Health and Medical
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Ridebanevej 9, Frederiksberg C, 1870
Copenhagen, Denmark. dhi@sund.ku.dk. (2)Department of Veterinary Disease Biology,
Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Ridebanevej 9, 
Frederiksberg C, 1870 Copenhagen, Denmark. ptn@sund.ku.dk. (3)Department of
Veterinary Disease Biology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, Ridebanevej 9, Frederiksberg C, 1870 Copenhagen, Denmark.
jopl@sund.ku.dk.

Obesity and the subsequent reprogramming of the white adipose tissue are linked
to human disease-complexes including metabolic syndrome and concurrent
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH). The dietary imposed dyslipidemia promotes redox imbalance by the
generation of excess levels of reactive oxygen species and induces adipocyte
dysfunction and reprogramming, leading to a low grade systemic inflammation and
ectopic lipid deposition, e.g., in the liver, hereby promoting a vicious circle
in which dietary factors initiate a metabolic change that further exacerbates the
negative consequences of an adverse life-style. Large epidemiological studies and
findings from controlled in vivo animal studies have provided evidence supporting
an association between poor vitamin C (VitC) status and propagation of life-style
associated diseases. In addition, overweight per se has been shown to result in
reduced plasma VitC, and the distribution of body fat in obesity has been shown
to have an inverse relationship with VitC plasma levels. Recently, a number of
epidemiological studies have indicated a VitC intake below the recommended daily 
allowance (RDA) in NAFLD-patients, suggesting an association between dietary
habits, disease and VitC deficiency. In the general population, VitC deficiency
(defined as a plasma concentration below 23 μM) affects around 10% of adults,
however, this prevalence is increased by an adverse life-style, deficiency
potentially playing a broader role in disease progression in specific subgroups. 
This review discusses the currently available data from human surveys and
experimental models in search of a putative role of VitC deficiency in the
development of NAFLD and NASH.

DOI: 10.3390/nu6125473 
PMCID: PMC4276979
PMID: 25533004  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


477. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2014 Dec;23(4):425-9. doi:
10.15403/jgld.2014.1121.234.bna.

Non-invasive biomarkers in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis-induced hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Voiculescu M(1), Nanau RM(2), Neuman MG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology and Internal Medicine, Fundeni Clinical Institute and
Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania. (2)In Vitro
Drug Safety and Biotechnology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)In Vitro Drug Safety and Biotechnology,Department of Pharmacology and
Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
manuela.neuman@utoronto.ca.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is by far the most common form of
chronic liver disease worldwide, affecting adults as well as children. Under the 
term of NAFLD there is a wide spectrum of diseases ranging from simple steatosis 
to the non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which can progress to cirrhosis and 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Several mechanisms have been described to
influence the progression of the disease from the benign NAFL to the aggressive
NASH. The imbalance between pro- and anti-oxidant mechanisms and between pro- and
anti-inflammatory cytokines is thought to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis
of NAFLD and disease progression toward NASH and fibrosis. The present review
intends to look at some of the mechanistic biomarkers to be employed in
establishing an early diagnosis in HCC derived from NASH.


PMID: 25532002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


478. BMJ Open. 2014 Dec 19;4(12):e005325. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-005325.

Effects of lixisenatide on elevated liver transaminases: systematic review with
individual patient data meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials on patients
with type 2 diabetes.

Gluud LL(1), Knop FK(2), Vilsbøll T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Diabetes Research Centre, Gentofte Hospital,
University of Copenhagen, Hellerup, Denmark Department of Gastroenterology,
Hvidovre Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Hvidovre, Denmark. (2)Department of 
Medicine, Diabetes Research Centre, Gentofte Hospital, University of Copenhagen, 
Hellerup, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor
agonist lixisenatide on elevated liver blood tests in patients with type 2
diabetes.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic and manual searches were combined.
STUDY SELECTION: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) on lixisenatide versus
placebo or active comparators for type 2 diabetes were included.
PARTICIPANTS: Individual patient data were retrieved to calculate outcomes for
patients with elevated liver blood tests.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Normalisation of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and
aspartate aminotransferase (AST).
DATA SYNTHESIS: The results of included trials were combined in meta-analyses.
Sequential, subgroup and regression analyses were performed to evaluate
heterogeneity and bias.
RESULTS: We included 12 RCTs on lixisenatide versus placebo and 3 RCTs with the
active comparators liraglutide, exenatide or sitagliptin. The mean treatment
duration was 29 weeks. Lixisenatide increased the proportion of patients with
normalisation of ALT (risk difference: 0.07; 95% CI 0.01 to 0.14; number needed
to treat: 14 patients, p=0.042). The effect was not confirmed in sequential
analysis. No effects of lixisenatide were identified on AST, alkaline phosphatase
or bilirubin. No evidence of bias was identified. Mixed effect multilevel
meta-regression analyses suggest that the benefit of lixisenatide on ALT was
limited to patients who were overweight or obese.
CONCLUSIONS: This review suggests that lixisenatide increases the proportion of
obese or overweight patients with type 2 diabetes who achieve normalisation of
ALT. Additional research is needed to determine if the findings translate to
clinical outcome measures.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: PROSPERO; CRD42013005779.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-005325 
PMCID: PMC4275683
PMID: 25526792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Metabolism. 2015 Mar;64(3):380-90. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2014.11.009. Epub 2014 
Nov 28.

The role of fibroblast growth factor 21 in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease and implications for therapy.

Liu J(1), Xu Y(1), Hu Y(1), Wang G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Beijing Chao-yang Hospital, Capital Medical
University, No. 8, Gongti South Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100020, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Beijing Chao-yang Hospital, Capital Medical
University, No. 8, Gongti South Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100020, China.
Electronic address: drwg6688@126.com.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) includes a cluster of liver disorders
ranging from simple fatty liver to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and
cirrhosis. Due to its liver and vascular complications, NAFLD has become a public
health problem with high morbidity and mortality. The pathogenesis of NAFLD is
considered a "multi-hit hypothesis" that involves lipotoxicity, oxidative stress,
endoplasmic reticulum stress, a chronic inflammatory state and mitochondrial
dysfunction. Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a member of the fibroblast
growth factor family with multiple metabolic functions. FGF21 directly regulates 
lipid metabolism and reduces hepatic lipid accumulation in an insulin-independent
manner. Several studies have shown that FGF21 can ameliorate the "multi-hits" in 
the pathogenesis of NAFLD. The administration of FGF21 reverses hepatic
steatosis, counteracts obesity and alleviates insulin resistance in rodents and
nonhuman primates. Using several strategies, we show that the reversal of simple 
fatty liver and NASH is mediated by activation of the FGF21 signaling pathway. In
this review, we describe the molecular mechanisms involved in the onset and/or
progression of NAFLD, and review the current literature to highlight the
therapeutic procedures associated with the FGF21 signaling pathway for simple
fatty liver and NASH, which are the two most important types of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.metabol.2014.11.009 
PMID: 25516477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):170-7.

Non-invasive assessment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: ultrasound and
transient elastography.

Berzigotti A.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is extremely prevalent in the Western
world. Non-invasive diagnostic methods should be able to reflect the presence and
severity of liver fatty changes and the presence and severity of hepatic
inflammation and fibrosis (features of non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis), since
these are related to the risk of progression and clinical complications. This
article will: a) review the rational basis for the use of ultrasound and
transient elastography in patients with NAFLD; b) summarize available data
regarding the diagnostic performance of these two widely used non-invasive
imaging methods in patients with NAFLD; and c) give an overview of newer
sonographic applications that might be used in clinical practice in the near
future in this field.


PMID: 25514917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):126-33.

Non alcoholic fatty liver: epidemiology and natural history.

Masarone M, Federico A, Abenavoli L, Loguercio C, Persico M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Via Alessandro Manzoni 26b, 80123, Naples, Italy. mario.masarone@gmail.com.

Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD), defined as the presence of a
significant amount of lipid accumulation in the liver (at least in 5% of
hepatocytes), represents a challenging issue for the Hepatologists. NAFLD is not 
represented by a single entity, but rather by two different entities that have
different natural history and evolution that range from simple fat accumulation
in the liver (without any consequence), to necroinflammation, fibrosis, cirrhosis
and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The reason of these differences has to be
found in the host characteristics and associated risk factors. Globally, its
prevalence among liver diseases, and in the general population, is rising in the 
recent years along with its associated conditions: obesity, insulin resistance,
metabolic syndrome and diabetes. This increment, together with the reported
clinical conditions, may be accounted for changes in dietary habits and the
increase of sedentary lifestyle. Its diffusion seems to be pandemic, given that
it is beginning to affect the populations in the developing world due to the
spread of Western lifestyle. This is particularly worrying in young adults and
children in what seems to have become the main cause of liver disease. Even if
the real rate of global incidence of NAFLD are not known, its worldwide
prevalence in general population is estimated to be 20-30% in Western Countries
and 5-18% in Asia and it is increasing over time. In this review we will report
on the global and regional prevalence of NAFLD, the principal risk factors and
the natural history of its different presentations.


PMID: 25514916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):185-94.

Treatment strategies for fatty liver diseases.

Wiernsperger N(1).

Author information: 
(1)CarMeN Laboratory, INSERM U1060, Bld Jean Capelle, INSA Lyon, F-69626
VILLEURBANNE, France. nicolas.wiernsperger@free.fr.

Hepatic steatosis, a hallmark of non-alcoholic fatty liver diseases (NAFLD), is
an early marker as well as a cause of the cardiometabolic syndrome, prediabetes
and NIDDM. Its high prevalence in the general population and its many causes and 
complex mechanisms make it a pathology which must be treated and requires careful
diagnosis also in terms of underlying causes, which may strongly vary among
subjects. The recent awareness of the commonness of NAFLD has prompted intensive 
research which unraveled many different mechanisms causing hepatic steatosis,
from diet to intestinal diseases and liver receptors. Epigenetic factors must be 
added to this list. A variety of causes and mechanisms open many different
potential therapeutic approaches. This review aims at summarizing the effects of 
a selected series of old and new treatments for which there exist at least a
reasonable amount of data. Many show efficacy in animals but human data are less 
convincing largely because of poor amount of data and generally they lack
histological confirmation. Many drugs either induce undesirable side-effects or
have tight therapeutic dose windows. The recent recognition of a key role of
intestinal microbiota in NAFLD and metabolic syndrome may represent a major
therapeutic breakthrough by the modulation of bacteria in the gut. Performing
randomized long-term clinical studies including liver biopsies appears as
prerequisite to determine which treatment is the most valuable, however not
ignoring that the therapeutic choice may require individualization among subjects
as a function of the origins of NAFLD.


PMID: 25514915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):195-203.

Phytotherapy and NAFLD--from goals and challenges to clinical practice.

Milosević N, Milanović M, Abenavoli L, Milić N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Novi Sad, Hajduk
Veljkova 3, 21000 Novi Sad, Serbia. milosevic_natasa@ymail.com.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a global problem and one of the most
common liver diseases in the world. Various pharmacological and
non-pharmacological therapies seem to be non-effective and the patients are often
advised not to expect a positive outcome. Hence, even in the modern Western
society many patients reach for traditional herbal products. Silymarin, a
lipophilic extract derived from milk thistle (Silybum marianum) has been used in 
liver and bile disorders for centuries. Strong antifibrotic, antioxidant,
antiviral and anti-inflammatory activities of silymarin joined with its metabolic
effect proven in vitro make it ideal as a drug candidate in the therapy of NAFLD.
Several recent randomized clinical studies have demonstrated that silymarin
versus placebo significantly contributes to amelioration of the liver condition
affected by NAFLD since it reduces steatosis severity, liver ballooning and
fibrosis, followed by lowered aminotransferase levels in both short and long
lasting therapies. Silymarin is also as efficient as an insulin sensitizer in the
NAFLD therapy, but with less adverse effects. Phase III clinical trials have
confirmed silymarin to be currently the best medication for the NAFLD patients,
but the problems associated with its standardization, formulation and dosage are 
yet to be solved. However, green tea (Camellia sinensis) and licorice
(Glycyrrhiza glabra) root extracts have also been studied in the clinical trials 
in the therapy of NAFLD patients. Some other herbal products, which have been
tested on animals and have the potential to be used in clinical trials, are
briefly summarized in this paper.


PMID: 25514914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):210-6.

Orthotopic liver transplantation in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease patients.

Burra P, Germani G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Multivisceral Transplant Unit, Department of Surgery, Oncology and
Gastroenterology, Padova University Hospital. burra@unipd.it.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a frequent etiology of liver disease
in Western Countries and non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis (NASH) is becoming a
leading indication for liver transplantation in US, with constant increase
overtime. Specific co-morbidities correlated to the presence of obesity and
associated with metabolic syndrome should always be ruled out in patients
affected by NASH-related end-stage liver disease, who are potential candidates
for liver transplantation. Patients transplanted for NAFLD present similar
outcomes compared with patients transplanted for other indications. With regards 
to post-transplant outcomes in obese patients, available data are contradictory, 
with reported increased mortality only in patients with BMI >40. A new
multidisciplinary protocol of liver transplantation and sleeve gastrectomy seems 
to be effective and safe in obese patients who were not able to lose weight
before liver transplantation. However prospective studies are needed. The NASH
recurrence rate after liver transplantation ranges between 20-40%, but its
variability largely depends on the methodology used for the diagnosis (i.e. liver
tests, liver histology or imaging technique).


PMID: 25514913  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):178-84.

Use of liver breath tests to assess severity of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Furnari M, Savarino V, Giannini EG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Genoa,
Viale Benedetto XV, no.6, 16132, Genoa, Italy. egiannini@unige.it.

As the prevalence of obesity and insulin-resistance continues to increase in the 
general population, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has reached epidemic
proportions, thus becoming one of the leading causes of chronic liver disease
worldwide. It may present as simple steatosis (NAFL) or steatohepatitis (NASH),
which in turn may develop fibrosis and ultimately cirrhosis. Conventional
biochemical liver test and radiological investigations are not able to provide
reliable information on liver functional reserve, and liver biopsy remains the
gold standard to stage NAFLD, differentiate simple steatosis from NASH, and grade
fibrosis. However, liver biopsy has some limitations, and is not preferred by
patients due to its invasiveness. Thus, non-invasive assessment of disease stage 
by using liver breath tests - which are based on hepatic clearance of
non-radioactive stable (13)C-labelled drugs - may be of interest to stage disease
and assess patients prognosis due to good accuracy and repeatability. These
substrates are orally administered and are cleaved by enzymes specifically
located in the liver thus reflecting either the microsomal, cytosolic, or
mitochondrial functions. (13)C-Breath Tests have been initially oriented to
differentiate broad categories of patients and more recently to refine stage
differentiation in patients with early stages of liver disease. In NAFLD
patients, (13)C-BTs were able to distinguish simple steatosis from NASH and had
good correlation with both histological fibrosis stage and biochemical markers of
fibrogenesis. Although promising results have been achieved in this field, their 
use in clinical practice is still restricted to a specialized niche. However,
concordant data from literature conferred to (13)C-Breath Tests a potential role 
in providing punctual and longitudinal evaluation of patients, identifying those 
patients where liver biopsy may selectively be performed to stage disease,
monitoring and predicting therapeutic response.


PMID: 25514912  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):141-7.

Intestinal permeability in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: the gut-liver axis.

Scarpellini E, Lupo M, Iegri C, Gasbarrini A, De Santis A, Tack J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Research Center for Gastrointestinal Diseases (T.A.R.G.I.D.),
KULeuven, Herestraat 49, 3000, Leuven. scarpidio@gmail.com.

The gut-liver axis model has helped to explain the liver steatosis (NAFLD) and
steatohepatitis (NASH) etiopathogenesis. The discovery of a key role for an
altered intestinal permeability (IP) in this pathophysioligcal framework has
closed the link between gut lumen antigenic/toxic substances and systemic and
liver inflammation in NAFLD and obesity, metabolic syndrome. Recent evidence from
the literature show how IP can be modulated by several non-pharmacological and
pharmacological agents and be the target for future preventive and curative
treatment of NAFLD and NASH. In this review we describe the concept of IP, its
ultrastructural basis, its role in the NALFD pathophysiology and emerging
evidence on non-pharmacological and pharmacological agents able to favourably
modulate it.


PMID: 25514911  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):148-58.

Common features of the metabolic syndrome and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Almeda-Valdes P, Aguilar-Olivos N, Uribe M, Méndez-Sánchez N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Unit, Medica Sur Clinic & Foundation, Puente de Piedra 150,
Col. Toriello Guerra, ZP 14050, Mexico City, Mexico. nmendez@medicasur.org.mx.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an important cause of chronic liver
disease; including simple steatosis, steatohepatitis, fibrosis, or cirrhosis. The
metabolic syndrome (MS) is the existence of metabolic alterations that confer an 
increased risk for developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes. NAFLD and MS
frequently coexist and 90% of NAFLD patients have more than one manifestation of 
the MS. In addition, both entities are related to other comorbid conditions.
Scientific advances in the understanding of the association between NAFLD and the
MS have identified insulin resistance as a key aspect in the pathophysiology of
both diseases. Knowledge gained from these advances can be applied clinically in 
the management and prevention of NAFLD, the MS, and associated metabolic
alterations. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in patients
with NAFLD and the MS, therefore adequate diagnosis and effective treatment are
critical. This review analyzes current evidence of the association between NAFLD 
and the MS. The growing prevalence of both entities is highlighted. Next, the
common mechanisms leading to insulin resistance are discussed. Manifestations and
diagnosis of the MS and NAFLD are reviewed, pointing out the associated comorbid 
conditions shared by both diseases. Finally, a brief overview regarding NAFLD
treatment is presented.


PMID: 25514910  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):134-40.

Role of adipokines and cytokines in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Abenavoli L, Peta V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University "Magna Græcia", Viale Europa, 88100,
Catanzaro, Italy. l.abenavoli@unicz.it.

One of the most common hepatic manifestations of the metabolic syndrome is
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). This disease varies from simple
steatosis to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Different molecules secreted
from adipose tissue such as adiponectin, leptin, resistin and visfatin and
pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumour necrosis factor-α, and interleukins,
can be involved in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. In this review we describe the role
of these adipokines and cytokines in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. We comment on
their potential use as non-invasive biomarkers of steatosis and fibrosis, and
their potential therapeutic role.


PMID: 25514909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):159-69.

The role of liver biopsy to assess non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Kobyliak N, Abenavoli L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Bogomolets National Medical University, Kiev,
Ukraine, address: 01610, Pushkinska 22a. nazariikobyliak@gmail.com.

Liver biopsy, since 1883, when were first performed, became the gold standard to 
confirm the earlier stages of fibrosis and grading of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) and for distinguishing simple steatosis from non- alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). General limitations of liver biopsy are sampling error
and inter- and intraobserver variability. Also procedure is invasive and that's
why associated with some potential adverse effects and complications which may be
minor (pain or vagal reactions, transient hypotension) or major such as visceral 
perforation, bile peritonitis or significant bleeding. Presence of steatosis,
hepatocellular injury in the form of ballooning, lobular inflammation and
perisinusoidal fibrosis, usually with a zone 3 distribution are considered to be 
most important histological features of adult NAFLD which may differ from
bariatric surgery or pediatric patients. In addition, grading and staging and
current semiquantitative systems for NAFLD assessment are discussed.


PMID: 25514908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2014;9(3):204-9.

Insulin resistance, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and hepatitis C virus
infection.

Goossens N, Negro F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Divisions of Clinical Pathology and of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Geneva
University Hospital, 4 rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil, 1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.
Francesco.Negro@hcuge.ch.

Due to their high prevalence, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), insulin 
resistance (IR) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection are bound to cohabit.
However, the relationship between these 3 entities is complex and multilayered.
HCV, particularly genotype 3, may induce a "viral" steatosis, morphologically
indistinguishable from the steatosis of NAFLD but with different implications and
prognosis. On the other hand, epidemiological and experimental data show that
patients with HCV have a higher risk of developing IR and, in susceptible
individuals, type 2 diabetes (T2D). In patients with HCV, T2D increases fibrosis 
progression rate, increases the incidence of HCC, worsens liver-related outcomes 
and worsens response to interferon-α based therapy. We conclude by discussing a
possible increased incidence of cardiovascular events in HCV patients.


PMID: 25514907  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Dec 12;15(12):23163-78. doi: 10.3390/ijms151223163.

Irisin, a link among fatty liver disease, physical inactivity and insulin
resistance.

Arias-Loste MT(1), Ranchal I(2), Romero-Gómez M(3), Crespo J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Department, Marqués de Valdecilla University
Hospital, Santander 39008, Spain. ariasloste@gmail.com. (2)UCM Digestive Diseases
and Ciberehd, Valme University Hospital, University of Seville, Sevilla 41014,
Spain. isiranchal@yahoo.es. (3)UCM Digestive Diseases and Ciberehd, Valme
University Hospital, University of Seville, Sevilla 41014, Spain.
mromerogomez@us.es. (4)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Department, Marqués de
Valdecilla University Hospital, Santander 39008, Spain. digcgj@humv.es.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in industrialized countries. The increasing prevalence of NAFLD
mirrors the outbreak of obesity in western countries, highlighting the connection
between these two conditions. Nevertheless, there is currently no specific
pharmacotherapy for its treatment. Accepted management begins with weight loss
and exercise. Moreover, exercise can provide metabolic benefits independently of 
weight loss. It is known how long-term aerobic training produces improvements in 
hepatic triglycerides, visceral adipose tissue and free fatty acids, even if
there is no weight reduction. A recent study from Boström et al. unravels a
potential molecular mechanism that may explain how exercise, independently of
weight loss, can potentially improve metabolic parameters through a new messenger
system (irisin) linking muscle and fat tissue. Irisin has been proposed to act as
a hormone on subcutaneous white fat cells increasing energy expenditure by means 
of a program of brown-fat-like development. Moreover, it was also shown that
irisin plasma concentration was higher in people who exercise, suggesting a
molecular mechanism by which exercise may improve metabolism. The present
systematic review is based on the possibility that irisin might represent a
hypothetical connection between NAFLD pathogenesis and disease progression.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms151223163 
PMCID: PMC4284758
PMID: 25514415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Nutrients. 2014 Dec 10;6(12):5679-703. doi: 10.3390/nu6125679.

The role of dietary sugars and de novo lipogenesis in non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Moore JB(1), Gunn PJ(2), Fielding BA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences,
University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XH, UK. j.b.moore@surrey.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences,
University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XH, UK. p.gunn@surrey.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences,
University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XH, UK. B.Fielding@surrey.ac.uk.

Dietary sugar consumption, in particular sugar-sweetened beverages and the
monosaccharide fructose, has been linked to the incidence and severity of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Intervention studies in both animals
and humans have shown large doses of fructose to be particularly lipogenic. While
fructose does stimulate de novo lipogenesis (DNL), stable isotope tracer studies 
in humans demonstrate quantitatively that the lipogenic effect of fructose is not
mediated exclusively by its provision of excess substrates for DNL. The
deleterious metabolic effects of high fructose loads appear to be a consequence
of altered transcriptional regulatory networks impacting intracellular
macronutrient metabolism and altering signaling and inflammatory processes. Uric 
acid generated by fructose metabolism may also contribute to or exacerbate these 
effects. Here we review data from human and animal intervention and stable
isotope tracer studies relevant to the role of dietary sugars on NAFLD
development and progression, in the context of typical sugar consumption patterns
and dietary recommendations worldwide. We conclude that the use of hypercaloric, 
supra-physiological doses in intervention trials has been a major confounding
factor and whether or not dietary sugars, including fructose, at typically
consumed population levels, effect hepatic lipogenesis and NAFLD pathogenesis in 
humans independently of excess energy remains unresolved.

DOI: 10.3390/nu6125679 
PMCID: PMC4276992
PMID: 25514388  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Ter Arkh. 2014;86(10):116-23.

[[Current approaches to diagnosing and treating nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease].

[Article in Russian]

Drapkina OM, Deeva TA, Volkova NP, Ivashkin VT.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is associated with major cardiovascular 
risk factors, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, obesity, dyslipidemia,
hypertension, and insulin resistance, and has been recently considered to be a
new component of metabolic syndrome and it serves as a criterion for the hepatic 
manifestation of the latter. The review considers the present-day views and
approaches to diagnosing and treating NAFLD and its dangerous manifestation -
fibrosis (sclerosis), which may lead to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.
Fibrogenesis is a widespread and universal process that is a final path of
chronic inflammation of and damage to different tissues (including those of the
liver and cardiovascular system). Although the mechanisms for developing NAFLD
remain unclear, insulin resistance, an obesity-related slowly progressive
inflammatory response, and elevated levels of free fatty acids with their
lipotoxicity along with possible genetic, dietary, and environmental (lifestyle) 
factors play a key role in the pathogenesis of this disease. So it is important
for patients at high risk for NAFLD or with existing liver disease to pay
attention to their life style, proper balanced diet, and slow and gradual weight 
loss. At present there are drugs that can improve liver function. Success in
NAFLD therapy will be determined by the identification of the most significant
pathogenetic factors in a specific patient and by the purposeful action on them.


PMID: 25509904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


494. JAMA Pediatr. 2015 Feb;169(2):170-6. doi: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2014.2702.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a challenge for pediatricians.

Nobili V(1), Alkhouri N(2), Alisi A(1), Della Corte C(1), Fitzpatrick E(3),
Raponi M(1), Dhawan A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hepato-Metabolic Disease Unit, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Italian
Scientific Institute for Research and Care, Rome, Italy. (2)Department of
Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Cleveland Clinic Children's Medical
Center, Cleveland, Ohio. (3)Paediatric Liver, Gastrointestinal, and Nutrition
Centre, King's College London School of Medicine, King's College Hospital,
London, England.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of the
metabolic syndrome and is considered the most common form of chronic liver
disease in children. Several factors contribute to NAFLD development, including
race/ethnicity, genetic factors, environmental exposures, and alterations in the 
gut microbiome. The histologic spectrum of NAFLD ranges from simple steatosis to 
the more aggressive nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Fibrosis and eventually 
cirrhosis can develop from NAFLD during childhood. Diagnosing advanced disease is
challenging and may require a liver biopsy, highlighting the urgent need for
reliable, noninvasive markers of disease severity. The mainstay of treatment for 
NAFLD remains lifestyle modifications and weight loss. Probiotics and ω-3 fatty
acids may ameliorate disease progression. Recent data have suggested that vitamin
E may be considered as a NASH-specific therapy in children, and there are several
ongoing human studies evaluating different therapeutic targets for NAFLD. We
provide an up-to-date review of the risk factors, diagnosis, and treatment to
manage this common disease in children.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2014.2702 
PMID: 25506780  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


495. J UOEH. 2014 Dec 1;36(4):229-35.

New therapeutic strategy for hepatocellular carcinoma by molecular targeting
agents via inhibition of cellular stress defense mechanisms.

Honma Y(1), Harada M.

Author information: 
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, University of
Occupational and Environmental Health, Japan.

The prognosis of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has remained very
poor.It has recently been reported that the molecular targeting agent sorafenib
can improve the prognosis of patients with advanced HCC. However, the detailed
mechanisms of sorafenib, especially its direct effects on hepatoma and hepatocyte
cells, are poorly understood, making a more detailed investigation about the
molecular mechanism of sorafenib necessary. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is 
related to the pathophysiology of various liver diseases, including chronic viral
hepatitis, alcoholic and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and HCC. In this regard,
our recent data examining the molecular effects of sorafenib focused on the
cellular defense mechanisms from ER stress, the unfolded protein response (UPR)
and keratin phosphorylation, demonstrated that sorafenib inhibited both important
cytoprotective mechanisms, UPR and keratin phosphorylation, and enhances the
anti-tumor effect in combination with proteasome inhibitors. This review
summarizes the cytoprotective mechanisms from ER stress and our results about the
direct effect of sorafenib on the cytoprotective mechanisms.


PMID: 25501753  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2015 Jan;36(1):44-50. doi: 10.1038/aps.2014.116. Epub 2014
Dec 15.

Farnesoid X receptor: a master regulator of hepatic triglyceride and glucose
homeostasis.

Jiao Y(1), Lu Y(1), Li XY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Institute of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Endocrine
and Metabolic Diseases, Shanghai Clinical Center for Endocrine and Metabolic
Diseases, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine,
Shanghai 200025, China. (2)1] Shanghai Institute of Endocrinology and Metabolism,
Department of Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases, Shanghai Clinical Center for
Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai 200025, China [2] The Key Laboratory of Endocrine
Tumors and the Division of Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases, E-Institute of
Shanghai Universities, Shanghai 200025, China.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by the aberrant
accumulation of triglycerides in hepatocytes in the absence of significant
alcohol consumption, viral infection or other specific causes of liver disease.
NAFLD has become a burgeoning health problem both worldwide and in China, but its
pathogenesis remains poorly understood. Farnesoid X receptor (FXR), a member of
the nuclear receptor (NR) superfamily, has been demonstrated to be the primary
sensor for endogenous bile acids, and play a crucial role in hepatic triglyceride
homeostasis. Deciphering the synergistic contributions of FXR to triglyceride
metabolism is critical for discovering therapeutic agents in the treatment of
NAFLD and hypertriglyceridemia.

DOI: 10.1038/aps.2014.116 
PMCID: PMC4571315
PMID: 25500875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Alcohol. 2015 Jun;49(4):389-98. doi: 10.1016/j.alcohol.2014.07.021. Epub 2014 Nov
14.

Circadian rhythms, alcohol and gut interactions.

Forsyth CB(1), Voigt RM(2), Burgess HJ(3), Swanson GR(2), Keshavarzian A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition,
Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA; Department of Biochemistry,
Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic address:
christopher_b_forsyth@rush.edu. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of
Digestive Diseases and Nutrition, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL,
USA. (3)Department of Behavioral Sciences, Rush University Medical Center,
Chicago, IL USA. (4)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Digestive
Diseases and Nutrition, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA;
Department of Pharmacology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA;
Department of Molecular Biophysics & Physiology, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA; Division of Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The circadian clock establishes rhythms throughout the body with an approximately
24 hour period that affect expression of hundreds of genes. Epidemiological data 
reveal chronic circadian misalignment, common in our society, significantly
increases the risk for a myriad of diseases, including cardiovascular disease,
diabetes, cancer, infertility and gastrointestinal disease. Disruption of
intestinal barrier function, also known as gut leakiness, is especially important
in alcoholic liver disease (ALD). Several studies have shown that alcohol causes 
ALD in only a 20-30% subset of alcoholics. Thus, a better understanding is needed
of why only a subset of alcoholics develops ALD. Compelling evidence shows that
increased gut leakiness to microbial products and especially LPS play a critical 
role in the pathogenesis of ALD. Clock and other circadian clock genes have been 
shown to regulate lipid transport, motility and other gut functions. We
hypothesized that one possible mechanism for alcohol-induced intestinal
hyperpermeability is through disruption of central or peripheral (intestinal)
circadian regulation. In support of this hypothesis, our recent data shows that
disruption of circadian rhythms makes the gut more susceptible to injury. Our in 
vitro data show that alcohol stimulates increased Clock and Per2 circadian clock 
proteins and that siRNA knockdown of these proteins prevents alcohol-induced
permeability. We also show that intestinal Cyp2e1-mediated oxidative stress is
required for alcohol-induced upregulation of Clock and Per2 and intestinal
hyperpermeability. Our mouse model of chronic alcohol feeding shows that
circadian disruption through genetics (in Clock(▵19) mice) or environmental
disruption by weekly 12h phase shifting results in gut leakiness alone and
exacerbates alcohol-induced gut leakiness and liver pathology. Our data in human 
alcoholics show they exhibit abnormal melatonin profiles characteristic of
circadian disruption. Taken together our data support circadian mechanisms for
alcohol-induced gut leakiness that could provide new therapeutic targets for ALD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.alcohol.2014.07.021 
PMCID: PMC4431951
PMID: 25499101  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 2015 Jan;93(1):1-11. doi: 10.1139/cjpp-2014-0394.

The CBS/CSE system: a potential therapeutic target in NAFLD?

Sarna LK(1), Siow YL, O K.

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratory of Integrative Biology, St. Boniface Hospital Research Centre,
351 Tache Avenue, Winnipeg, MB R2H 2A6, Canada.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a broad spectrum liver disorder
diagnosed in patients without a history of alcohol abuse. NAFLD is growing at
alarming rates worldwide. Its pathogenesis is complex and incompletely
understood. The cystathionine-β-synthase (CBS) and cystathionine-γ-lyase (CSE)
system regulates homocysteine and cysteine metabolism and contributes to
endogenous hydrogen sulfide (H2S) biosynthesis. This review summarizes our
current understanding of the hepatic CBS/CSE system, and for the first time,
positions this system as a potential therapeutic target in NAFLD. As will be
discussed, the CBS/CSE system is highly expressed and active in the liver. Its
dysregulation, presenting as alterations in circulating homocysteine and (or) H2S
levels, has been reported in NAFLD patients and in NAFLD-associated
co-morbidities such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. Intricate links between the
CBS/CSE system and a number of metabolic and stress related molecular mediators
have also emerged. Various dysfunctions in the hepatic CBS/CSE system have been
reported in animal models representative of each NAFLD spectrum. It is
anticipated that a newfound appreciation for the hepatic CBS/CSE system will
emerge that will improve our understanding of NAFLD pathogenesis, and give rise
to new prospective targets for management of this disorder.

DOI: 10.1139/cjpp-2014-0394 
PMID: 25493326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


499. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Dec 7;20(45):16841-57. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i45.16841.

Focus on emerging drugs for the treatment of patients with non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease.

Federico A(1), Zulli C(1), de Sio I(1), Del Prete A(1), Dallio M(1), Masarone
M(1), Loguercio C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Alessandro Federico, Claudio Zulli, Ilario de Sio, Anna Del Prete, Marcello
Dallio, Carmela Loguercio, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine F.
Magrassi e A. Lanzara, Hepatogastroenterology Division, Interuniversity Research 
Centre on Food, Nutrition and the Gastrointestinal Tract (CIRANAD) - Second
University of Naples, 80131 Naples, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become the most common liver
disorder in Western countries and is increasingly being recognized in developing 
nations. Fatty liver disease encompasses a spectrum of hepatic pathology, ranging
from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, cirrhosis, hepatocellular
carcinoma and end-stage liver disease. Moreover, NAFLD is often associated with
other metabolic conditions, such as diabetes mellitus type 2, dyslipidemia and
visceral obesity. The most recent guidelines suggest the management and treatment
of patients with NAFLD considering both the liver disease and the associated
metabolic co-morbidities. Diet and physical exercise are considered the first
line of treatment for patients with NAFLD, but their results on therapeutic
efficacy are often contrasting. Behavior therapy is necessary most of the time to
achieve a sufficient result. Pharmacological therapy includes a wide variety of
classes of molecules with different therapeutic targets and, often, little
evidence supporting the real efficacy. Despite the abundance of clinical trials, 
NAFLD therapy remains a challenge for the scientific community, and there are no 
licensed therapies for NAFLD. Urgently, new pharmacological approaches are
needed. Here, we will focus on the challenges facing actual therapeutic
strategies and the most recent investigated molecules.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i45.16841 
PMCID: PMC4258554
PMID: 25492998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


500. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Dec 7;20(45):16831-40. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i45.16831.

Alimentary regimen in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: Mediterranean diet.

Abenavoli L(1), Milic N(1), Peta V(1), Alfieri F(1), De Lorenzo A(1), Bellentani 
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ludovico Abenavoli, Valentina Peta, Department of Health Sciences, University 
Magna Graecia, Campus Germaneto, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease
worldwide. The mechanisms of the underlying disease development and progression
are awaiting clarification. Insulin resistance and obesity-related inflammation
status, among other possible genetic, dietary, and lifestyle factors, are thought
to play the key role. There is no consensus concerning the pharmacological
treatment. However, the dietary nutritional management to achieve weight loss is 
an essential component of any treatment strategy. On the basis of its components,
the literature reports on the effectiveness of the Mediterranean diet in reducing
cardiovascular risk and in preventing major chronic diseases, including obesity
and diabetes. New evidence supports the idea that the Mediterranean diet,
associated with physical activity and cognitive behaviour therapy, may have an
important role in the prevention and the treatment of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i45.16831 
PMCID: PMC4258553
PMID: 25492997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


501. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Dec 7;20(45):16820-30. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i45.16820.

Non-invasive diagnosis of advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis.

Sharma S(1), Khalili K(1), Nguyen GC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Suraj Sharma, Toronto Centre for Liver Disease, Toronto Western Hospital,
Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada.

Liver cirrhosis is a common and growing public health problem globally. The
diagnosis of cirrhosis portends an increased risk of morbidity and mortality.
Liver biopsy is considered the gold standard for diagnosis of cirrhosis and
staging of fibrosis. However, despite its universal use, liver biopsy is an
invasive and inaccurate gold standard with numerous drawbacks. In order to
overcome the limitations of liver biopsy, a number of non-invasive techniques
have been investigated for the assessment of cirrhosis. This review will focus on
currently available non-invasive markers of cirrhosis. The evidence behind the
use of these markers will be highlighted, along with an assessment of diagnostic 
accuracy and performance characteristics of each test. Non-invasive markers of
cirrhosis can be radiologic or serum-based. Radiologic techniques based on
ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging and elastography have been used to assess 
liver fibrosis. Serum-based biomarkers of cirrhosis have also been developed.
These are broadly classified into indirect and direct markers. Indirect
biomarkers reflect liver function, which may decline with the onset of cirrhosis.
Direct biomarkers, reflect extracellular matrix turnover, and include molecules
involved in hepatic fibrogenesis. On the whole, radiologic and serum markers of
fibrosis correlate well with biopsy scores, especially when excluding cirrhosis
or excluding fibrosis. This feature is certainly clinically useful, and avoids
liver biopsy in many cases.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i45.16820 
PMCID: PMC4258552
PMID: 25492996  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Nutrients. 2014 Dec 3;6(12):5583-99. doi: 10.3390/nu6125583.

The role of intestinal bacteria overgrowth in obesity-related nonalcoholic fatty 
liver disease.

Ferolla SM(1), Armiliato GN(2), Couto CA(3), Ferrari TC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Clínica Médica, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte 30130-100, Brazil. contato@silviaferolla.com.br.
(2)Departamento de Clínica Médica, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte 30130-100, Brazil. geyzaarmiliato@hotmail.com.
(3)Departamento de Clínica Médica, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte 30130-100, Brazil. clacouto@hotmail.com.
(4)Departamento de Clínica Médica, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte 30130-100, Brazil. tferrari@medicina.ufmg.br.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease
worldwide. It is a progressive disorder involving a spectrum of conditions that
include pure steatosis without inflammation, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
fibrosis and cirrhosis. The key factor in the pathophysiology of NAFLD is insulin
resistance that determines lipid accumulation in the hepatocytes, which may be
followed by lipid peroxidation, production of reactive oxygen species and
consequent inflammation. Recent studies suggest that the characteristics of the
gut microbiota are altered in NAFLD, and also, that small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth (SIBO) contributes to the pathogenesis of this condition. This review 
presents the chief findings from all the controlled studies that evaluated SIBO, 
gut permeability and endotoxemia in human NAFLD. We also discuss the possible
mechanisms involving SIBO, lipid accumulation and development of NASH. The
understanding of these mechanisms may allow the development of new targets for
NASH treatment in the future.

DOI: 10.3390/nu6125583 
PMCID: PMC4276985
PMID: 25479248  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2014 Dec;13(6):580-5.

New insight of vitamin D in chronic liver diseases.

Chen EQ(1), Shi Y, Tang H.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Infectious Diseases, West China Hospital; and Division of Infectious
Diseases, State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041,
China. htang6198@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Vitamin D is a fat-soluble sterol derivative that is predominantly
synthesized in the liver and has multiple functions. The accumulative data showed
that the clinical manifestations and prognosis of chronic liver diseases are
associated with serum vitamin D levels.
DATA SOURCES: A PubMed and Google Scholar search using terms: "vitamin D",
"25(OH)D", "liver disease", "viral hepatitis", "non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease", "liver fibrosis", "cirrhosis", "hepatocellular carcinoma" and
"autoimmune liver disease" was performed, and relevant articles published in
English between January 2000 and March 2014 were reviewed. Full-text publications
relevant to the field were selected and relevant articles from reference lists
were also included.
RESULTS: The insufficiency or deficiency of vitamin D is common in various kinds 
of chronic liver diseases including viral hepatitis B and C. Serum
25-hydroxyvitamin D and vitamin D receptors are possibly interrelated with the
incidence, treatment and prognosis of diseases. Though the evidence of vitamin D 
supplementation in viral hepatitis and associated liver diseases is still
limited, there is great potential to apply this adjuvant therapy to improve the
treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the exact role and mechanisms of vitamin D have not been
fully elucidated in chronic liver diseases, it is potentially beneficial in the
treatment of chronic liver diseases. Further mechanistic studies are needed to
validate its clinical application.


PMID: 25475859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


504. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 21;20(43):16079-94. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i43.16079.

Gut microbiota and metabolic syndrome.

Festi D(1), Schiumerini R(1), Eusebi LH(1), Marasco G(1), Taddia M(1), Colecchia 
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Davide Festi, Ramona Schiumerini, Leonardo Henry Eusebi, Giovanni Marasco,
Martina Taddia, Antonio Colecchia, Department of Digestive Diseases and Internal 
Medicine, University of Bologna, S Orsola Hospital, 40138 Bologna, Italy.

Gut microbiota exerts a significant role in the pathogenesis of the metabolic
syndrome, as confirmed by studies conducted both on humans and animal models. Gut
microbial composition and functions are strongly influenced by diet. This complex
intestinal "superorganism" seems to affect host metabolic balance modulating
energy absorption, gut motility, appetite, glucose and lipid metabolism, as well 
as hepatic fatty storage. An impairment of the fine balance between gut microbes 
and host's immune system could culminate in the intestinal translocation of
bacterial fragments and the development of "metabolic endotoxemia", leading to
systemic inflammation and insulin resistance. Diet induced weight-loss and
bariatric surgery promote significant changes of gut microbial composition, that 
seem to affect the success, or the inefficacy, of treatment strategies.
Manipulation of gut microbiota through the administration of prebiotics or
probiotics could reduce intestinal low grade inflammation and improve gut barrier
integrity, thus, ameliorating metabolic balance and promoting weight loss.
However, further evidence is needed to better understand their clinical impact
and therapeutic use.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i43.16079 
PMCID: PMC4239493
PMID: 25473159  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


505. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 21;20(43):15943-54. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i43.15943.

Alcohol and hepatocellular carcinoma: a review and a point of view.

Testino G(1), Leone S(1), Borro P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gianni Testino, Paolo Borro, Centro Alcologico Regionale-Regione Liguria,
Alcoholic Unit, Department of General Internal and Specialist Medicine, IRCCS AOU
San Martino-National Institute for Cancer Research-IST, 16100 Genova, Italy.

It is well recognized that one cause of chronic liver disease and hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) is alcohol consumption. Research in Italy and the United States
concludes that the most common cause of HCC (responsible for 32% to 45% of HCC)
is alcohol. It has recently been shown that a significant relationship between
alcohol intake, metabolic changes, and hepatitis virus infection does exist.
Alcohol may be a factor in the development of HCC via direct (genotoxic) and
indirect mechanisms (cirrhosis). There is only one way of diagnosing HCC, which
is early identification through surveillance, when curative treatments become
possible. After stopping alcohol intake the risk of liver cancer decreases by 6% 
to 7% a year, and an estimated time period of 23 years is also needed. Therefore,
surveillance is also important in former drinkers and, in our opinion,
independently from the presence of compensated cirrhosis. In cases of very early 
stage (VES) and early stage with portal hypertension, liver transplantation is
the optimal option; and in cases of associated disease, percutaneous ethanol
injections, radiofrequency and microwave ablation are the ideal treatments.
Despite the possibility of detecting microvascular invasion with HR, several
studies and some randomized controlled trials revealed that overall survival and 
DSF rates in patients with VES HCC are much the same after ablation and HR.
Therefore, ablation can be regarded as a first-line choice for patients with VES 
HCC. It is important to emphasize that the choice of treatment should be weighed 
carefully in the context of a multidisciplinary cancer team.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i43.15943 
PMCID: PMC4239482
PMID: 25473148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2015 Feb;25(2):145-58. doi: 10.1517/13543776.2014.989833.
Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Acyltransferase inhibitors: a patent review (2010-present).

Ohshiro T(1), Tomoda H.

Author information: 
(1)Kitasato University, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences , 5-9-1
Shirokane, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8641 , Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Acyltransferase (AT) catalyzes the transfer of an acyl moiety from 
acyl-coenzyme A (acyl-CoA) to an acceptor. ATs play important roles in the
maintenance of homeostasis in the human body and have been linked to various
diseases; therefore, several ATs have been proposed as potential targets for the 
treatment or prevention of such diseases. The AT family includes
acyl-CoA:cholesterol AT (ACAT), diacylglycerol AT (DGAT), and monoacylglycerol AT
(MGAT) for the metabolism of lipids. Furthermore, recent molecular biological
studies revealed the existence of their isozymes with distinct functions in the
body.
AREAS COVERED: This review summarized patent filings published between 2010 and
the present date that claimed isozyme-selective inhibitors of ACAT, DGAT and
MGAT, which are involved in neutral lipid metabolism.
EXPERT OPINION: Isozymes of ACAT, DGAT and MGAT play distinct functions in
neutral lipid metabolism in the human body and have been considered as potential 
therapeutic targets. Accordingly, isozyme-selective inhibitors that could be used
in the treatment or prevention of lipid metabolism disorders were searched for.
Of these, pyripyropene A derivatives, ACAT2-selective inhibitors, may be
potential therapeutics for the treatment of atherosclerosis, homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.1517/13543776.2014.989833 
PMID: 25470667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


507. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 28;20(44):16639-48. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16639.

Gut microbiota in alcoholic liver disease: pathogenetic role and therapeutic
perspectives.

Malaguarnera G(1), Giordano M(1), Nunnari G(1), Bertino G(1), Malaguarnera M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Giulia Malaguarnera, Michele Malaguarnera, Department of Clinical and
Molecular Biomedicine, Section of Pharmacology and Biochemistry, 95100 Catania,
Italy.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is the commonest cause of cirrhosis in many Western
countries and it has a high rate of morbidity and mortality. The pathogenesis is 
characterized by complex interactions between metabolic intermediates of alcohol.
Bacterial intestinal flora is itself responsible for production of endogenous
ethanol through the fermentation of carbohydrates. The intestinal metabolism of
alcohol produces a high concentration of toxic acetaldehyde that modifies gut
permeability and microbiota equilibrium. Furthermore it causes direct hepatocyte 
damage. In patients who consume alcohol over a long period, there is a
modification of gut microbiota and, in particular, an increment of Gram negative 
bacteria. This causes endotoxemia and hyperactivation of the immune system.
Endotoxin is a constituent of Gram negative bacteria cell walls. Two types of
receptors, cluster of differentiation 14 and Toll-like receptors-4, present on
Kupffer cells, recognize endotoxins. Several studies have demonstrated the
importance of gut-liver axis and new treatments have been studied in recent years
to reduce progression of ALD modifying gut microbiota. It has focused attention
on antibiotics, prebiotics, probiotics and synbiotics.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16639 
PMCID: PMC4248208
PMID: 25469033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


508. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 28;20(44):16518-28. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16518.

Effect of probiotic administration on the intestinal microbiota, current
knowledge and potential applications.

de Moreno de LeBlanc A(1), LeBlanc JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Alejandra de Moreno de LeBlanc, Jean Guy LeBlanc, Centro de Referencia para
Lactobacilos, San Miguel de Tucuman, Tucumán T4000ILC, Argentina.

Although it is now known that the human body is colonized by a wide variety of
microbial populations in different parts (such as the mouth, pharynx and
respiratory system, the skin, the gastro- and urogenital tracts), many effects of
the complex interactions between the human host and microbial symbionts are still
not completely understood. The dysbiosis of the gastrointestinal tract microbiota
is considered to be one of the most important contributing factors in the
development of many gastrointestinal diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease,
irritable bowel syndrome and colorectal cancer, as well as systemic diseases like
obesity, diabetes, atherosclerosis and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Fecal
microbial transplantations appear to be promising therapies for
dysbiosis-associated diseases; however, probiotic microorganisms have been
growing in popularity due to increasing numbers of studies proving that certain
strains present health promoting properties, among them the beneficial balance of
the intestinal microbiota. Inflammatory bowel diseases and obesity are the
pathologies in which there are more studies showing this beneficial association
using animal models and even in human clinical trials. In this review, the
association of the human gut microbiota and human health will be discussed along 
with the benefits that probiotics can confer on this symbiotic activity and on
the prevention or treatment of associated diseases.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16518 
PMCID: PMC4248194
PMID: 25469019  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


509. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 28;20(44):16474-9. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16474.

Pathology of alcoholic liver disease, can it be differentiated from nonalcoholic 
steatohepatitis?

Sakhuja P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Puja Sakhuja, Department of Pathology, GB Pant Hospital, New Delhi 110002,
India.

The liver involvement in alcoholic liver disease (ALD) classically ranges from
alcoholic steatosis, alcoholic hepatitis or steatohepatitis, alcoholic cirrhosis 
and even hepatocellular carcinoma. The more commonly seen histologic features
include macrovesicular steatosis, neutrophilic lobular inflammation, ballooning
degeneration, Mallory-Denk bodies, portal and pericellular fibrosis. Nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) is a condition with similar histology in the absence of a 
history of alcohol intake. Although the distinction is essentially based on
presence or absence of a history of significant alcohol intake, certain
histologic features favour one or the other diagnosis. This review aims at
describing the histologic spectrum of alcoholic liver disease and at highlighting
the histologic differences between ALD and NASH.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16474 
PMCID: PMC4248190
PMID: 25469015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


510. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 28;20(44):16464-73. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16464.

Non alcoholic steatohepatitis a precursor for hepatocellular carcinoma
development.

Jiang CM(1), Pu CW(1), Hou YH(1), Chen Z(1), Alanazy M(1), Hebbard L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Chun-Meng Jiang, Ya-Hui Hou, Department of Digestive System, the Second
Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical University, Dalian 116023, Liaoning
Province, China.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is increasing in prevalence and is one of the most
common cancers in the world. Chief amongst the risks of attaining HCC are
hepatitis B and C infection, aflatoxin B1 ingestion, alcoholism and obesity. The 
later has been shown to promote non alcoholic fatty liver disease, which can lead
to the inflammatory form non alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH is a complex 
metabolic disorder that can impact greatly on hepatic function. The mechanisms by
which NASH promotes HCC are only beginning to be characterized. Here in this
review, we give an overview of the recent novel mechanisms published that have
been associated with NASH and subsequent HCC progression. We will focus our
discussion on inflammation and gut derived inflammation and how they contribute
to NASH driven HCC.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16464 
PMCID: PMC4248189
PMID: 25469014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


511. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 28;20(44):16452-63. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16452.

Obesity, fatty liver disease and intestinal microbiota.

Arslan N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nur Arslan, Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, 
Nutrition and Metabolism, Dokuz Eylul University Faculty of Medicine, Izmir
35340, Turkey.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver disorder that is
increasing in prevalence with the worldwide epidemic of obesity. NAFLD is the
hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. The term NAFLD describes a
spectrum of liver pathology ranges from simple steatosis to steatosis with
inflammation nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and even cirrhosis. Metabolic syndrome 
and NAFLD also predict hepatocellular carcinoma. Many genetic and environmental
factors have been suggested to contribute to the development of obesity and
NAFLD, but the exact mechanisms are not known. Intestinal ecosystem contains
trillions of microorganisms including bacteria, Archaea, yeasts and viruses.
Several studies support the relationship between the intestinal microbial changes
and obesity and also its complications, including insulin resistance and NAFLD.
Given that the gut and liver are connected by the portal venous system, it makes 
the liver more vulnerable to translocation of bacteria, bacterial products,
endotoxins or secreted cytokines. Altered intestinal microbiota (dysbiosis) may
stimulate hepatic fat deposition through several mechanisms: regulation of gut
permeability, increasing low-grade inflammation, modulation of dietary choline
metabolism, regulation of bile acid metabolism and producing endogenous ethanol. 
Regulation of intestinal microbial ecosystem by diet modifications or by using
probiotics and prebiotics as a treatment for obesity and its complications might 
be the issue of further investigations.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16452 
PMCID: PMC4248188
PMID: 25469013  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


512. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 28;20(44):16443-51. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16443.

Toll-like receptor-mediated signaling cascade as a regulator of the inflammation 
network during alcoholic liver disease.

Ceccarelli S(1), Nobili V(1), Alisi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sara Ceccarelli, Valerio Nobili, Anna Alisi, Hepato-Metabolic Disease Unit and
Liver Research Unit, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, 00165 Rome, Italy.

Chronic abuse of alcohol leads to various histological abnormalities in the
liver. These are conditions collectively known as alcoholic liver disease (ALD). 
Currently, ALD is considered to be one of the major causes of death worldwide. An
impaired intestinal barrier with related endotoxemia is among the various
pathogenetic factors. This is mainly characterized by circulating levels of
lipopolysaccharide (LPS), considered critical for the onset of intra-hepatic
inflammation. This in turn promotes hepatocellular damage and fibrosis in ALD.
Elevated levels of LPS exert their effects by binding to Toll-like receptors
(TLRs) which are expressed by all liver-resident cells. The activation of TLR
signaling triggers an overproduction and release of some cytokines, which promote
an autocatalytic cascade of other pro-inflammatory signals. In this review, we
provide an overview of the mechanisms that sustain LPS-mediated activation of TLR
signaling, reporting current experimental and clinical evidence of its role
during inflammation in ALD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i44.16443 
PMCID: PMC4248187
PMID: 25469012  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Int J Obes (Lond). 2015 May;39(5):734-41. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2014.203. Epub 2014
Dec 3.

Fetuin-A: a novel link between obesity and related complications.

Trepanowski JF(1), Mey J(1), Varady KA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Nutrition, University of Illinois at Chicago,
Chicago, IL, USA.

Fetuin-A (FetA) is a 64-kDa glycoprotein that is secreted from both the liver and
adipose tissue. Circulating FetA is elevated in obesity and related disorders
including type 2 diabetes mellitus, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and the
metabolic syndrome; and a FetA-related parameter, caliciprotein particle, is
highly relevant to vascular calcification in overweight/obese patients with
chronic kidney disease. FetA level is also associated with impaired insulin
sensitivity and glucose tolerance. Accumulating evidence suggests that elevated
FetA level causes impaired glycemic control, as FetA has been implicated in
impairment of insulin receptor signaling, toll-like receptor 4 activation,
macrophage migration and polarization, adipocyte dysfunction, hepatocyte
triacylglycerol accumulation and liver inflammation and fibrosis. Weight loss,
aerobic exercise, metformin and pioglitazone have each been shown to be effective
for reducing FetA level.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2014.203 
PMID: 25468829  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Redox Biol. 2014;3:109-23.

Mitochondrial dysfunction and tissue injury by alcohol, high fat, nonalcoholic
substances and pathological conditions through post-translational protein
modifications.

Song BJ, Akbar M, Abdelmegeed MA, Byun K, Lee B, Yoon SK, Hardwick JP.

Mitochondria are critically important in providing cellular energy ATP as well as
their involvement in anti-oxidant defense, fat oxidation, intermediary metabolism
and cell death processes. It is well-established that mitochondrial functions are
suppressed when living cells or organisms are exposed to potentially toxic agents
including alcohol, high fat diets, smoking and certain drugs or in many
pathophysiological states through increased levels of oxidative/nitrative stress.
Under elevated nitroxidative stress, cellular macromolecules proteins, DNA, and
lipids can undergo different oxidative modifications, leading to disruption of
their normal, sometimes critical, physiological functions. Recent reports also
indicated that many mitochondrial proteins are modified via various
post-translation modifications (PTMs) and primarily inactivated. Because of the
recently-emerging information, in this review, we specifically focus on the
mechanisms and roles of five major PTMs (namely oxidation, nitration,
phosphorylation, acetylation, and adduct formation with lipid-peroxides, reactive
metabolites, or advanced glycation end products) in experimental models of
alcoholic and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease as well as acute hepatic injury
caused by toxic compounds. We also highlight the role of the ethanol-inducible
cytochrome P450-2E1 (CYP2E1) in some of these PTM changes. Finally, we discuss
translational research opportunities with natural and/or synthetic anti-oxidants,
which can prevent or delay the onset of mitochondrial dysfunction, fat
accumulation and tissue injury.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.10.004 
PMCID: PMC4297931
PMID: 25465468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Redox Biol. 2014;3:72-8. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.11.004. Epub 2014 Nov 18.

CYP2E1 autoantibodies in liver diseases.

Sutti S(1), Rigamonti C(2), Vidali M(2), Albano E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University "Amedeo Avogadro" of East Piedmont
and Interdepartmental Research Centre for Autoimmune Diseases (IRCAD), Novara,
Italy. (2)Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Maggiore della Carità, Novara, Italy.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University "Amedeo Avogadro" of East Piedmont
and Interdepartmental Research Centre for Autoimmune Diseases (IRCAD), Novara,
Italy. Electronic address: albano@med.unipmn.it.

Autoimmune reactions involving cytochrome P4502E1 (CYP2E1) are a feature of
idiosyncratic liver injury induced by halogenated hydrocarbons and isoniazid, but
are also detectable in about one third of the patients with advanced alcoholic
liver disease (ALD) and chronic hepatitis C (CHC). In these latter the presence
of anti-CYP2E1 auto-antibodies is an independent predictor of extensive
necro-inflammation and fibrosis and worsens the recurrence of hepatitis following
liver transplantation, indicating that CYP2E1-directed autoimmunity can
contribute to hepatic injury. The molecular characterization of the antigens
recognized by anti-CYP2E1 auto-antibodies in ALD and CHC has shown that the
targeted conformational epitopes are located in close proximity on the molecular 
surface. Furthermore, these epitopes can be recognized on CYP2E1 expressed on
hepatocyte plasma membranes where they can trigger antibody-mediated
cytotoxicity. This does not exclude that T cell-mediated responses against CYP2E1
might also be involved in causing hepatocyte damage. CYP2E1 structural
modifications by reactive metabolites and molecular mimicry represent important
factors in the breaking of self-tolerance against CYP2E1 in, respectively, ALD
and CHC. However, genetic or acquired interferences with the mechanisms
controlling the homeostasis of the immune system are also likely to contribute.
More studies are needed to better characterize the impact of anti-CYP2E1
autoimmunity in liver diseases particularly in relation to the fact that common
metabolic alterations such as obesity and diabetes stimulates hepatic CYP2E1
expression.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.11.004 
PMCID: PMC4297929
PMID: 25462068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Redox Biol. 2014;3:56-62. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.08.009. Epub 2014 Sep 6.

The role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cytochrome P-450 2E1 in the
generation of carcinogenic etheno-DNA adducts.

Linhart K(1), Bartsch H(2), Seitz HK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Alcohol Research, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Department of Medicine (Gastroenterology & Hepatology), Salem Medical Centre, 
Heidelberg, Germany. (3)Division of Toxicology and Cancer Risk Factors, German
Cancer Research Centre (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany. Electronic address:
helmut_karl.seitz@urz.uni-heidelberg.de.

Exocyclic etheno-DNA adducts are mutagenic and carcinogenic and are formed by the
reaction of lipidperoxidation (LPO) products such as 4-hydoxynonenal or
malondialdehyde with DNA bases. LPO products are generated either via
inflammation driven oxidative stress or via the induction of cytochrome P-450 2E1
(CYP2E1). In the liver CYP2E1 is induced by various compounds including free
fatty acids, acetone and ethanol. Increased levels of CYP2E1 and thus, oxidative 
stress are observed in the liver of patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) as well as in the chronic alcoholic. In addition, chronic ethanol
ingestion also increases CYP2E1 in the mucosa of the oesophagus and colon. In all
these tissues CYP2E1 correlates significantly with the levels of carcinogenic
etheno-DNA adducts. In contrast, in patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) hepatic etheno-DNA adducts do not correlate with CYP2E1 indicating that in
NASH etheno-DNA adducts formation is predominately driven by inflammation rather 
than by CYP2E1 induction. Since etheno-DNA adducts are strong mutagens producing 
various types of base pair substitution mutations as well as other types of
genetic damage, it is strongly believed that they are involved in ethanol
mediated carcinogenesis primarily driven by the induction of CYP2E1.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.08.009 
PMCID: PMC4297928
PMID: 25462066  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Redox Biol. 2014;3:40-6. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.10.002. Epub 2014 Oct 19.

Intestinal CYP2E1: A mediator of alcohol-induced gut leakiness.

Forsyth CB(1), Voigt RM(2), Keshavarzian A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition,
Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA; Department of Biochemistry,
Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic address:
christopher_b_forsyth@rush.edu. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of
Digestive Diseases and Nutrition, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL,
USA. (3)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Digestive Diseases and
Nutrition, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA; Department of
Pharmacology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA; Department of
Molecular Biophysics & Physiology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL,
USA; Division of Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Chronic alcohol use can result in many pathological effects including alcoholic
liver disease (ALD). While alcohol is necessary for the development of ALD, only 
20-30% of alcoholics develop alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH) with progressive
liver disease leading to cirrhosis and liver failure (ALD). This suggests that
while chronic alcohol consumption is necessary it is not sufficient to induce
clinically relevant liver damage in the absence of a secondary risk factor.
Studies in rodent models and alcoholic patients show that increased intestinal
permeability to microbial products like endotoxin play a critical role in
promoting liver inflammation in ALD pathogenesis. Therefore identifying
mechanisms of alcohol-induced intestinal permeability is important in identifying
mechanisms of ALD and for designing new avenues for therapy. Cyp2e1 is a
cytochrome P450 enzyme that metabolizes alcohol has been shown to be upregulated 
by chronic alcohol use and to be a major source of oxidative stress and liver
injury in alcoholics and in animal and in vitro models of chronic alcohol use.
Because Cyp2e1 is also expressed in the intestine and is upregulated by chronic
alcohol use, we hypothesized it could play a role in alcohol-induced intestinal
hyperpermeability. Our in vitro studies with intestinal Caco-2 cells and in mice 
fed alcohol showed that circadian clock proteins CLOCK and PER2 are required for 
alcohol-induced permeability. We also showed that alcohol increases Cyp2e1
protein and activity but not mRNA in Caco-2 cells and that an inhibitor of
oxidative stress or siRNA knockdown of Cyp2e1 prevents the increase in CLOCK or
PER2 proteins and prevents alcohol-induced hyperpermeability. With our
collaborators we have also shown that Cyp2e1 knockout mice are resistant to
alcohol-induced gut leakiness and liver inflammation. Taken together our data
support a novel Cyp2e1-circadian clock protein mechanism for alcohol-induced gut 
leakiness that could provide new avenues for therapy of ALD.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.10.002 
PMCID: PMC4297927
PMID: 25462064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Redox Biol. 2014;3:29-39. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.10.006. Epub 2014 Oct 31.

Ethanol-induced oxidant stress modulates hepatic autophagy and proteasome
activity.

Donohue TM Jr(1), Thomes PG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Service (151), VA-Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System, Omaha, NE
68105, USA; Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, USA; Department
of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Medicine, USA; Department of
Pathology and Microbiology, College of Medicine, USA; The Center for
Environmental Health and Toxicology, College of Public Health, University of
Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 68198, USA. Electronic address:
tdonohue@unmc.edu. (2)Research Service (151), VA-Nebraska-Western Iowa Health
Care System, Omaha, NE 68105, USA; Department of Internal Medicine, College of
Medicine, USA.

In this review, we describe research findings on the effects of alcohol exposure 
on two major catabolic systems in liver cells: the ubiquitin-proteasome system
(UPS) and autophagy. These hydrolytic systems are not unique to liver cells; they
exist in all eukaryotic tissues and cells. However, because the liver is the
principal site of ethanol metabolism, it sustains the greatest damage from heavy 
drinking. Thus, the focus of this review is to specifically describe how ethanol 
oxidation modulates the activities of the UPS and autophagy and the mechanisms by
which these changes contribute to the pathogenesis of alcohol-induced liver
injury. Here, we describe the history and the importance of cellular hydrolytic
systems, followed by a description of each catabolic pathway and the differential
modulation of each by ethanol exposure. Overall, the evidence for an involvement 
of these catabolic systems in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease is
quite strong. It underscores their importance, not only as effective means of
cellular recycling and eventual energy generation, but also as essential
components of cellular defense.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.10.006 
PMCID: PMC4297932
PMID: 25462063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Redox Biol. 2014;3:7-15. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.09.004. Epub 2014 Sep 23.

Regulation of the effects of CYP2E1-induced oxidative stress by JNK signaling.

Schattenberg JM(1), Czaja MJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)I. Department of Medicine, University Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg
University, 55131 Mainz, Germany. (2)Department of Medicine and Marion Bessin
Liver Research Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park
Avenue, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. Electronic address: mark.czaja@einstein.yu.edu.

The generation of excessive amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) leads to
cellular oxidative stress that underlies a variety of forms of hepatocyte injury 
and death including that from alcohol. Although ROS can induce cell damage
through direct effects on cellular macromolecules, the injurious effects of ROS
are mediated largely through changes in signal transduction pathways such as the 
mitogen-activated protein kinase c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). In response to
alcohol, hepatocytes have increased levels of the enzyme cytochrome P450 2E1
(CYP2E1) which generates an oxidant stress that promotes the development of
alcoholic steatosis and liver injury. These effects are mediated in large part
through overactivation of JNK that alters cell death pathways. Targeting the JNK 
pathway or its downstream effectors may be a useful therapeutic approach to the
oxidative stress generated by CYP2E1 in alcoholic liver disease.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.09.004 
PMCID: PMC4218941
PMID: 25462060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Horm Mol Biol Clin Investig. 2014 Nov;20(2):39-41. doi: 10.1515/hmbci-2014-0034.

Nutrition: a promising route for prevention and management of obesity-related
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Tarantino G.

When dealing with the treatment of obesity-linked illnesses - in particular
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease - beyond diet, various nutritional ingredients
are reported to be useful as silymarin, spirulina, choline, folic acid,
methionine and vitamin E, all of them showing promising but not definite results.
An emerging field of study is represented by prebiotics/probiotics and
restoration of normal gut flora, which could play a fundamental role diet and
various its components. It is noteworthy to point out that both improving or
reducing the severity of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease bear a positive
consequence on evolution of atherosclerosis and its cardiovascular-associated
disease, such as coronary artery disease, even though the involved immunologic
mechanisms are gaining greater credit in the most recent literature, without
excluding the role of nutrition in modulating the acquired immunity in this
condition.

DOI: 10.1515/hmbci-2014-0034 
PMID: 25460293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Curr Opin Pharmacol. 2014 Dec;19:153-8.

Transgenerational effects of obesogens and the obesity epidemic.

Chamorro-García R(1), Blumberg B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental and Cell Biology, 2011 Biological Sciences 3,
Irvine, CA 92697-2300, USA.

In the last three decades there has been a dramatic, worldwide increase in the
incidence of obesity, particularly in Western societies. This trend has required 
a significant economic investment to treat obesity-related disorders such as type
2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. There 
is an urgent need to understand the factors that contribute to this increase in
obesity in order to find new tools that will improve quality of life in affected 
individuals and to avoid the propagation of obesity to future generations.
Endocrine disrupting chemicals have become an important piece of the obesity
epidemic puzzle but little is known about the mechanism underlying their effects.
In this commentary, we highlight recent work showing that the consequences of
ancestral exposure to obesogenic chemicals results in the transmission of
obesity-related phenotypes through at least three generations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coph.2014.10.010 
PMCID: PMC4297575
PMID: 25460228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Metabolism. 2015 Jan;64(1):60-78. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2014.10.012. Epub 2014
Oct 23.

Leptin in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a narrative review.

Polyzos SA(1), Kountouras J(2), Mantzoros CS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Second Medical Clinic, Department of Medicine, Aristotle University of
Thessaloniki, Ippokration Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece; Division of
Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, Beth
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
Electronic address: stergios@endo.gr. (2)Second Medical Clinic, Department of
Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Ippokration Hospital,
Thessaloniki, Greece. (3)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism,
Department of Internal Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Leptin, the first described adipokine, interplays with hepatic metabolism. The
aim of this review was to summarize available data on the association between
leptin and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Leptin has a potential dual 
action on NAFLD experimental models, exerting a possible anti-steatotic, but also
a proinflammatory and profibrogenic action. Observational clinical studies have
shown higher or similar leptin levels between simple steatosis and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) compared with controls. Interventional studies showed that
circulating leptin diminishes together with body mass index after successful
weight loss following lifestyle modifications or bariatric surgery. Studies
providing evidence for the effect of other medications on leptin levels in NAFLD 
populations are limited and of low power. Data from small studies claim that
recombinant leptin administration had a possibly beneficial effect on steatosis, 
but not fibrosis, in NAFLD patients with hypoleptinemia. Although the
aforementioned dual leptin action has not yet been validated in humans, leptin
administration in NAFLD patients with normoleptinemia or hyperleptinemia is
discouraged. Further well-controlled studies in cautiously selected populations
are needed to elucidate whether leptin has any prognostic and therapeutic role in
NAFLD patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.metabol.2014.10.012 
PMID: 25456097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Clin Liver Dis. 2015 Feb;19(1):123-34. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.09.007. Epub 2014 
Oct 14.

Contemporary assessment of hepatic fibrosis.

Bonder A(1), Tapper EB(1), Afdhal NH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Center, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA, USA. (2)Liver Center, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: nafdhal@bidmc.harvard.edu.

Newer noninvasive tests have begun to replace liver biopsy for staging purposes. 
The clinician must evaluate these tools and apply them to individual patients.
None of these modalities give the exact same staging of fibrosis as a liver
biopsy, but they are excellent tools for risk stratification. Still, it should be
recognized that there are disease-specific issues with different utilizations and
cutoffs for different clinical diseases. This article provides a framework for
incorporating the use of serum biomarkers and elastography-based approaches to
stage fibrosis into clinical practice. This review also covers recent
developments in this rapidly advancing area.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.09.007 
PMID: 25454300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Clin Liver Dis. 2015 Feb;19(1):1-22. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.09.001. Epub 2014
Oct 29.

Chronic liver disease in the human immunodeficiency virus patient.

Acharya C(1), Dharel N(2), Sterling RK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA
23298, USA. (2)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Virginia
Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23298, USA. (3)Section of Hepatology,
Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Virginia Commonwealth
University Health System, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23298,
USA; Division of Infectious Disease, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, 
VA 23298, USA. Electronic address: rksterli@vcu.edu.

There are an estimated 40 million HIV infected individuals worldwide, with
chronic liver disease being the 2nd leading cause of mortality in this
population. Elevated liver functions are commonly noted in HIV patients and the
etiologies are varied. Viral hepatitis B and C, fatty liver and drug induced
liver injury are more common. Treatment options for viral hepatitis C are rapidly
evolving and are promising, but treatments are limited for the other conditions
and is primarily supportive. Opportunistic infections of the liver are now
uncommon. Irrespective of etiology, management requires referral to specialized
centers and with due diligence mortality can be reduced.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.09.001 
PMID: 25454294  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Redox Biol. 2014;3:100-8. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.09.005. Epub 2014 Sep 28.

Mitochondrial cholesterol accumulation in alcoholic liver disease: Role of ASMase
and endoplasmic reticulum stress.

Marí M(1), Morales A(2), Colell A(2), García-Ruiz C(2), Fernández-Checa JC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Death and Proliferation, Institute of Biomedical Research
of Barcelona (IIBB-CSIC), Consejo Superior Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC),
IDIBAPS, Liver Unit-Hospital Clínic, CIBEREHD, 08036 Barcelona, Spain. Electronic
address: monmari@clinic.ub.es. (2)Department of Cell Death and Proliferation,
Institute of Biomedical Research of Barcelona (IIBB-CSIC), Consejo Superior
Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), IDIBAPS, Liver Unit-Hospital Clínic,
CIBEREHD, 08036 Barcelona, Spain. (3)Department of Cell Death and Proliferation, 
Institute of Biomedical Research of Barcelona (IIBB-CSIC), Consejo Superior
Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), IDIBAPS, Liver Unit-Hospital Clínic,
CIBEREHD, 08036 Barcelona, Spain; Research Center for Alcoholic Liver and
Pancreatic Diseases, Keck School of Medicine of the University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address: checa229@yahoo.com.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of chronic liver disease and a
growing health concern in theworld. While the pathogenesis of ALD is poorly
characterized key players identified in experimental models and patients, such as
perturbations in mitochondrial structure and function, selective loss of
antioxidant defense and susceptibility to inflammatory cytokines, contribute to
ALD progression. Both oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction compromise
essential cellular functions and energy generation and hence are important
pathogenic mechanisms of ALD. An important process mediating the mitochondrial
disruption induced by alcohol intake is the trafficking of cholesterol to
mitochondria, mediated by acid sphingomyelinase-induced endoplasmic reticulum
stress, which contributes to increased cholesterol synthesis and
StARD1upregulation. Mitochondrial cholesterol accumulation not only sensitizes to
oxidative stress but it can contribute to the metabolic reprogramming in ALD,
manifested by activation of the hypoxia inducible transcription factor 1 and
stimulation of glycolysis and lactate secretion. Thus, a better understanding of 
the mechanisms underlying alcohol-mediated mitochondrial impairment and oxidative
stress may lead to the identification of novel treatments for ALD. The present
review briefly summarizes current knowledge on the cellular and molecular
mechanisms contributing to alcohol-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and
cholesterol accumulation and provides insights for potential therapeutic targets 
in ALD.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.09.005 
PMCID: PMC4297930
PMID: 25453982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Peptides. 2014 Dec;62:189-96.

The role of renin-angiotensin system modulation on treatment and prevention of
liver diseases.

Moreira de Macêdo S, Guimarães TA, Feltenberger JD, Sousa Santos SH.

The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is now recognized as an important modulator of
body metabolic processes. The discovery of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)
has renewed interest in the potential therapeutic role of RAS modulation. Recent 
studies have pointed out the importance of the local balance between
ACE/Ang-II/AT1 and ACE2/Ang-(1-7)/Mas arms to avoid liver metabolic diseases.
Furthermore, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is an increasing health problem
that includes a spectrum of hepatic steatosis, steatohepatitis and fibrosis. Some
new studies revealed that RAS imbalance appears to promote hepatic fibrogenesis; 
while the activation of ACE2/Ang-(1-7)/Mas counter-regulatory axis is able to
prevent liver injuries. In this context, the aim of the present review is to
discuss the importance of RAS in the development and prevention of liver disease.
AT1 receptor activation by Ang II induces hepatic stellate cell contraction and
proliferation, causes oxidative stress, endothelial dysfunction, cell growth and 
inflammation. In addition, both AT1 blocker administration and ACE inhibitors
lead to a reduction in inflammation and improvement of hepatic fibrosis.
Conversely, Ang-(1-7) infusion reduces fibrosis and proliferation mainly by
suppression of hepatic stellate cell activation; Mas receptor antagonism
aggravates liver fibrosis and severe liver steatosis. In conclusion, the use of
ACE/Ang II/AT1 axis inhibitors associated with ACE2/Ang(1-7)/Mas axis activation 
is a promising new strategy serving as a novel therapeutic regimen to prevent and
treat chronic liver diseases as well as acute liver injury.

DOI: 10.1016/j.peptides.2014.10.005 
PMID: 25453980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


527. J Hepatol. 2015 Mar;62(3):720-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.10.039. Epub 2014 Nov 
1.

Molecular mechanism of PPARα action and its impact on lipid metabolism,
inflammation and fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Pawlak M(1), Lefebvre P(1), Staels B(2).

Author information: 
(1)European Genomic Institute for Diabetes (EGID), FR 3508, F-59000 Lille,
France; Université Lille 2, F-59000 Lille, France; Inserm UMR 1011, F-59000
Lille, France; Institut Pasteur de Lille, F-59000 Lille, France. (2)European
Genomic Institute for Diabetes (EGID), FR 3508, F-59000 Lille, France; Université
Lille 2, F-59000 Lille, France; Inserm UMR 1011, F-59000 Lille, France; Institut 
Pasteur de Lille, F-59000 Lille, France. Electronic address:
bart.staels@pasteur-lille.fr.

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα) is a ligand-activated
transcription factor belonging, together with PPARγ and PPARβ/δ, to the NR1C
nuclear receptor subfamily. Many PPARα target genes are involved in fatty acid
metabolism in tissues with high oxidative rates such as muscle, heart and liver. 
PPARα activation, in combination with PPARβ/δ agonism, improves steatosis,
inflammation and fibrosis in pre-clinical models of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease, identifying a new potential therapeutic area. In this review, we discuss
the transcriptional activation and repression mechanisms by PPARα, the spectrum
of target genes and chromatin-binding maps from recent genome-wide studies,
paying particular attention to PPARα-regulation of hepatic fatty acid and plasma 
lipoprotein metabolism during nutritional transition, and of the inflammatory
response. The role of PPARα, together with other PPARs, in non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis will be discussed in light of available pre-clinical and clinical
data.

Copyright © 2014 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.10.039 
PMID: 25450203  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Gastroenterology. 2015 Jan;148(1):30-6. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.10.042. Epub
2014 Nov 11.

Gut-liver axis in alcoholic liver disease.

Szabo G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
Massachusetts. Electronic address: gyongyi.szabo@umassmed.edu.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) has been among the leading causes of cirrhosis and 
liver-related death worldwide for decades. Early discoveries in alcoholic liver
disease identified increased levels of bacterial endotoxin in the portal
circulation, suggesting a role for gut-derived toxins in ALD. Indeed, alcohol
consumption can disrupt the intestinal epithelial barrier and result in increased
gut permeability that increasingly is recognized as a major factor in ALD.
Bacterial endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide, is a prototypic microbe-derived
inflammatory signal that contributes to inflammation in ALD through activation of
the Toll-like receptor 4. Recent studies also have shown that alcohol consumption
is associated with alterations in the gut microbiome, and the dysbalance of
pathogenic and commensal organisms in the intestinal microbiome may contribute to
the abnormal gut-liver axis in ALD. Indeed, bacterial decontamination improves
ALD both in human and animal models. This short review summarizes recent findings
and highlights emerging trends in the gut-liver axis relevant to ALD.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.10.042 
PMCID: PMC4274189
PMID: 25447847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


529. J Nutr Biochem. 2015 Jan;26(1):1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2014.06.011. Epub 2014
Aug 19.

Pathophysiological basis for compromised health beyond generations: role of
maternal high-fat diet and low-grade chronic inflammation.

Zhou D(1), Pan YX(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign. (2)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Division of Nutritional Sciences, University of 
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Illinois Informatics Institute, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Electronic address: yxpan@illinois.edu.

Early exposure to a fat-enriched diet programs the developmental profile and thus
is associated with disease susceptibility in subsequent generations. Chronic
low-grade inflammation, resulting from maternal high-fat diet, is activated in
the fetal environment and in many organs of offspring, including placenta,
adipose, liver, vascular system and brain. The prevalence of an inflammatory
response is highly associated with obesity incidence, cardiovascular diseases,
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and brain damage. Substantial studies using
high-fat model have consistently demonstrated the incidence of such inflammatory 
reactions; however, the potential contribution of active inflammation toward the 
physiological outcomes and developmental diseases is neither discussed in depth
nor systemically integrated. Therefore, we aim to summarize the current findings 
in regards to how a maternal high-fat diet influences the inflammatory status,
and probable pathogenic effects on the offspring. More importantly, since limited
research has been conducted to reveal the epigenetic regulation of these
inflammatory markers by maternal high-fat diet, we sincerely hope that our review
will not only outline the pathophysiological relevance of inflammation but also
identify a future direction for mechanistic investigation and clinical
application.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2014.06.011 
PMID: 25440222  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


530. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:874768. doi: 10.1155/2014/874768. Epub 2014 Nov
11.

Is there a role for probiotics in liver disease?

Lo RS(1), Austin AS(1), Freeman JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Unit, Royal Derby Hospital, Derby DE22 3NE, UK.

Intestinal microbiota plays an important role in health and disease. Alteration
in its healthy homeostasis may result in the development of numerous liver
disorders including complications of liver cirrhosis. On the other hand,
restoration and modulation of intestinal flora through the use of probiotics is
potentially an emerging therapeutic strategy. There is mounting evidence that
probiotics are effective in the treatment of covert and overt hepatic
encephalopathy, as well as in the prevention of recurrence of encephalopathy. The
beneficial effect of probiotics also extends to liver function in cirrhosis,
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and alcoholic liver disease. On the other hand,
data associating probiotics and portal hypertension is scanty and conflicting.
Probiotic therapy has also not been shown to prevent primary or secondary
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. Larger clinical studies are required before
probiotics can be recommended as a treatment modality in liver diseases.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/874768 
PMCID: PMC4243598
PMID: 25436233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2015;815:295-311. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_17.

Alcohol, carcinoembryonic antigen processing and colorectal liver metastases.

McVicker B(1), Tuma DJ, Lazure KE, Thomas P, Casey CA.

Author information: 
(1)Research Service (151), Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care
System, 4101 Woolworth Avenue, Omaha, NE, 68105, USA, bmcvicker@unmc.edu.

It is well established that alcohol consumption is related to the development of 
alcoholic liver disease. Additionally, it is appreciated that other major health 
issues are associated with alcohol abuse, including colorectal cancer (CRC) and
its metastatic growth to the liver. Although a correlation exists between alcohol
use and the development of diseases, the search continues for a better
understanding of specific mechanisms. Concerning the role of alcohol in CRC liver
metastases, recent research is aimed at characterizing the processing of
carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), a glycoprotein that is associated with and
secreted by CRC cells. A positive correlation exists between serum CEA levels,
liver metastasis, and alcohol consumption in CRC patients, although the mechanism
is not understood. It is known that circulating CEA is processed primarily by the
liver, first by nonparenchymal Kupffer cells (KCs) and secondarily, by
hepatocytes via the asialoglycoprotein receptor (ASGPR). Since both KCs and
hepatocytes are known to be significantly impacted by alcohol, it is hypothesized
that alcohol-related effects to these liver cells will lead to altered CEA
processing, including impaired asialo-CEA degradation, resulting in changes to
the liver microenvironment and the metastatic potential of CRC cells. Also, it is
predicted that CEA processing will affect cytokine production in the
alcohol-injured liver, resulting in pro-metastatic changes such as enhanced
adhesion molecule expression on the hepatic sinusoidal endothelium. This chapter 
examines the potential role that alcohol-induced liver cell impairments can have 
in the processing of CEA and associated mechanisms involved in CEA-related
colorectal cancer liver metastasis.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_17 
PMID: 25427914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2015;815:173-84. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_10.

Understanding the tumor suppressor PTEN in chronic alcoholism and hepatocellular 
carcinoma.

Shearn CT(1), Petersen DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado Denver Anchutz
Medical Campus, 12850 East Montview Blvd Box C238, Building V20 Room 2460B,
Aurora, CO, 80045, USA, Colin.Shearn@ucdenver.edu.

The tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10
(PTEN) is a phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) phosphatase that regulates Akt
activation via PtdIns 3 kinase. Changes in PTEN expression and/or activity have
been identified in a variety of chronic hepatocellular disorders including
obesity, NAFLD, NASH, and alcoholism. In cancer biology, PTEN is frequently
mutated or deleted in a wide variety of tumors. Mutations, decreased promoter
activity, and decreased expression in PTEN are frequently identified in patients 
with hepatocellular carcinoma. While the majority of research on PTEN concerns
obesity and NASH, PTEN clearly has a role in hepatic insulin sensitivity and in
the development of steatosis during chronic alcoholism. Yet, in chronic
alcoholics and HCC, very little is known concerning PTEN mutation/deletion or low
PTEN expression. This review is focused on an overview of the current knowledge
on molecular mechanisms of dysregulation of PTEN expression/activity in the liver
and their relationship to development of ethanol-induced hepatocellular damage
and cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_10 
PMID: 25427907  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2015;815:145-72. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_9.

Synergistic toxic interactions between CYP2E1, LPS/TNFα, and JNK/p38 MAP kinase
and their implications in alcohol-induced liver injury.

Cederbaum AI(1), Lu Y, Wang X, Wu D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Systems Therapeutics, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, Box 1603, One Gustave L. Levy Place, New York, NY, 10029, USA,
arthur.cederbaum@mssm.edu.

The mechanisms by which alcohol causes cell injury are not clear. Many pathways
have been suggested to play a role in how alcohol induces oxidative stress.
Considerable attention has been given to alcohol-elevated production of
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and TNFα and to alcohol induction of CYP2E1. These two
pathways are not exclusive of each other; however, associations and interactions 
between them, especially in vivo, have not been extensively evaluated. We have
shown that increased oxidative stress from induction of CYP2E1 in vivo sensitizes
hepatocytes to LPS and TNFα toxicity and that oxidative stress, activation of p38
and JNK MAP kinases, and mitochondrial dysfunction are downstream mediators of
this CYP2E1-LPS/TNFα potentiated hepatotoxicity. This Review will summarize
studies showing potentiated interactions between these two risk factors in
promoting liver injury and the mechanisms involved including activation of the
mitogen-activated kinase kinase kinase ASK-1 as a result of CYP2E1-derived
reactive oxygen intermediates promoting dissociation of the inhibitory
thioredoxin from ASK-1. This activation of ASK-1 is followed by activation of the
mitogen-activated kinase kinases MKK3/MKK6 and MKK4/MMK7 and subsequently p38 and
JNK MAP kinases. Synergistic toxicity occurs between CYP2E1 and the JNK1 but not 
the JNK2 isoform as JNK1 knockout mice are completely protected against CYP2E1
plus TNFα toxicity, elevated oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction. We 
hypothesize that similar interactions occur as a result of ethanol induction of
CYP2E1 and TNFα.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_9 
PMID: 25427906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2015;815:113-30. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_7.

Alcoholic cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Stickel F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Research, University of Bern, Murtenstrasse 35,
CH-3010, Bern, Germany, Felix.stickel@ikp.unibe.ch.

Hepatocellular carcinoma shows a rising incidence worldwide, and the largest
burden of disease in Western countries derives from patients with alcoholic liver
disease (ALD) and cirrhosis, the latter being the premier premalignant factor for
HCC. The present chapter addresses key issues including the epidemiology of
alcohol-associated HCC, and its link to other coexisting non-alcoholic liver
diseases, and additional host and environmental risk factors including the
underlying genetics. Also discussed are molecular mechanisms of
alcohol-associated liver cancer evolution involving the mediators of alcohol
toxicity and carcinogenicity, acetaldehyde and reactive oxygen species, as well
as the recently described mutagenic adducts which these mediators form with DNA. 
Specifically, interference of alcohol with retinoids and cofactors of
transmethylation processes are outlined. Information presented in this chapter
illustrates that the development of HCC in the context of ALD is multifaceted and
suggests several molecular targets for prevention and markers for the screening
of risk groups.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_7 
PMID: 25427904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2015;815:89-112. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_6.

The role of iron in alcohol-mediated hepatocarcinogenesis.

Mueller S(1), Rausch V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Salem Medical Center and Center for Alcohol
Research, University of Heidelberg, Zeppelinstraße 11-33, 69121, Heidelberg,
Germany, sebastian.mueller@urz.uni-heidelberg.de.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is the major liver disease in the developed world
and characterized by hepatic iron overload in ca. 50% of all patients. This iron 
overload is an independent factor of disease progression, hepatocellular
carcinoma and it determines survival. Since simple phlebotomy does not allow the 
efficient removal of excess iron in ALD, a better understanding of the underlying
mechanisms is urgently needed to identify novel targeted treatment strategies.
This review summarizes the present knowledge on iron overload in patients with
ALD. Although multiple sides of the cellular and systemic iron homeostasis may be
affected during alcohol consumption, most studies have focused on potential
hepatic causes. However, it should not be overlooked that more than 90% of the
major iron pool, the hemoglobin-associated iron, is efficiently recycled within
the human body and it is also strongly affected by alcohol. The few available
studies suggest various molecular mechanisms that involve iron regulatory protein
(IRP1), transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1), and the systemic iron master switch
hepcidin, but not classical mutations of the HFE gene. Notably, reactive oxygen
species (ROS), namely, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), are powerful modulators of these
iron-steering proteins. For instance, depending on the level, H2O2 may both
strongly suppress and induce the expression of hepcidin that could partly explain
the anemia and iron overload observed in these patients. More studies with
appropriate ROS models such as the novel GOX/CAT system are required to unravel
the mechanisms of iron overload in ALD to consequently identify
molecular-targeted therapies in the future.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_6 
PMID: 25427903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2015;815:59-70. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_4.

Alcohol and cancer: an overview with special emphasis on the role of acetaldehyde
and cytochrome P450 2E1.

Seitz HK(1), Mueller S.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Alcohol Research, University of Heidelberg, Germany and Salem
Medical Centre, Heidelberg, Germany, helmut_karl.seitz@urz.uni-heidelberg.de.

The mechanisms by which chronic alcohol consumption enhances carcinogenesis
include acetaldehyde (AA) generated by alcohol dehydrogenase and reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) generated predominantly by cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1), but also
by other factors during inflammation. In addition, ethanol also alters
epigenetics by changing DNA and histone methylation and acetylation. A loss of
retinoic acid due to a CYP2E1-related enhanced degradation results in enhanced
cellular proliferation and decreased cell differentiation. Changes in cancer
genes and in signaling pathways (MAPK, RAS, Rb, TGFβ, p53, PTEN, ECM,
osteopontin, Wnt) may also contribute to ethanol-mediated mechanisms in
carcinogenesis. Finally, immunosuppression may facilitate tumor spread. In the
present review major emphasis is led on AA and ROS. While AA binds to proteins
and DNA generating carcinogenic DNA adducts and inhibiting DNA repair and DNA
methylation, ROS results in lipid peroxidation with the generation of lipid
peroxidation products such as 4-hydoxynonenal which binds to DNA-forming highly
carcinogenic exocyclic DNA adducts. ROS production correlates significantly with 
CYP2E1 in the liver but also in the esophagus, and its generation can be
significantly reduced by the specific CYP2E1 inhibitor clomethiazole. Finally,
CMZ also inhibits alcohol-mediated nitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-09614-8_4 
PMID: 25427901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J Cardiovasc Med (Hagerstown). 2015 Jan;16(1):11-21. doi:
10.2459/JCM.0000000000000149.

Inflammatory bowel disease, liver diseases and endothelial function: is there a
linkage?

Ciccone MM(1), Principi M, Ierardi E, Di Leo A, Ricci G, Carbonara S, Gesualdo M,
Devito F, Zito A, Cortese F, Scicchitano P.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Emergency and Organ Transplantation (DETO) bUniversity of Bari,
Bari cDepartment of Medical Sciences, Section of Gastroenterology, University of 
Foggia, Foggia, Italy.

Atherosclerosis is a systemic inflammatory disease able to deeply worsen the
outcome of patients because of its serious clinical consequences. The complex
inflammatory background underlining such a disease makes atherosclerosis linked
to several systemic inflammatory conditions able to impair endothelial function
and morphology. Inflammatory bowel diseases are a group of gastrointestinal
diseases including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, that is, syndromes
characterized by changes in mucosal immunity and gastrointestinal physiology,
which could negatively influence the vascular endothelial function and structure.
Hepatitis (i.e. inflammatory diseases of the liver mainly due to viral
infections) and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease could be aligned to inflammatory
bowel disease in such an induction of atherosclerosis disease.Many studies tried 
to point out the relationship between bowel and liver inflammatory diseases and
early vascular changes, considered the first step for atherosclerosis
development.The aim of such a narrative review is to explain the relationship
between inflammatory bowel disease, hepatitis and nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease and their role in increasing cardiovascular risk profile due to early
impairment in vascular function and morphology.

DOI: 10.2459/JCM.0000000000000149 
PMID: 25427048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Curr Vasc Pharmacol. 2015;13(3):368-80.

Treating Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction Related to Arterial
Stiffness. Can we Kill Two Birds With One Stone?

Athyros VG(1), Pagourelias ED, Gossios TD, Vasilikos VG.

Author information: 
(1)Head of Metabolic Disease and Atherosclerosis Units, Second Prop. Department
of Internal Medicine, Medical School, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki,
Hippokration Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece, 15 Marmara St, Thessaloniki, 55132, 
Greece. vathyros@gmail.com.

Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). Arterial hypertension
(AH), arterial stiffness (AS), older age, and female gender are the main
determinants of HFpEF, but several cardiac or extra-cardiac pathologies are also 
possible causes. The combined ventricular-vascular stiffening (abnormal left
atrium-left ventricle coupling related to AS) is the main contributor of the
increased prevalence of HFpEF in elderly persons, particularly elderly women, and
in younger persons with AH. The hospitalization and mortality rates of HFpEF are 
similar to those of heart failure with reduced EF (HFrEF). However, although the 
prognosis of HFrEF has been substantially improved during the last 2 decades, the
effective treatment of HFpEF remains an unmet need. Regimens effective in HFrEF
have no substantial effect on HFpEF, because of different pathophysiologies of
the 2 syndromes. Pipeline drugs seem promising, but it will take some years
before they are commercially available. Aggressive treatment of noncardiac
comorbidities seems to be the only option at hand. Treatment of anaemia, sleep
disorders, chronic kidney disease (CKD), non-alcoholic fatty liver (NAFLD),
atrial fibrillation, diabetes, and careful use of diuretics to reduce preload are
effective to some degree. Statin treatment, despite the presence of
dyslipidaemia, deserves special attention because it has been proven, mainly in
small studies or post hoc analyses of trials, that it offers a substantial
improvement in quality of life and a reduction in mortality rates. We need to
urgently utilize these recourses to relieve a considerable part of the general
population suffering from HFpEF, a deadly disease.


PMID: 25426732  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2015 Apr;29(4):656-62. doi: 10.1111/jdv.12847. Epub
2014 Nov 21.

Risk of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in patients with psoriasis: a
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Candia R(1), Ruiz A, Torres-Robles R, Chávez-Tapia N, Méndez-Sánchez N, Arrese M.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gastroenterología, Facultad de Medicina, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile; Programa de Salud Basada en
Evidencia Facultad de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile,
Santiago, Chile.

BACKGROUND: Psoriasis has been linked to an increased risk of metabolic syndrome 
(MetS). Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the hepatic manifestation of
MetS, is now the commonest liver disease worldwide and can evolve into cirrhosis 
in a subgroup of patients. Psoriasis has been reported to be associated to NAFLD.
AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the strength of the association
between psoriasis and NAFLD.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was conducted in six databases
(Medline, CINAHL, Scopus, LILACS, Cochrane Library and EMBASE). Data from studies
assessing frequency of NAFLD in psoriatic and non-psoriatic patients were
extracted and meta-analysed using the Mantel-Haenszel method. Subgroups analysis 
of patients with psoriatic arthritis and moderate to severe psoriasis was also
performed.
RESULTS: Seven case-control studies were included, all of them of low or moderate
quality. Psoriatic patients exhibited an increased risk of NAFLD compared to
non-psoriatic controls (six studies; n = 267,761 patients; odds ratio (OR): 2.15,
95% CI: 1.57-2.94). The association remained significant (OR: 2.07, 95% CI:
1.62-2.64) when only high/moderate quality studies were analysed (three studies; 
n = 3345 patients). The risk of NAFLD was significantly greater in patients with 
psoriatic arthritis (three studies; n = 505 patients; OR: 2.25, 95% IC:
1.37-3.71) and in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis compared to those
with mild psoriasis (two studies; 51,930 patients, OR: 2.07, 95% CI: 1.59-2.71).
LIMITATIONS: Data quality and heterogeneity may restrict the interpretation of
the pooled risk estimates.
CONCLUSION: Case-control studies support an association between psoriasis and
NAFLD. Screening of NAFLD in this group of patients may be warranted.

© 2014 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/jdv.12847 
PMID: 25418531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Postgrad Med. 2014 Oct;126(6):106-18. doi: 10.3810/pgm.2014.10.2825.

Diabetes mellitus as a novel risk factor for gastrointestinal malignancies.

Herrigel DJ(1), Moss RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Rutgers, 
the State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ.

Evidence of an emerging etiologic link between diabetes mellitus and several
gastrointestinal malignancies is presented. Although a correlation between
pancreatic cancer and diabetes mellitus has long been suspected, the potential
role diabetes mellitus plays in the pathogenicity of both hepatocellular
carcinoma and colon cancer is becoming increasingly well defined. Further
supporting the prospect of etiologic linkage, the association of diabetes
mellitus with colon cancer is consistently demonstrated to be independent of
obesity. An increasing incidence of diabetes and obesity in the United States has
led to a recent surge in incidence of hepatocellular cancer on the background of 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and this disease is expected to commensurately 
grow in incidence. Widespread recognition of this emerging risk factor may lead
to a change in screening practices. Although the mechanisms underlying the
correlation are still under investigation, the role of insulin, the insulin-like 
growth factor-I, and related binding and signaling pathways as regulators of cell
growth and cell proliferation are implicated in carcinogenesis and tumor growth. 
The potential role of metformin and other medications for diabetes mellitus in
the chemoprevention, carcinogenesis, and treatment of gastrointestinal
malignancies is also presented.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2014.10.2825 
PMID: 25414939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


541. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2015 Jan;38(1):19-40. doi: 10.1007/s10545-014-9776-6. Epub
2014 Nov 21.

The clinical spectrum of inherited diseases involved in the synthesis and
remodeling of complex lipids. A tentative overview.

Garcia-Cazorla À(1), Mochel F, Lamari F, Saudubray JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Neurometabolic Unit, Hospital Sant Joan de Déu and
CIBERER, ISCIII, Barcelona, Spain, agarcia@hsjdbcn.org.

Over one hundred diseases related to inherited defects of complex lipids
synthesis and remodeling are now reported. Most of them were described within the
last 5 years. New descriptions and phenotypes are expanding rapidly. While the
associated clinical phenotype is currently difficult to outline, with only a few 
patients identified, it appears that all organs and systems may be affected. The 
main clinical presentations can be divided into (1) Diseases affecting the
central and peripheral nervous system. Complex lipid synthesis disorders produce 
prominent motor manifestations due to upper and/or lower motoneuron degeneration.
Motor signs are often complex, associated with other neurological and
extra-neurological signs. Three neurological phenotypes, spastic paraparesis,
neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation and peripheral neuropathies,
deserve special attention. Many apparently well clinically defined syndromes are 
not distinct entities, but rather clusters on a continuous spectrum, like for the
PNPLA6-associated diseases, extending from Boucher-Neuhauser syndrome via Gordon 
Holmes syndrome to spastic ataxia and pure hereditary spastic paraplegia; (2)
Muscular/cardiac presentations; (3) Skin symptoms mostly represented by syndromic
(neurocutaneous) and non syndromic ichthyosis; (4) Retinal dystrophies with
syndromic and non syndromic retinitis pigmentosa, Leber congenital amaurosis,
cone rod dystrophy, Stargardt disease; (5) Congenital bone dysplasia and
segmental overgrowth disorders with congenital lipomatosis; (6) Liver
presentations characterized mainly by transient neonatal cholestatic jaundice and
non alcoholic liver steatosis with hypertriglyceridemia; and (7) Renal and immune
presentations. Lipidomics and molecular functional studies could help to
elucidate the mechanism(s) of dominant versus recessive inheritance observed for 
the same gene in a growing number of these disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-014-9776-6 
PMID: 25413954  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Curr Vasc Pharmacol. 2015;13(5):649-57.

Incretin-Based Antidiabetic Agents for the Management of Non-Alcoholic Fatty
Liver Disease.

Nakouti T, Karagiannis AK, Tziomalos K, Cholongitas E(1).

Author information: 
(1)4th Department of Internal Medicine, Hippokration General Hospital, 49
Konstantinoupoleos street, Thessaloniki, 54642, Greece. cholongitas@yahoo.gr.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the commonest chronic liver disease 
and is more prevalent in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
Incretin-based antidiabetic agents (glucagonlike peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor
agonists and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors) are used in the treatment
of T2DM but it is unclear whether they may also play a role in the management of 
NAFLD. We systematically reviewed the PubMed and Scopus database up to October
2014 and also hand-searched the references of the retrieved articles for studies 
evaluating the effects of these agents on NAFLD. In animal studies, both GLP-1
receptor agonists and DPP-4 inhibitors reduced transaminase activity and
steatosis but their effects on liver inflammation were inconsistent and fibrosis 
was not assessed. In clinical studies, both agents consistently reduced
transaminase activity and steatosis as assessed non-invasively. There are very
limited data on the effects of incretin-based treatments on liver histology. In
conclusion, GLP-1 receptor agonists and DPP-4 inhibitors appear to hold promise
in patients with NAFLD but larger controlled studies with histological and
clinical endpoints are needed to evaluate their effects in this population.


PMID: 25412688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


543. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 14;20(42):15539-48. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i42.15539.

Histopathology of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Takahashi Y(1), Fukusato T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yoshihisa Takahashi, Toshio Fukusato, Department of Pathology, Teikyo
University School of Medicine, Tokyo 173-8605, Japan.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a hepatic manifestation of metabolic
syndrome, is the most common chronic liver disease, and the prevalence is rapidly
increasing worldwide. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the severe form of
NAFLD, can progress to liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Although noninvasive clinical scores and image-based diagnosis for NAFLD have
improved, histopathological evaluation of biopsy specimens remains the gold
standard for diagnosing NAFLD/NASH. Steatosis, lobular inflammation, and
hepatocellular ballooning are all necessary components for the diagnosis of NASH;
fibrosis is also typically observed. Other histopathological abnormalities
commonly observed in NASH include hepatocellular glycogenated nuclei,
lipogranulomas, and acidophil bodies. The characteristics of pediatric NAFLD/NASH
differ from adult NAFLD/NASH. Specifically, steatosis and portal inflammation are
more severe in pediatric NAFLD, while intralobular inflammation and
perisinusoidal fibrosis are milder. Although interobserver agreement for
evaluating the extent of steatosis and fibrosis is high, agreement is low for
intralobular and portal inflammation. A recently reported histological variant of
HCC, steatohepatitic HCC (SH-HCC), shows features that resemble non-neoplastic
steatohepatitis, and is thought to be strongly associated with underlying NASH.
In this report, we review the histopathological features of NAFLD/NASH.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i42.15539 
PMCID: PMC4229519
PMID: 25400438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


544. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 14;20(42):15532-8. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i42.15532.

Liver transplantation and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Zezos P(1), Renner EL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Petros Zezos, Eberhard L Renner, Liver Transplant Program/Multi-Organ
Transplant Program, University Health Network/Toronto General Hospital,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5G 2N2, Canada.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an important health problem
worldwide. NAFLD encompasses a histological spectrum ranging from bland liver
steatosis to severe steatohepatitis (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, NASH) with the
potential of progressing to cirrhosis and its associated morbidity and mortality.
NAFLD is thought to be the hepatic manifestation of insulin resistance (or the
metabolic syndrome); its prevalence is increasing worldwide in parallel with the 
obesity epidemic. In many developed countries, NAFLD is the most common cause of 
liver disease and NASH related cirrhosis is currently the third most common
indication for liver transplantation. NASH related cirrhosis is anticipated to
become the leading indication for liver transplantation within the next one or
two decades. In this review, we discuss how liver transplantation is affected by 
NAFLD, specifically the following: (1) the increasing need for liver
transplantation due to NASH; (2) the impact of the increasing prevalence of NAFLD
in the general population on the quality of deceased and live donor livers
available for transplantation; (3) the long term graft and patient outcomes after
liver transplantation for NASH, and finally; and (4) the de novo occurrence of
NAFLD/NASH after liver transplantation and its impact on graft and patient
outcomes.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i42.15532 
PMCID: PMC4229518
PMID: 25400437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


545. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 14;20(42):15518-31. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i42.15518.

Gut-liver axis and probiotics: their role in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Paolella G(1), Mandato C(1), Pierri L(1), Poeta M(1), Di Stasi M(1), Vajro P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Giulia Paolella, Luca Pierri, Marco Poeta, Martina Di Stasi, Pietro Vajro,
Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Salerno, 84081 Baronissi
(Salerno), Italy.

The incidence of obesity and its related conditions, including non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD), has dramatically increased in all age groups
worldwide. Given the health consequences of these conditions, and the subsequent 
economic burden on healthcare systems, their prevention and treatment have become
major priorities. Because standard dietary and lifestyle changes and
pathogenically-oriented therapies (e.g., antioxidants, oral hypoglycemic agents, 
and lipid-lowering agents) often fail due to poor compliance and/or lack of
efficacy, novel approaches directed toward other pathomechanisms are needed. Here
we present several lines of evidence indicating that, by increasing energy
extraction in some dysbiosis conditions or small intestinal bacterial overgrowth,
specific gut microbiota and/or a "low bacterial richness" may play a role in
obesity, metabolic syndrome, and fatty liver. Under conditions involving a
damaged intestinal barrier ("leaky gut"), the gut-liver axis may enhance the
natural interactions between intestinal bacteria/bacterial products and hepatic
receptors (e.g., toll-like receptors), thus promoting the following cascade of
events: oxidative stress, insulin-resistance, hepatic inflammation, and fibrosis.
We also discuss the possible modulation of gut microbiota by probiotics, as
attempted in NAFLD animal model studies and in several pilot pediatric and adult 
human studies. Globally, this approach appears to be a promising and innovative
add-on therapeutic tool for NAFLD in the context of multi-target therapy.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i42.15518 
PMCID: PMC4229517
PMID: 25400436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Horm Mol Biol Clin Investig. 2014 Jul;19(1):57-74. doi: 10.1515/hmbci-2014-0023.

The pathophysiology of abdominal adipose tissue depots in health and disease.

Walker GE, Marzullo P, Ricotti R, Bona G, Prodam F.

Obesity is currently the most important contributor to ill health and expenditure
worldwide. More alarming is the fact that the pediatric population parallels
adults, with obesity closely associated to type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D),
cardiovascular disease, hypertension, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, vitamin 
D deficiency (VDD) and certain types of cancer. The observation in the early
1950s that android or truncal adipose tissue (AT) distribution compared to gynoid
had a greater association with metabolic dysfunction, in particular T2D and
cardiovascular disease risk, led to the hypothesis that obesity-associated
complications are not associated with fat mass per se, but the pattern of fat
distribution. This concept was further supported by groups of individuals with
metabolic dysfunction despite a lean phenotype, and healthy obese people
protected from metabolic dysfunction. It is now well recognized that an increase 
in visceral AT is an independent risk factor for the development of
obesity-associated comorbidities with AT depot distribution, their anatomic,
cellular and molecular features defining their role. The differences and the
plasticity of subcutaneous, visceral and ectopic ATs to store and release fatty
acids and to synthesize and secrete adipokines, defines the metabolic outcomes.
The present review will examine the phenotypic and pathophysiological differences
between the different AT depots, with a particular focus on the abdominal depots 
and their link to metabolic complications.

DOI: 10.1515/hmbci-2014-0023 
PMID: 25390016  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nutrients. 2014 Nov 10;6(11):5018-33. doi: 10.3390/nu6115018.

The influence of dietary fat on liver fat accumulation.

Green CJ(1), Hodson L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism (OCDEM), Churchill
Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7LE, UK.
charlotte.green@ocdem.ox.ac.uk. (2)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and 
Metabolism (OCDEM), Churchill Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7LE, UK.
leanne.hodson@ocdem.ox.ac.uk.

Obesity is a known risk factor for the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD); however, it has been suggested that dietary fat, both amount and
composition, may play a pivotal role in its development, independent of body
fatness. Studies that have investigated the role of dietary fat on liver fat
accumulation are reasonably sparse. We review here the available work that has
investigated the impact of dietary fat: amount, composition and frequency, on
liver fat accumulation in human observational and intervention studies. Overall, 
it would seem that total calorie consumption, rather than dietary fat
composition, is an important factor in the development of fatty liver disease in 
humans.

DOI: 10.3390/nu6115018 
PMCID: PMC4245577
PMID: 25389901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Curr Top Med Chem. 2014;14(19):2143-58.

Knocking on FXR's door: the "hammerhead"-structure series of FXR agonists -
amphiphilic isoxazoles with potent in vitro and in vivo activities.

Gege C, Kinzel O, Steeneck C, Schulz A, Kremoser C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Phenex Pharmaceuticals AG, Waldhofer Str. 104, 69123 Heidelberg, Germany.
laus.kremoser@phenex-pharma.com.

The Farnesoid X Receptor (FXR) was recently validated in clinical studies using
the bile acid analogue Obeticholic Acid (OCA) as an attractive drug target for
liver diseases such as Primary Biliary Cirrhosis (PBC) or Non-alcoholic
Steatohepatitis (NASH). OCA, however, turned out to induce cholesterol- related
side effects upon prolonged treatment and it shows bile acid like
pharmacokinetics. The quest for synthetic non-steroidal FXR agonists with general
drug likeliness and improved pharmacokinetic and - dynamic properties has started
more than a decade ago: The first non-steroidal and selective FXR agonist with
decent submicromolar potency, GW4064, was patented in 1998 and published in 2000.
Since then, many pharmaceutical companies have taken GW4064 as a structural
template for their efforts in identifying novel patentable FXR agonists with the 
GW-derived trisubstituted isoxazole general structure. However, so far only one
compound out of these different series has made it into the early stages of
clinical development: The Px-102/Px-104 from Phenex is currently tested in a
phase IIa study in patients with Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD). In
this review we try to summarize from the patent and scientific literature the
attempts to improve the GW4064 structure into different directions. Furthermore, 
we suggest directions for further improvements of this special class of synthetic
FXR agonists which all display the typical "hammerhead"-conformation in the FXR
ligand binding pocket that provides the basis for their impressive in vitro and
in vivo potencies.


PMID: 25388536  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


549. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 7;20(41):15233-40. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i41.15233.

Insulin resistance and liver steatosis in chronic hepatitis C infection genotype 
3.

Abenavoli L(1), Masarone M(1), Peta V(1), Milic N(1), Kobyliak N(1), Rouabhia
S(1), Persico M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ludovico Abenavoli, Valentina Peta, Department of Health Sciences, University 
Magna Græcia, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a common chronic liver disease worldwide.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and insulin resistance (IR) are the major
determinants of fibrosis progression and response to antiviral therapy. The
pathogenetic link between IR and chronic HCV infection is complex, and is
associated with HCV genotype. Liver steatosis is the most common in the patients 
infected with genotype 3 virus, possibly due to direct effects of genotype 3
viral proteins. To the contrary, hepatic steatosis in the patients infected with 
other genotypes is thought to be mostly due to the changes in host metabolism,
involving IR. In HCV genotype 3, liver steatosis correlates with viral load,
reverts after reaching the sustained virologic response and reoccurs in the
relapsers. A therapeutic strategy to improve IR and liver steatosis and
subsequently the response to antiviral treatment in these patients is warranted.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i41.15233 
PMCID: PMC4223256
PMID: 25386071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


550. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 7;20(41):15079-86. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i41.15079.

MicroRNAs as controlled systems and controllers in non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Panera N(1), Gnani D(1), Crudele A(1), Ceccarelli S(1), Nobili V(1), Alisi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nadia Panera, Valerio Nobili, Hepato-Metabolic Disease Unit, "Bambino Gesù"
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, 00165 Rome, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a multi-faceted condition including 
simple steatosis alone or associated with inflammation and ballooning
(non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) and eventually fibrosis. The NAFLD incidence has 
increased over the last twenty years becoming the most frequent chronic liver
disease in industrialized countries. Obesity, visceral adiposity, insulin
resistance, and many other disorders that characterize metabolic syndrome are the
major predisposing risk factors for NAFLD. Furthermore, different factors,
including genetic background, epigenetic mechanisms and environmental factors,
such as diet and physical exercise, contribute to NAFLD development and
progression. Several lines of evidence demonstrate that specific microRNAs
expression profiles are strongly associated with several pathological conditions 
including NAFLD. In NAFLD, microRNA deregulation in response to intrinsic genetic
or epigenetic factors or environmental factors contributes to metabolic
dysfunction. In this review we focused on microRNAs role both as controlled and
controllers molecules in NAFLD development and/or their eventual value as
non-invasive biomarkers of disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i41.15079 
PMCID: PMC4223241
PMID: 25386056  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


551. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov 7;20(41):15070-8. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i41.15070.

Systems biology approaches for studying the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease.

Fisher CP(1), Kierzek AM(1), Plant NJ(1), Moore JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ciarán P Fisher, Andrzej M Kierzek, Nick J Plant, J Bernadette Moore, Faculty 
of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Surrey, GU2 7XH Guildford, Surrey, 
United Kingdom.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a progressive disease of increasing 
public health concern. In western populations the disease has an estimated
prevalence of 20%-40%, rising to 70%-90% in obese and type II diabetic
individuals. Simplistically, NAFLD is the macroscopic accumulation of lipid in
the liver, and is viewed as the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. 
However, the molecular mechanisms mediating both the initial development of
steatosis and its progression through non-alcoholic steatohepatitis to
debilitating and potentially fatal fibrosis and cirrhosis are only partially
understood. Despite increased research in this field, the development of
non-invasive clinical diagnostic tools and the discovery of novel therapeutic
targets has been frustratingly slow. We note that, to date, NAFLD research has
been dominated by in vivo experiments in animal models and human clinical
studies. Systems biology tools and novel computational simulation techniques
allow the study of large-scale metabolic networks and the impact of their
dysregulation on health. Here we review current systems biology tools and discuss
the benefits to their application to the study of NAFLD. We propose that a
systems approach utilising novel in silico modelling and simulation techniques is
key to a more comprehensive, better targeted NAFLD research strategy. Such an
approach will accelerate the progress of research and vital translation into
clinic.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i41.15070 
PMCID: PMC4223240
PMID: 25386055  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2014;2014:637027. doi: 10.1155/2014/637027. Epub 2014 Oct
13.

Nonalcoholic Fatty liver disease: pathogenesis and therapeutics from a
mitochondria-centric perspective.

Gusdon AM(1), Song KX(2), Qu S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Shanghai 10th People's Hospital,
School of Medicine, Tongji University, No. 301 Middle Yanchang Road, Shanghai
200072, China ; Department of Neurology, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York,
NY 10065, USA. (2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Shanghai 10th
People's Hospital, School of Medicine, Tongji University, No. 301 Middle Yanchang
Road, Shanghai 200072, China. (3)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism,
Shanghai 10th People's Hospital, School of Medicine, Tongji University, No. 301
Middle Yanchang Road, Shanghai 200072, China ; Department of Endocrinology and
Metabolism, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210029, China.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) describes a spectrum of disorders
characterized by the accumulation of triglycerides within the liver. The global
prevalence of NAFLD has been increasing as the obesity epidemic shows no sign of 
relenting. Mitochondria play a central role in hepatic lipid metabolism and also 
are affected by upstream signaling pathways involved in hepatic metabolism. This 
review will focus on the role of mitochondria in the pathophysiology of NAFLD and
touch on some of the therapeutic approaches targeting mitochondria as well as
metabolically important signaling pathways. Mitochondria are able to adapt to
lipid accumulation in hepatocytes by increasing rates of beta-oxidation; however 
increased substrate delivery to the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) 
leads to increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and eventually ETC
dysfunction. Decreased ETC function combined with increased rates of fatty acid
beta-oxidation leads to the accumulation of incomplete products of
beta-oxidation, which combined with increased levels of ROS contribute to insulin
resistance. Several related signaling pathways, nuclear receptors, and
transcription factors also regulate hepatic lipid metabolism, many of which are
redox sensitive and regulated by ROS.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/637027 
PMCID: PMC4211163
PMID: 25371775  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


553. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 28;20(40):14821-30. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14821.

Effects of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists on non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease and inflammation.

Wang XC(1), Gusdon AM(1), Liu H(1), Qu S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Xing-Chun Wang, Shen Qu, Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Shanghai 
10 People's Hospital, Tongji University, Shanghai 200072, China.

Glucagon-like peptide1 (GLP-1) is secreted from Langerhans cells in response to
oral nutrient intake. Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) are a 
new class of incretin-based anti-diabetic drugs. They function to stimulate
insulin secretion while suppressing glucagon secretion. GLP-1-based therapies are
now well established in the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and
recent literature has suggested potential applications of these drugs in the
treatment of obesity and for protection against cardiovascular and neurological
diseases. As we know, along with change in lifestyles, the prevalence of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in China is rising more than that of
viral hepatitis and alcoholic fatty liver disease, and NAFLD has become the most 
common chronic liver disease in recent years. Recent studies further suggest that
GLP-1RAs can reduce transaminase levels to improve NAFLD by improving blood lipid
levels, cutting down the fat content to promote fat redistribution, directly
decreasing fatty degeneration of the liver, reducing the degree of liver fibrosis
and improving inflammation. This review shows the NAFLD-associated effects of
GLP-1RAs in animal models and in patients with T2DM or obesity who are
participants in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14821 
PMCID: PMC4209545
PMID: 25356042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


554. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 28;20(40):14787-804. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14787.

Review of natural products with hepatoprotective effects.

Madrigal-Santillán E(1), Madrigal-Bujaidar E(1), Álvarez-González I(1),
Sumaya-Martínez MT(1), Gutiérrez-Salinas J(1), Bautista M(1), Morales-González
Á(1), García-Luna y González-Rubio M(1), Aguilar-Faisal JL(1), Morales-González
JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Eduardo Madrigal-Santillán, J Leopoldo Aguilar-Faisal, José A
Morales-González, Laboratorio Medicina de Conservación, Escuela Superior de
Medicina, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Plan de San Luis y Díaz Mirón, Col.
Casco de Santo Tomás, Del. Miguel Hidalgo, México DF 11340, México.

The liver is one of the most important organs in the body, performing a
fundamental role in the regulation of diverse processes, among which the
metabolism, secretion, storage, and detoxification of endogenous and exogenous
substances are prominent. Due to these functions, hepatic diseases continue to be
among the main threats to public health, and they remain problems throughout the 
world. Despite enormous advances in modern medicine, there are no completely
effective drugs that stimulate hepatic function, that offer complete protection
of the organ, or that help to regenerate hepatic cells. Thus, it is necessary to 
identify pharmaceutical alternatives for the treatment of liver diseases, with
the aim of these alternatives being more effective and less toxic. The use of
some plants and the consumption of different fruits have played basic roles in
human health care, and diverse scientific investigations have indicated that, in 
those plants and fruits so identified, their beneficial effects can be attributed
to the presence of chemical compounds that are called phytochemicals. The present
review had as its objective the collecting of data based on research conducted
into some fruits (grapefruit, cranberries, and grapes) and plants [cactus pear
(nopal) and cactus pear fruit, chamomile, silymarin, and spirulina], which are
consumed frequently by humans and which have demonstrated hepatoprotective
capacity, as well as an analysis of a resin (propolis) and some phytochemicals
extracted from fruits, plants, yeasts, and algae, which have been evaluated in
different models of hepatotoxicity.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14787 
PMCID: PMC4209543
PMID: 25356040  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


555. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 28;20(40):14706-16. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14706.

ADV36 adipogenic adenovirus in human liver disease.

Trovato FM(1), Catalano D(1), Garozzo A(1), Martines GF(1), Pirri C(1), Trovato
GM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Francesca M Trovato, Daniela Catalano, G Fabio Martines, Clara Pirri,
Guglielmo M Trovato, Department of Medical and Pediatric Sciences, Internal
Medicine, University of Catania, 95100 Catania, Italy.

Obesity and liver steatosis are usually described as related diseases. Obesity is
regarded as exclusive consequence of an imbalance between food intake and
physical exercise, modulated by endocrine and genetic factors. Non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD), is a condition whose natural history is related to, 
but not completely explained by over-nutrition, obesity and insulin resistance.
There is evidence that environmental infections, and notably adipogenic
adenoviruses (ADV) infections in humans, are associated not only with obesity,
which is sufficiently established, but also with allied conditions, such as fatty
liver. In order to elucidate the role, if any, of previous ADV36 infection in
humans, we investigated association of ADV36-ADV37 seropositivity with obesity
and fatty liver in humans. Moreover, the possibility that lifestyle-nutritional
intervention in patients with NAFLD and different ADV36 seropositive status,
achieves different clinical outcomes on ultrasound bright liver imaging, insulin 
resistance and obesity was challenged. ADV36 seropositive patients have a more
consistent decrease in insulin resistance, fatty liver severity and body weight
in comparison with ADV36 seronegative patients, indicating a greater
responsiveness to nutritional intervention. These effects were not dependent on a
greater pre-interventional body weight and older age. These results imply that no
obvious disadvantage - and, seemingly, that some benefit - is linked to ADV36
seropositivity, at least in NAFLD. ADV36 previous infection can boost weight loss
and recovery of insulin sensitivity under interventional treatment.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14706 
PMCID: PMC4209536
PMID: 25356033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


556. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 28;20(40):14672-85. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14672.

Ethanol and liver: recent insights into the mechanisms of ethanol-induced fatty
liver.

Liu J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jinyao Liu, Department of Legal Medicine, Yamaguchi University Graduate School
of Medicine, Ube, Yamaguchi 755-8505, Japan.

Alcoholic fatty liver disease (AFLD), a potentially pathologic condition, can
progress to steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis, leading to an increased
probability of hepatic failure and death. Alcohol induces fatty liver by
increasing the ratio of reduced form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide to
oxidized form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide in hepatocytes; increasing
hepatic sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-1, plasminogen
activator inhibitor (PAI)-1, and early growth response-1 activity; and decreasing
hepatic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-α activity. Alcohol activates 
the innate immune system and induces an imbalance of the immune response, which
is followed by activated Kupffer cell-derived tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α
overproduction, which is in turn responsible for the changes in the hepatic
SREBP-1 and PAI-1 activity. Alcohol abuse promotes the migration of bone
marrow-derived cells (BMDCs) to the liver and then reprograms TNF-α expression
from BMDCs. Chronic alcohol intake triggers the sympathetic
hyperactivity-activated hepatic stellate cell (HSC) feedback loop that in turn
activates the HSCs, resulting in HSC-derived TNF-α overproduction. Carvedilol may
block this feedback loop by suppressing sympathetic activity, which attenuates
the progression of AFLD. Clinical studies evaluating combination therapy of
carvedilol with a TNF-α inhibitor to treat patients with AFLD are warranted to
prevent the development of alcoholic liver disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14672 
PMCID: PMC4209533
PMID: 25356030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


557. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 28;20(40):14660-71. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14660.

Alcoholism: a systemic proinflammatory condition.

González-Reimers E(1), Santolaria-Fernández F(1), Martín-González MC(1),
Fernández-Rodríguez CM(1), Quintero-Platt G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Emilio González-Reimers, Francisco Santolaria-Fernández, María Candelaria
Martín-González, Camino María Fernández-Rodríguez, Geraldine Quintero-Platt,
Servicio de Medicina Interna, Hospital Universitario de Canarias, Universidad de 
La Laguna, Tenerife, 38320 Canary Islands, Spain.

Excessive ethanol consumption affects virtually any organ, both by indirect and
direct mechanisms. Considerable research in the last two decades has widened the 
knowledge about the paramount importance of proinflammatory cytokines and
oxidative damage in the pathogenesis of many of the systemic manifestations of
alcoholism. These cytokines derive primarily from activated Kupffer cells exposed
to Gram-negative intestinal bacteria, which reach the liver in
supra-physiological amounts due to ethanol-mediated increased gut permeability.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) that enhance the inflammatory response are
generated both by activation of Kupffer cells and by the direct metabolic effects
of ethanol. The effects of this increased cytokine secretion and ROS generation
lie far beyond liver damage. In addition to the classic consequences of
endotoxemia associated with liver cirrhosis that were described several decades
ago, important research in the last ten years has shown that cytokines may also
induce damage in remote organs such as brain, bone, muscle, heart, lung, gonads, 
peripheral nerve, and pancreas. These effects are even seen in alcoholics without
significant liver disease. Therefore, alcoholism can be viewed as an inflammatory
condition, a concept which opens the possibility of using new therapeutic weapons
to treat some of the complications of this devastating and frequent disease. In
this review we examine some of the most outstanding consequences of the altered
cytokine regulation that occurs in alcoholics in organs other than the liver.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14660 
PMCID: PMC4209532
PMID: 25356029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


558. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 28;20(40):14652-9. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14652.

Alcoholic disease: liver and beyond.

Rocco A(1), Compare D(1), Angrisani D(1), Sanduzzi Zamparelli M(1), Nardone G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Alba Rocco, Debora Compare, Debora Angrisani, Marco Sanduzzi Zamparelli,
Gerardo Nardone, Gastroenterology Unit, Department of Clinical Medicine and
Surgery, University Federico II of Naples, 80131 Naples, Italy.

The harmful use of alcohol is a worldwide problem. It has been estimated that
alcohol abuse represents the world's third largest risk factor for disease and
disability; it is a causal factor of 60 types of diseases and injuries and a
concurrent cause of at least 200 others. Liver is the main organ responsible for 
metabolizing ethanol, thus it has been considered for long time the major victim 
of the harmful use of alcohol. Ethanol and its bioactive products,
acetaldehyde-acetate, fatty acid ethanol esters, ethanol-protein adducts, have
been regarded as hepatotoxins that directly and indirectly exert their toxic
effect on the liver. A similar mechanism has been postulated for the
alcohol-related pancreatic damage. Alcohol and its metabolites directly injure
acinar cells and elicit stellate cells to produce and deposit extracellular
matrix thus triggering the "necrosis-fibrosis" sequence that finally leads to
atrophy and fibrosis, morphological hallmarks of alcoholic chronic pancreatitis. 
Even if less attention has been paid to the upper and lower gastrointestinal
tract, ethanol produces harmful effects by inducing: (1) direct damaging of the
mucosa of the esophagus and stomach; (2) modification of the sphincterial
pressure and impairment of motility; and (3) alteration of gastric acid output.
In the intestine, ethanol can damage the intestinal mucosa directly or indirectly
by altering the resident microflora and impairing the mucosal immune system.
Notably, disruption of the intestinal mucosal barrier of the small and large
intestine contribute to liver damage. This review summarizes the most clinically 
relevant alcohol-related diseases of the digestive tract focusing on the
pathogenic mechanisms by which ethanol damages liver, pancreas and
gastrointestinal tract.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14652 
PMCID: PMC4209531
PMID: 25356028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


559. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 28;20(40):14642-51. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14642.

Acute alcoholic hepatitis, end stage alcoholic liver disease and liver
transplantation: an Italian position statement.

Testino G(1), Burra P(1), Bonino F(1), Piani F(1), Sumberaz A(1), Peressutti
R(1), Giannelli Castiglione A(1), Patussi V(1), Fanucchi T(1), Ancarani O(1), De 
Cerce G(1), Iannini AT(1), Greco G(1), Mosti A(1), Durante M(1), Babocci P(1),
Quartini M(1), Mioni D(1), Aricò S(1), Baselice A(1), Leone S(1), Lozer F(1),
Scafato E(1), Borro P(1); Group of Italian Regions.

Author information: 
(1)Gianni Testino, Paolo Borro, Alessandro Sumberaz, Ornella Ancarani, Regional
Alcohologic Centre, Liguria Region, Alcohol Unit and Related Diseases, Department
of Internal and Specialist Medicine, IRCCS AOU San Martino-IST National Institute
for Cancer Research, 16100 Genova, Italy.

Comment in
    World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Apr 14;21(14):4423-6.

Alcoholic liver disease encompasses a broad spectrum of diseases ranging from
steatosis steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis to hepatocellular carcinoma.
Forty-four per cent of all deaths from cirrhosis are attributed to alcohol.
Alcoholic liver disease is the second most common diagnosis among patients
undergoing liver transplantation (LT). The vast majority of transplant programmes
(85%) require 6 mo of abstinence prior to transplantation; commonly referred to
as the "6-mo rule". Both in the case of progressive end-stage liver disease
(ESLD) and in the case of severe acute alcoholic hepatitis (AAH), not responding 
to medical therapy, there is a lack of evidence to support a 6-mo sobriety
period. It is necessary to identify other risk factors that could be associated
with the resumption of alcohol drinking. The "Group of Italian Regions" suggests 
that: in a case of ESLD with model for end-stage liver disease < 19 a 6-mo
abstinence period is required; in a case of ESLD, a 3-mo sober period before LT
may be more ideal than a 6-mo period, in selected patients; and in a case of
severe AAH, not responding to medical therapies (up to 70% of patients die within
6 mo), LT is mandatory, even without achieving abstinence. The multidisciplinary 
transplant team must include an addiction specialist/hepato-alcohologist.
Patients have to participate in self-help groups.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14642 
PMCID: PMC4209530
PMID: 25356027  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


560. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 28;20(40):14626-41. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14626.

Non-invasive diagnosis of alcoholic liver disease.

Mueller S(1), Seitz HK(1), Rausch V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sebastian Mueller, Helmut Karl Seitz, Department of Internal Medicine, Salem
Medical Center, University of Heidelberg, 69121 Heidelberg, Germany.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is the most common liver disease in the Western
world. For many reasons, it is underestimated and underdiagnosed. An early
diagnosis is absolutely essential since it (1) helps to identify patients at
genetic risk for ALD; (2) can trigger efficient abstinence namely in non-addicted
patients; and (3) initiate screening programs to prevent life-threatening
complications such as bleeding from varices, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis or
hepatocellular cancer. The two major end points of ALD are alcoholic liver
cirrhosis and the rare and clinically-defined alcoholic hepatitis (AH). The
prediction and early diagnosis of both entities is still insufficiently solved
and usually relies on a combination of laboratory, clinical and imaging findings.
It is not widely conceived that conventional screening tools for ALD such as
ultrasound imaging or routine laboratory testing can easily overlook ca. 40% of
manifest alcoholic liver cirrhosis. Non-invasive methods such as transient
elastography (Fibroscan), acoustic radiation force impulse imaging or shear wave 
elastography have significantly improved the early diagnosis of alcoholic
cirrhosis. Present algorithms allow either the exclusion or the exact definition 
of advanced fibrosis stages in ca. 95% of patients. The correct interpretation of
liver stiffness requires a timely abdominal ultrasound and actual transaminase
levels. Other non-invasive methods such as controlled attenuation parameter,
serum levels of M30 or M65, susceptometry or breath tests are under current
evaluation to assess the degree of steatosis, apoptosis and iron overload in
these patients. Liver biopsy still remains an important option to rule out
comorbidities and to confirm the prognosis namely for patients with AH.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i40.14626 
PMCID: PMC4209529
PMID: 25356026  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nutrients. 2014 Oct 28;6(11):4691-705. doi: 10.3390/nu6114691.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in children: focus on nutritional
interventions.

Yang M(1), Gong S(2), Ye SQ(3), Lyman B(4), Geng L(5), Chen P(6), Li DY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center 
of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 510623, China. ymlyxw@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center 
of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 510623, China. sitangg@126.com.
(3)Division of Experimental and Translational Genetics, Department of Pediatrics,
Children's Mercy Hospitals and Clinics, University of Missouri-Kansas City School
of Medicine, Kansas City, MO 64108, USA. sqye@cmh.edu. (4)Division of
Gastroenterology, Children's Mercy Hospital, University of Missouri-Kansas City
School of Medicine, Kansas City, MO 64108, USA. blyman@cmh.edu. (5)Department of 
Gastroenterology, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center of Guangzhou
Medical University, Guangzhou 510623, China. genglan_2001@hotmail.com.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center 
of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 510623, China. chenpei.y@163.com.

With increasing prevalence of childhood obesity, non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) has emerged as the most common cause of liver disease among
children and adolescents in industrialized countries. It is generally recognized 
that both genetic and environmental risk factors contribute to the pathogenesis
of NAFLD. Recently, there has been a growing body of evidence to implicate
altered gut microbiota in the development of NAFLD through the gut-liver axis.
The first line of prevention and treatment of NAFLD in children should be
intensive lifestyle interventions such as changes in diet and physical activity. 
Recent advances have been focused on limitation of dietary fructose and
supplementation of antioxidants, omega-3 fatty acids, and prebiotics/probiotics. 
Convincing evidences from both animal models and human studies have shown that
reduction of dietary fructose and supplement of vitamin E, omega-3 fatty acids,
and prebiotics/probiotics improve NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3390/nu6114691 
PMCID: PMC4245557
PMID: 25353664  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2015 Jan 1;308(1):E1-20. doi:
10.1152/ajpendo.00192.2014. Epub 2014 Oct 28.

From whole body to cellular models of hepatic triglyceride metabolism: man has
got to know his limitations.

Green CJ(1), Pramfalk C(1), Morten KJ(2), Hodson L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism, University of
Oxford, Churchill Hospital, Oxford United Kingdom; and. (2)Nuffield Department of
Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Oxford, John Radcliffe Hospital,
Oxford, United Kingdom. (3)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and
Metabolism, University of Oxford, Churchill Hospital, Oxford United Kingdom; and 
leanne.hodson@ocdem.ox.ac.uk.

The liver is a main metabolic organ in the human body and carries out a vital
role in lipid metabolism. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the 
most common liver diseases, encompassing a spectrum of conditions from simple
fatty liver (hepatic steatosis) through to cirrhosis. Although obesity is a known
risk factor for hepatic steatosis, it remains unclear what factor(s) is/are
responsible for the primary event leading to retention of intrahepatocellular
fat. Studying hepatic processes and the etiology and progression of disease in
vivo in humans is challenging, not least as NAFLD may take years to develop. We
present here a review of experimental models and approaches that have been used
to assess liver triglyceride metabolism and discuss their usefulness in helping
to understand the aetiology and development of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00192.2014 
PMCID: PMC4281685
PMID: 25352434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Pediatr Endocrinol Rev. 2014 Sep;12 Suppl 1:125-32.

Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency: diagnosis and treatment of Wolman and
Cholesteryl Ester Storage Diseases.

Porto AF.

Lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) is responsible for the hydrolysis of cholesterol
esters and triglycerides. LAL is coded by the LIPA gene on chromosome 10q23.31.
Its deficiency leads to two autosomal recessive disorders, Wolman disease (WD)
and Cholesteryl Ester Storage Disease (CESD). WD has an estimated incidence of 1 
in 500,000 live births and is the result of a complete loss of LAL and presents
in infancy with vomiting, diarrhea, poor weight gain and hepatomegaly
subsequently leading to death. CESD is the result of partial loss of LAL and its 
presentation is more variable. Patients may be asymptomatic or present with
nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms, hepatomegaly, elevated transaminases and
dystipidemia which may be confused with the diagnosis of Non-alcoholic Fatty
Liver Disease. CESD is currently underdiagnosed and has an estimated prevalence
as high as I in 40,000 individuals. Radiologic findings in WD is calcification of
the adrenal glands. Hepatomegaly is noted on CT scan in both WD and CESD. MRI may
demonstrate accumulation of cholesterol esters and may be useful to study effects
of potential medical therapies. The diagnosis of WD and CESD is based on LIPA
gene sequencing and the measurement of LAL levels in peripheral blood leukocytes.
Treatment of LAL deficiency is currently limited to control of cholesterol levels
and to prevent premature atherosclerosis. Use of enzyme replacement therapy with 
recombinant human LAL in short-term studies has shown to be safe and effective.


PMID: 25345094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


564. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 21;20(39):14219-29. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i39.14219.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: what has changed in the treatment since the
beginning?

Baran B(1), Akyüz F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bülent Baran, Filiz Akyüz, Division of Gastroenterohepatology, Department of
Internal Medicine, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Capa, 34093
Istanbul, Turkey.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an umbrella term to describe the
entire spectrum of this common liver disease. In patients with NAFLD, especially 
those with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), most often have one or more
components of the metabolic syndrome, but this is not universal. Although most
patients with NAFLD share many clinical features, only a subset of patients
develops significant liver inflammation and progressive fibrosis. On the other
hand, not all patients with NASH exhibit insulin resistance. NASH can be seen in 
patients who are lean and have no identifiable risk factors. Many clinical
studies have tried numerous drugs and alternative medicine, however,
investigators have failed to identify a safe and effective therapy for patients
with NASH. As summarized, the heterogeneity of pathogenic pathways in individual 
patients with NASH may warrant the development of an individualized treatment
according to the underlying pathogenic pathway. The differentiation of
pathogenetic targets may require the development of diagnostic and prognostic
biomarkers, and the identification of genetic susceptibilities. At present,
evidence-based medicine provides only a few options including life-style
modifications targeting weight loss, pioglitazone and vitamin E in non-diabetic
patients with biopsy-proven NASH.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i39.14219 
PMCID: PMC4202350
PMID: 25339808  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


565. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 21;20(39):14205-18. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i39.14205.

Oxidative stress, cardiolipin and mitochondrial dysfunction in nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease.

Paradies G(1), Paradies V(1), Ruggiero FM(1), Petrosillo G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Giuseppe Paradies, Valeria Paradies, Francesca M Ruggiero, Department of
Biosciences, Biotechnologies and Biopharmaceutics, University of Bari, 70126
Bari, Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is today considered the most common form
of chronic liver disease, affecting a high proportion of the population
worldwide. NAFLD encompasses a large spectrum of liver damage, ranging from
simple steatosis to steatohepatitis, advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis. Obesity,
hyperglycemia, type 2 diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia are the most important
risk factors. The pathogenesis of NAFLD and its progression to fibrosis and
chronic liver disease is still unknown. Accumulating evidence indicates that
mitochondrial dysfunction plays a key role in the physiopathology of NAFLD,
although the mechanisms underlying this dysfunction are still unclear. Oxidative 
stress is considered an important factor in producing lethal hepatocyte injury
associated with NAFLD. Mitochondrial respiratory chain is the main subcellular
source of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which may damage mitochondrial proteins,
lipids and mitochondrial DNA. Cardiolipin, a phospholipid located at the level of
the inner mitochondrial membrane, plays an important role in several reactions
and processes involved in mitochondrial bioenergetics as well as in mitochondrial
dependent steps of apoptosis. This phospholipid is particularly susceptible to
ROS attack. Cardiolipin peroxidation has been associated with mitochondrial
dysfunction in multiple tissues in several physiopathological conditions,
including NAFLD. In this review, we focus on the potential roles played by
oxidative stress and cardiolipin alterations in mitochondrial dysfunction
associated with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i39.14205 
PMCID: PMC4202349
PMID: 25339807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


566. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 21;20(39):14185-204. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i39.14185.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and aging: epidemiology to management.

Bertolotti M(1), Lonardo A(1), Mussi C(1), Baldelli E(1), Pellegrini E(1),
Ballestri S(1), Romagnoli D(1), Loria P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Marco Bertolotti, Amedeo Lonardo, Chiara Mussi, Enrica Baldelli, Elisa
Pellegrini, Stefano Ballestri, Dante Romagnoli, Paola Loria, Department of
Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural Sciences, Nuovo Ospedale Civile di Modena,
University of Modena and Reggio Emilia and Azienda USL of Modena, Baggiovara,
41126 Modena, Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is common in the elderly, in whom it
carries a more substantial burden of hepatic (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis,
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma) and extra-hepatic manifestations and
complications (cardiovascular disease, extrahepatic neoplasms) than in younger
age groups. Therefore, proper identification and management of this condition is 
a major task for clinical geriatricians and geriatric hepatologists. In this
paper, the epidemiology and pathophysiology of this condition are reviewed, and a
full discussion of the link between NAFLD and the aspects that are peculiar to
elderly individuals is provided; these aspects include frailty, multimorbidity,
polypharmacy and dementia. The proper treatment strategy will have to consider
the peculiarities of geriatric patients, so a multidisciplinary approach is
mandatory. Non-pharmacological treatment (diet and physical exercise) has to be
tailored individually considering the physical limitations of most elderly people
and the need for an adequate caloric supply. Similarly, the choice of drug
treatment must carefully balance the benefits and risks in terms of adverse
events and pharmacological interactions in the common context of both multiple
health conditions and polypharmacy. In conclusion, further epidemiological and
pathophysiological insight is warranted. More accurate understanding of the
molecular mechanisms of geriatric NAFLD will help in identifying the most
appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic approach for individual elderly patients.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i39.14185 
PMCID: PMC4202348
PMID: 25339806  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


567. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 21;20(39):14172-84. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i39.14172.

Review of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in women with polycystic ovary
syndrome.

Kelley CE(1), Brown AJ(1), Diehl AM(1), Setji TL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Carly E Kelley, Ann J Brown, Tracy L Setji, Department of Medicine, Division
of Endocrinology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, United
States.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder in
reproductive-aged women. Women with PCOS frequently have metabolic complications 
including insulin resistance (IR), early diabetes, hypertension and dyslipidemia.
Recent studies have demonstrated an association between PCOS and another
metabolic complication: nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD occurs as
a result of abnormal lipid handling by the liver, which sensitizes the liver to
injury and inflammation. It can progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), 
which is characterized by hepatocyte injury and apoptosis. With time and further 
inflammation, NASH can progress to cirrhosis. Thus, given the young age at which 
NAFLD may occur in PCOS, these women may be at significant risk for progressive
hepatic injury over the course of their lives. Many potential links between PCOS 
and NAFLD have been proposed, most notably IR and hyperandrogenemia. Further
studies are needed to clarify the association between PCOS and NAFLD. In the
interim, clinicians should be aware of this connection and consider screening for
NAFLD in PCOS patients who have other metabolic risk factors. The optimal method 
of screening is unknown. However, measuring alanine aminotransferase and/or
obtaining ultrasound on high-risk patients can be considered. First line
treatment consists of lifestyle interventions and weight loss, with possible
pharmacologic interventions in some cases.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i39.14172 
PMCID: PMC4202347
PMID: 25339805  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 May;9(5):629-50. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2015.965143. Epub 2014 Oct 20.

Diagnosis and management of cardiovascular risk in nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Lonardo A(1), Ballestri S, Targher G, Loria P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Internal Medicine, Pavullo Hospital,
Pavullo 41026, Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is increasingly recognized as an
important cardiovascular risk (CVR) factor. This is a narrative clinical review
aimed at answering how diagnosis and management of CVR should be conducted in the
individual patient with NAFLD. To this end, the authors performed an extensive
search of the existing literature on PubMed (1993-2014) using pertinent keywords.
To date, CVR among patients with NAFLD might be assessed with the Framingham risk
score equation or other risk calculators, to be adapted to the true CVR in the
specific population being assessed; however, the use of these CVR calculators
needs to be validated by future studies in larger cohorts of NAFLD patients of
various ethnic backgrounds in order to substantiate their clinical relevance as a
foundation for the primary prevention of cardiovascular diseases in this group of
patients. Early and aggressive drug treatment of CVR should be started in NAFLD
patients with a history of cardiovascular events, established diabetes or who are
at high (calculated) CVR. Whether such an aggressive pharmacological approach is 
also justified in patients with NAFLD, who are at intermediate or low CVR,
remains debatable. Currently, there are no clinical trials showing that the
treatment of NAFLD per se (either associated or unassociated with traditional CVR
factors) will result in decreased risk of cardiovascular events. Accordingly,
drug treatment should be better individualized, aiming at correcting all the
coexisting cardio-metabolic risk factors of the individual patient with NAFLD. To
this end, an overview of the lifestyle interventions and the available drugs is
offered, emphasis being conveyed to statins and metformin, which promise to cover
worrying complications of NAFLD such as the risk of developing hepatocellular
carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2015.965143 
PMID: 25327387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Br J Nutr. 2014 Dec 14;112(11):1751-68. doi: 10.1017/S0007114514002839. Epub 2014
Oct 17.

Possible role of tocopherols in the modulation of host microRNA with potential
antiviral activity in patients with hepatitis B virus-related persistent
infection: a systematic review.

Fiorino S(1), Bacchi-Reggiani L(2), Sabbatani S(3), Grizzi F(4), di Tommaso L(4),
Masetti M(5), Fornelli A(6), Bondi A(6), de Biase D(7), Visani M(8), Cuppini
A(1), Jovine E(5), Pession A(8).

Author information: 
(1)Unità Operativa di Medicina Interna, Ospedale di Budrio,Via Benni
44,40065Budrio, Bologna,Italy. (2)Istituto di Cardiologia, Policlinico S.
Orsola-Malpighi, Università degli Studi di Bologna,Bologna,Italy. (3)Istituto di 
Malattie Infettive, Policlinico S. Orsola-Malpighi, Università degli Studi di
Bologna,Bologna,Italy. (4)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center,Rozzano,
Milano,Italy. (5)Unità Operativa di Chirurgia A, Ospedale Maggiore
Bologna,Bologna,Italy. (6)Servizio di Anatomia Patologica, Ospedale
Maggiore,Bologna,Italy. (7)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale,Università di
Bologna, Ospedale Bellaria,Bologna,Italy. (8)Dipartimento di Farmacia e
Biotecnologie,Università di Bologna,Bologna,Italy.

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection represents a serious global health problem and 
persistent HBV infection is associated with an increased risk of cirrhosis,
hepatocellular carcinoma and liver failure. Recently, the study of the role of
microRNA (miRNA) in the pathogenesis of HBV has gained considerable interest as
well as new treatments against this pathogen have been approved. A few studies
have investigated the antiviral activity of vitamin E (VE) in chronic HBV
carriers. Herein, we review the possible role of tocopherols in the modulation of
host miRNA with potential anti-HBV activity. A systematic research of the
scientific literature was performed by searching the MEDLINE, Cochrane Library
and EMBASE databases. The keywords used were 'HBV therapy', 'HBV treatment', 'VE 
antiviral effects', 'tocopherol antiviral activity', 'miRNA antiviral activity'
and 'VE microRNA'. Reports describing the role of miRNA in the regulation of HBV 
life cycle, in vitro and in vivo available studies reporting the effects of VE on
miRNA expression profiles and epigenetic networks, and clinical trials reporting 
the use of VE in patients with HBV-related chronic hepatitis were identified and 
examined. Based on the clinical results obtained in VE-treated chronic HBV
carriers, we provide a reliable hypothesis for the possible role of this vitamin 
in the modulation of host miRNA profiles perturbed by this viral pathogen and in 
the regulation of some cellular miRNA with a suggested potential anti-HBV
activity. This approach may contribute to the improvement of our understanding of
pathogenetic mechanisms involved in HBV infection and increase the possibility of
its management and treatment.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114514002839 
PMID: 25325563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Horm Res Paediatr. 2014;82(5):283-9. doi: 10.1159/000365192. Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver and metabolic syndrome in children: a vicious circle.

Alterio A(1), Alisi A, Liccardo D, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Hepato-Metabolic Disease Unit and Liver Research Unit, 'Bambino Gesù'
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

During the last decade, paediatricians have observed a dramatic increase of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and metabolic syndrome (MS) in
children. Furthermore, several lines of evidence have reported that a large part 
of children with NAFLD presents one or more traits of MS making plausible that,
in the coming years, these subjects may present a rapid course of disease towards
more severe cirrhosis and cardiovascular disease. Genetic susceptibility and the 
pressure of intrauterine environment and lifestyle are all crucial to activate
molecular machinery that leads to development of NAFLD and MS in childhood. In
this scenario, central obesity and consequent adipose tissue inflammation are
critical to promote both MS-associated metabolic dysfunctions and NAFLD-related
hepatic damage. An excessive dietary intake may in fact cause a specific lipid
partitioning and induce metabolic stressors, which in turn promote insulin
resistance and the release of several circulating factors. These molecules, on
the one hand, trigger steatosis and the inflammatory response that characterize
liver damage in NAFLD, and on the other hand contribute to the onset of other
features of MS. This review provides an overview of current genetic, pathogenetic
and clinical evidence of the vicious circle created by NAFLD and MS in children.

2014 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000365192 
PMID: 25324136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Curr Drug Abuse Rev. 2014;7(1):18-28.

Current management of alcoholic liver disease.

Singal AK, Jampana SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Alabama Birmingham,
AL 35294-0012, USA. ashwanisingal.com@gmail.com.

Alcoholic liver disease accounts for significant economic burden with second most
common cause for liver transplantation in the US. Although alcohol abstinence is 
most crucial, morbidity and mortality occur amongst those with continuing alcohol
intake and with established end stage liver disease due to lack of specific
treatment modalities to manage this disease. Patients with severe acute alcoholic
hepatitis, a distinct subset of alcoholic liver disease have a potential for
mortality in about 25% within about 1 month despite treatment with available
specific agents such as corticosteroids and/or pentoxifylline. Hence, there is
clear need for newer and better treatment options to manage these patients. In
this article, potential emerging newer targets to manage this disease are
discussed including intestinal decontamination, caspase inhibitors, antioxidants,
and interlukins. In the background of encouraging emerging data (retrospective
data from the UNOS database and data from a case matched prospective French
study) on the beneficial effects of liver transplantation amongst patients with
alcoholic hepatitis who are non-responders to current medical treatments, this
article would also deal controversies surrounding the role and use of liver
transplantation in patients with alcoholic hepatitis. Issues such as rule of 6
months of abstinence, ethical issues, and shortage of donor organs will be
debated.


PMID: 25323125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Oct 14;15(10):18508-24. doi: 10.3390/ijms151018508.

Effects of the olive-derived polyphenol oleuropein on human health.

Barbaro B(1), Toietta G(2), Maggio R(3), Arciello M(4), Tarocchi M(5), Galli
A(6), Balsano C(7).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Virology and Oncology, Francesco Balsano Foundation,
Rome 00198, Italy. barbara.barbaro@fondazioneandreacesalpino.it. (2)Department of
Experimental Oncology, Regina Elena National Cancer Institute IRCCS, Rome 00144, 
Italy. toietta@ifo.it. (3)Laboratory of Molecular Virology and Oncology,
Francesco Balsano Foundation, Rome 00198, Italy.
roberta.maggio@fondazioneandreacesalpino.it. (4)Laboratory of Molecular Virology 
and Oncology, Francesco Balsano Foundation, Rome 00198, Italy.
mario.arciello@uniroma1.it. (5)Department of Experimental and Clinical Biomedical
Sciences, University of Florence, Florence 50139, Italy. mirko.tarocchi@unifi.it.
(6)Department of Experimental and Clinical Biomedical Sciences, University of
Florence, Florence 50139, Italy. andrea.galli@unifi.it. (7)Institute of Biology, 
Molecular Medicine and Nanobiotechnologies (IBMN), National Research Council
(CNR), Rome 00185, Italy. clara.balsano@cnr.it.

The use of the products derived from the olive tree on human health dates back
centuries. In several civilizations, the olive tree had and still has a very
strong cultural and religious symbolism. Notably, the official seal and emblem of
the World Health Organization features the rod of Asclepius over a world map
surrounded by olive tree branches, chosen as a symbol of peace and health.
Recently, accumulating experimental, clinical and epidemiological data have
provided support to the traditional beliefs of the beneficial effect provided by 
olive derivates. In particular, the polyphenols present in olive leaves, olives, 
virgin (unrefined) olive oil and olive mill waste are potent antioxidant and
radical scavengers with anti-tumor and anti-inflammatory properties. Here, we
review the positive impact on human health of oleuropein, the most prevalent
polyphenol present in olives. In addition, we provide data collected in our
laboratory on the role of oleuropein in counteracting lipid accumulation in a
mouse model of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms151018508 
PMCID: PMC4227229
PMID: 25318054  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Pediatr Res. 2015 Jan;77(1-2):245-51. doi: 10.1038/pr.2014.157. Epub 2014 Oct 13.

Gut microbiome and nonalcoholic fatty liver diseases.

Zhu L(1), Baker RD(1), Baker SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Women and Children's Hospital of Buffalo, Digestive 
Diseases and Nutrition Center, The State University of New York at Buffalo,
Buffalo, New York.

We review recent findings and hypotheses on the roles of gut microbiome in the
pathogenesis of nonalcoholic fatty liver diseases (NAFLD). Microbial metabolites 
and cell components contribute to the development of hepatic steatosis and
inflammation, key components of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the severe
form of NAFLD. Altered gut microbiome can independently cause obesity, the most
important risk factor for NAFLD. This capability is attributed to short-chain
fatty acids (SCFAs), major gut microbial fermentation products. SCFAs account for
a large portion of caloric intake of the host, and they enhance intestinal
absorption by activating GLP-2 signaling. However, elevated SCFAs may be an
adaptive measure to suppress colitis, which could be a higher priority than
imbalanced calorie intake. The microbiome of NASH patients features an elevated
capacity for alcohol production. The pathomechanisms for alcoholic
steatohepatitis may apply to NASH. NAFLD/NASH is associated with elevated
Gram-negative microbiome and endotoxemia. However, many NASH patients exhibited
normal serum endotoxin indicating that endotoxemia is not required for the
pathogenesis of NASH. These observations suggest that microbial intervention may 
benefit NAFLD/NASH patients. However, very limited effects were observed using
traditional probiotic species. Novel probiotic therapy based on NAFLD/NASH
specific microbial composition represents a promising future direction.

DOI: 10.1038/pr.2014.157 
PMID: 25310763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


574. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 7;20(37):13493-500. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i37.13493.

Recent insights into farnesoid X receptor in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Xu JY(1), Li ZP(1), Zhang L(1), Ji G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jiao-Ya Xu, Zhong-Ping Li, Li Zhang, Guang Ji, Institute of Digestive
Diseases, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai 200032, China.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of
metabolic syndrome and is one of the most prevalent liver disorders worldwide.
NAFLD can gradually progress to liver inflammation, fibrosis, cirrhosis and even 
hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the pathogenesis of NAFLD is complex, and no
efficient pharmaceutic treatments have yet been established for NAFLD.
Accumulating data have shown that the farnesoid X receptor (FXR) plays important 
roles not only in bile acid metabolism, but also in lipid and carbohydrate
homeostasis, inflammatory responses, among others. In this review, we aim to
highlight the role of FXR in the pathogenesis and treatment of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i37.13493 
PMCID: PMC4188900
PMID: 25309079  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


575. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct 7;20(37):13306-24. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i37.13306.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and vascular disease: state-of-the-art.

Fargion S(1), Porzio M(1), Fracanzani AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Silvia Fargion, Marianna Porzio, Anna Ludovica Fracanzani, Department of
Pathophysiology and Transplantation, Metabolic Liver Diseases Research Center,
Ca' Granda IRCCS Foundation, Policlinico Hospital Pad Granelli, 20122 Milano,
Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most common of chronic liver
disease in Western Country, is closely related to insulin resistance and
oxidative stress and includes a wide spectrum of liver diseases ranging from
steatosis alone, usually a benign and non-progressive condition, to nonalcoholic 
steatohepatitis (NASH), which may progress to liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. NAFLD
is considered the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome with which
shares several characteristics, however recent data suggest that NAFLD is linked 
to increased cardiovascular risk independently of the broad spectrum of risk
factors of metabolic syndrome. Accumulating evidence suggests that the clinical
burden of NAFLD is not restricted to liver-related morbidity and mortality, with 
the majority of deaths in NAFLD patients related to cardiovascular disease and
cancer and not to the progression of liver disease. Retrospective and prospective
studies provide evidence of a strong association between NAFLD and subclinical
manifestation of atherosclerosis (increased intima-media thickness, endothelial
dysfunction, arterial stiffness, impaired left ventricular function and coronary 
calcification). A general agreement emerging from these studies indicates that
patients with NASH are at higher risk of cardiovascular diseases than those with 
simple steatosis, emphasizing the role of chronic inflammation in the
pathogenesis of atherosclerosis of these patients. It is very likely that the
different mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in patients 
with NAFLD have a different relevance in the patients according to individual
genetic background. In conclusion, in the presence of NAFLD patients should
undergo a complete cardiovascular evaluation to prevent future atherosclerotic
complications. Specific life-style modification and aggressive pharmaceutical
modification will not only reduce the progression of liver disease, but also
reduce morbidity for cardiovascular disease improving overall prognosis and
survival.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i37.13306 
PMCID: PMC4188888
PMID: 25309067  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Handb Clin Neurol. 2014;125:589-602. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-62619-6.00034-3.

Hepatic encephalopathy in alcoholic cirrhosis.

Butterworth RF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Unit, Hôpital St-Luc (CHUM), University of Montreal,
Montreal, Qc., Canada. Electronic address: rb@enceph.com.

Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a serious neuropsychiatric complication of
cirrhosis in alcoholic patients that is characterized clinically by personality
changes, sleep abnormalities, and impaired motor coordination, as well as
cognitive dysfunction progressing to stupor and coma. Procedures used for
diagnosis and grading of HE include neurologic assessment,
electroencephalography, psychometric testing, and use of the critical flicker
frequency test. Neuropathologically, HE in cirrhosis is principally a disorder of
neuroglia characterized by Alzheimer type II astrocytosis and activation of
microglia. However, thalamic and cerebellar neuronal pathologies have been noted 
as well as lesions to globus pallidus and substantia nigra, leading to a
condition known as "parkinsonism in cirrhosis." Multiple mechanisms have been
proposed to account for the pathogenesis of HE in cirrhosis, including the
neurotoxic actions of ammonia and manganese (normally removed via the
hepatobiliary route), impaired brain energy metabolism, central proinflammatory
mechanisms, and alterations of both excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. 
Treatment of HE in cirrhosis continues to rely on ammonia-lowering strategies
such as lactulose, antibiotics, probiotics and l-ornithine l-aspartate with
nutritional management consisting of adequate (but not excessive) dietary protein
and vitamin B1 supplements. l-DOPA may improve parkinsonian symptoms. Liver
transplantation leads to recovery of central nervous system function in the
majority of cases.

© 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-62619-6.00034-3 
PMID: 25307598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2014;14(10):791-804.

Long chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in pediatric metabolic syndrome.

Pacifico L, Giansanti S, Gallozzi A, Chiesa C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Translational Pharmacology, National Research Council, Via del
Fosso del Cavaliere, 100, 00133-Rome, Italy. claudio.chiesa@ift.cnr.it.

Concomitantly with the increasing prevalence of childhood obesity, the prevalence
of metabolic syndrome (MetS) is rising among children and adolescents, leading to
fears for future epidemics of type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease
in the young. MetS includes central obesity, hypertension, low HDL cholesterol,
high triglycerides, and elevated concentrations of fasting blood glucose.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which is the most common cause of
chronic liver disease both in adults and children, is currently considered as the
hepatic component of MetS. Growing evidence suggests that n-3 long-chain
polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) may have a beneficial role on many factors
associated with MetS, including circulating lipids and low-grade chronic
inflammation. Recently, there has also been growing interest in n-3 LC-PUFAs
supplementation as potential treatment for NAFLD, which is pathogenically linked 
to insulin resistance and involves inflammation in its advanced stages. Problems 
of adherence to lifestyle interventions, especially in children, and side effects
with pharmacological agents make the dietary fish oil supplementation a simple
and practical alternative therapy. Fish oil provides a convenient source of
essential n-3 LCPUFA with few side effects, and may directly decrease circulating
lipids, hepatic lipogenesis and steatosis, and chronic inflammation. In this
review, we examine observational and interventional studies assessing in children
and adolescents the potential impact of dietary n-3 PUFA supplementation on MetS 
components including NAFLD, and discuss the mechanisms underlying the actions of 
n-3 LC- PUFA on multiple risk factors associated with MetS.


PMID: 25307311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Transplant Rev (Orlando). 2015 Jan;29(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.trre.2014.08.002.
Epub 2014 Aug 27.

Liver disease in kidney transplant recipients.

Gunderson A(1), Said A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
University of Wisconsin, School of Medicine and Public Health, Wm. S Middleton VA
Medical center, Madison, WI 53705, USA. (2)Department of Medicine, Division of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Wisconsin, School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Wm. S Middleton VA Medical center, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
Electronic address: axs@medicine.wisc.edu.

Kidney transplant recipients can develop acute and chronic liver disease from a
variety of conditions. Chronic viral hepatitis from hepatitis C is seen in
increased frequency in hemodialysis patients. Genetic conditions, such as
polycystic kidney disease, which lead to the need for kidney transplantation are 
also associated with liver diseases including congenital hepatic fibrosis and
polycystic liver disease. Other conditions that can induce liver disease in this 
immune-suppressed population include a multitude of viral infections, as well as 
other systemic infections that can involve the liver. Drug induced liver injury
is also seen in increased rates due to the use of poly-pharmacy, the effect of
immune-suppression on drug metabolizing pathways in the liver and the potential
of drug to drug interactions. Post transplant metabolic syndrome is also
increased in kidney transplant recipients and this can lead to development of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. A knowledge of the presentation of these liver
diseases is essential in diagnosing the cause of liver disease as well as
informing the diagnostic workup. Specific therapies for the various conditions
will also be discussed in this review.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trre.2014.08.002 
PMID: 25306468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Arch Iran Med. 2014 Oct;17(10):713-21. doi: 0141710/AIM.0013.

Systematic review: endocrine abnormalities in patients with liver cirrhosis.

Eshraghian A(1), Taghavi SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Science, Shiraz,
Iran.Eshraghiana@yahoo.com. (2)1)Department of Internal Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Science, Shiraz, Iran. 2)Gatroenterohepatology Research
Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Cirrhosis is the end stage of many different forms of acute and
chronic liver damages. Interactions between liver and endocrine system is
significant, because liver is the main organ of metabolism and catabolism of many
proteins.
AIM: In this study, current literature about endocrine abnormalities among
patients with liver cirrhosis was reviewed.
METHODS: A PubMed search was performed on English literature from January 1990
onward to find human studies reporting endocrine dysfunction in liver cirrhosis. 
Relevant articles were included and reviewed by two expert reviewers. Data were
summarized ant tabulated in separate categories for each endocrine involvement.
RESULTS: Among 944 studies, 36 articles were eligible for review. Growth hormone 
resistance and low Insulin like growth factor-1 are prevalent in patients with
liver cirrhosis with negative impact on prognosis. Thyroid dysfunction is mostly 
seen in the form of sick euthyroid syndrome. Osteoporosis is also prevalent in
cirrhosis but the exact mechanism is not clear. Adrenal insufficiency is a
prevalent clinical feature both in compensated and critically ill patients with
cirrhosis with negative impact on patients' outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Disorders of endocrine system is prevalent in cirrhosis. These
patients should be checked and treated for these disorders to achieve a stable
clinical situation and prepare for liver transplantation.

DOI: 0141710/AIM.0013 
PMID: 25305772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:120179. doi: 10.1155/2014/120179. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Autophagy and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Lavallard VJ(1), Gual P(2).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, U1065, Bâtiment Universitaire Archimed, Team 8 "Hepatic Complications 
in Obesity", 151 Route Saint Antoine de Ginestière, BP 2 3194, 06204 Nice Cedex
03, France ; Faculty of Medicine, University of Nice-Sophia-Antipolis, 06107 Nice
Cedex 2, France. (2)INSERM, U1065, Bâtiment Universitaire Archimed, Team 8
"Hepatic Complications in Obesity", 151 Route Saint Antoine de Ginestière, BP 2
3194, 06204 Nice Cedex 03, France ; Faculty of Medicine, University of
Nice-Sophia-Antipolis, 06107 Nice Cedex 2, France ; Centre Hospitalier
Universitaire of Nice, Digestive Center, 06202 Nice Cedex 3, France.

Autophagy, or cellular self-digestion, is a catabolic process that targets cell
constituents including damaged organelles, unfolded proteins, and intracellular
pathogens to lysosomes for degradation. Autophagy is crucial for development,
differentiation, survival, and homeostasis. Important links between the
regulation of autophagy and liver complications associated with obesity,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), have been reported. The spectrum of
these hepatic abnormalities extends from isolated steatosis to non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), steatofibrosis, which sometimes leads to cirrhosis, and
hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD is one of the three main causes of cirrhosis and 
increases the risk of liver-related death and hepatocellular carcinoma. The
pathophysiological mechanisms of the progression of a normal liver to steatosis
and then more severe disease are complex and still unclear. The regulation of the
autophagic flux, a dynamic response, and the knowledge of the role of autophagy
in specific cells including hepatocytes, hepatic stellate cells, immune cells,
and hepatic cancer cells have been extensively studied these last years. This
review will provide insight into the current understanding of autophagy and its
role in the evolution of the hepatic complications associated with obesity, from 
steatosis to hepatocellular carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/120179 
PMCID: PMC4175790
PMID: 25295245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


581. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2014 Nov-Dec;48 Suppl 1:S87-90. doi:
10.1097/MCG.0000000000000240.

Coffee and liver health.

Morisco F(1), Lembo V, Mazzone G, Camera S, Caporaso N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples "Federico
II," Naples, Italy.

Coffee is one of the most widely used beverages in the world. It includes a wide 
array of components that can have potential implications for health. Several
epidemiological studies associate coffee consumption with a reduced incidence of 
various chronic diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and
neurodegenerative diseases. Over the past 20 years, an increasing number of
epidemiological and experimental studies have demonstrated the positive effects
of coffee on chronic liver diseases. Coffee consumption has been inversely
associated with the activity of liver enzymes in subjects at risk, including
heavy drinkers. Coffee favours an improvement in hepatic steatosis and fibrosis, 
and a reduction in cirrhosis and the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma. The
mechanisms of action through which it exerts its beneficial effects are not fully
understood. Experimental studies show that coffee consumption reduces fat
accumulation and collagen deposition in the liver and promotes antioxidant
capacity through an increase in glutathione as well as modulation of the gene and
protein expression of several inflammatory mediators. Animal and in vitro studies
indicate that cafestol and kahweol, 2 diterpens, can operate by modulating
multiple enzymes involved in the detoxification process of carcinogens causing
hepatocellular carcinoma. It is unclear whether the benefits are significant
enough to "treat" patients with chronic liver disease. While we await
clarification, moderate daily unsweetened coffee use is a reasonable adjuvant to 
therapy for these patients.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000000240 
PMID: 25291138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


582. J Hepatol. 2015 Jan;62(1):219-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.09.023. Epub 2014 Oct 
2.

Acid sphingomyelinase-ceramide system in steatohepatitis: a novel target
regulating multiple pathways.

Garcia-Ruiz C(1), Mato JM(2), Vance D(3), Kaplowitz N(4), Fernández-Checa JC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Death and Proliferation, Instituto Investigaciones
Biomédicas de Barcelona, CSIC, Barcelona, Spain; Liver Unit-Hospital
Clinic-IDIBAPS, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red
(CIBERehd), Barcelona, Spain; University of Southern California Research Center
for Alcohol Liver and Pancreatic Diseases and Cirrhosis, Keck School of Medicine,
USC, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address: cgrbam@iibb.csic.es. (2)Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red (CIBERehd), Barcelona, Spain; CIC bioGUNE, Parque 
Tecnológico de Bizkaia, Bizkaia, Spain. (3)Department of Biochemistry and Group
on the Molecular and Cell Biology of Lipids, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada. (4)Division of Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases, Keck School 
of Medicine, University of Southern California Research Center for Liver
Diseases, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, USA. (5)Department of
Cell Death and Proliferation, Instituto Investigaciones Biomédicas de Barcelona, 
CSIC, Barcelona, Spain; Liver Unit-Hospital Clinic-IDIBAPS, Barcelona, Spain;
Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red (CIBERehd), Barcelona, Spain; University
of Southern California Research Center for Alcohol Liver and Pancreatic Diseases 
and Cirrhosis, Keck School of Medicine, USC, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic
address: checa229@yahoo.com.

Steatohepatitis (SH) is an intermediate stage of fatty liver disease and is one
of the most common causes of chronic liver disease worldwide that may progress to
cirrhosis and liver cancer. SH encompasses alcoholic and non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis, the latter being of particular concern as it is associated with 
obesity and insulin resistance and has become a major cause of liver
transplantation. The molecular mechanisms governing the transition from steatosis
to SH are not fully understood. Here we discuss emerging data indicating that the
acid sphingomyelinase (ASMase), a specific mechanism of ceramide generation, is
required for the activation of key pathways that regulate steatosis, fibrosis and
lipotoxicity, including endoplasmic reticulum stress, autophagy and lysosomal
membrane permeabilization. Moreover, ASMase modulates alterations of the
methionine cycle and phosphatidylcholine homeostasis, two crucial events involved
in SH that regulate methylation reactions, antioxidant defence and membrane
integrity. These new findings suggest that targeting ASMase in combination with
restoring methionine metabolism and phosphatidylcholine levels may be of utility 
in the treatment of SH.

Copyright © 2014 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.09.023 
PMID: 25281863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


583. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 28;20(36):13079-87. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.13079.

Role of Nrf2 in chronic liver disease.

Tang W(1), Jiang YF(1), Ponnusamy M(1), Diallo M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wei Tang, Yong-Fang Jiang, Liver Diseases Research Center, The Second Xiangya 
Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410011, Hunan Province, China.

Nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a central regulator of
antioxidative response elements-mediated gene expression. It has a significant
role in adaptive responses to oxidative stress by interacting with the
antioxidant response element, which induces the expression of a variety of
downstream targets aimed at cytoprotection. Previous studies suggested oxidative 
stress and associated damage could represent a common link between different
forms of diseases. Oxidative stress has been implicated in various liver
diseases, including viral hepatitis, nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease/steatohepatitis, alcoholic liver disease and drug-induced liver injury.
Nrf2 activation is initiated by oxidative or electrophilic stress, and aids in
the detoxification and elimination of potentially harmful exogenous chemicals and
their metabolites. The expression of Nrf2 has been observed throughout human
tissue, with high expression in detoxification organs, especially the liver.
Thus, Nrf2 may serve as a major regulator of several cellular defense associated 
pathways by which hepatic cells combat oxidative stress. We review the relevant
literature concerning the crucial role of Nrf2 and its signaling pathways against
oxidative stress to protect hepatic cell from oxidative damage during development
of common chronic liver diseases. We also review the use of Nrf2 as a therapeutic
target to prevent and treat liver diseases.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.13079 
PMCID: PMC4177487
PMID: 25278702  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


584. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 28;20(36):12956-80. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.12956.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: what the clinician needs to know.

Machado MV(1), Cortez-Pinto H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mariana Verdelho Machado, Helena Cortez-Pinto, Departamento de
Gastrenterologia, Laboratório de Nutrição, Hospital Universitário de Santa Maria,
Lisbon 1649-035, Portugal.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most frequent cause of liver
disease in the Western world. Furthermore, it is increasing worldwide,
paralleling the obesity pandemic. Though highly frequent, only about one fifth of
affected subjects are at risk of developing the progressive form of the disease, 
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with fibrosis. Even in the latter, liver disease is
slowly progressive, though, since it is so prevalent, it is already the third
cause of liver transplantation in the United States, and it is predicted to get
to the top of the ranking in few years. Of relevance, fatty liver is also
associated with increased overall mortality and particularly increased
cardiovascular mortality. The literature and amount of published papers on NAFLD 
is increasing as fast as its prevalence, which makes it difficult to keep updated
in this topic. This review aims to summarize the latest knowledge on NAFLD, in
order to help clinicians understanding its pathogenesis and advances on diagnosis
and treatment.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.12956 
PMCID: PMC4177476
PMID: 25278691  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


585. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 28;20(36):12945-55. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.12945.

Hepatocellular carcinoma in nonalcoholic fatty liver: role of environmental and
genetic factors.

Dongiovanni P(1), Romeo S(1), Valenti L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Paola Dongiovanni, Luca Valenti, Internal Medicine 1B, Fondazione IRCCS Ca'
Granda Ospedale Policlinico, 20122 Milano, Italy.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fourth cause of cancer related mortality,
and its incidence is rapidly increasing. Viral hepatitis, alcohol abuse, and
exposure to hepatotoxins are major risk factors, but nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) associated with obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes,
is an increasingly recognized trigger, especially in developed countries. Older
age, severity of insulin resistance and diabetes, and iron overload have been
reported to predispose to HCC in this context. Remarkably, HCCs have been
reported in non-cirrhotic livers in a higher proportion of cases in NAFLD
patients than in other etiologies. Inherited factors have also been implicated to
explain the different individual susceptibility to develop HCC, and their role
seems magnified in fatty liver, where only a minority of affected subjects
progresses to cancer. In particular, the common I148M variant of the PNPLA3 gene 
influencing hepatic lipid metabolism influences HCC risk independently of its
effect on the progression of liver fibrosis. Recently, rare loss-of-function
mutations in Apolipoprotein B resulting in very low density lipoproteins hepatic 
retention and in Telomerase reverse transcriptase influencing cellular senescence
have also been linked to HCC in NAFLD. Indeed, hepatic stellate cells senescence 
has been suggested to bridge tissue aging with alterations of the intestinal
microbiota in the pathogenesis of obesity-related HCC. A deeper understanding of 
the mechanisms mediating hepatic carcinogenesis during insulin resistance, and
the identification of its genetic determinants will hopefully provide new
diagnostic and therapeutic tools.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.12945 
PMCID: PMC4177475
PMID: 25278690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


586. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 28;20(36):12934-44. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.12934.

Alcoholic liver disease: treatment.

Suk KT(1), Kim MY(1), Baik SK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ki Tae Suk, Department of Internal Medicine, Hallym University College of
Medicine, Chuncheon 200-704, South Korea.

The excess consumption of alcohol is associated with alcoholic liver diseases
(ALD). ALD is a major healthcare problem, personal and social burden, and
significant reason for economic loss worldwide. The ALD spectrum includes
alcoholic fatty liver, alcoholic hepatitis, cirrhosis, and the development of
hepatocellular carcinoma. The diagnosis of ALD is based on a combination of
clinical features, including a history of significant alcohol intake, evidence of
liver disease, and laboratory findings. Abstinence is the most important
treatment for ALD and the treatment plan varies according to the stage of the
disease. Various treatments including abstinence, nutritional therapy,
pharmacological therapy, psychotherapy, and surgery are currently available. For 
severe alcoholic hepatitis, corticosteroid or pentoxifylline are recommended
based on the guidelines. In addition, new therapeutic targets are being under
investigation.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.12934 
PMCID: PMC4177474
PMID: 25278689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


587. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 28;20(36):12908-33. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.12908.

New advances in molecular mechanisms and emerging therapeutic targets in
alcoholic liver diseases.

Williams JA(1), Manley S(1), Ding WX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jessica A Williams, Sharon Manley, Wen-Xing Ding, Department of Pharmacology, 
Toxicology and Therapeutics, The University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas
City, KS 66160, United States.

Alcoholic liver disease is a major health problem in the United States and
worldwide. Chronic alcohol consumption can cause steatosis, inflammation,
fibrosis, cirrhosis and even liver cancer. Significant progress has been made to 
understand key events and molecular players for the onset and progression of
alcoholic liver disease from both experimental and clinical alcohol studies. No
successful treatments are currently available for treating alcoholic liver
disease; therefore, development of novel pathophysiological-targeted therapies is
urgently needed. This review summarizes the recent progress on animal models used
to study alcoholic liver disease and the detrimental factors that contribute to
alcoholic liver disease pathogenesis including miRNAs, S-adenosylmethionine, Zinc
deficiency, cytosolic lipin-1β, IRF3-mediated apoptosis, RIP3-mediated necrosis
and hepcidin. In addition, we summarize emerging adaptive protective effects
induced by alcohol to attenuate alcohol-induced liver pathogenesis including
FoxO3, IL-22, autophagy and nuclear lipin-1α.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i36.12908 
PMCID: PMC4177473
PMID: 25278688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Int Arch Allergy Immunol. 2014;165(1):1-8. doi: 10.1159/000366100. Epub 2014 Sep 
24.

The immunomodulatory role of bile acids.

Sipka S(1), Bruckner G.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary.

Enzymatic oxidation of cholesterol generates numerous distinct bile acids which
function both as detergents that facilitate the digestion and absorption of
dietary lipids and as hormones that activate five distinct receptors. Activation 
of these receptors alters gene expression in multiple tissues, leading to changes
not only in bile acid metabolism but also in glucose homeostasis, lipid and
lipoprotein metabolism, energy expenditure, intestinal motility, bacterial
growth, inflammation, and in the liver-gut axis. This review focuses on the
present knowledge regarding the physiologic and pathologic role of bile acids and
their immunomodulatory role, with particular attention to bacterial
lipopolysaccharides (endotoxins) and bile acid and immunological disorders. The
specific role that bile acids play in the regulation of innate immunity, various 
systemic inflammations, inflammatory bowel diseases, allergy, psoriasis,
cholestasis, obesity, metabolic syndrome, alcoholic liver disease, and colon
cancer will be reviewed.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000366100 
PMID: 25277277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Br J Nutr. 2014 Dec 14;112(11):1858-72. doi: 10.1017/S0007114514002591. Epub 2014
Oct 2.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: need for a balanced nutritional source.

Veena J(1), Muragundla A(1), Sidgiddi S(2), Subramaniam S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Syngene International Limited,Biocon Park, Plot No. 2&3, Bommasandra IV Phase,
Jigani Link Road,Bangalore560 099,India. (2)Clinical Research and Nutrition
Science, Abbott Nutrition Research and Development (ANRD), Syngene International 
Limited,Biocon Park, Plot No. 2&3, Bommasandra IV Phase, Jigani Link
Road,Bangalore560 099,India.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) are an increasingly common chronic liver disease closely associated with
diabetes and obesity that have reached epidemic proportions. Reports on the
prevalence of NAFLD have suggested that 27-34% of the general population in the
USA and 40-90% of the obese population worldwide have this disease. Increasing
urbanisation rate and associated inappropriate lifestyle changes are not only the
risk factors of diabetes, but also unmask genetic predisposition in various
populations for the metabolic syndrome and its manifestations including NAFLD and
NASH. Lifestyle modifications and balanced nutrition are among the foremost
management strategies along with ursodeoxycholic acid, metformin, vitamin E and
pentoxifylline. Although weight reduction associated with current therapeutic
strategies has shown some promise, maintaining it in the long run is largely
unsuccessful. With the safety of pharmacotherapy still being uncertain and can be
started only after confirmation, other reasonable interventions such as nutrition
hold promise in preventing disease progression. The role of dietary components
including branched-chain amino acids, methionine, choline and folic acid is
currently being evaluated in various clinical trials. Nutritional approaches
sought to overcome the limitations of pharmacotherapy also include evaluating the
effects of natural ingredients, such as silymarin and spirulina, on liver
disease. Understanding the specific interaction between nutrients and dietary
needs in NAFLD and maintaining this balance through either a diet or a
nutritional product thus becomes extremely important in providing a more
realistic and feasible alternative to treat NAFLD. A planned complete nutritional
combination addressing specific needs and helping to prevent the progression of
NAFLD is the need of the hour to avert people from ending up with complications.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114514002591 
PMID: 25274101  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Sep 30;15(10):17644-66. doi: 10.3390/ijms151017644.

Circulating RNA molecules as biomarkers in liver disease.

Enache LS(1), Enache EL(2), Ramière C(3), Diaz O(4), Bancu L(5), Sin A(6), André 
P(7).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Lyon, Université Lyon 1, Lyon F-69008, France.
enachesliviu@yahoo.com. (2)University of Medicine and Pharmacy Tirgu Mures, 38
Gh. Marinescu st., Tirgu Mures 540142, Romania. dincaluminita@yahoo.com.
(3)Université de Lyon, Université Lyon 1, Lyon F-69008, France.
christophe.ramiere@inserm.fr. (4)Université de Lyon, Université Lyon 1, Lyon
F-69008, France. olivier.diaz@inserm.fr. (5)University of Medicine and Pharmacy
Tirgu Mures, 38 Gh. Marinescu st., Tirgu Mures 540142, Romania.
ligiabancu@yahoo.com. (6)University of Medicine and Pharmacy Tirgu Mures, 38 Gh. 
Marinescu st., Tirgu Mures 540142, Romania. anka_sinn@yahoo.com. (7)Université de
Lyon, Université Lyon 1, Lyon F-69008, France. patrice.andre@inserm.fr.

Liver disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. As in other 
fields of medicine, there is a stringent need for non-invasive markers to improve
patient diagnostics, monitoring and prognostic ability in liver pathology.
Cell-free circulating RNA molecules have been recently acknowledged as an
important source of potential medical biomarkers. However, many aspects related
to the biology of these molecules remain to be elucidated. In this review, we
summarize current concepts related to the origin, transportation and possible
functions of cell-free RNA. We outline current development of extracellular
RNA-based biomarkers in the main forms of non-inherited liver disease: chronic
viral hepatitis, hepatocellular carcinoma, non-alcoholic fatty liver,
hepato-toxicity, and liver transplantation. Despite recent technological
advances, the lack of standardization in the assessment of these markers makes
their adoption into clinical practice difficult. We thus finally review the main 
factors influencing quantification of circulating RNA. These factors should be
considered in the reporting and interpretation of current findings, as well as in
the proper planning of future studies, to improve reliability and reproducibility
of results.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms151017644 
PMCID: PMC4227182
PMID: 25272224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2014 Sep;23(3):311-9. doi:
10.15403/jgld.2014.1121.233.yck.

A potential treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease with SIRT1 activators.

Colak Y(1), Yesil A(2), Mutlu HH(3), Caklili OT(4), Ulasoglu C(5), Senates E(5), 
Takir M(6), Kostek O(4), Yilmaz Y(7), Yilmaz Enc F(5), Tasan G(5), Tuncer I(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Istanbul Medeniyet University, School of
Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.dryasarcolak@yahoo.com. (2)Department of
Gastroenterology, Haydarpasa Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Department of Family Medicine, Istanbul Medeniyet University, School of
Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey. (4)Department of Internal Medicine, Istanbul
Medeniyet University, School of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey. (5)Department of
Gastroenterology, Istanbul Medeniyet University, School of Medicine, Istanbul,
Turkey. (6)Department of Endocrinology, Istanbul Medeniyet University, School of 
Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey. (7)Department of Gastroenterology, Marmara
University, School of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.

Sirtuins (SIRTs) are members of the silent information regulator-2 family and act
as nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)-dependent histone/protein
deacetylases. The de-acetylation of proteins and histones results in an up- or
down-regulation of gene transcription and protein function. In recent years, the 
regulatory action of the deacetylation activity of SIRT1 has been shown to have a
positive impact on the pathophysiological mechanisms of nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease (NAFLD). Among the effects of SIRT1 are: its healing activity on insulin 
sensitivity, thereby ameliorating glycemic regulation; its mimetic activity on
calorie restriction; its antihyperlipidemic activity on lipid homeostasis via the
liver, adipose tissues and skeletal muscles; its anti-inflammatory activities;
its protective effects against cardiovascular events and endothelial dysfunction;
its positive influence on autophagy, apoptosis and cancer; and finally, its
anti-aging activity. The current approach for the treatment of NAFLD involves the
treatment of etiological factors and recommendation of life-style changes
including more physical activity and a low-calorie diet. However, there is no
specific medical treatments for NAFLD. The therapeutic potential of SIRT1
activity in the treatment of NAFLD discovered in humans has been presented in
this article. In this review, the potential effects of SIRT1 activation on
NAFLD-related pathophysiological mechanisms and on the treatment of NAFLD are
discussed.


PMID: 25267960  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Nov;40(10):1155-70. doi: 10.1111/apt.12972. Epub
2014 Sep 29.

Review article: the management of paediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Mitchel EB(1), Lavine JE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Columbia
University, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Paediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a major public
health concern given the recent increase in its prevalence and link to obesity
and other metabolic comorbidities. Current treatment strategies involve lifestyle
changes. Other surgical and pharmacologic interventions have been proposed;
however, limited randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in the paediatric population
restrict their use.
AIM: To review the current management of paediatric NAFLD, including lifestyle
and pharmacologic interventions, and to formulate recommendations for study
design for future studies.
METHODS: A MEDLINE, Pubmed and Cochrane Review database search used a combination
of keywords, including NAFLD, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), paediatric,
treatments, lifestyle changes, bariatric surgery, orlistat, metformin,
thiazolidinediones, vitamin E, cysteamine bitartrate, ursodeoxycholic acid
(UDCA), probiotics, omega-3 fatty acids, pentoxyfylline, farnesoid X receptor
agonist and toll-like receptor modifiers. The articles were selected based on
their relevance to the review.
RESULTS: Lifestyle interventions involving diet and exercise remain first-line
treatment for paediatric NAFLD. Bariatric surgery, orlistat, insulin sensitisers 
and UDCA have been evaluated but are not recommended as first or second-line
therapy. Medications such as cysteamine bitartrate, probiotics, polyunsaturated
fats and pentoxyfilline share beneficial effects in trials, however, there is a
paucity of adequately powered RCTs in which liver histology is evaluated. Vitamin
E has been shown to be effective and safe in improving NASH histology in
children.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifestyle intervention should be first-line treatment for paediatric
NAFLD. Vitamin E should be considered for those with biopsy-proven NASH or
borderline NASH failing first-line therapy. Other therapeutics show promising
results but require larger RCTs with convincing endpoints. Improved screening
techniques, objective validated inclusion criteria and outcome measures as well
as rigour in study design are necessary for propelling therapeutic discovery.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12972 
PMID: 25267322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Nov;40(10):1146-54. doi: 10.1111/apt.12974. Epub
2014 Sep 28.

Review article: the management of cirrhosis in women.

Allen AM(1), Hay JE.

Author information: 
(1)Hepatology and Liver Transplantation, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: There are differences in the predisposition, natural history of liver
disease, complications and treatment response between men and women.
AIM: To review clinical differences in cirrhosis between men and women and to
address unique management issues of fertility, pregnancy and contraception in
this patient population.
METHODS: PubMed and MEDLINE were searched using the terms 'cirrhosis' and
'chronic liver disease', each cross-referenced with specific liver diseases, as
well as terms such as 'cancer', 'hepatocellular carcinoma', 'smoking', 'liver
transplantation', 'metabolic bone disease', 'fertility',' pregnancy' and
'contraception'.
RESULTS: Pre-menopausal status is protective in viral hepatitis C and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. However, smoking, especially in combination with
alcohol, is a stronger risk factor for cirrhosis and malignancies in women with
chronic liver disease compared to men, although they are less likely than men to 
develop hepatocellular carcinoma. Women with cirrhosis have more osteopenic bone 
disease than men and require active management. Successful pregnancy is possible 
in well-compensated cirrhosis or with mild portal hypertension, although the
maternal and foetal mortality and morbidity are higher than in the general
population. The maternal risk correlates with liver disease severity and derives 
mostly from variceal bleeding. The choices for contraception in compensated
cirrhosis are generally the same as for the general population. Women with
cirrhosis are disadvantaged by the current MELD system of organ allocation, at
least in part due to body size.
CONCLUSION: The management of women with chronic liver disease is unique in
regards to counselling, screening for complications, fertility and pregnancy.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12974 
PMID: 25263269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Ann Transplant. 2014 Sep 29;19:488-93. doi: 10.12659/AOT.890753.

Primary biliary cirrhosis in the era of liver transplantation.

Raczyńska J(1), Habior A(2), Pączek L(3), Foroncewicz B(3), Pawełas A(2), Mucha
K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Transplantology and Internal Medicine, Medical
University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland. (2)Department of Gastroenterology,
Hepatology and Oncology, Medical Center for Postgraduate Education, Oncology
Center, Warsaw, Poland. (3)Department of Immunology, Transplantology and Internal
Diseases, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is an autoimmune disease of the liver,
characterized by the presence of antimitochondrial antibodies (AMA) and
progressive immune-mediated destruction of biliary ductules, which lead to
cirrhosis. Theories of the PBC etiopathogenesis assume that the disease develops 
secondarily as an improper immunological reaction to undefined environmental
and/or infectious factors in genetically predisposed individuals. Ursodeoxycholic
acid (UDCA) is the only drug recommended to treat PBC; it delays the progression 
of liver disease, but remains only a symptomatic treatment. In the advanced stage
of PBC, the treatment of choice is liver transplantation (LTx). Nowadays, PBC is 
the third indication for LTx, after viral-related and alcoholic liver cirrhosis. 
Unfortunately, PBC recurs in 21-37% of patients at 10 years after LTx, and in 43%
at 15 years after LTx, with the median time to recurrence of 3-5.5 years.
Diagnosis of recurrent PBC (rPBC) is based on the liver histopathology. Although 
various risk factors of rPBC have been investigated, the cause of the recurrence 
is not clear. There is no specific treatment of rPBC. Together with
immunosuppression after LTx, UDCA remains the treatment of choice. New diagnostic
technologies (e.g., genomics, proteomics, cell-based therapy, and clinical study 
of the rPBC patients) may be helpful in understanding the pathogenesis of PBC and
the development of new treatment modalities.

DOI: 10.12659/AOT.890753 
PMID: 25262831  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Saudi J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep-Oct;20(5):270-8. doi: 10.4103/1319-3767.141684.

The effect of bariatric surgeries on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Hassanian M(1), Al-Mulhim A, Al-Sabhan A, Al-Amro S, Bamehriz F, Abdo A, Al
Khalidi H, Aldoheyan TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, King Khalid University Hospital,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Erratum in
    Saudi J Gastroenterol. 2015 Sep-Oct;21(5):341. Aldoheyan, Tamader A [added].

OBJECTIVE: A review of published data addressing hepatic histopathological,
metabolical, and functional changes following gastric banding, sleeve
gastrectomy, gastric bypass surgery, and biliopancreatic with duodenal switch
surgeries on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD is currently the
most common chronic liver disease. Owing to the strong relationship between
obesity and NAFLD, the idea of weight reduction as a method to treat NAFLD has
rapidly emerged. Bariatric surgery has proved to be the most efficient method for
weight reduction; hence, their beneficial effects on NAFLD have been evaluated by
several studies. A literature review of published data was performed during the
years 2012-2014 using PubMed with the following key words: Bariatric, NAFLD,
steatosis, sleeve gastrectomy, gastric bypass, gastric banding, biliopancreatic
diversion with duodenal switch, obesity, and insulin resistance (IR). Exclusion
criteria were non-English articles and inherited NAFLD, pregnancy-induced NAFLD, 
and children. The majority of published data are in favor of indicating that
bariatric surgeries improve the histologic and metabolic changes associated with 
NAFLD. The suggested mechanisms are: The reversal of IR, reduction of
inflammatory markers, and improved histological features of NAFLD. Accordingly,
bariatric surgeries are potentially one of the future methods in treating
patients with morbid obesity and NAFLD. However, some questions remain
unanswered, such as whether timing of surgery, type of surgery most effective,
and whether bariatric surgeries are capable of curing the disease. Long-term and 
well-designed prospective studies are needed to address these issues.

DOI: 10.4103/1319-3767.141684 
PMCID: PMC4196341
PMID: 25253361  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Curr Med Chem. 2014;21(35):3999-4012.

Association between polycystic ovary syndrome and metabolic syndrome.

Vélez LM, Motta AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Pharmacological and Botanical Studies, School of Medicine,
University of Buenos Aires, Paraguay 2155 (1121), Buenos Aires, Argentina.
aliciabmotta@yahoo.com.ar.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine and metabolic
disorder affecting women in reproductive age. Although the etiology of PCOS
remains unclear, it is believed to result from genetic, environmental and
behavioral interactions. Women with PCOS have higher lifetime risk for
cardiovascular disease (CVR) than healthy women at the same age and tend to
display insulin resistance (IR). IR has traditionally been defined as a decreased
ability of insulin to mediate the metabolic actions on glucose uptake, glucose
production, and/or lipolysis. This results in a requirement for increased amounts
of insulin to achieve a given metabolic action. Metabolic syndrome (MS) includes 
hyperinsulinemia, dyslipidemia, increased CVR and hyperleptinemia and metabolic
disorders such as hypertension, IR, gestational diabetes, type 2 diabetes
mellitus, systemic inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. The prevalence of MS
in women is around 50 %. In addition, it has been recently suggested that women
with MS show increased circulating androgens. The present review discusses the
main alterations and features of PCOS and MS and the most important treatments.


PMID: 25245380  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Cell Metab. 2014 Oct 7;20(4):573-91. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2014.08.005. Epub 2014
Sep 18.

Thiazolidinediones and the promise of insulin sensitization in type 2 diabetes.

Soccio RE(1), Chen ER(1), Lazar MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
Department of Genetics, and The Institute for Diabetes, Obesity, and Metabolism, 
Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA
19104, USA. (2)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of
Medicine, Department of Genetics, and The Institute for Diabetes, Obesity, and
Metabolism, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. Electronic address: lazar@mail.med.upenn.edu.

Type 2 diabetes is caused by insulin resistance coupled with an inability to
produce enough insulin to control blood glucose, and thiazolidinediones (TZDs)
are the only current antidiabetic agents that function primarily by increasing
insulin sensitivity. However, despite clear benefits in glycemic control, this
class of drugs has recently fallen into disuse due to concerns over side effects 
and adverse events. Here we review the clinical data and attempt to balance the
benefits and risks of TZD therapy. We also examine potential mechanisms of action
for the beneficial and harmful effects of TZDs, mainly via agonism of the nuclear
receptor PPARγ. Based on critical appraisal of both preclinical and clinical
studies, we discuss the prospect of harnessing the insulin sensitizing effects of
PPARγ for more effective, safe, and potentially personalized treatments of type 2
diabetes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2014.08.005 
PMCID: PMC4192012
PMID: 25242225  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Adv Clin Chem. 2014;65:91-142.

Metabolic syndrome in pediatrics.

Kursawe R, Santoro N.

The ever growing prevalence of childhood obesity is being accompanied by an
increase in the pediatric population of diseases once believed to be exclusive of
the adulthood such as the metabolic syndrome (MS). The MS has been defined as the
link between insulin resistance, hypertension, dyslipidemia, impaired glucose
tolerance, and other metabolic abnormalities associated with an increased risk of
atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases in adults. In this review, we will
discuss the peculiar aspects of the pediatric MS and the role of novel molecules 
and biomarkers in its pathogenesis.


PMID: 25233612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Biochem Soc Trans. 2014 Oct;42(5):1447-52. doi: 10.1042/BST20140138.

Deciphering non-alcoholic fatty liver disease through metabolomics.

Cano A(1), Alonso C(1).

Author information: 
(1)*OWL, Parque Científico y Tecnológico de Bizkaia, Spain.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common liver
disorders in industrialized countries. NAFLD develops in the absence of alcohol
abuse and encompasses a wide spectrum of disorders ranging from benign fatty
liver to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH often leads to fibrosis,
cirrhosis and, finally, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Therefore the earlier
NAFLD is diagnosed, the better the patient's outlook. A tightly connected basic
and applied research is essential to find the molecular mechanisms that accompany
illness and to translate them into the clinic. From the simple starting point for
triacylglycerol (TG) accumulation in the liver to the more complex implications
of phospholipids in membrane biophysics, the influence of lipids may be the clue 
to understand NAFLD pathophysiology. Nowadays, it is achievable to diagnose
non-invasively the initial symptoms to stop, revert or even prevent disease
development. In this context, merging metabolomics with other techniques and the 
interpretation of the huge information obtained resembles the 'Rosetta stone' to 
decipher the pathological metabolic fluxes that must be targeted to find a cure. 
In the present review, we have tackled the application of metabolomics to find
out the metabolic fluxes that underlie membrane integrity in NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1042/BST20140138 
PMID: 25233430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Biochem Soc Trans. 2014 Oct;42(5):1409-13. doi: 10.1042/BST20140119.

Histone variants and lipid metabolism.

Borghesan M(1), Mazzoccoli G(1), Sheedfar F(2), Oben J(3), Pazienza V(1),
Vinciguerra M.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Medical Sciences, IRCCS 'Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza'
Hospital, 71013 San Giovanni Rotondo, Italy. (2)†Department of Molecular
Genetics, University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, 9700 RB
Groningen, The Netherlands. (3)‡Institute for Liver and Digestive Health,
Division of Medicine, University College London, Royal Free Hospital, London NW3 
2PF, U.K.

Within nucleosomes, canonical histones package the genome, but they can be
opportunely replaced with histone variants. The incorporation of histone variants
into the nucleosome is a chief cellular strategy to regulate transcription and
cellular metabolism. In pathological terms, cellular steatosis is an abnormal
accumulation of lipids, which reflects impairment in the turnover of
triacylglycerols, affecting any organ but mainly the liver. The present review
aims to summarize the experimental evidence for histone variant functions in
lipid metabolism.

DOI: 10.1042/BST20140119 
PMID: 25233423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


601. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 14;20(34):12182-201. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i34.12182.

Management of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: an evidence-based clinical
practice review.

Arab JP(1), Candia R(1), Zapata R(1), Muñoz C(1), Arancibia JP(1), Poniachik
J(1), Soza A(1), Fuster F(1), Brahm J(1), Sanhueza E(1), Contreras J(1), Cuellar 
MC(1), Arrese M(1), Riquelme A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Juan P Arab, Roberto Candia, Alejandro Soza, M Carolina Cuellar, Marco Arrese,
Arnoldo Riquelme, Departamento de Gastroenterología, Escuela de Medicina,
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 8330024 Santiago, Chile.

AIM: To build a consensus among Chilean specialists on the appropriate management
of patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in clinical practice.
METHODS: NAFLD has now reached epidemic proportions worldwide. The optimal
treatment for NAFLD has not been established due to a lack of evidence-based
recommendations. An expert panel of members of the Chilean Gastroenterological
Society and the Chilean Hepatology Association conducted a structured analysis of
the current literature on NAFLD therapy. The quality of the evidence and the
level of recommendations supporting each statement were assessed according to the
recommendations of the United States Preventive Services Task Force. A modified
three-round Delphi technique was used to reach a consensus among the experts.
RESULTS: A group of thirteen experts was established. The survey included 17
open-ended questions that were distributed among the experts, who assessed the
articles associated with each question. The levels of agreement achieved by the
panel were 93.8% in the first round and 100% in the second and third rounds. The 
final recommendations support the indication of lifestyle changes, including diet
and exercise, for all patients with NAFLD. Proven pharmacological therapies
include only vitamin E and pioglitazone, which can be used in nondiabetic
patients with biopsy-proven nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (the progressive form of
NAFLD), although the long-term safety and efficacy of these therapies have not
yet been established.
CONCLUSION: Current NAFLD management is rapidly evolving, and new
pathophysiology-based therapies are expected to be introduced in the near future.
All NAFLD patients should be evaluated using a three-focused approach that
considers the risks of liver disease, diabetes and cardiovascular events.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i34.12182 
PMCID: PMC4161803
PMID: 25232252  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


602. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 14;20(34):12082-101. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i34.12082.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a comprehensive review of a growing epidemic.

Hassan K(1), Bhalla V(1), El Regal ME(1), A-Kader HH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kareem Hassan, Varun Bhalla, Mohammed Ezz El Regal, H Hesham A-Kader, Division
of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of Pediatrics, The
University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85724, United States.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is quickly becoming one of the most
prominent causes of liver disease worldwide. The increasing incidence of NAFLD is
tied to the obesity epidemic and the subsequent metabolic derangements brought
along with it. Current efforts to elucidate the mechanism and causes of the
disease have answered some questions, but much remains unknown about NAFLD. The
aim of this article is to discuss the current knowledge regarding the
pathogenesis of the disease, as well as the current and future diagnostic,
preventative, and therapeutic options available to clinicians for the management 
of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i34.12082 
PMCID: PMC4161796
PMID: 25232245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


603. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 14;20(34):11935-8. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i34.11935.

Outcomes after liver transplantation for combined alcohol and hepatitis C virus
infection.

Khan R(1), Singal AK(1), Anand BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rashid Khan, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Texas 
Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555, United States.

Alcohol abuse and chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection are two major causes 
of chronic liver disease in the United States. About 10%-15% of liver transplants
performed in the United States are for patients with cirrhosis due to combined
alcohol and HCV infection. Data on outcomes on graft and patient survival, HCV
recurrence, and relapse of alcohol use comparing transplants in hepatitis C
positive drinkers compared to alcohol abuse or hepatitis C alone are conflicting 
in the literature. Some studies report a slightly better overall outcome in
patients who were transplanted for alcoholic cirrhosis vs those transplanted for 
HCV alone or for combined HCV and alcohol related cirrhosis. However, some other 
studies do not support these observations. However, most studies are limited to a
retrospective design or small sample size. Larger prospective multicenter studies
are needed to better define the outcomes in hepatitis C drinkers.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i34.11935 
PMCID: PMC4161779
PMID: 25232228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


604. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 14;20(34):11929-34. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i34.11929.

Alcoholic hepatitis and concomitant hepatitis C virus infection.

Shoreibah M(1), Anand BS(1), Singal AK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mohamed Shoreibah, Ashwani K Singal, Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, University of Alabama Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294-0012, United
States.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and alcohol abuse are two most important causes
of chronic liver disease in the United States. Alcoholic hepatitis is a unique
clinical syndrome among patients with chronic and active alcohol abuse with a
potential for high short-term mortality. About 20% of patients presenting with
alcoholic hepatitis have concomitant HCV infection. Mortality from alcoholic
hepatitis is increased in the presence of concomitant hepatitis C due to
synergistic interaction between HCV and alcohol in causing hepatocellular damage.
Large prospective randomized studies are needed to develop guidelines on the use 
of corticosteroids among patients with alcoholic hepatitis and concomitant HCV
infection. The impact of antiviral therapy on mortality and outcome in the
setting of alcoholic hepatitis remains a novel area for future research.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i34.11929 
PMCID: PMC4161778
PMID: 25232227  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Adv Nutr. 2014 Sep 15;5(5):624S-633S. doi: 10.3945/an.114.005835. Print 2014 Sep.

Modulation of the gut microbiota by nutrients with prebiotic and probiotic
properties.

Druart C(1), Alligier M(1), Salazar N(1), Neyrinck AM(1), Delzenne NM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Université catholique de Louvain, Louvain Drug Research Institute, Metabolism 
and Nutrition Research Group, Brussels, Belgium. (2)Université catholique de
Louvain, Louvain Drug Research Institute, Metabolism and Nutrition Research
Group, Brussels, Belgium nathalie.delzenne@uclouvain.be.

Experimental data in animals, but also observational studies in humans, suggest
that the composition of the gut microbiota differs in obese vs. lean individuals,
in patients with vs. without diabetes, or in patients presenting other diseases
associated with obesity or nutritional disbalance, such as non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD) or cardiovascular diseases. In this review, we describe how
changes in the composition and/or activity of the gut microbiota by
administration of nutrients with probiotic or prebiotic properties can modulate
host gene expression and metabolism and thereby positively influence host adipose
tissue development and related metabolic disorders.

© 2014 American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.3945/an.114.005835 
PMCID: PMC4188246
PMID: 25225347  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Dig Liver Dis. 2015 Jan;47(1):4-11. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2014.07.170. Epub 2014 Sep
16.

The efficacy and safety of statins for the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Pastori D(1), Polimeni L(2), Baratta F(1), Pani A(1), Del Ben M(1), Angelico
F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties, Sapienza University
of Rome, Italy. (2)Department of Public Health and Infectious Diseases, Sapienza 
University of Rome, Italy. (3)Department of Public Health and Infectious
Diseases, Sapienza University of Rome, Italy. Electronic address:
francesco.angelico@uniroma1.it.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is an emerging liver disease in Western
countries and the most frequent cause of incidental elevation of serum liver
enzymes. Dyslipidaemia is frequently observed in patients with non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease, and treatment of dyslipidaemia plays a critical role in the 
overall management of these patients. Moreover, coronary artery disease remains
the most common cause of death. Statins are effective lipid-lowering agents,
associated with a lowering the risk of cardiovascular events in several
interventional randomized clinical trials. However, statins are often underused
in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and many physicians are
concerned about the prescription of statins to patients with unexplained
persistent elevation of liver enzymes or active liver disease. Based on currently
available data, statin therapy, at low-to-moderate doses, seems to be safe and
has low liver toxicity. Treatment of dyslipidaemia in patients with non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease is recommended and may also improve liver function tests. In 
these patients, the risks of not taking statins could outweigh the risks of
taking the drug. Conversely, the usefulness of statins for the treatment of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis is still a matter
of debate and randomized clinical trials of adequate size and duration are
required.

Copyright © 2014 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2014.07.170 
PMID: 25224698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Gastroenterology. 2015 Feb;148(2):307-23. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.08.045. Epub
2014 Sep 16.

Challenges to liver transplantation and strategies to improve outcomes.

Dutkowski P(1), Linecker M(1), DeOliveira ML(1), Müllhaupt B(1), Clavien PA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Swiss HPB and Transplantation Center, Departments of Surgery and Medicine,
University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. (2)Swiss HPB and Transplantation
Center, Departments of Surgery and Medicine, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: clavien@access.uzh.ch.

Liver transplantation (LT) is a highly successful treatment for many patients
with nonmalignant and malignant liver diseases. However, there is a worldwide
shortage of available organs; many patients deteriorate or die while on waiting
lists. We review the important clinical challenges to LT and the best use of the 
scarce organs. We focus on changes in indications for LT and discuss scoring
systems to best match donors with recipients and optimize outcomes, particularly 
for the sickest patients. We also cover controversial guidelines for the use of
LT in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma. Strategies
to increase the number of functional donor organs involve techniques to perfuse
the organs before implantation. Partial LT (living donor and split liver
transplantation) techniques might help to overcome organ shortages, and we
discuss small-for-size syndrome. Many new developments could increase the success
of this procedure, which is already one of the major achievements in medicine
during the second part of the 20th century.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.08.045 
PMID: 25224524  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nihon Arukoru Yakubutsu Igakkai Zasshi. 2014 Jun;49(3):159-68.

[Molecular evidences of non-ADH pathway in alcohol metabolism and Class III
alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH3)].

[Article in Japanese]

Haseba T.

Class I alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH1), a key enzyme of alcohol metabolism,
contributes around 70% to the systemic alcohol metabolism and also to the
acceleration of the metabolism due to chronic alcohol consumption by increasing
its liver content, if the liver damage or disease is not apparent. However, the
contribution of ADH1 to alcohol metabolism decreases in case of acute alcohol
poisoning or chronic alcohol consumption inducing liver damage or disease. On the
contrary, non-ADH pathway, which is independent of ADH1, increases the
contribution to alcohol metabolism in these cases, by complementing the reduced
role of ADH1. The molecular substantiality of non-ADH pathway has been still
unknown in spite of the long and hot controversy between two candidates of
microsomal ethanol oxidizing system (MEOS) and catalase. This research history
suggests the existence of other candidates. Among ADH isozymes, Class III (ADH3) 
has the highest Km for ethanol and the highest resistance to pyrazole reagents of
specific ADH inhibitors. This ADH3 was demonstrated to increase the contribution 
to alcohol metabolism in vivo dose-dependently, therefore, is a potent candidate 
of non-ADH pathway. Moreover, ADH3 is considered to increase the contribution to 
alcohol metabolism in case of alcoholic liver diseases, because the enzyme
content increases in damaged tissues with increased hydrophobicity or the
activity of the liver correlates with the accumulated alcohol consumptions of
patients with alcoholic liver diseases. Such adaptation of ADH3 to alcohol
metabolism in these pathological conditions makes patients possible to keep
drinking a lot in spite of decrease of ADH1 activity and develops alcoholism
seriously.


PMID: 25223084  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2014 Dec;15(17):2501-11. doi:
10.1517/14656566.2014.960389. Epub 2014 Sep 15.

Current pharmacotherapy for treating pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Della Corte C(1), Liccardo D, Ferrari F, Alisi A, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)IRCCS, "Bambino Gesù" Children's Hospital, Hepato-Metabolic Disease Unit ,
Rome , Italy.

INTRODUCTION: In the past decade, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) had
rapidly become one of the most common liver diseases. If efficient therapeutic
strategies will not reduce the prevalence of NAFLD in children soon, serious
deleterious effects on the quality of life of these patients in adulthood are
expected. Lifestyle modification is the current first-line therapy for pediatric 
NAFLD, even though it is difficult to obtain and to maintain. Therefore,
lifestyle changes are usually ineffective and long-lasting improvement of the
NAFLD-associated liver damage is rarely observed. As guidelines for the
management of NAFLD in children are still lacking, the identification of
effective treatments represents a challenge for pediatric hepatologists in the
near future.
AREAS COVERED: Here, we review the existing therapeutic approaches for treating
NAFLD in children and overview all ongoing clinical trials for new promising
drugs in pediatric setting.
EXPERT OPINION: Considering the multifactorial pathogenesis and the wide spectrum
of histological and clinical features of NAFLD, we believe that a drug mix,
containing agents that are effective against the principal pathogenetic factors, 
associated with lifestyle modification, could represent the winning choice of
treatment for pediatric NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2014.960389 
PMID: 25219959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Exp Mol Pathol. 2014 Dec;97(3):492-510. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2014.09.005. Epub
2014 Sep 11.

Alcoholic and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Neuman MG(1), French SW(2), French BA(2), Seitz HK(3), Cohen LB(4), Mueller S(3),
Osna NA(5), Kharbanda KK(5), Seth D(6), Bautista A(7), Thompson KJ(8), McKillop
IH(8), Kirpich IA(9), McClain CJ(10), Bataller R(11), Nanau RM(12), Voiculescu
M(13), Opris M(14), Shen H(2), Tillman B(2), Li J(2), Liu H(2), Thomes PG(5),
Ganesan M(5), Malnick S(15).

Author information: 
(1)In Vitro Drug Safety and Biotechnology, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada; Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address:
manuela.neuman@utoronto.ca. (2)Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA, USA.
(3)Centre of Alcohol Research, University of Heidelberg and Department of
Medicine (Gastroenterology and Hepatology), Salem Medical Centre, Heidelberg,
Germany. (4)Division of Gastroenterology, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre,
Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada. (5)Research Service, Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa
Health Care System, Internal Medicine, Biochemistry & Molecular Biology,
University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA. (6)Drug Health Services,
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Centenary Institute of Cancer Medicine and Cell
Biology, Camperdown, NSW 2050, Australia; Faculty of Medicine, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. (7)Office of Extramural Activities, National
Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health,
Rockville, MD, USA. (8)Department of Surgery, Carolinas Medical Center,
Charlotte, NC, USA. (9)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition,
Department of Medicine and Department of Pharmacology; Toxicology, University of 
Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY, USA. (10)Division of
Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department of Medicine and
Department of Pharmacology; Toxicology, University of Louisville School of
Medicine, Louisville, KY, USA; Robley Rex Veterans Medical Center, Louisville,
KY, USA. (11)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine,
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Department of 
Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(12)In Vitro Drug Safety and Biotechnology, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada. (13)Division of Nephrology and Internal Medicine, Fundeni
Clinical Institute and University of Medicine and Pharmacy, "Carol Davila",
Bucharest, Romania. (14)In Vitro Drug Safety and Biotechnology, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Family Medicine Clinic CAR, Bucharest,
Romania. (15)Department Internal Medicine, Kaplan Medical Centre and Hebrew
University of Jerusalem, Rehovot, Israel.

This paper is based upon the "Charles Lieber Satellite Symposia" organized by
Manuela G. Neuman at the Research Society on Alcoholism (RSA) Annual Meetings,
2013 and 2014. The present review includes pre-clinical, translational and
clinical research that characterize alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). In addition, a literature search in the
discussed area was performed. Strong clinical and experimental evidence lead to
recognition of the key toxic role of alcohol in the pathogenesis of ALD. The
liver biopsy can confirm the etiology of NASH or alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH) 
and assess structural alterations of cells, their organelles, as well as
inflammatory activity. Three histological stages of ALD are simple steatosis,
ASH, and chronic hepatitis with hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis. These latter
stages may also be associated with a number of cellular and histological changes,
including the presence of Mallory's hyaline, megamitochondria, or perivenular and
perisinusoidal fibrosis. Genetic polymorphisms of ethanol metabolizing enzymes
such as cytochrome p450 (CYP) 2E1 activation may change the severity of ASH and
NASH. Alcohol mediated hepatocarcinogenesis, immune response to alcohol in ASH,
as well as the role of other risk factors such as its co-morbidities with chronic
viral hepatitis in the presence or absence of human immunodeficiency virus are
discussed. Dysregulation of hepatic methylation, as result of ethanol exposure,
in hepatocytes transfected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), illustrates an impaired 
interferon signaling. The hepatotoxic effects of ethanol undermine the
contribution of malnutrition to the liver injury. Dietary interventions such as
micro and macronutrients, as well as changes to the microbiota are suggested. The
clinical aspects of NASH, as part of metabolic syndrome in the aging population, 
are offered. The integrative symposia investigate different aspects of
alcohol-induced liver damage and possible repair. We aim to (1) determine the
immuno-pathology of alcohol-induced liver damage, (2) examine the role of
genetics in the development of ASH, (3) propose diagnostic markers of ASH and
NASH, (4) examine age differences, (5) develop common research tools to study
alcohol-induced effects in clinical and pre-clinical studies, and (6) focus on
factors that aggravate severity of organ-damage. The intention of these symposia 
is to advance the international profile of the biological research on alcoholism.
We also wish to further our mission of leading the forum to progress the science 
and practice of translational research in alcoholism.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2014.09.005 
PMCID: PMC4696068
PMID: 25217800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Arq Bras Endocrinol Metabol. 2014 Aug;58(6):600-9.

Obesity, insulin resistance and comorbidities? Mechanisms of association.

Castro AV(1), Kolka CM(2), Kim SP(2), Bergman RN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Divisão de Endocrinologia e Metabolismo, Departamento de Clínica Médica,
FMRP-USP, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil. (2)Diabetes and Obesity Research Institute,
Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Overall excess of fat, usually defined by the body mass index, is associated with
metabolic (e.g. glucose intolerance, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM),
dyslipidemia) and non-metabolic disorders (e.g. neoplasias, polycystic ovary
syndrome, non-alcoholic fat liver disease, glomerulopathy, bone fragility etc.). 
However, more than its total amount, the distribution of adipose tissue
throughout the body is a better predictor of the risk to the development of those
disorders. Fat accumulation in the abdominal area and in non-adipose tissue
(ectopic fat), for example, is associated with increased risk to develop
metabolic and non-metabolic derangements. On the other hand, observations suggest
that individuals who present peripheral adiposity, characterized by large hip and
thigh circumferences, have better glucose tolerance, reduced incidence of T2DM
and of metabolic syndrome. Insulin resistance (IR) is one of the main culprits in
the association between obesity, particularly visceral, and metabolic as well as 
non-metabolic diseases. In this review we will highlight the current
pathophysiological and molecular mechanisms possibly involved in the link between
increased VAT, ectopic fat, IR and comorbidities. We will also provide some
insights in the identification of these abnormalities.


PMCID: PMC4423826
PMID: 25211442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


612. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep 7;20(33):11684-99. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i33.11684.

Diagnosis of alcoholic liver disease.

Torruellas C(1), French SW(1), Medici V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cara Torruellas, Valentina Medici, Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of California Davis,
Sacramento, CA 95817, United States.

Alcohol is a hepatotoxin that is commonly consumed worldwide and is associated
with a spectrum of liver injury including simple steatosis or fatty liver,
alcoholic hepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a 
general term used to refer to this spectrum of alcohol-related liver injuries.
Excessive or harmful alcohol use is ranked as one of the top five risk factors
for death and disability globally and results in 2.5 million deaths and 69.4
million annual disability adjusted life years. All patients who present with
clinical features of hepatitis or chronic liver disease or who have elevated
serum elevated transaminase levels should be screened for an alcohol use
disorder. The diagnosis of ALD can generally be made based on history, clinical
and laboratory findings. However, the diagnosis of ALD can be clinically
challenging as there is no single diagnostic test that confirms the diagnosis and
patients may not be forthcoming about their degree of alcohol consumption. In
addition, clinical findings may be absent or minimal in early ALD characterized
by hepatic steatosis. Typical laboratory findings in ALD include transaminase
levels with aspartate aminotransferase greater than alanine aminotransferase as
well as increased mean corpuscular volume, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase, and IgA 
to IgG ratio. In unclear cases, the diagnosis can be supported by imaging and
liver biopsy. The histological features of ALD can ultimately define the
diagnosis according to the typical presence and distribution of hepatic
steatosis, inflammation, and Mallory-Denk bodies. Because of the potential
reversible nature of ALD with sobriety, regular screening of the general
population and early diagnosis are essential.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i33.11684 
PMCID: PMC4155359
PMID: 25206273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Pediatr Ann. 2014 Sep;43(9):e210-7. doi: 10.3928/00904481-20140825-07.

Screening for metabolic and reproductive complications in obese children and
adolescents.

Irizarry KA, Brito V, Freemark M.

Childhood obesity is associated with a number of metabolic comorbidities. These
include glucose intolerance and type 2 diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, fatty
liver disease, and reproductive complications, such as polycystic ovary syndrome.
The occurrence of these complications in a child or adolescent may result in
progressive health decline at an early age. We, therefore, advocate screening and
early diagnosis. This purpose of this review is to outline a rational,
evidence-based approach to screening obese children and adolescents for metabolic
and reproductive complications. In each section, the aim is to provide the
primary care provider with a review of the literature supporting current
screening practices. As such, this review is designed to assist the primary care 
provider in the selection and interpretation of screening tests and to make
recommendations regarding the referral of patients for subspecialty care.

Copyright 2014, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/00904481-20140825-07 
PMCID: PMC4331647
PMID: 25198445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Nutrients. 2014 Aug 21;6(8):3303-25. doi: 10.3390/nu6083303.

Epigenetic mechanisms underlying the link between non-alcoholic fatty liver
diseases and nutrition.

Lee JH(1), Friso S(2), Choi SW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Bundang CHA Hospital, CHA University School of
Medicine, Seoul 463-712, Korea. piolee2000@naver.com. (2)Department of Medicine, 
University of Verona School of Medicine, Verona 37134, Italy.
simonetta.friso@gmail.com. (3)Clinical Genomic Center, Chaum Life Center, CHA
University School of Medicine, Seoul 135-948, Korea. sang.choi@cha.ac.kr.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is defined as a pathologic accumulation
of fat in the form of triglycerides (TG) in the liver (steatosis) that is not
caused by alcohol. A subgroup of NAFLD patients shows liver cell injury and
inflammation coupled with the excessive fat accumulation (steatohepatitis), which
is referred to as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Patients with NASH may
develop cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). NAFLD shares the key
features of metabolic syndrome including obesity, hyperlipidemia, hypertension,
and insulin resistance. The pathogenesis of NAFLD is multi-factorial, however the
oxidative stress seems to plays a major role in the development and progression
of the disease. The emerging field of epigenetics provides a new perspective on
the pathogenesis of NAFLD. Epigenetics is an inheritable but reversible
phenomenon that affects gene expression without altering the DNA sequence and
refers to DNA methylation, histone modifications and microRNAs. Epigenetic
manipulation through metabolic pathways such as one-carbon metabolism has been
proposed as a promising approach to retard the progression of NAFLD.
Investigating the epigenetic modifiers in NAFLD may also lead to the development 
of preventive or therapeutic strategies for NASH-associated complications.

DOI: 10.3390/nu6083303 
PMCID: PMC4145310
PMID: 25195642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Toxicology. 2014 Nov 5;325:74-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tox.2014.08.015. Epub 2014 Sep
4.

Prenatal xenobiotic exposure and intrauterine hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis
programming alteration.

Zhang C(1), Xu D(2), Luo H(1), Lu J(1), Liu L(1), Ping J(2), Wang H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Basic Medical School of Wuhan University, Wuhan
430071, China. (2)Department of Pharmacology, Basic Medical School of Wuhan
University, Wuhan 430071, China; Hubei Provincial Key Laboratory of
Developmentally Originated Disease, Wuhan 430071, China. (3)Department of
Pharmacology, Basic Medical School of Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China;
Hubei Provincial Key Laboratory of Developmentally Originated Disease, Wuhan
430071, China. Electronic address: wanghui19@whu.edu.cn.

The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is one of the most important
neuroendocrine axes and plays an important role in stress defense responses
before and after birth. Prenatal exposure to xenobiotics, including environmental
toxins (such as smoke, sulfur dioxide and carbon monoxide), drugs (such as
synthetic glucocorticoids), and foods and beverage categories (such as ethanol
and caffeine), affects fetal development indirectly by changing the maternal
status or damaging the placenta. Certain xenobiotics (such as caffeine, ethanol
and dexamethasone) may also affect the fetus directly by crossing the placenta
into the fetus due to their lipophilic properties and lower molecular weights.
All of these factors probably result in intrauterine programming alteration of
the HPA axis, which showed a low basal activity but hypersensitivity to chronic
stress. These alterations will, therefore, increase the susceptibility to adult
neuropsychiatric (such as depression and schizophrenia) and metabolic diseases
(such as hypertension, diabetes and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease). The
"over-exposure of fetuses to maternal glucocorticoids" may be the main initiation
factor by which the fetal HPA axis programming is altered. Meantime, xenobiotics 
can directly induce abnormal epigenetic modifications and expression on the
important fetal genes (such as hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor, adrenal
steroidogenic acute regulatory protein, et al) or damage by in situ oxidative
metabolism of fetal adrenals, which may also be contributed to the programming
alteration of fetal HPA axis.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tox.2014.08.015 
PMID: 25194749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2014 Aug;28(4):637-53. doi:
10.1016/j.bpg.2014.07.008. Epub 2014 Jul 11.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, obesity and the metabolic syndrome.

Dietrich P(1), Hellerbrand C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pathology, University Regensburg, 93053 Regensburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Hospital Regensburg, 93053
Regensburg, Germany. Electronic address: claus.hellerbrand@ukr.de.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now recognized as the most common
cause of chronic liver disease worldwide. Its prevalence has increased to more
than 30% of adults in developed countries and its incidence is still rising. The 
majority of patients with NAFLD have simple steatosis but in up to one third of
patients, NAFLD progresses to its more severe form nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH). NASH is characterized by liver inflammation and injury thereby
determining the risk to develop liver fibrosis and cancer. NAFLD is considered
the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. However, the liver is not
only a passive target but affects the pathogenesis of the metabolic syndrome and 
its complications. Conversely, pathophysiological changes in other organs such as
in the adipose tissue, the intestinal barrier or the immune system have been
identified as triggers and promoters of NAFLD progression. This article details
the pathogenesis of NAFLD along with the current state of its diagnosis and
treatment.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2014.07.008 
PMID: 25194181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2014 Aug;28(4):599-610. doi:
10.1016/j.bpg.2014.07.006. Epub 2014 Jul 11.

Mechanisms behind the link between obesity and gastrointestinal cancers.

Tilg H(1), Moschen AR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Gastroenterology, Endocrinology &
Metabolism, Medical University Innsbruck, Austria. Electronic address:
herbert.tilg@i-med.ac.at. (2)Department of Internal Medicine I, Gastroenterology,
Endocrinology & Metabolism, Medical University Innsbruck, Austria.

Obesity and obesity-related disorders such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD), metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes exhibit an increased risk of
developing various gastrointestinal cancers. These malignancies include mainly
esophageal, gastric, colorectal, pancreatic and hepatocellular carcinoma. Whereas
underlying pathomechanisms remain unclear, chronic inflammation accompanying
obesity has evolved in the last years as a crucial contributing factor. Obesity
is also commonly characterized by inflammation in the organ where those cancers
appear. Various pathways might participate involving rather diverse components
such as innate immunity, (adipo)-cytokines such as adiponectin or leptin,
insulin, insulin-like growth factors, the gut's microbiota and others. An
imbalance in these systems could substantially contribute to chronic inflammation
and subsequent cancer development. Future studies have to elucidate in more
detail underlying mechanisms in the development of obesity-related carcinogensis 
and potential therapeutic strategies besides weight loss.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2014.07.006 
PMID: 25194178  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Probl Radiac Med Radiobiol. 2013;(18):277-88.

Clinical importance of the nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a review.

[Article in English, Ukrainian; Abstract available in Ukrainian from the
publisher]

Chumak AA, Ovsyannikova LM, Sarkisova EA, Gasanova EV.

Literature data analysis summarizing features and peculiarities of clinical
presentation, pathways and complications of the nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 
is presented. The key role of insulin resistance, lipid and carbohydrate
metabolic disorders, lipid peroxidation and abnormal antioxidant defense system
is described. Clinical importance of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is
essential because of a widespread comorbidity and imbalance in the key regulatory
body systems.

Publisher: V statti predstavleno analiz literaturnyh danyh, shho uzagal'njujut'
osoblyvosti mehanizmiv rozvytku klinichnyh projaviv ta uskladnen' nealkogol'noi' 
zhyrovoi' hvoroby pechinky. Pokazana providna rol' insulinorezystentnosti,
porushen' zhyrovogo ta vuglevodnogo obminiv, perekysnogo okysnennja lipidiv ta
antyoksydantnogo zahystu. Klinichne znachennja nealkogol'noi' zhyrovoi' hvoroby
pechinky vyznachajet'sja znachnoju kil'kistju komorbidnoi' patologii',
porushennjam rivnovagy v osnovnyh reguljatornyh systemah organizmu.
Chumak A. A., Ovsjannikova L. M., Sarkisova E. O., Gasanova O. V., 2013.


PMID: 25191732  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Biomarkers. 2014 Nov;19(7):541-52. doi: 10.3109/1354750X.2014.958535. Epub 2014
Sep 5.

Progress in the search for circulating biomarkers of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Amacher DE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sciadvisor Toxicology Consulting , Hadlyme, CT , USA.

CONTEXT: The definitive standard for the diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) is clinico-pathological correlation, but frequently the only
laboratory abnormality is an elevation of serum aminotransferases.
OBJECTIVE: This has resulted in the search for more specific laboratory
biomarkers.
METHODS: The literature was searched for novel plasma/serum markers of NAFLD.
RESULTS: Studies reviewed here included histologically-confirmed patients
presenting some stage of NAFLD and monitored one or more novel serum/plasma
biomarkers.
CONCLUSION: The most promising application of some of these novel biomarkers for 
the detection and quantification of NAFLD and particularly NASH appears to be in 
the combination of several into diagnostic panels.

DOI: 10.3109/1354750X.2014.958535 
PMID: 25189636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Nov;25(11):576-85. doi: 10.1016/j.tem.2014.08.001. 
Epub 2014 Aug 30.

Role of metabolic lipases and lipolytic metabolites in the pathogenesis of NAFLD.

Fuchs CD(1), Claudel T(1), Trauner M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hans Popper Laboratory of Molecular Hepatology, Division of Gastroenterology
and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine III, Medical University of
Vienna, Vienna, Austria. (2)Hans Popper Laboratory of Molecular Hepatology,
Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine III,
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
michael.trauner@meduniwien.ac.at.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most frequent chronic liver
disease in Western countries, ranging from simple steatosis to steatohepatitis,
cirrhosis, and hepatocellular cancer. Although the mechanisms underlying disease 
progression are incompletely understood, lipotoxic events in the liver resulting 
in inflammation and fibrosis appear to be central. Free fatty acids and their
metabolites are potentially lipotoxic mediators triggering liver injury,
suggesting a central role for metabolic lipases. These enzymes are major players 
in lipid partitioning between tissues and within cells, and provide ligands for
nuclear receptors (NRs). We discuss the potential role of intracellular lipases
and their lipolytic products in NAFLD. Because tissue-specific modulation of
lipases is currently impossible, targeting NRs with ligands may open novel
therapeutic perspectives.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tem.2014.08.001 
PMID: 25183341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Redox Biol. 2014 Aug 1;2:929-35. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.07.007. eCollection
2014.

Innate immunity and cell death in alcoholic liver disease: role of cytochrome
P4502E1.

Barnes MA(1), Roychowdhury S(2), Nagy LE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, 
OH, United States ; Center for Liver Disease Research, Department of
Pathobiology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, United States. (2)Center for Liver
Disease Research, Department of Pathobiology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH,
United States. (3)Department of Molecular Medicine, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, OH, United States ; Center for Liver Disease Research,
Department of Pathobiology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, United States ;
Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH,
United States.

Ethanol-induced liver injury is a complex process dependent upon the interaction 
of multiple cell types in the liver, as well as activation of the innate immune
response. Increased expression of CYP2E1 in response to high concentrations of
ethanol leads to greater production of cytotoxic ethanol metabolites, which in
turn contribute to production of reactive oxygen species, oxidative stress, and
ultimately, cell death. Necroptotic hepatocyte cell death in response to ethanol 
is mediated via a CYP2E1-dependent expression of receptor-interacting protein
kinase 3 (RIP3), a key component of the necroptosome. In response to alarmins
released during ethanol-induced necroptosis, the innate immune response is
activated. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), a pro-inflammatory
multikine involved in many disease processes, is an essential component to this
response to injury. MIF expression is increased during ethanol exposure via a
CYP2E1-dependent pathway, likely contributing to an exacerbated innate immune
response and chronic inflammation after chronic ethanol. This review will discuss
the complex interactions between CYP2E1-dependent expression of RIP3 and MIF in
the pathophysiology of chronic ethanol-induced liver injury.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.07.007 
PMCID: PMC4143810
PMID: 25180169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2014 Oct;23(10):1441-8. doi:
10.1517/13543784.2014.954034. Epub 2014 Aug 28.

GFT505 for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and type 2 diabetes.

Cariou B(1), Staels B.

Author information: 
(1)Clinique d'Endocrinologie, CHU de Nantes , Nantes, F-44000 , France.

INTRODUCTION: PPARs are nuclear receptors that play key roles in the regulation
of metabolism and inflammation. GFT505 is a new dual agonist of the PPARα and
PPARδ isoforms, which improves lipid and glucose metabolism in type 2 diabetes
mellitus (T2DM) and exerts hepatoprotective effects in mouse models of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
AREAS COVERED: This evaluation focuses on the pharmacology and clinical activity 
of GFT505 in metabolic diseases, including T2DM, dyslipidemia and NAFLD, as well 
as its promise as a therapeutic option for the treatment of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis. Original publications in English were selected, as well as
abstracts of presentations in international congresses. Ongoing clinical trials
were identified using the Clinicaltrial.gov database.
EXPERT OPINION: Results from the completed short-term (4 - 8 weeks) Phase IIa
studies indicate that GFT505 decreases plasma triglyceride levels and increases
high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, while lowering low-density
lipoprotein-cholesterol in prediabetic patients. Hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic
clamp studies have also demonstrated an insulin-sensitizing effect of GFT505,
with a strong effect on the liver, with a significant lowering effect on plasma
liver enzymes. The current safety profile is reassuring, without any signs of
PPARγ-related side effects. The combination of its insulin sensitizing and
hepatoprotective effects makes GFT505 an excellent drug candidate for NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.2014.954034 
PMID: 25164277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Hepatology. 2014 Dec;60(6):2099-108. doi: 10.1002/hep.27406. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

The global burden of liver disease: the major impact of China.

Wang FS(1), Fan JG, Zhang Z, Gao B, Wang HY.

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Biological Therapy, Beijing 302 Hospital, Beijing, China; 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases (CCID), School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2016 Jan;63(1):348.
    Hepatology. 2016 Jan;63(1):347-8.
    Hepatology. 2015 Nov;62(5):1640.
    Hepatology. 2015 Nov;62(5):1640-1.

Liver disease is a major cause of illness and death worldwide. In China alone,
liver diseases, primarily viral hepatitis (predominantly hepatitis B virus
[HBV]), nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and alcoholic liver disease, affect
approximately 300 million people. The establishment of the Expanded Program on
Immunization in 1992 has resulted in a substantial decline in the number of newly
HBV-infected patients; however, the number of patients with alcoholic and
nonalcoholic fatty liver diseases is rising at an alarming rate. Liver cancer,
one of the most deadly cancers, is the second-most common cancer in China.
Approximately 383,000 people die from liver cancer every year in China, which
accounts for 51% of the deaths from liver cancer worldwide. Over the past 10
years, China has made some significant efforts to shed its "leader in liver
diseases" title by investing large amounts of money in funding research,
vaccines, and drug development for liver diseases and by recruiting many
Western-trained hepatologists and scientists. Over the last two decades,
hepatologists and scientists in China have made significant improvements in liver
disease prevention, diagnosis, management, and therapy. They have been very
active in liver disease research, as shown by the dramatic increase in the number
of publications in Hepatology. Nevertheless, many challenges remain that must be 
tackled collaboratively. In this review, we discuss the epidemiology and
characteristics of liver diseases and liver-related research in China.

© 2014 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.27406 
PMCID: PMC4867229
PMID: 25164003  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


624. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Feb;30(2):236-43. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12709.

Acute kidney injury and hepatorenal syndrome in cirrhosis.

Egerod Israelsen M(1), Gluud LL, Krag A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Odense University Hospital, University of
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

Cirrhosis is the eighth leading cause of "years of lost life" in the United
States and accounts for approximately 1% to 2% of all deaths in Europe. Patients 
with cirrhosis have a high risk of developing acute kidney injury. The clinical
characteristics of hepatorenal syndrome (HRS) are similar to prerenal uremia, but
the condition does not respond to volume expansion. HRS type 1 is rapidly
progressive whereas HRS type 2 has a slower course often associated with
refractory ascites. A number of factors can precipitate HRS such as infections,
alcoholic hepatitis, and bleeding. The monitoring, prevention, early detection,
and treatment of HRS are essential. This paper reviews the value of early
evaluation of renal function based on two new sets of diagnostic criteria.
Interventions for HRS type 1 include terlipressin combined with albumin. In HRS
type 2, transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) should be
considered. For both types of HRS patients should be evaluated for liver
transplantation.

© 2014 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12709 
PMID: 25160511  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Ann Hepatol. 2014 Sep-Oct;13(5):489-95.

Kupffer cells: increasingly significant role in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Wenfeng Z(1), Yakun W(2), Di M(3), Jianping G(1), Chuanxin W(1), Chun H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Hepatobiliary Surgery and Department of
Hepatobiliary Surgery, Second Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing, China. (2)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Hepatobiliary Surgery and
Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Second Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing
Medical University, Chongqing, China; Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery,
Suining Central Hospital, Suining, Sichuan, P. R. China. (3)Department of
Infectious Diseases, Institute for Viral Hepatitis, Key Laboratory of Molecular
Biology for Infectious Diseases, Ministry of Education, The Second Affiliated
Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, P. R. China. (4)Chongqing
Key Laboratory of Hepatobiliary Surgery and Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, 
Second Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China;
Chongqing Three Gorges Medical College, Wanzhou, Chonqing, P.R. China.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered to be a manifestation of 
liver metabolic damage and is related to insulin resistance and genetic
susceptibility. Inflammation mediated by Kupffer cells (KCs) is of critical
importance to the development of NAFLD. The primary role of KCs in NAFLD is
considered to be the perturbation of the C-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and
nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) pathways as a result of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
recognition by Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). Simultaneously, the activation of
NF-κB, as mediated by oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and free
fatty acid (FFA) or free cholesterol (FC) crystal formation, heavily relies on
NF-κB regulatory factors and TLR4. Additionally, the imbalance of certain
pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines released by innate immunity is deemed
to promote the steatosis of hepatocytes. In conclusion, this review indicates
that the inflammatory and oxidative stress of KCs play a significant role in the 
development of NAFLD.


PMID: 25152980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Ann Hepatol. 2014 Sep-Oct;13(5):482-8.

Probiotics and synbiotics may improve liver aminotransferases levels in
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease patients.

Buss C(1), Valle-Tovo C(2), Miozzo S(2), Alves de Mattos A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Department, Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto
Alegre (UFCSPA), Porto Alegre-RS, Brazil; Postgraduate Study Program in Medicine:
Hepatology, Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre (UFCSPA),
Porto Alegre-RS, Brazil. (2)Postgraduate Study Program in Medicine: Hepatology,
Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), Porto
Alegre-RS, Brazil.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is defined as a spectrum of liver
diseases ranging from simple steatosis to steatohepatitis (NASH). Alterations in 
intestinal microbiota and inflammatory response may play a key role in disease
progression and development of complications in liver diseases, mainly in
cirrhosis and NASH. The aim of this study was to perform a systematic review on
randomized clinical trials (RCTs) testing probiotics, prebiotics or both
(synbiotics) in the treatment of NAFLD in adult patients. After the screening
process, 9 full-text articles were included in the review and 6 studies were
excluded. Three randomized controlled trials were finally included in the
qualitative synthesis. All patients in all the 3 studies were randomized to
receive different formulations of probiotics, synbiotics or placebo. Reductions
in aminotransferases were observed in the treated group in 2 of the studies.
However, in one study reductions were also detected in the control group. In
conclusion, the available evidence precludes, for the moment, recommendations on 
the use of pre and probiotics in clinical practice.


PMID: 25152979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


627. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Aug 21;20(31):10851-63. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i31.10851.

Noninvasive biomarkers in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: current status and a
glimpse of the future.

Fitzpatrick E(1), Dhawan A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Emer Fitzpatrick, Anil Dhawan, Paediatric Liver, GI and Nutrition Centre,
King's College London School of Medicine at King's College Hospital, London SE5
9PJ, United Kingdom.

The development of non invasive biomarkers of disease has become a major focus of
interest in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The large prevalence of the
disease and the invasive nature of the investigation means that screening with
liver biopsy is impractical. In addition to screening, the differentiation of
those with simple steatosis vs steatohepatitis and fibrosis is clinically
important as the prognosis of each differs. Serum biomarkers may be a combination
of simple markers derived from large data sets or direct markers of disease
activity. Serum markers of inflammation, apoptosis and oxidative stress in
addition to fibrosis have been extensively studied in patients with NAFLD. Other 
techniques such as transient elastography, magnetic resonance elastography and
acoustic radiation force imaging are becoming more established as noninvasive
methods of detecting fibrosis in a variety of chronic liver conditions in
addition to NAFLD. Newer high throughput methods such as proteomics and glycomics
allow the nonhypothesis-driven identification of novel markers and may also
potentially contribute to our understanding of the pathogenesis of the condition.
This review addresses some of the methodological issues which need to be
considered in the search for the ideal biomarker. It is likely that a combination
of serum biomarkers and techniques such as transient elastography may provide the
optimal diagnostic discrimination however this remains to be proven in large
studies.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i31.10851 
PMCID: PMC4138464
PMID: 25152587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Intern Med. 2014;53(16):1763-8. Epub 2014 Aug 15.

Alcoholic liver disease complicated by deep bleeding into the muscles or
retroperitoneum: report of three cases and a review of the literature.

Takamura M(1), Watanabe J, Sakamaki A, Honda Y, Kamimura K, Tsuchiya A, Yamagiwa 
S, Suda T, Matsuda Y, Aoyagi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Niigata University Graduate
School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Japan.

We herein report three cases of alcoholic cirrhosis complicated by deep bleeding.
In two of the three cases, intramuscular or retroperitoneal hematomas developed
spontaneously. In contrast, in the remaining case, an intramuscular hematoma
developed after trauma. In the former two patients, the intramuscular hematomas
recurred at other sites during hospitalization. All three patients received
conservative therapy, and one patient with a retroperitoneal hematoma underwent
transcatheter arterial embolization. All of the patients eventually died of liver
failure. The occurrence of severe alcoholic liver disease with deep bleeding has 
recently been reported with increasing frequency, and clinicians should bear this
condition in mind as a life-threatening complication of alcoholic liver disease.


PMID: 25130107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Oct;25(10):538-45. doi: 10.1016/j.tem.2014.07.001. 
Epub 2014 Aug 12.

Thyroid hormone regulation of hepatic lipid and carbohydrate metabolism.

Sinha RA(1), Singh BK(1), Yen PM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular and Metabolic Disorders Program, Duke-NUS Graduate Medical
School, 8 College Road, Singapore 169547, Singapore. (2)Cardiovascular and
Metabolic Disorders Program, Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, 8 College Road,
Singapore 169547, Singapore; Sarah W. Stedman Nutrition and Metabolism Center,
Departments of Medicine and Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, NC 27705, USA. Electronic address:
paul.yen@duke-nus.edu.sg.

Thyroid hormone (TH) has important roles in regulating hepatic lipid,
cholesterol, and glucose metabolism. Recent findings suggest that clinical
conditions such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes
mellitus, which are associated with dysregulated hepatic metabolism, may involve 
altered intracellular TH action. In addition, TH has key roles in lipophagy in
lipid metabolism, mitochondrial quality control, and the regulation of metabolic 
genes. In this review, we discuss recent findings regarding the functions of TH
in hepatic metabolism, the relationship between TH and metabolic disorders, and
the potential therapeutic use of thyromimetics to treat metabolic dysfunction in 
the liver.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tem.2014.07.001 
PMID: 25127738  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Gastroenterology. 2014 Oct;147(4):754-64. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.07.056. Epub
2014 Aug 7.

Pathological features of fatty liver disease.

Yeh MM(1), Brunt EM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle,
Washington. (2)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University
School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri. Electronic address:
ebrunt@path.wustl.edu.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are
significant causes of chronic liver disease worldwide. Both are characterized by 
histological lesions that can include steatosis, and each can lead to cirrhosis. 
It might be possible for pathologists to identify lesions and patterns of ALD and
NAFLD; we review these lesions and propose methods to distinguish between the
disorders. Any form of ALD can lead to end-stage liver disease, according to
long-term studies of biopsy specimens and patient outcomes. Although steatosis
can be a significant cofactor in progression of established chronic liver
disease, or even development of hepatocellular carcinoma, only steatohepatitis
indicates the presence of progressive liver disease in patients with NAFLD.
Pediatric and adolescent NAFLD differ from adult nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and
should be recognized as distinct conditions. Benign and malignant liver tumors
have been more frequently reported with the increasing prevalence of obesity and 
diabetes. Histological scoring systems for ALD and NAFLD have been proposed to
monitor efficacy in clinical trials and serve as prognostic factors. We review
what we have learned from pathological analyses about the development of these
disorders and how this information might be used to detect and treat them.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.07.056 
PMID: 25109884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Acta Dermatovenerol Croat. 2014;22(2):132-6.

The linkage between psoriasis and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a literature
review.

Ramos AN, de Oliveira Rocha B, de Almeida Rêgo VR, Follador I, de Oliveira MF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Maria de Fátima Santos Paim de Oliveira, MD, MSc, PhD, Artesão João da Prata
Street, 267, Room 602, Itaigara, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil; mfatimapaim@gmail.com.

Psoriasis is a chronic systemic inflammatory disease mainly affecting the skin.
Population-based surveys have shown a higher prevalence of non-alcoholic fat
liver disease (NAFLD) in patients with psoriasis compared with the general
population, especially in those with a greater psoriasis area and severity index 
(PASI). It is speculated that similar pathogenic bases may play a role in this
association, highlighting insulin resistance and the release of inflammatory
cytokines as the most likely causes. In the present work, we review basic aspects
of the relationship between psoriasis and NAFLD.


PMID: 25102800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Aug 4;15(8):13529-49. doi: 10.3390/ijms150813529.

Cystic fibrosis related liver disease--another black box in hepatology.

Staufer K(1), Halilbasic E(2), Trauner M(3), Kazemi-Shirazi L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Transplantation, Department of Surgery, Medical University of
Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
Katharina.Staufer@meduniwien.ac.at. (2)Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine III, Medical University of Vienna,
Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
Emina.Halilbasic@meduniwien.ac.at. (3)Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine III, Medical University of Vienna,
Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria. Michael.Trauner@meduniwien.ac.at.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine
III, Medical University of Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna,
Austria. Lili.Kazemi-Shirazi@meduniwien.ac.at.

Due to improved medical care, life expectancy in patients with cystic fibrosis
(CF) has veritably improved over the last decades. Importantly, cystic fibrosis
related liver disease (CFLD) has become one of the leading causes of morbidity
and mortality in CF patients. However, CFLD might be largely underdiagnosed and
diagnostic criteria need to be refined. The underlying pathomechanisms are
largely unknown, and treatment strategies with proven efficacy are lacking. This 
review focuses on current invasive and non-invasive diagnostic standards, the
current knowledge on the pathophysiology of CFLD, treatment strategies, and
possible future developments.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms150813529 
PMCID: PMC4159809
PMID: 25093717  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2014 Sep;53(9):773-85. doi: 10.1007/s40262-014-0157-y.

Pharmacokinetics in patients with chronic liver disease and hepatic safety of
incretin-based therapies for the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Scheen AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Diabetes, Nutrition and Metabolic Disorders, Department of
Medicine, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium, andre.scheen@chu.ulg.ac.be.

Erratum in
    Clin Pharmacokinet. 2014 Nov;53(11):1061.

Comment in
    Clin Pharmacokinet. 2015 Apr;54(4):447-8.
    Clin Pharmacokinet. 2015 Apr;54(4):449-51.
    Clin Pharmacokinet. 2014 Nov;53(11):1055-6.
    Clin Pharmacokinet. 2014 Nov;53(11):1057-9.

Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus have an increased risk of chronic liver
disease (CLD) such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and steatohepatitis, and 
about one-third of cirrhotic patients have diabetes. However, the use of several 
antidiabetic agents, such as metformin and sulphonylureas, may be a concern in
case of hepatic impairment (HI). New glucose-lowering agents targeting the
incretin system are increasingly used for the management of type 2 diabetes.
Incretin-based therapies comprise oral inhibitors of dipeptidyl peptidase-4
(DPP-4) (gliptins) or injectable glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor
agonists. This narrative review summarises the available data regarding the use
of both incretin-based therapies in patients with HI. In contrast to old
glucose-lowering agents, they were evaluated in specifically designed acute
pharmacokinetic studies in patients with various degrees of HI and their hepatic 
safety was carefully analysed in large clinical trials. Only mild changes in
pharmacokinetic characteristics of DPP-4 inhibitors were observed in patients
with different degrees of HI, presumably without major clinical relevance. GLP-1 
receptor agonists have a renal excretion rather than liver metabolism. Specific
pharmacokinetic data in patients with HI are only available for liraglutide. No
significant changes in liver enzymes were reported with DPP-4 inhibitors or GLP-1
receptor agonists, alone or in combination with various other glucose-lowering
agents, in clinical trials up to 2 years in length. On the contrary, preliminary 
data suggested that incretin-based therapies may be beneficial in patients with
CLD, more particularly in the presence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
Nevertheless, caution should be recommended, especially in patients with advanced
cirrhosis, because of a lack of clinical experience with incretin-based therapies
in these vulnerable patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s40262-014-0157-y 
PMID: 25091053  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Curr Pediatr Rev. 2014;10(2):151-61.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in children: recent practice guidelines, where
do they take us?

Aggarwal A, Puri K, Thangada S, Zein N, Alkhouri N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, A-111, Digestive Disease Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in children and adolescents in the United States. It is strongly
associated with childhood obesity, insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome.
Although some children with NAFLD may remain asymptomatic, progression to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and to advanced stages of fibrosis and
cirrhosis is well recognized. Unfortunately, despite the increase in awareness of
this disease, there are still no reliable non-invasive diagnostic tests and liver
biopsy remains the gold standard for the diagnosis of NASH and staging of
fibrosis. In addition, there are no approved pharmacological treatments
currently. Lifestyle modification remains the cornerstone of treatment. Team
based multidisciplinary approach involving hepatologists, endocrinologists,
exercise physiologist, dieticians, and cardiologists may lead to better outcomes.
Recently, the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and
European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition
(ESPGHAN) committees have made recommendations for the diagnosis and management
of NAFLD in pediatric patients. This review focuses on current literature on
epidemiology, natural history, pathogenesis along with summarizing the recent
guidelines on diagnosis and treatment of pediatric NAFLD.


PMID: 25088269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Am J Kidney Dis. 2014 Oct;64(4):638-52. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2014.05.019. Epub
2014 Jul 30.

CKD and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Targher G(1), Chonchol MB(2), Byrne CD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
University and Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Verona,
Italy. Electronic address: giovanni.targher@univr.it. (2)Division of Renal
Diseases and Hypertension, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, CO.
(3)Nutrition and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton,
Southampton, United Kingdom; Southampton National Institute for Health Research
Biomedical Research Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom.

The possible link between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and chronic kidney
disease (CKD) recently has attracted considerable scientific interest.
Accumulating clinical evidence indicates that the presence and severity of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is associated significantly with CKD (defined as
decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate and/or proteinuria) and that
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease predicts the development and progression of CKD,
independently of traditional cardiorenal risk factors. Experimental evidence also
suggests that nonalcoholic fatty liver disease itself may exacerbate systemic and
hepatic insulin resistance, cause atherogenic dyslipidemia, and release a variety
of proinflammatory, procoagulant, pro-oxidant, and profibrogenic mediators that
play important roles in the development and progression of CKD. However, despite 
the growing evidence linking nonalcoholic fatty liver disease with CKD, it has
not been definitively established whether a causal association exists. The
clinical implication for these findings is that patients with nonalcoholic fatty 
liver disease may benefit from more intensive surveillance or early treatment
interventions to decrease the risk of CKD. In this review, we discuss the
evidence linking nonalcoholic fatty liver disease with CKD and the putative
mechanisms by which nonalcoholic fatty liver disease contributes to kidney
damage. We also briefly discuss current treatment options for this increasingly
prevalent disease that is likely to have an important future impact on the global
burden of disease.

Copyright © 2014 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2014.05.019 
PMID: 25085644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Prog Lipid Res. 2014 Oct;56:47-66. doi: 10.1016/j.plipres.2014.07.002. Epub 2014 
Jul 30.

Recent advances in pharmacotherapy for hypertriglyceridemia.

Sahebkar A(1), Chew GT(2), Watts GF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran; Metabolic Research Centre, School of Medicine and Pharmacology,
University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia. (2)Metabolic Research Centre, 
School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth,
Australia. (3)Metabolic Research Centre, School of Medicine and Pharmacology,
University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia; Lipid Disorders Clinic,
Cardiovascular Medicine, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Australia. Electronic
address: gerald.watts@uwa.edu.au.

Elevated plasma triglyceride (TG) concentrations are associated with an increased
risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD), hepatic steatosis and
pancreatitis. Existing pharmacotherapies, such as fibrates, n-3 polyunsaturated
fatty acids (PUFAs) and niacin, are partially efficacious in correcting elevated 
plasma TG. However, several new TG-lowering agents are in development that can
regulate the transport of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRLs) by modulating key
enzymes, receptors or ligands involved in their metabolism. Balanced dual
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α/γ agonists, inhibitors of
microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) and acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol
acyltransferase-1 (DGAT-1), incretin mimetics, and apolipoprotein (apo)
B-targeted antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) can all decrease the production and 
secretion of TRLs; inhibitors of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) and
angiopoietin-like proteins (ANGPTLs) 3 and 4, monoclonal antibodies (Mabs)
against proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), apoC-III-targeted 
ASOs, selective peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor modulators (SPPARMs), 
and lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene replacement therapy (alipogene tiparvovec)
enhance the catabolism and clearance of TRLs; dual PPAR-α/δ agonists and n-3
polyunsaturated fatty acids can lower plasma TG by regulating both TRL secretion 
and catabolism. Varying degrees of TG reduction have been reported with the use
of these therapies, and for some agents such as CETP inhibitors and PCSK9 Mabs
findings have not been consistent. Whether they reduce CVD events has not been
established. Trials investigating the effect of CETP inhibitors (anacetrapib and 
evacetrapib) and PCSK9 Mabs (AMG-145 and REGN727/SAR236553) on CVD outcomes are
currently in progress, although these agents also regulate LDL metabolism and, in
the case of CETP inhibitors, HDL metabolism. Further to CVD risk reduction, these
new treatments might also have a potential role in the management of diabetes and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease owing to their insulin-sensitizing action
(PPAR-α/γ agonists) and potential capacity to decrease hepatic TG accumulation
(PPAR-α/δ agonists and DGAT-1 inhibitors), but this needs to be tested in future 
trials. We summarize the clinical trial findings regarding the efficacy and
safety of these novel therapies for hypertriglyceridemia.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plipres.2014.07.002 
PMID: 25083925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


637. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 21;20(27):9090-7. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9090.

Potential roles of glucagon-like peptide-1-based therapies in treating
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Liu Y(1), Wei R(1), Hong TP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ye Liu, Rui Wei, Tian-Pei Hong, Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism,
Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing 100191, China.

Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)-based therapies have demonstrated efficacy and
safety in treating type 2 diabetes, which shares a similar pathophysiological
mechanism with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Recent studies showed
that glucose-induced GLP-1 secretion was decreased in patients with NAFLD and
that the level of dipeptidyl peptidase-4, which inactivates intact GLP-1, was
upregulated. Moreover, the expression of the GLP-1 receptor was downregulated in 
livers from patients with NAFLD, indicating an association of defective GLP-1
signalling with NAFLD. Notably, GLP-1-based therapies are reported to be
effective in improving hepatic endpoints in patients with NAFLD, such as reducing
hepatic fat content, hepatic steatosis and plasma transaminase levels, and
preventing fibrosis. GLP-1-based therapies are beneficial for body weight control
and glycaemic normalisation, which are important for the management of NAFLD.
Moreover, clinical and preclinical studies showed that GLP-1-based agents might
directly exert their actions on the liver through activation of functional GLP-1 
receptors in hepatocytes. The possible mechanisms involve regulating gene
expression that is associated with insulin resistance and lipid metabolism, and
suppressing oxidative stress in the liver cells, thus preventing the development 
and progression of NAFLD. Based on these promising data, large-scale randomised
controlled trials are warranted to assess the efficacy and safety of GLP-1-based 
therapies in treating NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9090 
PMCID: PMC4115340
PMID: 25083081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


638. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 21;20(27):9072-89. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9072.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus: the liver disease
of our age?

Firneisz G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gábor Firneisz, 2 Department of Internal Medicine, Semmelweis University,
H-1088 Budapest, Hungary.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver disease that might
affect up to one-third of the adult population in industrialised countries. NAFLD
incorporates histologically and clinically different non-alcoholic entities;
fatty liver (NAFL, steatosis hepatis) and steatohepatitis (NASH-characterised by 
hepatocyte ballooning and lobular inflammation ± fibrosis) might progress to
cirrhosis and rarely to hepatocellular cancer. NAFL increasingly affects children
(paediatric prevalence is 4.2%-9.6%). Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), insulin
resistance (IR), obesity, metabolic syndrome and NAFLD are particularly closely
related. Increased hepatic lipid storage is an early abnormality in insulin
resistant women with a history of gestational diabetes mellitus. The accumulation
of triacylglycerols in hepatocytes is predominantly derived from the plasma
nonesterified fatty acid pool supplied largely by the adipose tissue. A few NAFLD
susceptibility gene variants are associated with progressive liver disease, IR,
T2DM and a higher risk for hepatocellular carcinoma. Although not approved,
pharmacological approaches might be considered in NASH patients.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9072 
PMCID: PMC4112878
PMID: 25083080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


639. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 21;20(27):9050-4. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9050.

Epidemiology of fatty liver: an update.

Bedogni G(1), Nobili V(1), Tiribelli C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Giorgio Bedogni, Claudio Tiribelli, Liver Research Center, Fondazione Italiana
Fegato-ONLUS, 34013 Trieste, Italy.

We provide a concise review of the main epidemiological literature on fatty liver
(FL) published between January 2011 and October 2013. The findings from the
literature will be considered in light of the already available knowledge. We
discuss the limitations inherent in the categorization of FL into non-alcoholic
and alcoholic FL, the potential relevance of FL as an independent predictor of
cardiometabolic disease, and recent research addressing the role of FL as an
independent predictor of mortality. This review is organized as a series of
answers to relevant questions about the epidemiology of FL.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9050 
PMCID: PMC4112887
PMID: 25083078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


640. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 21;20(27):9038-49. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9038.

Translational approaches: from fatty liver to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Rosso N(1), Chavez-Tapia NC(1), Tiribelli C(1), Bellentani S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Natalia Rosso, Claudio Tiribelli, Stefano Bellentani, Norberto C Chavez-Tapia,
Fondazione Italiana Fegato, 34149 Trieste, Italy.

Over the past few decades, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become
one, if not the most common, cause of chronic liver disease affecting both adults
and children. The increasing number of cases at an early age is the most worrying
aspect of this pathology, since it provides more time for its evolution. The
spectrum of this disease ranges from liver steatosis to steatohepatitis, fibrosis
and in some cases, hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD may not always be considered a
benign disease and hepatologists must be cautious in the presence of fatty liver.
This should prompt the use of the available experimental models to understand
better the pathogenesis and to develop a rational treatment of a disease that is 
dangerously increasing. In spite of the growing efforts, the pathogenesis of
NAFLD is still poorly understood. In the present article we review the most
relevant hypotheses and evidence that account for the progression of NAFLD to
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and fibrosis. The available in vitro and in 
vivo experimental models of NASH are discussed and revised in terms of their
validity in translational studies. These studies must be aimed at the discovery
of the still unknown triggers or mediators that induce the progression of hepatic
inflammation, apoptosis and fibrosis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9038 
PMCID: PMC4112858
PMID: 25083077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


641. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 21;20(27):9026-37. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9026.

Role of liver biopsy in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Nalbantoglu IL(1), Brunt EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)ILKe Nalbantoglu, Elizabeth M Brunt, Department of Pathology and Immunology,
Washington University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO 63110, United States.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), defined as abnormal accumulation (> 5%)
of hepatic triglyceride without excess alcohol intake, is the most common form of
chronic liver disease in adults and children in the United States. NAFLD
encompasses a spectrum of histologic findings including uncomplicated steatosis, 
steatosis with inflammation and steatohepatitis [nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH)]; the latter can advance to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. NASH
is currently accepted as the hepatic manifestation of the set of cardiovascular
risk factors collectively known as metabolic syndrome. In 1999 a system for
histologic grading and staging for NASH was proposed; this was revised by the
NASH Clinical Research Network in 2005 for the entire spectrum of lesions in
NAFLD, including the lesions and patterns of pediatric NAFLD, and for application
in clinical research trials. Diagnosis remains distinct from grade and stage. A
recent European proposal separates steatosis from activity to derive a numeric
diagnosis of NASH. Even though there have been promising advancements in
non-invasive testing, these tests are not yet detailed enough to replace the full
range of findings provided by liver biopsy evaluation. Limitations of biopsy are 
acknowledged, but liver biopsy remains the "gold standard" for diagnosis and
determination of amounts of necroinflammatory activity, and location of fibrosis,
as well as remodeling of the parenchyma in NASH. This review focuses on the
specific histologic lesions of NAFLD and NASH, grading and staging, differential 
diagnoses to be considered, and the continuing role of the liver biopsy in this
important liver disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i27.9026 
PMCID: PMC4112884
PMID: 25083076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2014 Nov;18(11):1305-13. doi:
10.1517/14728222.2014.944898. Epub 2014 Jul 31.

The role of fibroblast growth factor 21 in the pathogenesis of liver disease: a
novel predictor and therapeutic target.

Liu WY(1), Huang S, Shi KQ, Zhao CC, Chen LL, Braddock M, Chen YP, Feng WK, Zheng
MH.

Author information: 
(1)The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Liver Research
Center, Department of Infection and Liver Diseases , No. 2 Fuxue Lane, Wenzhou
325000 , China +86 577 88078232 ; +86 577 88078262 ; blueman1320@163.com.

INTRODUCTION: Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is one of the FGF family
members that is produced mainly by tissues with high metabolic activity such as
liver, pancreas, muscle and adipose tissue. The major function of FGF21 is to
improve insulin sensitivity, ameliorate hepatic steatosis and enhance energy
expenditure. Recently, several studies have reported a correlation between FGF21 
and liver disease with numerous cross-sectional studies demonstrating significant
correlation. This review will focus on the role of FGF21 in the pathogenesis of
liver disease and its potential role as a biomarker and a new target for
therapeutic intervention.
AREAS COVERED: This review discusses cross-sectional studies and underlying
mechanisms of FGF21 as an endocrine hormone in several liver diseases. Two major 
theories of 'endoplasmic reticulum stress' and 'FGF21 resistance' in particular
are explained. Moreover, early functional detection and pharmacological effect of
FGF21 for liver disease are also described.
EXPERT OPINION: FGF21 can be a promising treatment in liver disease. However,
still several problems are needed to be answered. The most important are whether 
different liver disease share common underlying mechanisms and the
pharmacological effect in human with limited studies. Further studies are needed 
to explain the underlying mechanisms and develop potential therapeutic effect for
human liver disease.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2014.944898 
PMID: 25077735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


643. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 28;20(28):9338-44. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i28.9338.

Role of diet and lifestyle changes in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Nseir W(1), Hellou E(1), Assy N(1).

Author information: 
(1)William Nseir, Elias Hellou, Department of Internal Medicine, EMMS, The
Nazareth Hospital, Nazareth 16100, Israel.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become one of the most common causes
of liver disease worldwide and has been recognized as a major health burden. The 
prevalence of NAFLD has grown proportionally with the rise in obesity, sedentary 
lifestyle, unhealthy dietary pattern, and metabolic syndrome. Currently, there is
no drug therapy that can be formulated for treating NAFLD. A combination of
dietary modifications and increased physical activity remains the mainstay of
NAFLD management. It is hard to maintain this mode of management; however, it
seems to have significant long-term benefits. Furthermore, NAFLD patients,
whether obese or not, should be educated that a healthy diet and physical
activity have benefits beyond weight reduction. Further large controlled
randomized trials are needed in order to identify the best dietary regimen and
physical activity in the management of NAFLD patients. This review highlights the
role of diet and lifestyle modifications in the management of NAFLD, and focuses 
on human studies regarding dietary modifications and physical activity.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i28.9338 
PMCID: PMC4110565
PMID: 25071328  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


644. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 28;20(28):9330-7. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i28.9330.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and obesity: biochemical, metabolic and
clinical presentations.

Milić S(1), Lulić D(1), Štimac D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sandra Milić, Davorka Lulić, Davor Štimac, Division of Gastroenterology,
Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Rijeka, Rijeka 51000,
Croatia.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in the
world. Presentation of the disease ranges from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic 
steatohepatitis (NASH). NAFLD is a hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome
that includes central abdominal obesity along with other components. Up to 80% of
patients with NAFLD are obese, defined as a body mass index (BMI) > 30 kg/m(2).
However, the distribution of fat tissue plays a greater role in insulin
resistance than the BMI. The large amount of visceral adipose tissue (VAT) in
morbidly obese (BMI > 40 kg/m(2)) individuals contributes to a high prevalence of
NAFLD. Free fatty acids derived from VAT tissue, as well as from dietary sources 
and de novo lipogenesis, are released to the portal venous system. Excess free
fatty acids and chronic low-grade inflammation from VAT are considered to be two 
of the most important factors contributing to liver injury progression in NAFLD. 
In addition, secretion of adipokines from VAT as well as lipid accumulation in
the liver further promotes inflammation through nuclear factor kappa B signaling 
pathways, which are also activated by free fatty acids, and contribute to insulin
resistance. Most NAFLD patients are asymptomatic on clinical presentation, even
though some may present with fatigue, dyspepsia, dull pain in the liver and
hepatosplenomegaly. Treatment for NAFLD and NASH involves weight reduction
through lifestyle modifications, anti-obesity medication and bariatric surgery.
This article reviews the available information on the biochemical and metabolic
phenotypes associated with obesity and fatty liver disease. The relative
contribution of visceral and liver fat to insulin resistance is discussed, and
recommendations for clinical evaluation of affected individuals is provided.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i28.9330 
PMCID: PMC4110564
PMID: 25071327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


645. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 28;20(28):9217-28. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i28.9217.

Could metabolic syndrome lead to hepatocarcinoma via non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease?

Scalera A(1), Tarantino G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Antonella Scalera, Giovanni Tarantino, Department of Clinical Medicine and
Surgery, Federico II University Medical School of Naples, 80131 Naples, Italy.

It was estimated that from 2002 to 2008 the risk of developing cancer increased a
quarter-fold in men and two-fold in women due to excessive BMI. Obesity,
metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus are strictly related and are key 
pathogenetic factors of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most
frequent liver disease worldwide. The most important consequence of the
"metabolic epidemics" is the probable rise in the incidence of hepatocarcinoma
(HCC), and NAFLD is the major causative factor. Adipose tissue is not merely a
storage organ where lipids are preserved as an energy source. It is an active
organ with important endocrine, paracrine, and autocrine actions in addition to
immune functions. Adipocytes produce a wide range of hormones, cytokines, and
growth factors that can act locally in the adipose tissue microenvironment and
systemically. In this article, the main roles of insulin growth factor (IGF)-1
and IGF-2 are discussed. The role of IGF-2 is not only confined to HCC, but it
may also act in early hepato-carcinogenesis, as pre-neoplastic lesions express
IGF-2 mRNA. IGF-1 and IGF-2 interact with specific receptors (IGF-1R and IGF-2R).
IGF-1R is over-expressed in in vitro and in animal models of HCC and it was
demonstrated that IGF ligands exerted their effects on HCC cells through IGF-1R
and that it was involved in the degeneration of pre-neoplastic lesions via an
increase in their mitotic activity. Both IGF-2R and TGF β, a growth inhibitor,
levels are reduced in human HCC compared with adjacent normal liver tissues.
Another key mechanism involves peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
(PPAR)γ. In in vitro studies, PPARγ inhibited various carcinomas including HCC,
most probably by regulating apoptosis via the p21, p53 and p27 pathways. Finally,
as a clinical consequence, to improve survival, efforts to achieve a "healthier
diet" should be promoted by physicians and politicians.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i28.9217 
PMCID: PMC4110551
PMID: 25071314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Eat Weight Disord. 2014;19(3):275-83. doi: 10.1007/s40519-014-0139-y. Epub 2014
Jul 29.

The therapy of insulin resistance in other diseases besides type 2 diabetes.

Pala L(1), Barbaro V, Dicembrini I, Rotella CM.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrine Unit, Department of Biomedical Experimental and Clinical Sciences,
University of Florence, Careggi University Hospital, Florence, Italy.

Insulin resistance is a clinical condition shared by many diseases besides type 2
diabetes (T2DM) such as obesity, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Experimental evidence, produced over
the years, suggests that metformin has many benefits in the treatment of these
diseases. Metformin is a first-line drug in the treatment of overweight and obese
type 2 diabetic patients, offering a selective pathophysiological approach by its
effect on insulin resistance. Moreover, a number of studies have established the 
favorable effect of metformin on body weight, not only when evaluating BMI, but
also if body mass composition is considered, through the reduction of fat mass.
In addition, it reduces insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, lipid parameters,
arterial hypertension and endothelial dysfunction. In particular, a new
formulation of metformin extended-release (ER) is now available with different
formulation in different countries. Metformin ER delivers the active drug through
hydrated polymers which expand safe uptake of fluid, prolonging gastric transit
and delaying drug absorption in the upper gastrointestinal tract. In addition,
Metformin ER causes a small, but statistically significant decrease in BMI, when 
added to a lifestyle intervention program in obese adolescents. Because of the
suggested benefits for the treatment of insulin resistance in many clinical
conditions, besides type 2 diabetes, the prospective exists that more indications
for metformin treatment are becoming a reality.

DOI: 10.1007/s40519-014-0139-y 
PMCID: PMC4143609
PMID: 25069836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Hepatology. 2015 Mar;61(3):1066-79. doi: 10.1002/hep.27332. Epub 2015 Jan 28.

Hepatic inflammation and fibrosis: functional links and key pathways.

Seki E(1), Schwabe RF.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Medicine, University of California San Diego, School of
Medicine, La Jolla, CA; Departments of Surgery, University of California San
Diego, School of Medicine, La Jolla, CA.

Inflammation is one of the most characteristic features of chronic liver disease 
of viral, alcoholic, fatty, and autoimmune origin. Inflammation is typically
present in all disease stages and associated with the development of fibrosis,
cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. In the past decade, numerous studies
have contributed to improved understanding of the links between hepatic
inflammation and fibrosis. Here, we review mechanisms that link inflammation with
the development of liver fibrosis, focusing on the role of inflammatory mediators
in hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation and HSC survival during fibrogenesis
and fibrosis regression. We will summarize the contributions of different
inflammatory cells, including hepatic macrophages, T and B lymphocytes, natural
killer cells and platelets, as well as key effectors, such as cytokines,
chemokines, and damage-associated molecular patterns. Furthermore, we will
discuss the relevance of inflammatory signaling pathways for clinical liver
disease and for the development of antifibrogenic strategies.

© 2014 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.27332 
PMCID: PMC4306641
PMID: 25066777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Gastroenterology. 2014 Sep;147(3):577-594.e1. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.06.043. 
Epub 2014 Jul 25.

Roles for chemokines in liver disease.

Marra F(1), Tacke F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale e Clinica, University of Florence,
Florence, Italy. Electronic address: fabio.marra@unifi.it. (2)Department of
Medicine III, RWTH University Hospital Aachen, Aachen, Germany. Electronic
address: frank.tacke@gmx.net.

Sustained hepatic inflammation is an important factor in progression of chronic
liver diseases, including hepatitis C or non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Liver
inflammation is regulated by chemokines, which regulate the migration and
activities of hepatocytes, Kupffer cells, hepatic stellate cells, endothelial
cells, and circulating immune cells. However, the effects of the different
chemokines and their receptors vary during pathogenesis of different liver
diseases. During development of chronic viral hepatitis, CCL5 and CXCL10 regulate
the cytopathic versus antiviral immune responses of T cells and natural killer
cells. During development of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, CCL2 and its receptor 
are up-regulated in the liver, where they promote macrophage accumulation,
inflammation, fibrosis, and steatosis, as well as in adipose tissue. CCL2
signaling thereby links hepatic and systemic inflammation related to metabolic
disorders and insulin resistance. Several chemokine signaling pathways also
promote hepatic fibrosis. Recent studies have shown that other chemokines and
immune cells have anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic activities. Chemokines and
their receptors can also contribute to the pathogenesis of hepatocellular
carcinoma, promoting proliferation of cancer cells, the inflammatory
microenvironment of the tumor, evasion of the immune response, and angiogenesis. 
We review the roles of different chemokines in the pathogenesis of liver diseases
and their potential use as biomarkers or therapeutic targets.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.06.043 
PMID: 25066692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2015 May;31(4):329-35. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.2580. Epub 2014 
Sep 14.

GLP-1 receptor agonists: effects on the progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver 
disease.

Liu J(1), Wang G, Jia Y, Xu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Beijing Chaoyang Hospital Affiliated to Capital
Medical University, Beijing, 100020, People's Republic of China.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common liver
diseases, and its incidence has been increasing recently. In addition to hepatic 
complications, NAFLD is also recognized as an independent risk factor for
cardiovascular disease. Unfortunately, the current therapies for NAFLD display
variable efficacy; a novel and effective drug is urgently needed. Glucagon-like
peptide-1 (GLP-1), a receptor agonist is a new drug approved for treating type 2 
diabetes. Recently, these types of agents have shown a novel therapeutic effect
on NAFLD. However, the mechanisms of GLP-1 receptor agonists on the treatment of 
NAFLD have not yet been explained precisely. Recent studies have demonstrated
that GLP-1 reverses the progression of NAFLD not only indirectly through an
incretin effect that improves key parameters involved in NAFLD, but also a direct
effect on lipid metabolism of hepatocytes and inflammation in liver. In this
review, we provided an overview of the role and mechanisms of GLP-1 in the
therapy of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.2580 
PMID: 25066109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Sep;40(6):571-81. doi: 10.1111/apt.12890. Epub 2014 
Jul 25.

Systematic review with meta-analysis: the I148M variant of patatin-like
phospholipase domain-containing 3 gene (PNPLA3) is significantly associated with 
alcoholic liver cirrhosis.

Chamorro AJ(1), Torres JL, Mirón-Canelo JA, González-Sarmiento R, Laso FJ, Marcos
M.

Author information: 
(1)Alcoholism Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of
Salamanca, Institute of Biomedical Research of Salamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca,
Spain.

Comment in
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Mar;41(6):593.
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Mar;41(6):594.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have reported an association between alcoholic liver 
cirrhosis (ALC) or other forms of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and the genetic
variant rs738409 (C>G) in adiponutrin/patatin-like phospholipase
domain-containing 3 gene (PNPLA3).
AIM: To evaluate the influence of this variant on ALC and other forms of ALD.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review of previous studies on the relationship
between rs738409 of PNPLA3 and ALD and meta-analysis was conducted in a
random-effects model. Calculations of the odds ratios (ORs) and their confidence 
intervals (CIs), tests for heterogeneity and sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Database search identified 11 previous studies available for inclusion
with a total of 3495 patients with ALD (2087 with ALC) and 5038 controls (4007
healthy subjects and 1031 alcoholics without ALD). Patients with ALC compared to 
controls had a significantly higher prevalence of the G allele when comparing GG 
vs. CC (OR 4.30, 95% CI 3.25-5.69; P < 0.00001) or GC vs. CC genotypes (GC vs.
CC: OR 1.91, 95% CI 1.67-2.17) or under a recessive or dominant model. Similar
results were found when comparing separately patients with ALC vs. alcoholics
without ALD or healthy subjects. An association of the G allele with ALD emerged 
when comparing ALD patients vs. alcoholics without ALD and/or healthy subjects
although moderate to large heterogeneity was observed. Our data suggested an
additive genetic model for this variant in ALD.
CONCLUSION: Our meta-analysis shows that the rs738409 variant of PNPLA3 is
clearly associated with alcoholic liver cirrhosis.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12890 
PMID: 25060292  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Obes Rev. 2014 Sep;15(9):697-708. doi: 10.1111/obr.12199. Epub 2014 Jul 25.

Metabolically healthy and unhealthy obese--the 2013 Stock Conference report.

Samocha-Bonet D(1), Dixit VD, Kahn CR, Leibel RL, Lin X, Nieuwdorp M, Pietiläinen
KH, Rabasa-Lhoret R, Roden M, Scherer PE, Klein S, Ravussin E.

Author information: 
(1)Garvan Institute of Medical Research, University of New South Wales, Sydney,
NSW, Australia.

Obesity is closely associated with cardiovascular diseases and type 2 diabetes,
but some obese individuals, despite having excessive body fat, exhibit metabolic 
health that is comparable with that of lean individuals. The 'healthy obese'
phenotype was described in the 1980s, but major advancements in its
characterization were only made in the past five years. During this time, several
new mechanisms that may be involved in health preservation in obesity were
proposed through the use of transgenic animal models, use of sophisticated
imaging techniques and in vivo measurements of insulin sensitivity. However, the 
main obstacle in advancing our understanding of the metabolically healthy obese
phenotype and its related long-term health risks is the lack of a standardized
definition. Here, we summarize the proceedings of the 13th Stock Conference of
the International Association of the Study of Obesity. We describe the current
research and highlight the unanswered questions and gaps in the field. Better
understanding of metabolic health in obesity will assist in therapeutic
decision-making and help identify therapeutic targets to improve metabolic health
in obesity.

© 2014 The Authors. obesity reviews © 2014 World Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/obr.12199 
PMCID: PMC4519075
PMID: 25059108  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Rev Med Chil. 2014 Mar;142(3):353-60. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872014000300010.

[A role for the endocannabinoid system in hepatic steatosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Valenzuela C, Castillo V, Ronco AM, Aguirre C, Hirsch S, Llanos M.

The endocannabinoid system (SEC) is an important modulator of several metabolic
functions. This system is composed by cannabinoid receptors type 1 and 2 (RCB1
and RCB2), their endogenous ligands, known as endocannabinoids, and the enzymes
involved in their synthesis and degradation. A deregulated SEC originates
metabolic alterations in several tissues, resulting in the typical manifestations
of the metabolic syndrome. Liver steatosis of different origins constitutes a
physiopathological condition where an altered hepatic SEC is observed. In this
condition, there is an increased expression of RCB1 and/or higher endocannabinoid
levels in different hepatic cells, which may exert an autocrine/paracrine
hyperstimulation of RCB1/RCB2. Activation of RCB1 stimulate the expression of
several hepatocyte lipogenic factors, thus leading to increased de novo fatty
acids synthesis and consequently to an abnormal accumulation of triglycerides.
The effect of RCB2 activity on hepatic function is still controversial because,
on one side its stimulation has an interesting protective effect on alcoholic
liver disease while, on the other, it may enhance the development of hepatic
steatosis in experimental models of diet-induced obesity. In this review we
discuss the proposed mechanisms by which SEC is involved in the etiology of
hepatic steatosis, as well as the therapeutic possibilities involving peripheral 
RCB1/RCB2 antagonism/agonism, for the treatment of this condition.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872014000300010 
PMID: 25052273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


653. PLoS Med. 2014 Jul 22;11(7):e1001680. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001680.
eCollection 2014.

Association of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease with chronic kidney disease: a
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Musso G(1), Gambino R(2), Tabibian JH(3), Ekstedt M(4), Kechagias S(5), Hamaguchi
M(6), Hultcrantz R(7), Hagström H(7), Yoon SK(8), Charatcharoenwitthaya P(9),
George J(10), Barrera F(10), Hafliðadóttir S(11), Björnsson ES(11), Armstrong
MJ(12), Hopkins LJ(12), Gao X(13), Francque S(14), Verrijken A(15), Yilmaz Y(16),
Lindor KD(3), Charlton M(3), Haring R(17), Lerch MM(18), Rettig R(19), Völzke
H(20), Ryu S(21), Li G(22), Wong LL(23), Machado M(24), Cortez-Pinto H(24), Yasui
K(25), Cassader M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, University of Turin, Turin, Italy. (2)Dept. of Medical
Sciences, San Giovanni Battista Hospital, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota,
United States of America. (4)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden. (5)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, 
Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping,
Sweden. (6)Department of Experimental Immunology, World Premier International
Immunology Frontier Research Center, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan.
(7)Departments of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Karolinska University
Hospital, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. (8)Division of
Hepato-Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kangnam St. Mary
Hospital, Catholic University Medical College, Seoul, Korea. (9)Division of
Gastroenterology, Medicine Department, Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University,
Bangkoknoi, Bangkok, Thailand. (10)Storr Liver Unit, Westmead Millennium
Institute, University of Sydney and Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, New South Wales, Australia. (11)Dept of 
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Landspitali University Hospital, Hringbrau,
Reykjavik, Iceland. (12)Centre for Liver Research and NIHR Biomedical Research
Unit in Liver Disease, Institute of Biomedical Research, University of
Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom. (13)Department of Endocrinology and
Metabolism, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (14)Department
of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Antwerp University Hospital, University of
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. (15)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetology and
Metabolism, Antwerp University Hospital, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(16)Department of Gastroenterology, Marmara University, School of Medicine,
Istanbul, Turkey. (17)Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine,
Ernst-Moritz-Arndt University Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany. (18)Department of 
Medicine A, University Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany. (19)Institute of
Physiology, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-University Medicine Greifswald, Karlsburg,
Germany. (20)Institute for Community Medicine, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt University
Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany. (21)Department of Occupational and
Environmental Medicine, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University, School
of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (22)College of Life Sciences, Hunan Normal
University, Changsha, China. (23)John A. Burns School of Medicine at University
of Hawaii, Transplant Institute, Hawaii Medical Center, Honolulu, Hawaii, United 
States of America. (24)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital of
Santa Maria, Institute of Molecular Medicine, Lisbon, Portugal. (25)Department of
Molecular Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kyoto Prefectural University of
Medicine, Japan.

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2014 Jul;11(7):e1001681.

BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a frequent, under-recognized
condition and a risk factor for renal failure and cardiovascular disease.
Increasing evidence connects non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) to CKD. We
conducted a meta-analysis to determine whether the presence and severity of NAFLD
are associated with the presence and severity of CKD.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: English and non-English articles from international online 
databases from 1980 through January 31, 2014 were searched. Observational studies
assessing NAFLD by histology, imaging, or biochemistry and defining CKD as either
estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <60 ml/min/1.73 m2 or proteinuria
were included. Two reviewers extracted studies independently and in duplicate.
Individual participant data (IPD) were solicited from all selected studies.
Studies providing IPD were combined with studies providing only aggregate data
with the two-stage method. Main outcomes were pooled using random-effects models.
Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were used to explore sources of heterogeneity
and the effect of potential confounders. The influences of age,
whole-body/abdominal obesity, homeostasis model of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), 
and duration of follow-up on effect estimates were assessed by meta-regression.
Thirty-three studies (63,902 participants, 16 population-based and 17
hospital-based, 20 cross-sectional, and 13 longitudinal) were included. For 20
studies (61% of included studies, 11 cross-sectional and nine longitudinal,
29,282 participants), we obtained IPD. NAFLD was associated with an increased
risk of prevalent (odds ratio [OR] 2.12, 95% CI 1.69-2.66) and incident (hazard
ratio [HR] 1.79, 95% CI 1.65-1.95) CKD. Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) was 
associated with a higher prevalence (OR 2.53, 95% CI 1.58-4.05) and incidence (HR
2.12, 95% CI 1.42-3.17) of CKD than simple steatosis. Advanced fibrosis was
associated with a higher prevalence (OR 5.20, 95% CI 3.14-8.61) and incidence (HR
3.29, 95% CI 2.30-4.71) of CKD than non-advanced fibrosis. In all analyses, the
magnitude and direction of effects remained unaffected by diabetes status, after 
adjustment for other risk factors, and in other subgroup and meta-regression
analyses. In cross-sectional and longitudinal studies, the severity of NAFLD was 
positively associated with CKD stages. Limitations of analysis are the relatively
small size of studies utilizing liver histology and the suboptimal sensitivity of
ultrasound and biochemistry for NAFLD detection in population-based studies.
CONCLUSION: The presence and severity of NAFLD are associated with an increased
risk and severity of CKD. Please see later in the article for the Editors'
Summary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001680 
PMCID: PMC4106719
PMID: 25050550  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


654. J Hepatol. 2014 Nov;61(5):1166-74. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.07.008. Epub 2014 Jul
15.

Cyclophilin inhibition as potential therapy for liver diseases.

Naoumov NV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address:
nikolai.naoumov@novartis.com.

The cyclophilins are a group of proteins with peptidyl-prolyl isomerase enzymatic
activity, localised in different cellular compartments and involved in a variety 
of functions related to cell metabolism and energy homeostasis, having enhanced
expression in inflammation or malignancy. Cyclophilin A (CypA), the most
abundantly expressed cyclophilin, is present mainly in the cytoplasm and is a
host factor involved in the life cycle of multiple viruses. The extracellular
fractions of CypA and CypB are potent pro-inflammatory mediators. CypD, located
in mitochondria, is a key regulator of mitochondrial permeability transition
pores, and is critical for necrotic cell death. Cyclosporines are the prototype
cyclophilin inhibitors. Cyclic peptides, which bind and inhibit cyclophilins
without having immunosuppressive properties, have been generated by chemical
modifications of cyclosporin A. In addition, cyclophilin inhibitors that are
structurally different from cyclosporines have been synthesized. The involvement 
of cyclophilins in the pathogenesis of different liver diseases has been
established using both in vitro and in vivo investigations, thus indicating that 
cyclophilin inhibition may be of therapeutic benefit. This review summarises the 
evidence for potential therapeutic applications of non-immunosuppressive
cyclophilin inhibitors, alone or in combination with other agents, in
virus-induced liver diseases like hepatitis C, B or Delta, liver inflammation and
fibrosis, acetaminophen-induced liver toxicity and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Copyright © 2014 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.07.008 
PMID: 25048953  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2014 Aug;164(15-16):320-9. doi: 10.1007/s10354-014-0292-y.
Epub 2014 Jul 22.

Intracellular lipid accumulation and shift during diabetes progression.

Wolf P(1), Winhofer Y, Anderwald CH, Krššák M, Krebs M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine III,
Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, 1090, Vienna, Austria.

In past decades, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease developed into a global public health disease with an endemic scale.
Although up to now the pathogenesis of T2DM is still poorly understood, ectopic
lipid accumulation is one of the strongest predictors for T2DM and is closely
associated with insulin resistance.This review aims (i) to overview recent
literature on the impact of intracellular lipid deposition, (ii) to point out
changes in ectopic fat accumulation during diabetes progression or shortly after 
initializing individual therapy, and finally (iii) to expose unsolved questions
and future perspectives in the role of ectopic lipids for the development of
insulin resistance and T2DM.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-014-0292-y 
PMID: 25047370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Gastroenterology. 2014 Oct;147(4):765-783.e4. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.07.018. 
Epub 2014 Jul 18.

Cell death and cell death responses in liver disease: mechanisms and clinical
relevance.

Luedde T(1), Kaplowitz N(2), Schwabe RF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine III, University Hospital RWTH Aachen, Aachen, Germany. 
Electronic address: tluedde@ukaachen.de. (2)Division of Gastrointestinal and
Liver Diseases, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California. (3)Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New York,
New York; Institute of Human Nutrition, Columbia University, New York, New York. 
Electronic address: rfs2102@cumc.columbia.edu.

Hepatocellular death is present in almost all types of human liver disease and is
used as a sensitive parameter for the detection of acute and chronic liver
disease of viral, toxic, metabolic, or autoimmune origin. Clinical data and
animal models suggest that hepatocyte death is the key trigger of liver disease
progression, manifested by the subsequent development of inflammation, fibrosis, 
cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Modes of hepatocellular death differ
substantially between liver diseases. Different modes of cell death such as
apoptosis, necrosis, and necroptosis trigger specific cell death responses and
promote progression of liver disease through distinct mechanisms. In this review,
we first discuss molecular mechanisms by which different modes of cell death,
damage-associated molecular patterns, and specific cell death responses
contribute to the development of liver disease. We then review the clinical
relevance of cell death, focusing on biomarkers; the contribution of cell death
to drug-induced, viral, and fatty liver disease and liver cancer; and evidence
for cell death pathways as therapeutic targets.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.07.018 
PMCID: PMC4531834
PMID: 25046161  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Metabolism. 2014 Sep;63(9):1084-92. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2014.06.009. Epub 2014
Jun 19.

Metabolically healthy obesity from childhood to adulthood - Does weight status
alone matter?

Blüher S(1), Schwarz P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Leipzig University Medical Center, IFB Adiposity Diseases, University of
Leipzig, Germany. Electronic address: susann.blueher@medizin.uni-leipzig.de.
(2)Technical University Dresden, Department of Prevention and Care of Diabetes,
Germany; Paul Langerhans Institute Dresden, German Center for Diabetes Research
(DZD), Germany.

Up to 30% of obese people do not display the "typical" metabolic
obesity-associated complications. For this group of patients, the term
"metabolically healthy obese (MHO)" has been established during the past years
and has been the focus of research activities. The development and severity of
insulin resistance as well as (subclinical) inflammations seems to play a key
role in distinguishing metabolically healthy from metabolically non-healthy
individuals. However, an internationally consistent and accepted classification
that might also include inflammatory markers as well as features of non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease is missing to date, and available data - in terms of
prevalence, definition and severity - are heterogeneous, both during
childhood/adolescence and during adulthood. In addition, the impact of MHO on
future morbidity and mortality compared to obese, metabolically non-healthy as
well as normal weight, metabolically healthy individuals is absolutely not clear 
to date and even conflicting. This review summarizes salient literature related
to that topic and provides insight into our current understanding of MHO,
covering all age spans from childhood to adulthood.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.metabol.2014.06.009 
PMID: 25038727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2014 Sep;34(9):1820-6. doi:
10.1161/ATVBAHA.114.303035. Epub 2014 Jul 17.

Links between ectopic fat and vascular disease in humans.

Lim S(1), Meigs JB(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University College of
Medicine, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea (S.L.); and
General Medicine Division, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital
and Harvard Medical School, Boston (J.B.M.). (2)From the Department of Internal
Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul National
University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea (S.L.); and General Medicine
Division, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard
Medical School, Boston (J.B.M.). jmeigs@partners.org.

The average of overweight individual can have differential fat depots in target
organs or specific compartments of the body. This ectopic fat distribution may be
more of a predictive factor for cardiovascular risk than obesity. Abdominal
visceral obesity, a representative ectopic fat, is robustly associated with
insulin resistance and cardiovascular risk. Fat depots in the liver and muscle
tissue cause adverse cardiometabolic risk by affecting glucose and lipid
metabolism. Pericardial fat and perivascular fat affect coronary atherosclerosis,
cardiac function, and hemodynamics. Fat around the neck is associated with
systemic vascular resistance. Fat around the kidney may increase blood pressure
and induce albuminuria. Fat accumulation in or around the pancreas alters glucose
metabolism, conferring cardiovascular risk. Ectopic fat may act as an active
endocrine and paracrine organ that releases various bioactive mediators that
influence insulin resistance, glucose and lipid metabolism, coagulation, and
inflammation, which all contribute to cardiovascular risk. Because both obese and
apparently lean individuals can have ectopic fat, regional fat distribution may
play an important role in the development of cardiovascular diseases in both
nonobese and obese people.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.114.303035 
PMCID: PMC4140970
PMID: 25035342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Dig Dis. 2014;32(5):597-604. doi: 10.1159/000360511. Epub 2014 Jul 14.

Treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Dyson J(1), Day C.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Unit, Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation
Trust, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now the commonest cause of chronic
liver disease in developed countries. Treatment depends on the stage of disease, 
and non-invasive methods for risk stratification are urgently needed. Lifestyle
modification (aimed at weight loss and increasing physical activity) and
management of the features of metabolic syndrome are vital for all patients with 
NAFLD. Metformin is the first-line therapy for diabetic patients with NAFLD and
also reduces the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma. Clinicians should have a low
threshold for introducing a statin for the management of dyslipidaemia.
Antihypertensive agents that target the renin-angiotensin system should be
first-line in NAFLD for the management of hypertension. For patients with
progressive disease, liver-directed pharmacotherapy with vitamin E should be
considered. Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis cirrhosis is an increasingly common
indication for liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1159/000360511 
PMID: 25034293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Dig Dis. 2014;32(5):586-96. doi: 10.1159/000360510. Epub 2014 Jul 14.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: diagnosis and investigation.

Nascimbeni F(1), Loria P, Ratziu V.

Author information: 
(1)University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.

Given the worldwide increase in obesity and diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) is the leading cause of chronic liver disease. NAFLD is
associated with increased hepatic and extrahepatic morbidity and mortality,
mainly related to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with fibrosis. An early diagnosis
in the high-risk population with features of insulin resistance and a proper
identification of those patients with progressive liver disease are needed.
Practicing physicians dealing with NAFLD should be aware of and should carefully 
evaluate the extended spectrum of NAFLD-related extrahepatic diseases, which
significantly affects liver- and non-liver-related prognosis. This clinical
practice-oriented article reviews the diagnostic methods and staging strategies
for NAFLD and proposes an investigational algorithm for a global evaluation of
NAFLD patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000360510 
PMID: 25034292  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Dig Dis. 2014;32(5):545-53. doi: 10.1159/000360499. Epub 2014 Jul 14.

The pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Kirstein MM(1), Vogel A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Endocrinology, Hannover Medical
School, Hannover, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common and deadly
malignancies worldwide. The multikinase inhibitor sorafenib still remains the
only approved agent for advanced HCC. In most cases, HCC develops based on
advanced liver cirrhosis, whereas the underlying risk factors can be identified
in the vast majority of patients.
METHODS: Here, we summarise and review the pathomechanisms in dependence of the
underlying disease, gene signatures and frequent mutations in HCC.
RESULTS: Worldwide, HCC is most commonly caused by viral hepatitis B and C. It is
less frequently associated with chronic exposure to toxins or hereditary liver
diseases. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is an emerging risk factor with
increasing prevalence nowadays. Emerging innovative technologies including
whole-genome or -exome analyses have been applied for molecular and prognostic
classifications as well as therapeutic implications. Mutations leading to
activation of the Wnt pathway and inactivation of p53 were most frequently
identified in HCC.
CONCLUSIONS: Recent advances have significantly improved our understanding of the
molecular pathogenesis of HCC and its complex genetic landscape. The emerging
data will open the door towards novel and more effective targeted and
personalized therapies in this devastating disease.

DOI: 10.1159/000360499 
PMID: 25034287  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Dig Dis. 2014;32(5):507-15. doi: 10.1159/000360495. Epub 2014 Jul 14.

The inflammasome in liver injury and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Mehal WZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Digestive Diseases, Yale University, New Haven, Conn., and Section 
of Digestive Diseases, Department of Veterans Affairs Connecticut Healthcare,
West Haven, Conn., USA.

The liver possesses a strong inflammatory response, as seen experimentally and
clinically with liver inflammation due to toxic and metabolic stress, sepsis and 
ischemia. Initiation of this inflammatory response requires the interaction of
two types of extracellular signals which collectively upregulate and activate a
cytosolic molecular complex termed the inflammasome. Signal 1 is via activation
of pattern recognition receptors, and signal 2 is delivered by diverse stimuli
including particulates and adenosine triphosphate. The common end result of
inflammasome activation is the activation of the protease caspase-1 with release 
of active interleukin-1β. The inflammasome is important in a wide range of
conditions including alcoholic and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Kupffer cells
are known to be important, but the consequences of inflammasome activation in
other hepatic immune cells have not been well characterized. The inflammasome
pathway is also known to be required for a full fibrotic response, as
demonstrated by reduced lung, skin and liver fibrosis in inflammasome-deficient
mice. Identification of the inflammasome machinery has opened up novel
therapeutic avenues by the use of antagonists for Toll-like receptors as well as 
the adenosine triphosphate receptor P2X7, and the interleukin-1 receptor. There
is now great interest in how inflammasome pathways are regulated. The initial
challenge is to understand how an acute inflammatory response is sustained. This 
is a significant issue as the known stimuli result in an acute response that is
self-limited to under 24 h. This suggests that there are significant regulators
which allow sustained inflammasome activation in conditions such as non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis and alcoholic hepatitis.

DOI: 10.1159/000360495 
PMID: 25034283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2014 Jul;29(4):389-95. doi: 10.1097/HCO.0000000000000068.

Should we expand the concept of coronary heart disease equivalents?

Katsiki N(1), Athyros VG, Karagiannis A, Wierzbicki AS, Mikhailidis DP.

Author information: 
(1)aSecond Propedeutic Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, Aristotle
University of Thessaloniki, Hippokration Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece
bDepartment of Metabolic Medicine/Chemical Pathology, Guy's & St Thomas'
Hospitals cDepartment of Clinical Biochemistry (Vascular Disease Prevention
Clinics), Royal Free Hospital campus, University College London Medical School,
University College London (UCL), London, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This narrative review discusses the associations between
metabolic and inflammatory diseases, as well as radiotherapy and chemotherapy
with coronary heart disease (CHD) and related risk factors, to support (or not)
their potential role as CHD equivalents.
RECENT FINDINGS: Although not regarded as CHD equivalents, several metabolic and 
inflammatory disorders are associated with an increased risk of CHD morbidity
and/or mortality. These conditions include metabolic syndrome, impaired glucose
metabolism, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome, 
erectile dysfunction, periodontitis, inflammatory bowel diseases, systemic
vasculitis and HIV infection, as well as chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
SUMMARY: More research should be carried out to identify which conditions can be 
added to the list of CHD equivalents.

DOI: 10.1097/HCO.0000000000000068 
PMID: 25029454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Transl Res. 2014 Oct;164(4):312-22. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2014.06.008. Epub 2014
Jun 25.

Obesity and the liver: nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Koppe SW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Northwestern University, Chicago,
Ill. Electronic address: sean.koppe@nmff.org.

The increasing prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) parallels
the rise of obesity and its complications. NAFLD is a common cause of cirrhosis
and a leading indication for liver transplant. Genetic susceptibility, dietary
composition, and exercise habits influence the development of NAFLD, and insulin 
resistance results in widespread metabolic perturbations with a net effect of
triglyceride accumulation in the liver. Some patients will develop hepatocyte
cellular injury and fibrosis of the liver, which can progress to cirrhosis and
require liver transplant. Treatments targeting the pathophysiological mechanisms 
of NAFLD exist, but carry some potential risk and are not universally effective. 
Weight loss and lifestyle changes remain the most effective and safest approach, 
but sustainable change is difficult for most patients to achieve. Future work
will continue to focus on developing effective and safe interventions to prevent 
the development of advanced liver disease, whereas efforts in the public health
domain continue to combat obesity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trsl.2014.06.008 
PMID: 25028077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2014 Aug 1;71(15):1265-76. doi: 10.2146/ajhp140028.

Pharmacotherapy for alcoholic patients with alcoholic liver disease.

Vuittonet CL(1), Halse M(1), Leggio L(1), Fricchione SB(1), Brickley M(1),
Haass-Koffler CL(1), Tavares T(1), Swift RM(1), Kenna GA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cynthia L. Vuittonet, M.D., is Resident Physician, Department of Internal
Medicine, Warren Alpert Medical School, Brown University, Providence, RI. Michael
Halse, Pharm.D., is Resident Pharmacist, South County Hospital, Wakefield, RI.
Lorenzo Leggio, M.D., Ph.D., M.Sc., is Section Chief, Section on Clinical
Psychoneuroendocrinology and Neuropsychopharmacology, Laboratory of Clinical and 
Translational Studies, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, and
Section Chief, Intramural Research Program, National Institute on Drug Abuse,
National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD, and Adjunct Associate Professor,
Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, Brown University. Samuel B. Fricchione,
B.A., is Research Assistant; Michael Brickley, B.A., is Research Assistant;
Carolina L. Haass-Koffler, Pharm.D., is Post-Doctoral Fellow; and Tonya Tavares, 
M.A., is Senior Research Assistant, Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies,
Brown University. Robert M. Swift, M.D., Ph.D., is Deputy Chief of Research,
Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, Brown University, Deputy Director of
Research, Providence Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Providence, RI, and
Professor of Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Warren
Alpert Medical School, Brown University. George A. Kenna, Ph.D., B.S.Pharm., is
Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Research), Center for Alcohol and Addiction
Studies, and Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Warren Alpert Medical
School, Brown University. (2)Cynthia L. Vuittonet, M.D., is Resident Physician,
Department of Internal Medicine, Warren Alpert Medical School, Brown University, 
Providence, RI. Michael Halse, Pharm.D., is Resident Pharmacist, South County
Hospital, Wakefield, RI. Lorenzo Leggio, M.D., Ph.D., M.Sc., is Section Chief,
Section on Clinical Psychoneuroendocrinology and Neuropsychopharmacology,
Laboratory of Clinical and Translational Studies, National Institute on Alcohol
Abuse and Alcoholism, and Section Chief, Intramural Research Program, National
Institute on Drug Abuse, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD, and
Adjunct Associate Professor, Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, Brown
University. Samuel B. Fricchione, B.A., is Research Assistant; Michael Brickley, 
B.A., is Research Assistant; Carolina L. Haass-Koffler, Pharm.D., is
Post-Doctoral Fellow; and Tonya Tavares, M.A., is Senior Research Assistant,
Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, Brown University. Robert M. Swift,
M.D., Ph.D., is Deputy Chief of Research, Center for Alcohol and Addiction
Studies, Brown University, Deputy Director of Research, Providence Veterans
Affairs Medical Center, Providence, RI, and Professor of Psychiatry, Department
of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Warren Alpert Medical School, Brown University.
George A. Kenna, Ph.D., B.S.Pharm., is Assistant Professor of Psychiatry
(Research), Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, and Department of
Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Warren Alpert Medical School, Brown University.
george_kenna@brown.edu.

PURPOSE: An update on pharmacotherapy for achieving and maintaining abstinence
and mitigating hepatic damage in patients with alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is
presented.
SUMMARY: Currently there are limited pharmacotherapy options for managing ALD,
which encompasses a broad spectrum of disorders ranging from steatosis and
alcoholic hepatitis to fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular cancer. Individual
variation in the severity, presentation, and complex pathologenesis of ALD
defines barriers to effective treatment. Scoring of disease severity using
validated assessment instruments should guide treatment approaches; abstinence
and proper nutrition continue to be the cornerstones of management. A literature 
search (through December 31, 2013) identified no reports of randomized controlled
trials using Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved medications for the
treatment of alcohol dependence in ALD-spectrum disorders. Disulfiram,
acamprosate, and naltrexone (oral and intramuscular), while approved by FDA for
treatment of alcohol dependence, are not currently approved for use in patients
with ALD. Baclofen (also not FDA-approved for use in ALD) is the only medication 
available in the United States with demonstrated safety and efficacy in reducing 
alcoholic behavior that has been formally tested in clinical trials in patients
with ALD. Pharmacotherapy of alcoholic hepatitis using glucocorticoids or
pentoxifylline has shown promise, but these options are reserved for severe ALD
only.
CONCLUSION: Although various treatments have been investigated for ALD in
patients with alcoholism, complete abstinence from alcohol is currently the only 
recommended form of hepatoprotection for the entire spectrum of ALD diagnoses.

Copyright © 2014 by the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp140028 
PMCID: PMC4170837
PMID: 25027533  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Crit Rev Biotechnol. 2016;36(1):132-43. doi: 10.3109/07388551.2014.930017. Epub
2015 Sep 11.

Liver cell-targeted delivery of therapeutic molecules.

Kang JH(1), Toita R(2), Murata M(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics, Department of Biomedical 
Engineering , National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center Research Institute ,
Osaka , Japan . (2)b Department of Biomaterials, Faculty of Dental Science . (3)c
Department of Advanced Medical Initiatives, Faculty of Medical Sciences , and.
(4)d Innovation Center for Medical Redox Navigation, Kyushu University , Fukuoka 
, Japan.

The liver is the largest internal organ in mammals and is involved in metabolism,
detoxification, synthesis of proteins and lipids, secretion of cytokines and
growth factors and immune/inflammatory responses. Hepatitis, alcoholic or
non-alcoholic liver disease, hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatic veno-occlusive
disease, and liver fibrosis and cirrhosis are the most common liver diseases.
Safe and efficient delivery of therapeutic molecules (drugs, genes or proteins)
into the liver is very important to increase the clinical efficacy of these
molecules and to reduce their side effects in other organs. Several liver
cell-targeted delivery systems have been developed and tested in vivo or ex
vivo/in vitro. In this review, we discuss the literature concerning liver
cell-targeted delivery systems, with a particular emphasis on the results of in
vivo studies.

DOI: 10.3109/07388551.2014.930017 
PMID: 25025274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


667. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 14;20(26):8407-15. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8407.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiovascular disease.

Liu H(1), Lu HY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hong Liu, Hong-Yun Lu, Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, the Fifth
Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, Zhuhai 519000, Guangdong Province,
China.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) are two
diseases that are common in the general population. To date, many studies have
been conducted and demonstrate a direct link between NAFLD and CVD, but the exact
mechanisms for this complex relationship are not well established. A systematic
search of the PubMed database revealed that several common mechanisms are
involved in many of the local and systemic manifestations of NAFLD and lead to an
increased cardiovascular risk. The possible mechanisms linking NAFLD and CVD
include inflammation, oxidative stress, insulin resistance, ectopic adipose
tissue distribution, dyslipidemia, endothelial dysfunction, and adiponectin,
among others. The clinical implication is that patients with NAFLD are at an
increased risk of CVD and should undergo periodic cardiovascular risk assessment.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8407 
PMCID: PMC4093693
PMID: 25024598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


668. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 14;20(26):8393-406. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8393.

Clinical differences between alcoholic liver disease and nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Toshikuni N(1), Tsutsumi M(1), Arisawa T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nobuyuki Toshikuni, Tomiyasu Arisawa, Department of Gastroenterology, Kanazawa
Medical University, Ishikawa 920-0293, Japan.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are
serious health problems worldwide. These two diseases have similar pathological
spectra, ranging from simple hepatic steatosis to steatohepatitis, liver
cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Although most subjects with excessive
alcohol or food intake experience simple hepatic steatosis, a small percentage of
individuals will develop progressive liver disease. Notably, both ALD and NAFLD
are frequently accompanied by extrahepatic complications, including
cardiovascular disease and malignancy. The survival of patients with ALD and
NAFLD depends on various disease-associated conditions. This review delineates
the clinical characteristics and outcomes of patients with ALD and NAFLD by
comparing their epidemiology, the factors associated with disease susceptibility 
and progression, and the predictors and characteristics of outcomes. A
comprehensive understanding of the characteristics and outcomes of ALD and NAFLD 
is imperative in the management of these chronic liver diseases.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8393 
PMCID: PMC4093692
PMID: 25024597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


669. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 14;20(26):8377-92. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8377.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and diabetes: from physiopathological interplay
to diagnosis and treatment.

Leite NC(1), Villela-Nogueira CA(1), Cardoso CR(1), Salles GF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nathalie C Leite, Cristiane A Villela-Nogueira, Claudia R L Cardoso, Gil F
Salles, Internal Medicine Department, University Hospital Clementino Fraga Filho,
School of Medicine, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro
22750-240, Brazil.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is highly prevalent in patients with
diabetes mellitus and increasing evidence suggests that patients with type 2
diabetes are at a particularly high risk for developing the progressive forms of 
NAFLD, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and associated advanced liver fibrosis.
Moreover, diabetes is an independent risk factor for NAFLD progression, and for
hepatocellular carcinoma development and liver-related mortality in prospective
studies. Notwithstanding, patients with NAFLD have an elevated prevalence of
prediabetes. Recent studies have shown that NAFLD presence predicts the
development of type 2 diabetes. Diabetes and NAFLD have mutual pathogenetic
mechanisms and it is possible that genetic and environmental factors interact
with metabolic derangements to accelerate NAFLD progression in diabetic patients.
The diagnosis of the more advanced stages of NAFLD in diabetic patients shares
the same challenges as in non-diabetic patients and it includes imaging and
serological methods, although histopathological evaluation is still considered
the gold standard diagnostic method. An effective established treatment is not
yet available for patients with steatohepatitis and fibrosis and randomized
clinical trials including only diabetic patients are lacking. We sought to
outline the published data including epidemiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis and
treatment of NAFLD in diabetic patients, in order to better understand the
interplay between these two prevalent diseases and identify the gaps that still
need to be fulfilled in the management of NAFLD in patients with diabetes
mellitus.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8377 
PMCID: PMC4093691
PMID: 25024596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


670. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 14;20(26):8351-63. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8351.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and polycystic ovary syndrome.

Vassilatou E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Evangeline Vassilatou, Endocrine Unit, 2 Department of Internal Medicine -
Propaedeutic, "Attikon" University Hospital, 12462 Athens, Greece.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in the Western world comprising a spectrum of liver damage from
fatty liver infiltration to end-stage liver disease, in patients without
significant alcohol consumption. Increased prevalence of NAFLD has been reported 
in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), one of the most common
endocrinopathies in premenopausal women, which has been redefined as a
reproductive and metabolic disorder after the recognition of the important role
of insulin resistance in the pathophysiology of the syndrome. Obesity, in
particular central adiposity and insulin resistance are considered as the main
factors related to NAFLD in PCOS. Moreover, existing data support that androgen
excess, which is the main feature of PCOS and is interrelated to insulin
resistance, may be an additional contributing factor to the development of NAFLD.
Although the natural history of NAFLD remains unclear and hepatic steatosis seems
to be a relatively benign condition in most patients, limited data imply that
advanced stage of liver disease is possibly more frequent in obese PCOS patients 
with NAFLD. PCOS patients, particularly obese patients with features of the
metabolic syndrome, should be submitted to screening for NAFLD comprising
assessment of serum aminotransferase levels and of hepatic steatosis by abdominal
ultrasound. Lifestyle modifications including diet, weight loss and exercise are 
the most appropriate initial therapeutic interventions for PCOS patients with
NAFLD. When pharmacologic therapy is considered, metformin may be used, although 
currently there is no medical therapy of proven benefit for NAFLD. Long-term
follow up studies are needed to clarify clinical implications and guide
appropriate diagnostic evaluation, follow-up protocol and optimal treatment for
PCOS patients with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8351 
PMCID: PMC4093689
PMID: 25024594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


671. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 14;20(26):8341-50. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8341.

Modern approach to the clinical management of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Del Ben M(1), Polimeni L(1), Baratta F(1), Pastori D(1), Loffredo L(1), Angelico 
F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Maria Del Ben, Licia Polimeni, Francesco Baratta, Daniele Pastori, Lorenzo
Loffredo, Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialities, 00161 Rome,
Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common and emerging form of
chronic liver disease worldwide. It includes a wide spectrum of liver diseases
ranging from simple fatty liver to steatohepatitis, which may progress to
cirrhosis, liver cancer, and liver mortality. Common metabolic diseases, which
are well established cardiovascular risk factors, have been associated to NAFLD
and cardiovascular disease is the single most important cause of morbidity and
mortality in this patient population. The pathogenesis of NAFLD appears
multifactorial and many mechanisms have been proposed as possible causes of fatty
liver infiltration. Management of fatty liver has become a major challenge to
healthcare systems as the consequence of the increasing rates of obesity
worldwide. First-line management focuses on lifestyle modifications. Moderate
weight reduction either by dietary restriction or by increased habitual physical 
activity is safe and highly recommended. Several therapeutic interventions have
been proposed. These include insulin sensitizer agents, lipid lowering drugs,
antioxidants such as vitamin E and supplementation of vitamin D3. However,
therapeutic strategies have been largely empirical so far, and experimental
trials have mostly been carried out in uncontrolled settings with small sample
sizes. Metabolic conditions such as diabetes mellitus, obesity, hypertension and 
hyperlipidemia, should be strongly considered and a multidisciplinary approach
should be personalized for individual patients. Treatment of co-morbidities
should be regarded as of paramount importance in the management of these
patients. The purpose of this review is to examine different approaches for the
clinical management of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8341 
PMCID: PMC4093688
PMID: 25024593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


672. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 14;20(26):8325-40. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8325.

Proteomic and genomic studies of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease--clues in the 
pathogenesis.

Lim JW(1), Dillon J(1), Miller M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jun Wei Lim, John Dillon, Michael Miller, Department of Gastroenterology,
University of Dundee, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee DD1 9SY,
United Kingdom.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a widely prevalent hepatic disorder 
that covers wide spectrum of liver pathology. NAFLD is strongly associated with
liver inflammation, metabolic hyperlipidaemia and insulin resistance. Frequently,
NAFLD has been considered as the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome. The
pathophysiology of NAFLD has not been fully elucidated. Some patients can remain 
in the stage of simple steatosis, which generally is a benign condition; whereas 
others can develop liver inflammation and progress into non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis, fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The mechanism 
behind the progression is still not fully understood. Much ongoing proteomic
researches have focused on discovering the unbiased circulating biochemical
markers to allow early detection and treatment of NAFLD. Comprehensive genomic
studies have also begun to provide new insights into the gene polymorphism to
understand patient-disease variations. Therefore, NAFLD is considered a complex
and mutifactorial disease phenotype resulting from environmental exposures acting
on a susceptible polygenic background. This paper reviewed the current status of 
proteomic and genomic studies that have contributed to the understanding of NAFLD
pathogenesis. For proteomics section, this review highlighted functional proteins
that involved in: (1) transportation; (2) metabolic pathway; (3) acute phase
reaction; (4) anti-inflammatory; (5) extracellular matrix; and (6) immune system.
In the genomic studies, this review will discuss genes which involved in: (1)
lipolysis; (2) adipokines; and (3) cytokines production.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i26.8325 
PMCID: PMC4093687
PMID: 25024592  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2014 Sep;17(5):453-7. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0000000000000071.

The Mediterranean diet, hepatic steatosis and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Velasco N(1), Contreras A, Grassi B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition, Diabetes and Metabolism, School of Medicine;
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review is to present the
pathophysiological mechanisms and most recent clinical evidence regarding the
role of the Mediterranean diet in preventing and treating nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD).
RECENT FINDINGS: Several components of the Mediterranean diet have proven
benefits in controlling the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in NAFLD.
However, the few clinical studies that have assessed the diet have involved low
numbers of patients and lacked methodological rigor. The results of these studies
suggest that the Mediterranean diet attenuates the progression of NAFLD once it
is established, but does not contribute to preventing the disease in patients at 
risk.
SUMMARY: Although there is a lack of clinical evidence derived from studies with 
high-quality methodology, the pathophysiological mechanisms of NAFLD shared with 
other associated pathologies suggest that there is a role for the Mediterranean
diet in managing NAFLD. Studies with better methodology are needed to confirm the
impact of the diet.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0000000000000071 
PMID: 25023188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2014 Jun 27;111(26):447-52. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2014.0447.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: epidemiology, clinical course, investigation, 
and treatment.

Weiß J(1), Rau M, Geier A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II, Division of Hepatology, University
Hospital of Würzburg.

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2015 Feb 27;112(9):144.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2015 Feb 27;112(9):143.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2015 Feb 27;112(9):143-4.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2015 Feb 27;112(9):143.

BACKGROUND: The global obesity epidemic has increased the prevalence of fatty
liver disease. At present, 14% to 27% of the general population in the
industrialized world has non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
METHOD: We review pertinent publications retrieved by a selective search of the
PubMed database for the years 1995 to 2013.
RESULTS: The term "non-alcoholic fatty liver disease" covers cases of a wide
spectrum of severity, ranging from bland fatty liver without any inflammation and
with little or no tendency to progress all the way to non-alcoholic
steato-hepatitis (NASH) with inflammatory reactions and hepatocyte damage, with
or without fibrosis. Some 5% to 20% of patients with NAFLD develop NASH, which
undergoes a further transition to higher-grade fibrosis in 10% to 20% of cases.
In fewer than 5% of cases, fibrosis progresses to cirrhosis. These approximate
figures lead to an estimate of 0.05% to 0.3% for the prevalence of cirrhosis in
the general population. About 2% of all cirrhosis patients per year develop
hepatocellular carcinoma. The diagnosis of fatty liver disease can be suspected
initially on the basis of abnormally high aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT)
and/or alanine aminotransferase (ALAT) levels and abnormal ultrasonographic
findings. The positive predictive value of an ultrasonographic study for mild
steatosis is 67% at most. The NAFLD fibrosis score, which is computed on the
basis of multiple parameters (age, body-mass index, diabetes status, ASAT, ALAT, 
platelet count, and albumin level), has a positive predictive value of 82% to 90%
and a negative predictive value of 88% to 93%. Liver biopsy is the gold standard 
for diagnosis but should be performed sparingly in view of its rare but sometimes
life-threatening complications, such as hemorrhage. The treatment of NAFLD and
NASH consists mainly of changes in lifestyle and nutrition.
CONCLUSION: NAFLD can, in principle, be reversed. This is only possible with
weight reduction by at least 3% to 5%.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2014.0447 
PMCID: PMC4101528
PMID: 25019921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Child Obes. 2014 Aug;10(4):304-17. doi: 10.1089/chi.2013.0120. Epub 2014 Jul 14.

Children's Hospital Association consensus statements for comorbidities of
childhood obesity.

Estrada E(1), Eneli I, Hampl S, Mietus-Snyder M, Mirza N, Rhodes E, Sweeney B,
Tinajero-Deck L, Woolford SJ, Pont SJ; Children's Hospital Association.

Author information: 
(1)1 Division of Endocrinology, Connecticut Children's Medical Center, University
of Connecticut , Hartford, CT.

Comment in
    Child Obes. 2015 Jun;11(3):231-2.

BACKGROUND: Childhood obesity and overweight affect approximately 30% of US
children. Many of these children have obesity-related comorbidities, such as
hypertension, dyslipidemia, fatty liver disease, diabetes, polycystic ovary
syndrome (PCOS), sleep apnea, psychosocial problems, and others. These children
need routine screening and, in many cases, treatment for these conditions.
However, because primary care pediatric providers (PCPs) often are underequipped 
to deal with these comorbidities, they frequently refer these patients to
subspecialists. However, as a result of the US pediatric subspecialist shortage
and considering that 12.5 million children are obese, access to care by
subspecialists is limited. The aim of this article is to provide accessible,
user-friendly clinical consensus statements to facilitate the screening,
interpretation of results, and early treatment for some of the most common
childhood obesity comorbidities.
METHODS: Members of the Children's Hospital Association (formerly NACHRI) FOCUS
on a Fitter Future II (FFFII), a collaboration of 25 US pediatric obesity
centers, used a combination of the best available evidence and collective
clinical experience to develop consensus statements for pediatric obesity-related
comorbidities. FFFII also surveyed the participating pediatric obesity centers
regarding their current practices.
RESULTS: The work group developed consensus statements for use in the evaluation 
and treatment of lipids, liver enzymes, and blood pressure abnormalities and PCOS
in the child with overweight and obesity. The results of the FFFII survey
illustrated the variability in the approach for initial evaluation and treatment 
as well as pattern of referrals to subspecialists among programs.
CONCLUSIONS: The consensus statements presented in this article can be a useful
tool for PCPs in the management and overall care of children with overweight and 
obesity.

DOI: 10.1089/chi.2013.0120 
PMCID: PMC4120655
PMID: 25019404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Aug;18(3):675-85. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.05.009.

Recurrence of nonviral liver diseases after liver transplantation.

Graziadei IW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II (Gastroenterology and Hepatology), Medical 
University of Innsbruck, Anichstraße 35, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria; Department of
Internal Medicine, District Hospital Hall, Milserstraße 10, A-6060 Hall, Austria.
Electronic address: ivo.graziadei@i-med.ac.at.

Many nonviral diseases that cause liver failure may recur after liver
transplantation. Although most studies have shown that a recurrent disease does
not negatively affect patient and graft survival in the intermediate
postoperative course, there is growing evidence that, especially in patients with
primary sclerosing cholangitis and in patients with recurrent abusive alcohol
drinking, disease recurrence is a significant risk factor for graft dysfunction
and graft loss. Therefore, the recurrence of nonviral diseases has become a
clinically important and prognostically relevant issue in the long-term
management of recipients of liver transplantation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2014.05.009 
PMID: 25017083  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Arch Pharm Res. 2014;37(9):1097-116. doi: 10.1007/s12272-014-0439-9. Epub 2014
Jul 12.

Autophagy and microRNA dysregulation in liver diseases.

Kim KM(1), Kim SG.

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Seoul
National University, Sillim-dong, Kwanak-gu, Seoul, 151-742, Korea.

Autophagy is a catabolic process through which organelles and cellular components
are sequestered into autophagosomes and degraded via fusion with lysosomes.
Autophagy plays a role in many physiological processes, including stress
responses, energy homeostasis, elimination of cellular organelles, and tissue
remodeling. In addition, autophagy capacity changes in various disease states. A 
series of studies have shown that autophagy is strictly controlled to maintain
homeostatic balance of energy metabolism and cellular organelle and protein
turnover. These studies have also shown that this process is
post-transcriptionally controlled by small noncoding microRNAs that regulate gene
expression through complementary base pairing with mRNAs. Conversely, autophagy
regulates the expression of microRNAs. Therefore, dysregulation of the link
between autophagy and microRNA expression exacerbates the pathogenesis of various
diseases. In this review, we summarize the roles of autophagy and microRNA
dysregulation in the course of liver diseases, with the aim of understanding how 
microRNAs modify key autophagic effector molecules, and we discuss how this
dysregulation affects both physiological and pathological conditions. This
article may advance our understanding of the cellular and molecular bases of
liver disease progression and promote the development of strategies for
pharmacological intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s12272-014-0439-9 
PMID: 25015129  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Int J Med Sci. 2014 Jun 26;11(9):925-35. doi: 10.7150/ijms.8951. eCollection
2014.

Alanine aminotransferase-old biomarker and new concept: a review.

Liu Z(1), Que S(2), Xu J(1), Peng T(1).

Author information: 
(1)1. Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi
Medical University, Nanning, 530021, Guangxi Province, China. (2)2. Department of
Pediatrics, Women and children's hospital of Guangxi, Nanning, 530005, Guangxi
province, China.

Measurement of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) is a common, readily
available, and inexpensive laboratory assay in clinical practice. ALT activity is
not only measured to detect liver disease, but also to monitor overall health.
ALT activity is influenced by various factors, including viral hepatitis, alcohol
consumption, and medication. Recently, the impact of metabolic abnormalities on
ALT variation has raised concern due to the worldwide obesity epidemic. The
normal ranges for ALT have been updated and validated considering the metabolic
covariates in the various ethnic districts. The interaction between metabolic and
demographic factors on ALT variation has also been discussed in previous studies.
In addition, an extremely low ALT value might reflect the process of aging, and
frailty in older adults has been raised as another clinically significant feature
of this enzyme, to be followed with additional epidemiologic investigation.
Timely updated, comprehensive, and systematic introduction of ALT activity is
necessary to aid clinicians make better use of this enzyme.

DOI: 10.7150/ijms.8951 
PMCID: PMC4081315
PMID: 25013373  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


679. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 7;20(25):8102-9. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8102.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and thyroid dysfunction: a systematic review.

Eshraghian A(1), Hamidian Jahromi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ahad Eshraghian, Department of Internal Medicine, Namazi hospital, Shiraz
University of medical sciences, PO Box 71345-1744 Shiraz, Iran.

Thyroid hormones are totally involved in the regulation of body weight, lipid
metabolism, and insulin resistance. Therefore it is anticipated that thyroid
hormones may have a role in the pathogenesis of non alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) and non alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). In this study, we reviewed the 
current literature on the association between thyroid dysfunction and NAFLD/NASH.
A search for English language medical literature reporting an association between
thyroid dysfunction and NAFLD/NASH in humans was conducted across PubMed, ISI Web
of Science, and Scopus in August, 2013. Out of 140 studies initially identified
through the search, 11 relevant articles were included in the final review.
Thyroid dysfunctions in the form of overt or subclinical hypothyroidism are
prevalent among patients with NAFLD/NASH. Hypothyroidism appears to be an
independent risk factor for NAFLD/NASH in some studies; however, other newly
published studies failed to find such an association. The results of the studies 
on the role of thyroid abnormalities in NAFLD/NASH are inconsistent, and further 
research is recommended to determine the relationship between hypothyroidism and 
NAFLD/NASH and the underlying mechanisms.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8102 
PMCID: PMC4081681
PMID: 25009382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


680. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 7;20(25):8055-60. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8055.

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α, a potential therapeutic target for 
alcoholic liver disease.

Nan YM(1), Wang RQ(1), Fu N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yue-Min Nan, Rong-Qi Wang, Na Fu, Department of Traditional and Western
Medical Hepatology, Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang
050051, Hebei Province, China.

Alcoholic liver injury represents a progressive process with a range of
consequences including hepatic steatosis, steatohepatitis, liver fibrosis,
cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Targeting key molecular regulators
involved in the development of alcoholic liver injury may be of great value in
the prevention of liver injury. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α
(PPARα) plays a pivotal role in modulation of hepatic lipid metabolism, oxidative
stress, inflammatory response and fibrogenesis. As such, PPARα may be a potential
therapeutic target for the treatment of alcoholic liver disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8055 
PMCID: PMC4081676
PMID: 25009377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


681. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 7;20(25):8048-54. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8048.

Fibrogenesis in alcoholic liver disease.

Fujii H(1), Kawada N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hideki Fujii, Norifumi Kawada, Department of Hepatology, Graduate School of
Medicine, Osaka City University, Osaka 545-8585, Japan.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality
worldwide. In developed countries, ALD is a major cause of end-stage liver
disease that requires transplantation. The spectrum of ALD includes simple
steatosis, alcoholic hepatitis, ﬁbrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma.
Alcohol abstinence is the most effective therapy for ALD. However, targeted
therapies are urgently needed for patients with severe ALD (i.e., alcoholic
hepatitis) or those who do not abstain from alcohol. The lack of studies and the 
availability of animal models that do not reflect all the features of this
disease in humans inhibit the development of new drugs for ALD. In ALD-associated
fibrosis, hepatic stellate cells are the principal cell type responsible for
extracellular matrix production. Although the mechanisms underlying fibrosis in
ALD are largely similar to those observed in other chronic liver diseases,
oxidative stress, methionine metabolism abnormalities, hepatocyte apoptosis, and 
endotoxin lipopolysaccharides that activate Kupffer cells may play unique roles
in disease-related fibrogenesis. Lipogenesis during the early stages of ALD has
recently been implicated as a risk factor for the progression of cirrhosis. Other
topics include osteopontin, interleukin-1 signaling, and genetic polymorphism. In
this review, we discuss the basic pathogenesis of ALD and focus on liver
fibrogenesis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8048 
PMCID: PMC4081675
PMID: 25009376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


682. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 7;20(25):8040-7. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8040.

Focus on alcoholic liver disease: from nosography to treatment.

Streba LA(1), Vere CC(1), Streba CT(1), Ciurea ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Letiția Adela Maria Streba, Cristin Constantin Vere, Internal Medicine-Medical
Semiology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, 200639 Craiova,
Romania.

Abusive alcohol intake currently ranks as a major cause of liver disease, and is 
associated with significant mortality worldwide. Alcoholic liver disease (ALD)
generically defines liver abnormalities ranging from liver steatosis to the
end-stages of disease such as liver cirrhosis. Information regarding the precise 
incidence and prevalence of ALD is still limited by a lack of large
population-based studies and by the absence of large systematic reviews of all
epidemiological data available. However, existing collected data show an overall 
increase in the number of alcohol abusers and alcohol-related liver disease. The 
burden exerted on medical systems worldwide is significant, with hospitalization 
and management costs rising constantly over the years. A great number of all
cirrhosis-related deaths in Europe and a significant percentage worldwide are
associated with alcohol consumption. The main possible risk factors for ALD are
the amount and duration of alcohol abuse, patterns of drinking and the type of
alcoholic beverage consumed. However, ALD does not progress to cirrhosis in all
patients, therefore a series of additional factors are implicated. Even though
insufficiently studied, genetic factors are generally regarded as highly
important, and the presence of comorbidities and dietary habits seem to play a
role in disease onset and progression. This lack of clear pathophysiological data
further translates in the absence of definite treatment for ALD and shall prove
challenging in the coming years. In this article, we aimed to briefly review
epidemiologic data on the burden of ALD, risk factors, clinical and nosographic
as well as therapeutic aspects of this disease. Without attempting to be
exhaustive, this short topic highlight emphasizes each point and may serve as a
general guidance tool in the complicated literature related to ALD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8040 
PMCID: PMC4081674
PMID: 25009375  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


683. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 7;20(25):8033-9. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8033.

Challenges in transplantation for alcoholic liver disease.

Berlakovich GA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gabriela A Berlakovich, Department of Surgery, Division of Transplantation,
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, A-1090, Austria.

Transplantation for the treatment of alcoholic cirrhosis is more controversially 
discussed than it is for any other indication. The crucial aspect in this setting
is abstinence before and after liver transplantation. We established
pre-transplant selection criteria for potential transplant candidates. Provided
that the underlying disease can be treated, there is no reason to withhold liver 
transplantation in a patient suffering from alcoholic cirrhosis. Evaluation of
the patient by a multidisciplinary team, including an addiction specialist, is
considered to be the gold standard. However, several centers demand a specified
period of abstinence - usually 6 mo- irrespective of the specialist's assessment.
The 6-mo rule is viewed critically because liver transplantation was found to
clearly benefit selected patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis; the benefit was
similar to that achieved for other acute indications. However, the discussion may
well be an academic one because the waiting time for liver transplantation
exceeds six months at the majority of centers. The actual challenge in liver
transplantation for alcoholic cirrhosis may well be the need for lifelong
post-transplant follow-up rather than the patient's pre-transplant evaluation. A 
small number of recipients experience a relapse of alcoholism; these patients are
at risk for organ damage and graft-related death. Post-transplant surveillance
protocols should demonstrate alcohol relapse at an early stage, thus permitting
the initiation of adequate treatment. Patients with alcoholic cirrhosis are at
high risk of developing head and neck, esophageal, or lung cancer. The higher
risk of malignancies should be considered in the routine assessment of patients
suffering from alcoholic cirrhosis. Tumor surveillance protocols for liver
transplant recipients, currently being developed, should become a part of
standard care; these will improve survival by permitting diagnosis at an early
stage. In conclusion, the key factor determining the outcome of transplantation
for alcoholic cirrhosis is intensive lifelong medical and psychological care.
Post-transplant surveillance might be much more important than pre-transplant
selection.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8033 
PMCID: PMC4081673
PMID: 25009374  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


684. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 7;20(25):8024-32. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8024.

Diagnostic challenges in alcohol use disorder and alcoholic liver disease.

Vonghia L(1), Michielsen P(1), Dom G(1), Francque S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Luisa Vonghia, Peter Michielsen, Geert Dom, Sven Francque, Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Antwerp, Wilrijkstraat 10,
2650 Edegem, Belgium.

Alcohol use disorders represent a heterogeneous spectrum of clinical
manifestations that have been defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders-5. Excessive alcohol intake can lead to damage of various
organs, including the liver. Alcoholic liver disease includes different injuries 
ranging from steatosis to cirrhosis and implicates a diagnostic assessment of the
liver disease and of its possible complications. There is growing interest in the
possible different tools for assessing previous alcohol consumption and for
establishing the severity of liver injury, especially by non-invasive methods.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8024 
PMCID: PMC4081672
PMID: 25009373  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


685. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 7;20(25):8018-23. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8018.

Liver fibrosis markers in alcoholic liver disease.

Chrostek L(1), Panasiuk A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lech Chrostek, Department of Biochemical Diagnostics, Medical University of
Bialystok, 15-540 Bialystok, Poland.

Alcohol is one of the main factors of liver damage. The evaluation of the degree 
of liver fibrosis is of great value for therapeutic decision making in patients
with alcoholic liver disease (ALD). Staging of liver fibrosis is essential to
define prognosis and management of the disease. Liver biopsy is a gold standard
as it has high sensitivity and specificity in fibrosis diagnostics. Taking into
account the limitations of liver biopsy, there is an exigency to introduce
non-invasive serum markers for fibrosis that would be able to replace liver
biopsy. Ideal serum markers should be specific for the liver, easy to perform and
independent to inflammation and fibrosis in other organs. Serum markers of
hepatic fibrosis are divided into direct and indirect. Indirect markers reflect
alterations in hepatic function, direct markers reflect extracellular matrix
turnover. These markers should correlate with dynamic changes in fibrogenesis and
fibrosis resolution. The assessment of the degree of liver fibrosis in alcoholic 
liver disease has diagnostic and prognostic implications, therefore noninvasive
assessment of fibrosis remains important. There are only a few studies evaluating
the diagnostic and prognostic values of noninvasive biomarkers of fibrosis in
patients with ALD. Several noninvasive laboratory tests have been used to assess 
liver fibrosis in patients with alcoholic liver disease, including the hyaluronic
acid, FibroTest, FibrometerA, Hepascore, Forns and APRI indexes, FIB4, an
algorithm combining Prothrombin index (PI), α-2 macroglobulin and hyaluronic
acid. Among these tests, Fibrotest, FibrometerA and Hepascore demonstrated
excellent diagnostic accuracy in identifying advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis, and
additionally, Fibrotest was independently associated with survival. Therefore,
the use of biomarkers may reduce the need for liver biopsy and permit an earlier 
treatment of alcoholic patients.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8018 
PMCID: PMC4081671
PMID: 25009372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


686. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 7;20(25):8011-7. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8011.

Extracorporeal liver support in severe alcoholic hepatitis.

Parés A(1), Mas A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Albert Parés, Antoni Mas, Liver Unit, Hospital Clínic, University of
Barcelona, IDIBAPS, CIBERehd, 08036 Barcelona, Spain.

The severity of alcoholic hepatitis (AH) which may coexist with cirrhosis varies 
greatly, from asymptomatic forms which are detected in alcoholic patients without
any sign of liver disease, except laboratory abnormalities, to severe forms
characterised by deep jaundice, ascites, hepatic encephalopathy and low
prothrombin index. In hospitalized patients the mortality could be as high as
75%. The elevated number of therapeutic proposals reported for more than forty
years reveals the lack of efficacy of a particular modality. Even in the most
favorable trials, the survival is already very poor and in some cases related to 
the development of renal failure or hepatorenal syndrome. There are some
motivating reports concerning albumin dialysis as a support treatment in patients
with severe AH, either alone or in combination with other pharmacological
therapies. The favorable effects of albumin dialysis in patients with severe AH
suggest that the procedure used alone or in combination with other therapies may 
have a role in this clinical condition. This will be particularly relevant to
offer an alternative therapy in these patients, thus being a potential bridge to 
recovery or to be listed for liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8011 
PMCID: PMC4081670
PMID: 25009371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


687. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jul 7;20(25):8005-10. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8005.

Peculiar characteristics of portal-hepatic hemodynamics of alcoholic cirrhosis.

Bolognesi M(1), Verardo A(1), Di Pascoli M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Massimo Bolognesi, Alberto Verardo, Marco Di Pascoli, Department of Medicine, 
University of Padua, Azienda Ospedaliera Università di Padova, 35128 Padova,
Italy.

Alcohol-related cirrhosis is a consequence of heavy and prolonged drinking.
Similarly to patients with cirrhosis of other etiologies, patients with alcoholic
cirrhosis develop portal hypertension and the hepatic, splanchnic and systemic
hemodynamic alterations that follow. However, in alcoholic cirrhosis, some
specific features can be observed. Compared to viral cirrhosis, in
alcohol-related cirrhosis sinusoidal pressure is generally higher, hepatic venous
pressure gradient reflects portal pressure better, the portal flow perfusing the 
liver is reduced despite an increase in liver weight, the prevalence of reversal 
portal blood flow is higher, a patent paraumbilical vein is a more common finding
and signs of hyperdynamic circulations, such as an increased cardiac output and
decreased systemic vascular resistance, are more pronounced. Moreover, alcohol
consumption can acutely increase portal pressure and portal-collateral blood
flow. Alcoholic cardiomyopathy, another pathological consequence of prolonged
alcohol misuse, may contribute to the hemodynamic changes occurring in
alcohol-related cirrhosis. The aim of this review was to assess the
portal-hepatic changes that occur in alcohol-related cirrhosis, focusing on the
differences observed in comparison with patients with viral cirrhosis. The
knowledge of the specific characteristics of this pathological condition can be
helpful in the management of portal hypertension and its complications in
patients with alcohol-related cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i25.8005 
PMCID: PMC4081669
PMID: 25009370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2014 Nov;397(1-2):78-92. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2014.06.017.
Epub 2014 Jul 4.

Role of aquaglyceroporins and caveolins in energy and metabolic homeostasis.

Méndez-Giménez L(1), Rodríguez A(2), Balaguer I(3), Frühbeck G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Metabolic Research Laboratory, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona,
Spain; CIBER Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBERobn), Instituto de
Salud Carlos III, Pamplona, Spain. (2)Metabolic Research Laboratory, Clínica
Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; CIBER Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y
Nutrición (CIBERobn), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Pamplona, Spain. Electronic 
address: arodmur@unav.es. (3)Metabolic Research Laboratory, Clínica Universidad
de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (4)Metabolic Research Laboratory, Clínica
Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; CIBER Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y
Nutrición (CIBERobn), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Pamplona, Spain; Department 
of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. 
Electronic address: gfruhbeck@unav.es.

Aquaglyceroporins and caveolins are submicroscopic integral membrane proteins
that are particularly abundant in many mammalian cells. Aquaglyceroporins (AQP3, 
AQP7, AQP9 and AQP10) encompass a subfamily of aquaporins that allow the movement
of water, but also of small solutes, such as glycerol, across cell membranes.
Glycerol constitutes an important metabolite as a substrate for de novo synthesis
of triacylglycerols and glucose as well as an energy substrate to produce ATP via
the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. In this sense, the control of
glycerol influx/efflux in metabolic organs by aquaglyceroporins plays a crucial
role with the dysregulation of these glycerol channels being associated with
metabolic diseases, such as obesity, insulin resistance, non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease and cardiac hypertrophy. On the other hand, caveolae have emerged
as relevant plasma membrane sensors implicated in a wide range of cellular
functions, including endocytosis, apoptosis, cholesterol homeostasis,
proliferation and signal transduction. Caveolae-coating proteins, namely
caveolins and cavins, can act as scaffolding proteins within caveolae by
concentrating signaling molecules involved in free fatty acid and cholesterol
uptake, proliferation, insulin signaling or vasorelaxation, among others. The
importance of caveolae in whole-body homeostasis is highlighted by the link
between homozygous mutations in genes encoding caveolins and cavins with
metabolic diseases, such as lipodystrophy, dyslipidemia, muscular dystrophy and
insulin resistance in rodents and humans. The present review focuses on the role 
of aquaglyceroporins and caveolins on lipid and glucose metabolism, insulin
secretion and signaling, energy production and cardiovascular homeostasis,
outlining their potential relevance in the development and treatment of metabolic
diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2014.06.017 
PMID: 25008241  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2014 Apr;25(2):133-40. doi: 10.5152/tjg.2014.7886.

Role of gut microbiota: obesity and NAFLD.

Gangarapu V(1), Yıldız K, Ince AT, Baysal B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Bezmialem Vakif University Faculty of
Medicine, İstanbul, Turkey. venkat.abhi54@gmail.com.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a leading cause of chronic liver
disease in developed countries. Obesity is the most important risk factor for
metabolic syndrome and NAFLD. Accumulated evidence has revealed that gut
microbial compositional changes may be associated with more energy harvesting
from the diet, which promotes increased fatty acid uptake from adipose tissue and
shifts lipid metabolism from oxidation to de novo production. Furthermore,
changes in intestinal barrier function contribute to metabolic endotoxemia in the
form of low-grade microbial inflammation. Persistent inflammation exacerbates
NAFLD progression. In this review, we discuss the role of gut microbiota in
obesity and NAFLD.

DOI: 10.5152/tjg.2014.7886 
PMID: 25003671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2014 Apr;25(2):127-32. doi: 10.5152/tjg.2014.7675.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: diagnosis, pathogenesis, and management.

Başaranoğlu M(1), Örmeci N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Türkiye Yüksek İhtisas Hospital, Ankara,
Turkey. normeci@yahoo.com.

Comment in
    Turk J Gastroenterol. 2014 Aug;25(4):468.
    Turk J Gastroenterol. 2014 Aug;25(4):468-9.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an umbrella term that covers both a
relatively benign condition, which is simple steatosis, and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH is characterized by a chronic and progressive liver 
pathology that may progress to cirrhosis, end-stage liver disease, hepatocellular
carcinoma, and liver transplantation. Despite the growing body of evidence, one
of the important and unresolved problems is the pathogenesis of NASH. It might be
a metabolic disturbance as a primary abnormality in NAFLD. Insulin resistance is 
at the center of these metabolic abnormalities. Then, hepatocyte injury might be 
induced by oxidative stress. This ongoing process progresses to NASH, even to
cirrhosis in some patients. In addition to oxidative stress, possibilities for
the next hit are lipid peroxidation, reactive metabolites, adipose tissue
products, transforming growth factor-β₁, Fas ligand, mitochondrial dysfunction,
respiratory chain deficiency, and intestinal microbiota. Currently, there is no
well-established and approved therapy. Recommendations are to improve existing
co-morbidities, such as obesity, hyperlipidemia, or type 2 diabetes, and
lifestyle modification with weight loss and exercise.

DOI: 10.5152/tjg.2014.7675 
PMID: 25003670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2014 Sep;10(9):1209-19. doi:
10.1517/17425255.2014.936378. Epub 2014 Jul 3.

Drug disposition alterations in liver disease: extrahepatic effects in
cholestasis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Canet MJ(1), Cherrington NJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Arizona, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology , 1703 E.
Mabel St. Tucson, AZ 85721 , USA.

INTRODUCTION: The pharmacokinetics (PK) of drugs and xenobiotics, namely
pharmaceuticals, is influenced by a host of factors that include genetics,
physiological factors and environmental stressors. The importance of disease on
the disposition of xenobiotics has been increasingly recognized among medical
professionals for alterations in key enzymes and membrane transporters that
influence drug disposition and contribute to the development of adverse drug
reactions.
AREAS COVERED: This review will survey pertinent literature of how liver disease 
alters the PKs of drugs and other xenobiotics. The focus will be on nonalcoholic 
steatohepatitis as well as cholestatic liver diseases. A review of basic
pharmacokinetic principles, with a special emphasis on xenobiotic metabolizing
enzymes and membrane transporters, will be provided. Specifically, examples of
how genetic alterations affect metabolism and excretion, respectively, will be
highlighted. Lastly, the idea of 'extrahepatic' regulation will be explored,
citing examples of how disease manifestation in the liver may affect drug
disposition in distal sites, such as the kidney.
EXPERT OPINION: An expert opinion will be provided highlighting the definite need
for data in understanding extrahepatic regulation of membrane transporters in the
presence of liver disease and its potential to dramatically alter the PK and
toxicokinetic profile of numerous drugs and xenobiotics.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.2014.936378 
PMCID: PMC4686335
PMID: 24989624  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


692. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 28;20(24):7777-84. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i24.7777.

Role of endoscopy in the bariatric surgery of patients.

De Palma GD(1), Forestieri P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Giovanni D De Palma, Center of Excellence for Technical Innovation in Surgery,
Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples Federico II,
School of Medicine, 80131 Naples, Italy.

Obesity is an increasingly serious health problem in nearly all Western
countries. It represents an important risk factor for several gastrointestinal
diseases, such as gastroesophageal reflux disease, erosive esophagitis, hiatal
hernia, Barrett's esophagus, esophageal adenocarcinoma, Helicobacter pylori
infection, colorectal polyps and cancer, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,
cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Surgery is the most effective treatment 
to date, resulting in sustainable and significant weight loss, along with the
resolution of metabolic comorbidities in up to 80% of cases. Many of these
conditions can be clinically relevant and have a significant impact on patients
undergoing bariatric surgery. There is evidence that the chosen procedure might
be changed if specific pathological upper gastrointestinal findings, such as
large hiatal hernia or Barrett's esophagus, are detected preoperatively. The
value of a routine endoscopy before bariatric surgery in asymptomatic patients
(screening esophagogastroduodenoscopy) remains controversial. The common
indications for endoscopy in the postoperative bariatric patient include the
evaluation of symptoms, the management of complications, and the evaluation of
weight loss failure. It is of critical importance for the endoscopist to be
familiar with the postoperative anatomy and to work in close collaboration with
bariatric surgery colleagues in order to maximize the outcome and safety of
endoscopy in this setting. The purpose of this article is to review the role of
the endoscopist in a multidisciplinary obesity center as it pertains to the
preoperative and postoperative management of bariatric surgery patients.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i24.7777 
PMCID: PMC4069306
PMID: 24976715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


693. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 28;20(24):7718-29. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i24.7718.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: updates in noninvasive diagnosis and
correlation with cardiovascular disease.

Hu KC(1), Wang HY(1), Liu SC(1), Liu CC(1), Hung CL(1), Bair MJ(1), Liu CJ(1), Wu
MS(1), Shih SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kuang-Chun Hu, Horng-Yuan Wang, Chuan-Chuan Liu, Shou-Chuan Shih, Mackay
Medical College, New Taipei City 25245, Taiwan.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) refers to the accumulation of fat
(mainly triglycerides) within hepatocytes. Approximately 20%-30% of adults in the
general population in developed countries have NAFLD; this trend is increasing
because of the pandemicity of obesity and diabetes, and is becoming a serious
public health burden. Twenty percent of individuals with NAFLD develop chronic
hepatic inflammation [nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)], which can be
associated with the development of cirrhosis, portal hypertension, and
hepatocellular carcinoma in a minority of patients. And thus, the detection and
diagnosis of NAFLD is important for general practitioners. Liver biopsy is the
gold standard for diagnosing NAFLD and confirming the presence of NASH. However, 
the invasiveness of this procedure limits its application to screening the
general population or patients with contraindications for liver biopsy. The
development of noninvasive diagnostic methods for NAFLD is of paramount
importance. This review focuses on the updates of noninvasive diagnosis of NAFLD.
Besides, we review clinical evidence supporting a strong association between
NAFLD and the risk of cardiovascular disease because of the cross link between
these two disorders.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i24.7718 
PMCID: PMC4069300
PMID: 24976709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Saudi J Gastroenterol. 2014 May-Jun;20(3):143-53. doi: 10.4103/1319-3767.132983.

Does vitamin E improve the outcomes of pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease? A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Sarkhy AA(1), Al-Hussaini AA, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric, Gastroenterology Unit, King Khalid University
Hospital; Prince Abdullah Bin Khalid Celiac Disease Research Chair, King Saud
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: To systemically evaluate the efficacy of adjuvant vitamin E 
on the outcomes of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and/or nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) in children.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, PUBMED, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central 
Register Controlled Trials, and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews over 
the period between January 1980 and September 2012 for the studies that examined 
the role of adjuvant vitamin E given at any dose or duration, alone or in
combination with other interventions, on the outcome of pediatric NAFLD. The
outcomes are alanine aminotransferase (ALT) normalization and histological
improvement.
RESULTS: Five randomized trials were eligible to be included in our analysis,
with a total of 270 participants. There was no statistically significant
difference in the effect of adjuvant vitamin E on normalizing serum ALT [risk
ratio (RR) =1.18, confidence interval (CI) =0.92-1.53, P = 0.77 for
heterogeneity, I2 = 0%]. Sensitivity analysis showed that using higher doses of
vitamin E, a longer duration of therapy or adding vitamin C did not change the
effect on the measured outcome. Only two studies looked at histological changes
as an outcome. We observed substantial heterogeneity between the two studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Our meta-analysis did not find a significant effect of adjuvant
vitamin E over placebo in normalizing serum ALT. Data on the long-term effect of 
adjuvant vitamin E on histological improvements in NAFLD patients are still
lacking. Larger, well-designed randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in children
with histological endpoints are still needed to answer this question.

DOI: 10.4103/1319-3767.132983 
PMCID: PMC4067910
PMID: 24976277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


695. J Endocrinol. 2014 Oct;223(1):T71-81. doi: 10.1530/JOE-14-0258. Epub 2014 Jun 27.

20 years of leptin: leptin in common obesity and associated disorders of
metabolism.

DePaoli AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)NGM BiopharmaceuticalsDevelopment, 630 Gateway Boulevard, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA adepaoli@verizon.net.

The molecular mechanisms of body weight and body composition regulation have long
been a research focus in the hopes of identifying tractable pathways for
therapeutic interventions for obesity and diabetes, as well as related disorders 
such as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) and polycystic ovary syndrome. The metabolic consequences of obesity and
type 2 diabetes (T2D) were already a focus of the world's attention in 1994 when 
the discovery of leptin generated enormous enthusiasm for the potential to treat 
common (non-monogenic) obesity and its associated metabolic disorders with an
adipokine hormone that regulated body weight as well as lipid and carbohydrate
metabolism. Recombinant human leptin and many leptin analogs were developed and
studied in animals and a few in human clinical trials. Overall, the opportunity
for leptin as a therapeutic in unselected patients with obesity and T2D has not
been substantiated in clinical trials. The potential for combination therapy
suggested by clinical studies with leptin and pramlintide supports a path toward 
obesity treatment through the leptin pathway. The profound metabolic benefits
seen with leptin in numerous forms of leptin deficiency, including lipodystrophy,
provide hope for the opportunity to identify selected subsets of patients who
could benefit from leptin treatment. This review provides a comprehensive
overview of the clinical data on a subset of the potential utilities of leptin,
specifically as a therapeutic for general or common obesity and its metabolic
consequences including T2D and NAFLD/NASH.

© 2014 Society for Endocrinology.

DOI: 10.1530/JOE-14-0258 
PMID: 24973357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Radiologe. 2014 Jul;54(7):654-9. doi: 10.1007/s00117-014-2650-6.

[Epidemiology and risk factors of hepatocellular carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Güthle M(1), Dollinger MM.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Innere Medizin, Klinik für Innere Medizin I, Universitätsklinikum 
Ulm, Albert-Einstein-Allee 23, 89081, Ulm, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has increased over
the past decades as a result of alcoholic liver disease, the metabolic syndrome
and the increasing incidence of viral hepatitis B and C.
OBJECTIVES: An evaluation of the epidemiology of HCC, presentation and discussion
of the risk factors for the development of HCC.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study was based on a literature review, analysis of
the statistics of the World Health Organization (WHO), discussion of current
basic research and expert recommendations.
RESULTS: The results show that HCC already represents the fifth most common
malignancy in men and the ninth most common malignancy in women, and the
incidence is still rising. The pronounced regional differences in prevalence and 
underlying risk factors are mainly, but not exclusively, due to the prevalence of
chronic viral hepatitis B.
CONCLUSION: Hepatocellular carcinoma is a major medical problem. Primary
prevention measures and suitable screening algorithms are gaining more and more
importance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-014-2650-6 
PMID: 24973122  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


697. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7392-402. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7392.

Radiologic evaluation of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Lee SS(1), Park SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Seung Soo Lee, Seong Ho Park, Department of Radiology and Research Institute
of Radiology, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul
138-736, South Korea.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a frequent cause of chronic liver
diseases, ranging from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH)-related liver cirrhosis. Although liver biopsy is still the gold standard 
for the diagnosis of NAFLD, especially for the diagnosis of NASH, imaging methods
have been increasingly accepted as noninvasive alternatives to liver biopsy.
Ultrasonography is a well-established and cost-effective imaging technique for
the diagnosis of hepatic steatosis, especially for screening a large population
at risk of NAFLD. Ultrasonography has a reasonable accuracy in detecting
moderate-to-severe hepatic steatosis although it is less accurate for detecting
mild hepatic steatosis, operator-dependent, and rather qualitative. Computed
tomography is not appropriate for general population assessment of hepatic
steatosis given its inaccuracy in detecting mild hepatic steatosis and potential 
radiation hazard. However, computed tomography may be effective in specific
clinical situations, such as evaluation of donor candidates for hepatic
transplantation. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging
are now regarded as the most accurate practical methods of measuring liver fat in
clinical practice, especially for longitudinal follow-up of patients with NAFLD. 
Ultrasound elastography and magnetic resonance elastography are increasingly used
to evaluate the degree of liver fibrosis in patients with NAFLD and to
differentiate NASH from simple steatosis. This article will review current
imaging methods used to evaluate hepatic steatosis, including the diagnostic
accuracy, limitations, and practical applicability of each method. It will also
briefly describe the potential role of elastography techniques in the evaluation 
of patients with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7392 
PMCID: PMC4064084
PMID: 24966609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


698. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7381-91. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7381.

Role of gut microbiota and Toll-like receptors in nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Miura K(1), Ohnishi H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kouichi Miura, Hirohide Ohnishi, Department of Gastroenterology, Akita
University Graduate School of Medicine, Akita 010-8543, Japan.

Emerging data have shown a close association between compositional changes in gut
microbiota and the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The
change in gut microbiota may alter nutritional absorption and storage. In
addition, gut microbiota are a source of Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands, and
their compositional change can also increase the amount of TLR ligands delivered 
to the liver. TLR ligands can stimulate liver cells to produce proinflammatory
cytokines. Therefore, the gut-liver axis has attracted much interest,
particularly regarding the pathogenesis of NAFLD. The abundance of the major gut 
microbiota, including Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, has been considered a
potential underlying mechanism of obesity and NAFLD, but the role of these
microbiota in NAFLD remains unknown. Several reports have demonstrated that
certain gut microbiota are associated with the development of obesity and NAFLD. 
For instance, a decrease in Akkermansia muciniphila causes a thinner intestinal
mucus layer and promotes gut permeability, which allows the leakage of bacterial 
components. Interventions to increase Akkermansia muciniphila improve the
metabolic parameters in obesity and NAFLD. In children, the levels of Escherichia
were significantly increased in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) compared with
those in obese control. Escherichia can produce ethanol, which promotes gut
permeability. Thus, normalization of gut microbiota using probiotics or
prebiotics is a promising treatment option for NAFLD. In addition, TLR signaling 
in the liver is activated, and its downstream molecules, such as proinflammatory 
cytokines, are increased in NAFLD. To data, TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, and TLR9 have been 
shown to be associated with the pathogenesis of NAFLD. Therefore, gut microbiota 
and TLRs are targets for NAFLD treatment.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7381 
PMCID: PMC4064083
PMID: 24966608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


699. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7366-80. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7366.

Effects of resveratrol and other polyphenols in hepatic steatosis.

Aguirre L(1), Portillo MP(1), Hijona E(1), Bujanda L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Leixuri Aguirre, Maria Puy Portillo, Nutrition and Obesity Group, Department
of Nutrition and Food Science, University of Basque Country (UPV/EHU) and Centro 
de Investigación Lucio Lascaray, 01006 Vitoria, Spain.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease covers a wide spectrum of liver pathologies
which range from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Polyphenols
are members of a very large family of plant-derived compounds that can have
beneficial effects on human health, and thus their study has become an
increasingly important area of human nutrition research. The aim of the present
review is to compile published data concerning the effects of both isolated
polyphenols as well as polyphenol extracts, on hepatocyte and liver fat
accumulation under different steatosis-inducing conditions. The results reported 
clearly show that this group of biomolecules is able to reduce fat accumulation, 
but further studies are needed to establish the optimal dose and treatment period
length. With regard to the potential mechanisms of action, there is a good
consensus. The anti-lipidogenic effect of polyphenols is mainly due to reduced
fatty acid and triacylglycerol synthesis, increased in fatty acid oxidation, and 
reduced of oxidative stress and inflammation. As a general conclusion, it can be 
stated that polyphenols are biomolecules which produce hepatoprotective effects. 
To date, these beneficial effects have been demonstrated in cultured cells and
animal models. Thus, studies performed in humans are needed before these
molecules can be considered as truly useful tools in the prevention of liver
steatosis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7366 
PMCID: PMC4064082
PMID: 24966607  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


700. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7356-65. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7356.

Incretin based therapies: a novel treatment approach for non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease.

Blaslov K(1), Bulum T(1), Zibar K(1), Duvnjak L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kristina Blaslov, Tomislav Bulum, Karin Zibar, Lea Duvnjak, Vuk Vrhovac Clinic
for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases, University Hospital Merkur,
School of Medicine, University of Zagreb, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is considered a hepatic manifestation of
metabolic syndrome (MS). The current treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) principally includes amelioration of MS components by lifestyle
modifications but the lack of success in their implementation and sustainment
arises the need for effective pharmacological agent in fatty liver treatment.
Incretins are gut derived hormones secreted into the circulation in response to
nutrient ingestion that enhances glucose-stimulated insulin secretion.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is the most important incretin. Its receptor
agonist and inhibitors of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) are used in treatment of
type 2 diabetes mellitus. DPP-4 serum activity and hepatic expression are shown
to be elevated in several hepatic diseases. There are several experimental and
clinical trials exploring the efficacy of incretin based therapies in NAFLD
treatment. They suggest that GLP-1 analogues might have beneficial effect on
hepatic steatosis acting as insulin sensitizers and directly by stimulating GLP-1
receptors expressed on hepatocytes. The use of DPP-4 inhibitors also results in
hepatic fat reduction but the mechanism of action remains unclear. There is
growing evidence that incretin based therapies have beneficial effects on
hepatocytes, however further study analysis are needed to assess the long term
effect of incretin based therapies on NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7356 
PMCID: PMC4064081
PMID: 24966606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


701. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7347-55. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7347.

Pediatric fatty liver disease: role of ethnicity and genetics.

Marzuillo P(1), Miraglia del Giudice E(1), Santoro N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pierluigi Marzuillo, Emanuele Miraglia del Giudice, Department of Women and
Children and General and Specialized Surgery, Seconda Università degli Studi di
Napoli, 80138 Naples, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) comprehends a wide range of conditions,
encompassing from fatty liver or steatohepatitis with or without fibrosis, to
cirrhosis and its complications. NAFLD has become the most common form of liver
disease in childhood as its prevalence has more than doubled over the past 20
years, paralleling the increased prevalence of childhood obesity. It currently
affects between 3% and 11% of the pediatric population reaching the rate of 46%
among overweight and obese children and adolescents. The prevalence of hepatic
steatosis varies among different ethnic groups. The ethnic group with the highest
prevalence is the Hispanic one followed by the Caucasian and the
African-American. This evidence suggests that there is a strong genetic
background in the predisposition to fatty liver. In fact, since 2008 several
common gene variants have been implicated in the pathogenesis of fatty liver
disease. The most important is probably the patatin like phospholipase containing
domain 3 gene (PNPLA3) discovered by the Hobbs' group in 2008. This article
reviews the current knowledge regarding the role of ethnicity and genetics in
pathogenesis of pediatric fatty liver.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7347 
PMCID: PMC4064080
PMID: 24966605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


702. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7339-46. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7339.

Mediterranean diet and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: new therapeutic option 
around the corner?

Sofi F(1), Casini A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Francesco Sofi, Alessandro Casini, Department of Experimental and Clinical
Medicine, University of Florence, 50134 Florence, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents the most common chronic
liver disease in Western countries, being considered as the hepatic manifestation
of metabolic syndrome. NAFLD has a common pathogenic background to that of
metabolic syndrome, and shares many risk factors such as obesity, hypertension,
insulin resistance and dyslipidemia. Although there is no currently available
evidence-based established treatment for NAFLD, all the recommendations from the 
medical associations indicate that the most effective treatment is to reduce
weight through lifestyle modifications. Diet, indeed, plays a key role in the
management of NAFLD patients, as both the quantity and quality of the diet have
been reported to have a beneficial role in the onset and severity of the liver
disease. Among all the diets that have been proposed, a Mediterranean diet was
the most effective dietary option for inducing weight loss together with
beneficial effects on all the risk factors associated with metabolic syndrome and
NAFLD. Over the last few years, research has demonstrated a beneficial effect of 
a Mediterranean diet in NAFLD. In this review, we will examine all the available 
data on the association between diet, nutrients and the Mediterranean diet in
association with onset and severity of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7339 
PMCID: PMC4064079
PMID: 24966604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


703. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7325-38. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7325.

Role of autophagy in the pathophysiology of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a
controversial issue.

Kwanten WJ(1), Martinet W(1), Michielsen PP(1), Francque SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wilhelmus J Kwanten, Peter P Michielsen, Sven M Francque, Laboratory of
Experimental Medicine and Paediatrics, University of Antwerp, 2000 Antwerp,
Province of Antwerp, Belgium.

Autophagy is a mechanism involved in cellular homeostasis under basal and
stressed conditions delivering cytoplasmic content to the lysosomes for
degradation to macronutrients. The potential role of autophagy in disease is
increasingly recognised and investigated in the last decade. Nowadays it is
commonly accepted that autophagy plays a role in the hepatic lipid metabolism.
Hence, dysfunction of autophagy may be an underlying cause of non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease. However, controversy of the exact role of autophagy in the lipid
metabolism exists: some publications report a lipolytic function of autophagy,
whereas others claim a lipogenic function. This review aims to give an update of 
the present knowledge on autophagy in the hepatic lipid metabolism, hepatic
insulin resistance, steatohepatitis and hepatic fibrogenesis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7325 
PMCID: PMC4064078
PMID: 24966603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


704. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7277-85. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7277.

Gallstones in patients with liver cirrhosis: incidence, etiology, clinical and
therapeutical aspects.

Acalovschi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Monica Acalovschi, 3 Medical Clinic, University of Medicine and Pharmacy,
400162 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

Gallstones occur in about one third of the patients having liver cirrhosis.
Pigment gallstones are the most frequent type, while cholesterol stones represent
about 15% of all stones in cirrhotics. Increased secretion of unconjugated
bilirubin, increased hydrolysis of conjugated bilirubin in the bile, reduced
secretion of bile acids and phospholipds in bile favor pigment lithogenesis in
cirrhotics. Gallbladder hypomotility also contributes to lithogenesis. The most
recent data regarding risk factors for gallstones are presented. Gallstone
prevalence increases with age, with a ratio male/female higher than in the
general population. Chronic alcoholism, viral C cirrhosis, and non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease are the underlying liver diseases most often associated with 
gallstones. Gallstones are often asymptomatic, and discovered incidentally. If
asymptomatic, expectant management is recommended, as for asymptomatic gallstones
in the general population. However, a closer follow-up of these patients is
necessary in order to earlier treat symptoms or complications. For symptomatic
stones, laparoscopic cholecystectomy has become the therapy of choice. Child-Pugh
class and MELD score are the best predictors of outcome after cholecystectomy.
Patients with severe liver disease are at highest surgical risk, therefore
gallstone complications should be treated using noninvasive or minimally invasive
procedures, until stabilization of the patient condition.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7277 
PMCID: PMC4064073
PMID: 24966598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


705. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7260-76. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7260.

Cellular and molecular mechanisms in the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis: An
update.

Elpek GÖ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gülsüm Özlem Elpek, Department of Pathology, Akdeniz University Medical
School, 07070 Antalya, Turkey.

There have been considerable recent advances towards a better understanding of
the complex cellular and molecular network underlying liver fibrogenesis. Recent 
data indicate that the termination of fibrogenic processes and the restoration of
deficient fibrolytic pathways may allow the reversal of advanced fibrosis and
even cirrhosis. Therefore, efforts have been made to better clarify the cellular 
and molecular mechanisms that are involved in liver fibrosis. Activation of
hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) remains a central event in fibrosis, complemented
by other sources of matrix-producing cells, including portal fibroblasts,
fibrocytes and bone marrow-derived myofibroblasts. These cells converge in a
complex interaction with neighboring cells to provoke scarring in response to
persistent injury. Defining the interaction of different cell types, revealing
the effects of cytokines on these cells and characterizing the regulatory
mechanisms that control gene expression in activated HSCs will enable the
discovery of new therapeutic targets. Moreover, the characterization of different
pathways associated with different etiologies aid in the development of
disease-specific therapies. This article outlines recent advances regarding the
cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in liver fibrosis that may be
translated into future therapies. The pathogenesis of liver fibrosis associated
with alcoholic liver disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and viral
hepatitis are also discussed to emphasize the various mechanisms involved in
liver fibrosis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7260 
PMCID: PMC4064072
PMID: 24966597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


706. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 21;20(23):7217-22. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7217.

Influence of unrecorded alcohol consumption on liver cirrhosis mortality.

Lachenmeier DW(1), Monakhova YB(1), Rehm J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dirk W Lachenmeier, Jürgen Rehm, Epidemiological Research Unit, Institute for 
Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Technische Universität Dresden, 01187
Dresden, Germany.

Unrecorded alcohol includes illegally distributed alcohol as well as homemade or 
surrogate alcohol which is unintended for consumption by humans (e.g., cosmetics 
containing alcohol). The highest unrecorded alcohol consumption occurs in Eastern
Europe and some of these countries have an over proportional liver cirrhosis
mortality. Compounds besides ethanol have been hypothesized as being responsible 
for this observation. On the other hand, chemical investigations were unable to
prove that unrecorded alcohol regularly contains contaminants above toxicological
thresholds. However, illegally produced spirits regularly contain higher
percentages of alcohol (above 45% by volume), but for considerably less costs
compared with licit beverages, potentially causing more problematic patterns of
drinking. In this review, it is investigated whether patterns of drinking rather 
than product composition can explain the liver cirrhosis mortality rates.
Statistical examination of World Health Organization country data shows that the 
originally detected correlation of the percentage of unrecorded alcohol
consumption and liver cirrhosis mortality rates disappears when the data is
adjusted for the prevalence of heavy episodic drinking. It may be concluded that 
there is currently a lack of data to demonstrate causality between the
composition of illicit spirits (e.g., higher levels of certain contaminants in
home-produced products) and liver toxicity on a population scale. Exceptions may 
be cases of poisoning with antiseptic liquids containing compounds such as
polyhexamethyleneguanidine, which were reported to be consumed as surrogate
alcohol in Russia, leading to an outbreak of acute cholestatic liver injury,
histologically different from conventional alcoholic liver disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i23.7217 
PMCID: PMC4064067
PMID: 24966592  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


707. J BUON. 2014 Apr-Jun;19(2):350-6.

Chemotherapy-associated hepatotoxicity in colorectal cancer.

Cai Z(1), Yang J, Shu X, Xiong X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, Hubei, China.

Chemotherapy-associated hepatotoxicity in liver metastatic colorectal cancer is
attracting more and more attention for clinicians. This hepatotoxicity heralds an
increased risk of morbidity and mortality in patients with colorectal liver
metastases, therefore it is important that clinicians have an adequate knowledge 
of the chemotherapy-associated hepatotoxicity.


PMID: 24965391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Infect Genet Evol. 2014 Aug;26:327-39. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2014.06.014. Epub
2014 Jun 21.

Biomarkers for virus-induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).

Mathew S(1), Ali A(2), Abdel-Hafiz H(3), Fatima K(4), Suhail M(2), Archunan G(5),
Begum N(6), Jahangir S(6), Ilyas M(7), Chaudhary AG(2), Al Qahtani M(8), Mohamad 
Bazarah S(9), Qadri I(10).

Author information: 
(1)Post Graduate Department of Biotechnology, Jamal Mohamed College,
Tiruchirappalli 620 020, India; Center of Excellence in Genomic Medicine
Research, King AbdulAziz University, P.O. Box 80216, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia; 
Department of Animal Science, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli 620 024, 
India. (2)King Fahd Medical Research Center, King AbdulAziz University, P.O. Box 
80216, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia. (3)University of Colorado Denver AMC, Aurora, 
CO 80045, USA. (4)IQ-Institute of Infection and Immunity, Lahore, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Animal Science, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli 620
024, India. (6)Post Graduate Department of Biotechnology, Jamal Mohamed College, 
Tiruchirappalli 620 020, India. (7)Post Graduate Department of Botany, Jamal
Mohamed College, Tiruchirappalli 620 020, Tamil Nadu, India. (8)Center of
Excellence in Genomic Medicine Research, King AbdulAziz University, P.O. Box
80216, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia. (9)Department of Gastroenterology, School of
Medicine, King AbdulAziz University Hospital, P.O. Box 80215, Jeddah 21589, Saudi
Arabia. (10)King Fahd Medical Research Center, King AbdulAziz University, P.O.
Box 80216, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address:
ishtiaq80262@yahoo.com.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common cancers worldwide, and
is advanced by severe viral hepatitis B or C (HBV or HCV) as well as alcoholic
liver disease. Many patients with early disease are asymptomatic therefore HCC is
frequently diagnosed late requiring costly surgical resection or transplantation.
The available non-invasive detections systems are based on the clinical utility
of alpha fetoprotein (AFP) measurement, together with ultrasound and other more
sensitive imaging techniques. The hallmark of liver disease and its propensity to
develop into fully blown HCC is depended on several factors including the host
genetic make-up and immune responses. While common symptoms involve diarrhea,
bone pain, dyspnea, intraperitoneal bleeding, obstructive jaundice, and
paraneoplastic syndrome, the evolution of cell and immune markers is important to
understand viral induced liver cancers in humans. The circulating miRNA, cell and
immune based HCC biomarkers are imperative candidates to successfully develop
strategies to restrain liver injury. The current molecular genetics and proteomic
analysis have lead to the identification of number of key biomarkers for HCC for 
earlier diagnosis and more effective treatment of HCC patients. In this review
article, we provide latest updates on the biomarkers of HBV or HCV-associated HCC
and their co-evolutionary relationship with liver cancer.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2014.06.014 
PMID: 24956436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Nov;37(9):535-43. doi:
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2014.04.005. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

[Liver diseases in the elderly].

[Article in Spanish]

Bruguera M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Hepatologia, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, España; Departamento de
Medicina, Universidad de Barcelona, Barcelona, España. Electronic address:
bruguera@clinic.ub.es.

Liver diseases in the elderly have aroused less interest than diseases of other
organs, since the liver plays a limited role in aging. There are no specific
liver diseases of old age, but age-related anatomical and functional
modifications of the liver cause changes in the frequency and clinical behavior
of some liver diseases compared with those in younger patients. This review
discusses the most important features of liver function in the healthy elderly
population, as well as the features of the most prevalent liver diseases in this 
age group, especially the diagnostic approach to the most common liver problems
in the elderly: asymptomatic elevation of serum transaminases and jaundice.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L.U. and AEEH y AEG. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2014.04.005 
PMID: 24951302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Molecules. 2014 Jun 19;19(6):8334-49. doi: 10.3390/molecules19068334.

Sulfur amino acids in diet-induced fatty liver: a new perspective based on recent
findings.

Toohey JI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cytoregulation Research, Elgin, ON K0G 1E0, Canada. cytoreg@xplornet.com.

The relationship of sulfur amino acids to diet-induced fatty liver was
established 80 years ago, with cystine promoting the condition and methionine
preventing it. This relationship has renewed importance today because
diet-induced fatty liver is relevant to the current epidemics of obesity,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes. Two
recent papers provide the first evidence linking sulfane sulfur to diet-induced
fatty liver opening a new perspective on the problem. This review summarizes the 
early data on sulfur amino acids in fatty liver and correlates that data with
current knowledge of sulfur metabolism. Evidence is reviewed showing that the
lipotropic effect of methionine may be mediated by sulfane sulfur and that the
hepatosteatogenic effect of cystine may be related to the removal of sulfane
sulfur by cysteine catabolites. Possible preventive and therapeutic strategies
are discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules19068334 
PMID: 24950438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


711. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jun 14;20(22):6821-5. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i22.6821.

Bedside ultrasound in the diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Khov N(1), Sharma A(1), Riley TR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nancy Khov, Department of Internal Medicine, Pennsylvania State Milton S.
Hershey Medical Center and School of Medicine, Hershey, PA 17033, United States.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in the
United States. While the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases
guidelines define NAFLD as hepatic steatosis detected either on histology or
imaging without a secondary cause of abnormal hepatic fat accumulation, no
imaging modality is recommended as standard of care for screening or diagnosis.
Bedside ultrasound has been evaluated as a non-invasive method of diagnosing
NAFLD with the presence of characteristic sonographic findings. Prior studies
suggest characteristic sonographic findings for NAFLD include bright hepatic
echoes, increased hepatorenal echogenicity, vascular blurring of portal or
hepatic vein and subcutaneous tissue thickness. These sonographic characteristics
have not been shown to aid bedside clinicians easily identify potential cases of 
NAFLD. While sonographic findings such as attenuation of image, diffuse
echogenicity, uniform heterogeneous liver, thick subcutaneous depth, and enlarged
liver filling of the entire field could be identified by clinicians from bedside 
ultrasound. The accessibility, ease of use, and low-side effect profile of
ultrasound make bedside ultrasound an appealing imaging modality in the detection
of hepatic steatosis. When used with appropriate clinical risk factors and
steatosis involves greater than 33% of the liver, ultrasound can reliably
diagnose NAFLD. Despite the ability of ultrasound in detecting moderate hepatic
steatosis, it cannot replace liver biopsy in staging the degree of fibrosis. The 
purpose of this review is to examine the diagnostic accuracy, utility, and
limitations of ultrasound in the diagnosis of NAFLD and its potential use by
clinicians in routine practices.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i22.6821 
PMCID: PMC4051921
PMID: 24944472  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Curr Diabetes Rev. 2014 May;10(3):208-14.

Bariatric surgery - effects on obesity and related co-morbidities.

Svane MS, Madsbad S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hvidovre Hospital, Dept. of Endocrinology, Kettegård Alle 30, 2650 Hvidovre,
Denmark. maria.saur.svane@regionh.dk.

Laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB), laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric
bypass (RYGB) and laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (SG) are the three most
commonly performed bariatric procedures. Obesity responds well to bariatric
surgery, with major long-lasting weight loss that is most pronounced after RYGB
and SG, where the mean weight loss is about 40 kg or 15 body mass index (BMI)
units. Some of the benefits after RYGB and SG are independent of weight loss, and
the remission of type 2 diabetes is observed a few days after the operation; this
depends on changes in insulin sensitivity and gut hormone responses, especially a
10-fold increase in glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), which improves insulin
secretion. After gastric banding, the remission of diabetes depends more on
weight loss. Bariatric surgery reduces cardiovascular risk factors including
hypertension, lipid disturbances, non-alcoholic fatty liver, musculoskeletal pain
and reduces mortality of diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and cancers. Bariatric
surgery also improves quality of life. The acute complications of surgery are
infection, bleeding and anastomotic leak. Long-term complications are nutritional
deficiencies, including vitamins and minerals, and anemia. Some patients have
dumping after meals, and a few patients will develop postprandial hypoglycemia
after RYGB. About 25% of patients require plastic surgery to provide relief from 
excessive skin tissue.


PMID: 24934290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Medsurg Nurs. 2014 Mar-Apr;23(2):101-6, 121.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and the PNPLA3 gene.

Houghton-Rahrig L, Schutte D, Fenton JI, Awad J.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, a potentially fatal obesity-related condition, 
affects more than 70 million people in the United States. Nurses are
well-positioned to impact this genetically influenced disease by is increasing
awareness, providing patient education, and advocating for affected persons.


PMID: 24933787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Horm Res Paediatr. 2014;82(1):3-11. doi: 10.1159/000362237. Epub 2014 Jun 11.

Predictors of metabolic risk in childhood obesity.

Morandi A(1), Maffeis C.

Author information: 
(1)Regional Centre for Pediatric Diabetes, Clinical Nutrition and Obesity, ULSS
20, and University of Verona, Verona, Italy.

Most of the complications of juvenile obesity are due to metabolic disturbances
induced by an excessive accumulation of fat which leads to chronic diseases like 
type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Finding
effective ways of identifying obese paediatric patients who are at increased risk
of developing cardiovascular and metabolic complications has been recognised to
be a promising strategy to improve prevention of complications of early obesity. 
Moreover, correctly identifying obese children who are already affected by
metabolic co-morbidities should be a clinical priority. According to the state of
the art summarised in this review, traditional metabolic variables included in
the definitions of metabolic syndrome (MS), pre-diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD)/non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis and, in obese girls, the
presence of polycystic ovary syndrome are the best available longitudinal
predictors of CVD and T2DM among obese children and adolescents. In clinical
practice, traditional metabolic variables included in the definitions of MS
should be assessed in all obese children and adolescents; fasting metabolic
variables have been proposed to identify obese patients likely to be affected by 
impaired glucose tolerance or T2DM, and ultrasound has proved to be a valid
surrogate for biopsy in the diagnosis of NAFLD. Further large longitudinal and
cross-sectional studies are needed to improve our chances of identifying obese
youth at the highest metabolic risk.

DOI: 10.1159/000362237 
PMID: 24923289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):84-91. doi: 10.1038/nature13478.

The role of hepatic lipids in hepatic insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Perry RJ(1), Samuel VT(2), Petersen KF(3), Shulman GI(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. (2)1] Department of Internal Medicine, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. [2] VA
Connecticut Healthcare System West Haven, Connecticut 06516, USA. (3)1]
Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA. [2] Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic
Research, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen DK-2200, Denmark. (4)1] Department
of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 
06520, USA. [2] Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research,
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen DK-2200, Denmark. [3] Department of Cellular
and Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA. [4] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06535-8012, USA.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and its downstream sequelae, hepatic insulin
resistance and type 2 diabetes, are rapidly growing epidemics, which lead to
increased morbidity and mortality rates, and soaring health-care costs.
Developing interventions requires a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms
by which excess hepatic lipid develops and causes hepatic insulin resistance and 
type 2 diabetes. Proposed mechanisms implicate various lipid species,
inflammatory signalling and other cellular modifications. Studies in mice and
humans have elucidated a key role for hepatic diacylglycerol activation of
protein kinase Cε in triggering hepatic insulin resistance. Therapeutic
approaches based on this mechanism could alleviate the related epidemics of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13478 
PMCID: PMC4489847
PMID: 24899308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Jun 3;15(6):9924-44. doi: 10.3390/ijms15069924.

Steatosis and steatohepatitis: complex disorders.

Bettermann K(1), Hohensee T(2), Haybaeck J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Graz, Auenbruggerplatz 25, Graz 
A-8036, Austria. kira.bettermann@gmx.de. (2)Institute of Pathology, Medical
University of Graz, Auenbruggerplatz 25, Graz A-8036, Austria.
tabeahohensee87@gmail.com. (3)Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Graz,
Auenbruggerplatz 25, Graz A-8036, Austria. johannes.haybaeck@medunigraz.at.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) which includes steatosis and
steatohepatitis, in particular non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), is a rising 
health problem world-wide and should be separated from alcoholic steatohepatitis 
(ASH). NAFLD is regarded as hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome
(MetSy), being tightly linked to obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
Development of steatosis, liver fibrosis and cirrhosis often progresses towards
hepatocellular carcinogenesis and frequently results in the indication for liver 
transplantation, underlining the clinical significance of this disease complex.
Work on different murine models and several human patients studies led to the
identification of different molecular key players as well as epigenetic factors
like miRNAs and SNPs, which have a promoting or protecting function in AFLD/ASH
or NAFLD/NASH. To which extent they might be translated into human biology and
pathogenesis is still questionable and needs further investigation regarding
diagnostic parameters, drug development and a better understanding of the genetic
impact. In this review we give an overview about the currently available
knowledge and recent findings regarding the development and progression of this
disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms15069924 
PMCID: PMC4100130
PMID: 24897026  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


717. J Dig Dis. 2014 Sep;15(9):463-8. doi: 10.1111/1751-2980.12164.

Observations on the epidemiology of gastrointestinal and liver cancers in the
Asia-Pacific region.

Goh LY(1), Leow AH, Goh KL.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, United Kingdom.

Gastric cancer (GC) has long been thought to be an Asian type of cancer that is
broadly associated with poverty, whereas colorectal cancer (CRC) has been thought
to be a Western type of cancer associated with affluence. The incidence of GC has
declined dramatically in the West but has a very high incidence in East Asia. The
age-standardized incidence rates (ASR) have also declined. The decrease in the
incidence of GC is associated with the decrease in the prevalence of Helicobacter
pylori (H. pylori) infection worldwide. The discrepancy between a high H. pylori 
infection rate and a low GC incidence is seen chiefly among southern Asians of
Indian origin and has been aptly termed the "Indian enigma". CRC is a new
emerging cancer in this region. Some of the highest CRC ASR have been reported
from Asian countries, in many of which it has now surpassed that of GC. Liver
cancer is also an important cancer in the Asia-Pacific region. The highest ASR
worldwide is reported from the Asian countries of Mongolia, Korea and Japan. The 
predominant underlying etiology across the region has been hepatitis B virus
infection, except in Japan, where hepatitis C is an important cause of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). With mass vaccination of hepatitis B at birth and
improved public health measures in many countries, hepatitis B and C are set to
decline with time. However, the exponential increase in obesity and consequent
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease portends a future epidemic of fatty
liver-related HCC.

© 2014 Chinese Medical Association Shanghai Branch, Chinese Society of
Gastroenterology, Renji Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University
School of Medicine and Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-2980.12164 
PMID: 24894597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2014;2014:149627. doi: 10.1155/2014/149627. Epub 2014 Apr
30.

Functional roles of protein nitration in acute and chronic liver diseases.

Abdelmegeed MA(1), Song BJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, Laboratory of Membrane
Biochemistry and Biophysics, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, 
9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20892-9410, USA.

Nitric oxide, when combined with superoxide, produces peroxynitrite, which is
known to be an important mediator for a number of diseases including various
liver diseases. Peroxynitrite can modify tyrosine residue(s) of many proteins
resulting in protein nitration, which may alter structure and function of each
target protein. Various proteomics and immunological methods including mass
spectrometry combined with both high pressure liquid chromatography and 2D PAGE
have been employed to identify and characterize nitrated proteins from
pathological tissue samples to determine their roles. However, these methods
contain a few technical problems such as low efficiencies with the detection of a
limited number of nitrated proteins and labor intensiveness. Therefore, a
systematic approach to efficiently identify nitrated proteins and characterize
their functional roles is likely to shed new insights into understanding of the
mechanisms of hepatic disease pathophysiology and subsequent development of new
therapeutics. The aims of this review are to briefly describe the mechanisms of
hepatic diseases. In addition, we specifically describe a systematic approach to 
efficiently identify nitrated proteins to study their causal roles or functional 
consequences in promoting acute and chronic liver diseases including alcoholic
and nonalcoholic fatty liver diseases. We finally discuss translational research 
applications by analyzing nitrated proteins in evaluating the efficacies of
potentially beneficial agents to prevent or treat various diseases in the liver
and other tissues.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/149627 
PMCID: PMC4021747
PMID: 24876909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


719. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 May 28;20(20):6279-86. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i20.6279.

Alcoholic hepatitis: a comprehensive review of pathogenesis and treatment.

Chayanupatkul M(1), Liangpunsakul S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Maneerat Chayanupatkul, Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein Medical
Center, Philadelphia, PA 19141, United States.

Alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is an acute hepatic inflammation associated with
significant morbidity and mortality. Current evidence suggests that the
pathogenesis is the end result of the complex interplay between ethanol
metabolism, inflammation and innate immunity. Several clinical scoring systems
have been derived to predict the clinical outcomes of patients with AH; such as
Child-Turcotte-Pugh score, the Maddrey discriminant function, the Lille Model,
the model for end stage liver disease scores, and the Glasgow alcoholic hepatitis
score. At present, Corticosteroids or pentoxifylline are the current
pharmacologic treatment options; though the outcomes from the therapies are poor.
Liver transplantation as the treatment of alcoholic hepatitis remains
controversial, and in an era of organ shortage current guidelines do not
recommend transplantation as the treatment option. Because of the limitations in 
the therapeutic options, it is no doubt that there is a critical need for the
newer and more effective pharmacological agents to treat AH.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i20.6279 
PMCID: PMC4033465
PMID: 24876748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Ter Arkh. 2014;86(4):108-16.

[Alcoholic liver disease: current state of the problem].

[Article in Russian]

Maev IV, Abdurakhmanov DT, Andreev DN, Dicheva DT.

The literature review gives the present views of the diagnosis and treatment of
alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and data on the genetic markers associated with the
development of ALD and alcohol addiction. It discusses in detail the mechanisms
of liver damage within the disease in question and substantiates indications for 
the use of prednisolone and pentoxifylline in alcoholic hepatitis. Therapeutic
approaches to treating different forms of ALD are considered.


PMID: 24864478  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 2014 Apr-Jun;79(2):135-44. doi:
10.1016/j.rgmx.2014.03.001. Epub 2014 May 24.

The role of oxidative stress in the development of alcoholic liver disease.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Galicia-Moreno M(1), Gutiérrez-Reyes G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Adscrita al laboratorio de Hígado, Páncreas y Motilidad (HIPAM), Unidad de
Investigación en Medicina Experimental, Facultad de Medicina, UNAM, México D.F., 
México. (2)Jefa del laboratorio de Hígado, Páncreas y Motilidad (HIPAM), Unidad
de Investigación en Medicina Experimental, Facultad de Medicina, UNAM, México
D.F., México. Electronic address: gabgurey@yahoo.com.mx.

BACKGROUND: Alcohol is the most accepted addictive substance worldwide and its
consumption is related to multiple health, economic, and social problems. The
liver is the organ in charge of ethanol metabolism and it is susceptible to
alcohol's toxic effects.
OBJETIVOS: To provide a detailed review of the role of oxidative stress in
alcoholic liver disease and the mechanisms of damage involved, along with current
information on the hepatoprotective effectiveness of the molecules that have been
studied.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A search of the PubMed database was conducted using the
following keywords oxidative stress, alcoholic liver damage, alcoholic cirrhosis,
and antioxidants. There was no time limit for gathering all available information
on the subject at hand.
RESULTS: According to the literature reviewed, oxidative stress plays an
important role in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver damage. Molecules such as
reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS), formed during 
ethanol metabolism, structurally and functionally modify organic molecules.
Consequently, biologic processes are altered and hepatocytes are sensitized to
the action of cytokines like tumor necrosis factor-α, as well as to the action of
endotoxins, activating signaling pathways such as those controlled by nuclear
factor kappa B, extracellular signal regulated kinases, and mitogen activated
protein kinase.
CONCLUSIONS: Oxidative stress plays an important role in the development of liver
damage resulting from alcohol consumption. The molecules that have currently
displayed a hepatoprotective effect in preclinical and clinical trials must be
studied further so that their effectiveness can be confirmed and they can
possibly be used as adjuvant treatments for this disease.

Copyright © 2014 Asociación Mexicana de Gastroenterología. Published by Masson
Doyma México S.A. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rgmx.2014.03.001 
PMID: 24861526  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 May 15;15(5):8713-42. doi: 10.3390/ijms15058713.

Role of mitochondria in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Nassir F(1), Ibdah JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65212, USA. nassirf@health.missouri.edu.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65212, USA. ibdahj@health.missouri.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects about 30% of the general
population in the United States and includes a spectrum of disease that includes 
simple steatosis, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), fibrosis and cirrhosis.
Significant insight has been gained into our understanding of the pathogenesis of
NALFD; however the key metabolic aberrations underlying lipid accumulation in
hepatocytes and the progression of NAFLD remain to be elucidated. Accumulating
and emerging evidence indicate that hepatic mitochondria play a critical role in 
the development and pathogenesis of steatosis and NAFLD. Here, we review studies 
that document a link between the pathogenesis of NAFLD and hepatic mitochondrial 
dysfunction with particular focus on new insights into the role of impaired fatty
acid oxidation, the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated
receptor-γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α), and sirtuins in development and progression
of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms15058713 
PMCID: PMC4057755
PMID: 24837835  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc. 2015 May;90(2):367-76. doi: 10.1111/brv.12116. Epub
2014 May 16.

Intracellular role of exchangeable apolipoproteins in energy homeostasis, obesity
and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Wu CL(1), Zhao SP, Yu BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan 410011, China.

Exchangeable apolipoproteins play an important role in systemic lipid metabolism,
especially for lipoproteins with which they are associated. Recently, emerging
evidence has suggested that exchangeable apolipoproteins, such as apolipoprotein 
A4 (apoA4), apolipoprotein A5 (apoA5), apolipoprotein C3 (apoC3) and
apolipoprotein E (apoE), also exert important effects on intracellular lipid
homeostasis. There is a close link between lipid metabolism in adipose tissue and
liver because the latter behaves as the metabolic sensor of dysfunctional adipose
tissue and is a main target of lipotoxicity. Given that the energy balance
between these two major lipogenic organs is intimately involved in the
pathogenesis of obesity and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), we here
review recent findings concerning the intracellular function of exchangeable
apolipoproteins in triglyceride metabolism in adipocytes and hepatocytes. These
apolipoproteins may act as mediators of crosstalk between adipose tissue and
liver, thus influencing development of obesity and hepatosteatosis. This review
provides new insights into the physiological role of exchangeable apolipoproteins
and identifies latent targets for therapeutic intervention of obesity and its
related disorders.

© 2014 The Authors. Biological Reviews © 2014 Cambridge Philosophical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/brv.12116 
PMID: 24834836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


724. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 May 14;20(18):5320-30. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i18.5320.

Liver transplantation for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: new challenges and
new opportunities.

Shaker M(1), Tabbaa A(1), Albeldawi M(1), Alkhouri N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mina Shaker, Adam Tabbaa, Mazen Albeldawi, Naim Alkhouri, Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Digestive Disease Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
OH 44195, United States.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is becoming rapidly one of the most
common indications for orthotopic liver transplantation in the world. Development
of graft steatosis is a significant problem during the post-transplant course,
which may happen as a recurrence of pre-existing disease or de novo NAFLD. There 
are different risk factors that might play a role in development of graft
steatosis including post-transplant metabolic syndrome, immune-suppressive
medications, genetics and others. There are few studies that assessed the effects
of NAFLD on graft and patient survival; most of them were limited by the duration
of follow up or by the number of patients. With this review article we will try
to shed light on post-liver transplantation NAFLD, significance of the disease,
how it develops, risk factors, clinical course and treatment options.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i18.5320 
PMCID: PMC4017047
PMID: 24833862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 May 14;15(5):8591-638. doi: 10.3390/ijms15058591.

Evolving concepts in the pathogenesis of NASH: beyond steatosis and inflammation.

Peverill W(1), Powell LW(2), Skoien R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Royal Brisbane and Women's
Hospital, Brisbane 4029, Australia. william.peverill@health.qld.gov.au.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Royal Brisbane and Women's
Hospital, Brisbane 4029, Australia. lawrie.powell@qimrberghofer.edu.au.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Royal Brisbane and Women's
Hospital, Brisbane 4029, Australia. richard.skoien@health.qld.gov.au.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is characterised by hepatic steatosis and
inflammation and, in some patients, progressive fibrosis leading to cirrhosis. An
understanding of the pathogenesis of NASH is still evolving but current evidence 
suggests multiple metabolic factors critically disrupt homeostasis and induce an 
inflammatory cascade and ensuing fibrosis. The mechanisms underlying these
changes and the complex inter-cellular interactions that mediate fibrogenesis are
yet to be fully elucidated. Lipotoxicity, in the setting of excess free fatty
acids, obesity, and insulin resistance, appears to be the central driver of
cellular injury via oxidative stress. Hepatocyte apoptosis and/or senescence
contribute to activation of the inflammasome via a variety of intra- and
inter-cellular signalling mechanisms leading to fibrosis. Current evidence
suggests that periportal components, including the ductular reaction and
expansion of the hepatic progenitor cell compartment, may be involved and that
the Th17 response may mediate disease progression. This review aims to provide an
overview of the pathogenesis of NASH and summarises the evidence pertaining to
key mechanisms implicated in the transition from steatosis and inflammation to
fibrosis. Currently there are limited treatments for NASH although an increasing 
understanding of its pathogenesis will likely improve the development and use of 
interventions in the future.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms15058591 
PMCID: PMC4057750
PMID: 24830559  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Gut Liver. 2014 May;8(3):237-41. doi: 10.5009/gnl.2014.8.3.237.

Host-microbiome interactions in alcoholic liver disease.

Chen P(1), Schnabl B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.

Alcoholic liver disease is a leading cause of morbidity and liver-related death
worldwide. Intestinal bacterial overgrowth and dysbiosis induced by ethanol
ingestion play an important role in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease. 
After exposure to alcohol in the lumen, enteric bacteria alter their metabolism
and thereby disturb intestinal homeostasis. Disruption of the mucosal barrier
results in the translocation of microbial products that contribute to liver
disease by inducing hepatic inflammation. In this review, we will discuss the
effects of alcohol on the intestinal microbiome, and in particular, its effects
on bacterial metabolism, bacterial translocation and ecological balance. A better
understanding of the interactions among alcohol, the host and the microbiome will
reveal new targets for therapy and lead to new treatments.

DOI: 10.5009/gnl.2014.8.3.237 
PMCID: PMC4026639
PMID: 24827618  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Steroids. 2014 Aug;86:62-8. doi: 10.1016/j.steroids.2014.04.016. Epub 2014 May
10.

Bile acids are nutrient signaling hormones.

Zhou H(1), Hylemon PB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Virginia Commonwealth University,
Medical College of Virginia Campus, Richmond, VA 23298, United States; McGuire VA
Medical Center, Richmond, VA 23249, United States. Electronic address:
hzhou@vcu.eduPhillip. (2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Virginia
Commonwealth University, Medical College of Virginia Campus, Richmond, VA 23298, 
United States; McGuire VA Medical Center, Richmond, VA 23249, United States.
Electronic address: hylemon@vcu.edu.

Bile salts play crucial roles in allowing the gastrointestinal system to digest, 
transport and metabolize nutrients. They function as nutrient signaling hormones 
by activating specific nuclear receptors (FXR, PXR, Vitamin D) and G-protein
coupled receptors [TGR5, sphingosine-1 phosphate receptor 2 (S1PR2), muscarinic
receptors]. Bile acids and insulin appear to collaborate in regulating the
metabolism of nutrients in the liver. They both activate the AKT and ERK1/2
signaling pathways. Bile acid induction of the FXR-α target gene, small
heterodimer partner (SHP), is highly dependent on the activation PKCζ, a branch
of the insulin signaling pathway. SHP is an important regulator of glucose and
lipid metabolism in the liver. One might hypothesize that chronic low grade
inflammation which is associated with insulin resistance, may inhibit bile acid
signaling and disrupt lipid metabolism. The disruption of these signaling
pathways may increase the risk of fatty liver and non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD). Finally, conjugated bile acids appear to promote
cholangiocarcinoma growth via the activation of S1PR2.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.steroids.2014.04.016 
PMCID: PMC4073476
PMID: 24819989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Metabolism. 2014 Jul;63(7):895-902. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2014.04.003. Epub 2014
Apr 12.

De novo lipogenesis in health and disease.

Ameer F(1), Scandiuzzi L(2), Hasnain S(1), Kalbacher H(3), Zaidi N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of the Punjab, Lahore-54590,
Pakistan. (2)Department of Radiation Oncology, 1300 Morris Park Avenue, 10461,
Bronx, NY, USA. (3)Medical and Natural Sciences Research Centre, University of
Tubingen, Germany. (4)Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of the
Punjab, Lahore-54590, Pakistan. Electronic address: nzzaidi@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: De novo lipogenesis (DNL) is a complex and highly regulated metabolic
pathway. In normal conditions DNL converts excess carbohydrate into fatty acids
that are then esterified to storage triacylglycerols (TGs). These TGs could later
provide energy via β-oxidation. In human body this pathway is primarily active in
liver and adipose tissue. However, it is considered to be a minor contributor to 
the serum lipid homeostasis. Deregulations in the lipogenic pathway are
associated with diverse pathological conditions.
SCOPE OF REVIEW: The present review focuses on our current understanding of the
lipogenic pathway with special reference to the causes and consequences of
aberrant DNL.
MAJOR CONCLUSIONS: The deregulation of DNL in the major lipogenic tissues of the 
human body is often observed in various metabolic anomalies - including obesity, 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and metabolic syndrome. In addition to that de 
novo lipogenesis is reported to be exacerbated in cancer tissues, virus infected 
cells etc. These observations suggest that inhibitors of the DNL pathway might
serve as therapeutically significant compounds. The effectiveness of these
inhibitors in treatment of cancer and obesity has been suggested by previous
works.
GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: De novo lipogenesis - which is an intricate and highly
regulated pathway - can lead to adverse metabolic consequences when deregulated. 
Therapeutic targeting of this pathway may open a new window of opportunity for
combating various lipogenesis-driven pathological conditions - including obesity,
cancer and certain viral infections.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.metabol.2014.04.003 
PMID: 24814684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Diagn Interv Radiol. 2014 May-Jun;20(3):200-8. doi: 10.5152/dir.2014.13170.

MRI of diffuse liver disease: characteristics of acute and chronic diseases.

Chundru S(1), Kalb B, Arif-Tiwari H, Sharma P, Costello J, Martin DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Imaging University of Arizona College of Medicine,
Tucson, Arizona, USA. dmartin@radiology.arizona.edu.

Diffuse liver disease, including chronic liver disease, affects tens of millions 
of people worldwide, and there is a growing need for diagnostic evaluation as
treatments become more readily available, particularly for viral liver diseases. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides unique capabilities for noninvasive
characterization of the liver tissue that rival or surpass the diagnostic utility
of liver biopsies. There has been incremental improvement in the use of
standardized MRI sequences, acquired before and after administration of a
contrast agent, for the evaluation of diffuse liver disease and the study of the 
liver parenchyma and blood supply. More recent developments have led to methods
for quantifying important liver metabolites, including lipids and iron, and liver
fibrosis, the hallmark of chronic liver disease. Here, we review the MRI
techniques and diagnostic features associated with acute and chronic liver
disease.

DOI: 10.5152/dir.2014.13170 
PMCID: PMC4463342
PMID: 24808418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Mamm Genome. 2014 Oct;25(9-10):473-86. doi: 10.1007/s00335-014-9521-3. Epub 2014 
May 7.

Modeling progressive non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in the laboratory mouse.

Riordan JD(1), Nadeau JH.

Author information: 
(1)Pacific Northwest Research Institute, Seattle, WA, USA, jriordan@pnri.org.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in the
world and its prevalence is rising. In the absence of disease progression, fatty 
liver poses minimal risk of detrimental health outcomes. However, advancement to 
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) confers a markedly increased likelihood of
developing severe liver pathologies, including fibrosis, cirrhosis, organ
failure, and cancer. Although a substantial percentage of NAFLD patients develop 
NASH, the genetic and molecular mechanisms driving this progression are poorly
understood, making it difficult to predict which patients will ultimately develop
advanced liver disease. Deficiencies in mechanistic understanding preclude the
identification of beneficial prognostic indicators and the development of
effective therapies. Mouse models of progressive NAFLD serve as a complementary
approach to the direct analysis of human patients. By providing an easily
manipulated experimental system that can be rigorously controlled, they
facilitate an improved understanding of disease development and progression. In
this review, we discuss genetically- and chemically-induced models of NAFLD that 
progress to NASH, fibrosis, and liver cancer in the context of the major
signaling pathways whose disruption has been implicated as a driving force for
their development. Additionally, an overview of nutritional models of progressive
NAFLD is provided.

DOI: 10.1007/s00335-014-9521-3 
PMCID: PMC4164843
PMID: 24802098  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Nihon Rinsho. 2014 Apr;72(4):726-9.

[Liver diseases].

[Article in Japanese]

Nagoshi S.

Hepatic encephalopathy is frequently accompanied by reversible cognitive
impairment, while chronic acquired hepatocerebral degeneration is a rare
irreversible neurological disorder in patients with liver cirrhosis,
characterized by parkinsonism and cognitive decline. Patients with Wilson disease
can also present cognitive deficits. Recently, it was reported that non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) might be a risk factor for cognitive impairment.
There may be the links among obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, NAFLD, insulin
resistance and cognitive impairment. Reduced liver biosynthesis of
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) might also contribute to cognitive decline in
Alzheimer's disease. The associations between chronic liver diseases and
cognitive impairment need further investigation.


PMID: 24796105  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Med Ultrason. 2014 Jun;16(2):139-44.

Ultrasound screening for hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with advanced liver
fibrosis. An overview.

Dănilă M(1), Sporea I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Department, University of Medicine and
Pharmacy "Victor Babes", WFUMB Center of Excellence, Timisoara, Romania.
mireladanila@gmail.com. (2)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Department, University
of Medicine and Pharmacy "Victor Babes", WFUMB Center of Excellence, Timisoara,
Romania.

Liver cirrhosis is the major risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). All 
etiologic forms of liver cirrhosis may be complicated by HCC but the risk is
higher in patients with hepatitis B or C viral infection. Patients at high risk
for developing HCC should be included in surveillance programs. Groups at high
risk are: all cirrhotic patients; non-cirrhotic patients with chronic hepatitis C
and advanced liver fibrosis (F3), non-cirrhotic HBV carriers with active
hepatitis. Current guidelines issued by AASLD and EASL recommend surveillance
among high-risk patients by ultrasound (with or without alpha-fetoprotein) every 
6 months. The aim of ultrasound screening and surveillance is to detect HCC at an
early stage, when it is amenable to curative therapy, to reduce mortality. For
good results, ultrasound examination must be done by highly experienced
personnel, with extensive experience in the field of hepatic ultrasound.


PMID: 24791845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Drug Saf. 2014 Jul;37(7):481-500. doi: 10.1007/s40264-014-0169-4.

Benefit-risk assessment of rosuvastatin in the treatment of atherosclerosis and
related diseases.

Kostapanos MS(1), Rizos CV, Elisaf MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, University of Ioannina, St.
Niarchou Avenue, 45110, Ioannina, Greece.

Rosuvastatin has been marketed for approximately a decade. In this review we
critically discuss available evidence on the benefits and risks from its use. In 
clinical trials using rosuvastatin, 'lowest is best' was relevant for
on-treatment low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Targeting levels
<50 mg/dl was associated with the greatest decrease in vascular
morbidity/mortality in the primary prevention setting. Also, such reduction can
induce atherosclerosis regression without increasing the risk of adverse effects.
Pooled data suggest that the safety profile of rosuvastatin is not different from
that of other statins. It was estimated that rosuvastatin-associated absolute
hazards of muscle-, liver- and renal-related adverse effects are lower than the
corresponding vascular benefits in moderate vascular risk individuals. However,
these data are subject to biases and need confirmation on a prospective basis.
Significant liver enzyme elevations are rare. These often imply underlying
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which is associated with increased
vascular risk. Rosuvastatin can improve biochemical biomarkers and histological
score of NAFLD. Whether this benefit is associated with vascular risk reduction
should be assessed by prospective studies. Both chronic kidney disease and
albuminuria independently predict vascular morbidity and mortality. Rosuvastatin 
improved the estimated glomerular filtration rate and decreased albuminuria in
patients with moderately impaired kidney function. Also, vascular morbidity and
mortality might be reduced in these patients. The same was not relevant in
end-stage renal disease. Rosuvastatin-induced proteinuria appears to be of
tubular origin, not relating to kidney injury. Rosuvastatin increases the risk of
new-onset diabetes by dose-dependently impairing insulin sensitivity. Obese
individuals with prediabetes appear to be predominantly affected. However,
absolute vascular benefits of rosuvastatin may counterbalance this risk.
Rosuvastatin is effective for the prevention and management of atherosclerotic
vascular disease. Individualization of its use can maximize benefits and reduce
the risk of adverse effects.

DOI: 10.1007/s40264-014-0169-4 
PMID: 24788803  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Apr 30;15(5):7500-12. doi: 10.3390/ijms15057500.

Current status in the therapy of liver diseases.

Uhl P(1), Fricker G(2), Haberkorn U(3), Mier W(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer
Feld 400, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany. philipp.uhl@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)Ruprecht-Karls-University, Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 329, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany. gert.fricker@uni-hd.de.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer
Feld 400, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany. uwe.haberkorn@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer
Feld 400, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany. walter.mier@med.uni-heidelberg.de.

Hepatic diseases, like viral hepatitis, autoimmune hepatitis, hereditary
hemochromatosis, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and Wilson's disease, 
play an important role in the development of liver cirrhosis and, hence,
hepatocellular carcinoma. In this review, the current treatment options and the
molecular mechanisms of action of the drugs are summarized. Unfortunately, the
treatment options for most of these hepatic diseases are limited. Since hepatitis
B (HBV) and C (HCV) infections are the most common causes of liver cirrhosis and 
hepatocellular carcinoma, they are the focus of the development of new drugs. The
current treatment of choice for HBV/HCV infection is an interferon-based
combination therapy with oral antiviral drugs, like nucleos(t)ide analogues,
which is associated with improving the therapeutic success and also preventing
the development of resistances. Currently, two new protease inhibitors for HCV
treatment are expected (deleobuvir, faldaprevir) and together with the promising 
drug, daclatasvir (NS5A-inhibitor, currently in clinical trials), adequate
therapy is to be expected in due course (circumventing the requirement of
interferon with its side-effects), while in contrast, efficient HBV therapeutics 
are still lacking. In this respect, entry inhibitors, like Myrcludex B, the lead 
substance of the first entry inhibitor for HBV/HDV (hepatitis D) infection,
provide immense potential. The pharmacokinetics and the mechanism of action of
Myrcludex B are described in detail.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms15057500 
PMCID: PMC4057686
PMID: 24786290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Apr 29;15(5):7352-79. doi: 10.3390/ijms15057352.

Molecular mechanisms and new treatment strategies for non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH).

Takaki A(1), Kawai D(2), Yamamoto K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Okayama University Graduate
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho,
Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8558, Japan. akitaka@md.okayama-u.ac.jp. (2)Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho, Kita-ku, Okayama
700-8558, Japan. daicawai@yahoo.co.jp. (3)Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho, Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8558, Japan.
kazuhide@md.okayama-u.ac.jp.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a severe form of non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD), in which most patients exhibit non-progressive,
non-alcoholic fatty liver (NAFL) attributable to simple steatosis. Multiple hits,
including genetic differences, fat accumulation, insulin resistance and
intestinal microbiota changes, account for the progression of NASH. NAFLD is
strongly associated with obesity, which induces adipokine secretion, endoplasmic 
reticulum (ER) and oxidative stress at the cellular level, which in turn induces 
hepatic steatosis, inflammation and fibrosis. Among these factors, gut microbiota
are acknowledged as having an important role in initiating this multifactorial
disease. Oxidative stress is considered to be a key contributor in the
progression from NAFL to NASH. Macrophage infiltration is apparent in NAFL and
NASH, while T-cell infiltration is apparent in NASH. Although several clinical
trials have shown that antioxidative therapy with vitamin E can effectively
control hepatitis pathology in the short term, the long-term effects remain
obscure and have often proved to be ineffective in many other diseases. Several
long-term antioxidant protocols have failed to reduce mortality. New treatment
modalities that incorporate current understanding of NAFLD molecular pathogenesis
must be considered.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms15057352 
PMCID: PMC4057677
PMID: 24786095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2014 Jun;25(3):213-20. doi: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000080.

Fatty acid sources and their fluxes as they contribute to plasma triglyceride
concentrations and fatty liver in humans.

Jacome-Sosa MM(1), Parks EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition and Exercise Physiology, University of Missouri,
Columbia, Missouri, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Different sources of fatty acids (FA) used for
VLDL-triglyceride synthesis include dietary FA that clear to the liver via
chylomicron uptake, FA synthesized de novo in the liver from carbohydrates,
nonesterified fatty acids derived from adipose tissue, nonesterified fatty acids 
derived from the spillover of chylomicron-triglyceride in the fasted and fed
states, and FA stored in liver lipid droplets.
RECENT FINDINGS: Data have amassed on the contributions of each of these sources 
to liver-triglyceride accrual, VLDL-triglyceride synthesis, and
hypertriglyceridemia. Discussed here is the timing of use of FA from each of
these sources for synthesis of VLDL-triglyceride. Secondly, as all of these FA
sources have been shown to contribute significantly to nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD), data are presented demonstrating how poor handling of FA and
glucose in the periphery can contribute to NAFLD. Lastly, we highlight how the
stress of excess FA availability on the liver can be corrected by reduction of
dietary intake of sugars and fats, weight loss, and increased physical activity.
SUMMARY: A better understanding of how lifestyle factors improve FA flux will aid
in the development of improved treatments for the devastating condition of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000080 
PMID: 24785962  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Apr;13(4):643-54.e1-9; quiz e39-40. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2014.04.014. Epub 2014 Apr 24.

Fibrosis progression in nonalcoholic fatty liver vs nonalcoholic steatohepatitis:
a systematic review and meta-analysis of paired-biopsy studies.

Singh S(1), Allen AM(1), Wang Z(2), Prokop LJ(2), Murad MH(2), Loomba R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. (2)Knowledge and Evaluation Research Unit,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. (3)Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of California, San Diego,
California. Electronic address: roloomba@ucsd.edu.

Comment in
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Apr;13(4):655-7.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Little is known about differences in rates of fibrosis
progression between patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL) vs nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of all
studies that assessed paired liver biopsy specimens to estimate the rates of
fibrosis progression in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
including NAFL and NASH.
METHODS: Through a systematic search of multiple databases and author contact, up
to June 2013, we identified studies of adults with NAFLD that collected paired
liver biopsy specimens at least 1 year apart. From these, we calculated a
pooled-weighted annual fibrosis progression rate (number of stages changed
between the 2 biopsy samples) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), and identified
clinical risk factors associated with progression.
RESULTS: We identified 11 cohort studies including 411 patients with
biopsy-proven NAFLD (150 with NAFL and 261 with NASH). At baseline, the
distribution of fibrosis for stages 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 was 35.8%, 32.5%, 16.7%,
9.3%, and 5.7%, respectively. Over 2145.5 person-years of follow-up evaluation,
33.6% had fibrosis progression, 43.1% had stable fibrosis, and 22.3% had an
improvement in fibrosis stage. The annual fibrosis progression rate in patients
with NAFL who had stage 0 fibrosis at baseline was 0.07 stages (95% CI, 0.02-0.11
stages), compared with 0.14 stages in patients with NASH (95% CI, 0.07-0.21
stages). These findings correspond to 1 stage of progression over 14.3 years for 
patients with NAFL (95% CI, 9.1-50.0 y) and 7.1 years for patients with NASH (95%
CI, 4.8-14.3 y).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on a meta-analysis of studies of paired liver biopsy studies, 
liver fibrosis progresses in patients with NAFL and NASH.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2014.04.014 
PMCID: PMC4208976
PMID: 24768810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2014 Jun;9(6):687-96. doi: 10.1517/17460441.2014.911283.
Epub 2014 Apr 25.

Evolving therapies for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Tilg H(1), Moschen AR.

Author information: 
(1)Medical University Innsbruck, Department of Internal Medicine I,
Endocrinology, Gastroenterology and Metabolism , Innsbruck , Austria +43 512 504 
23539 ; +43 512 504 23538 ; herbert.tilg@i-med.ac.at.

INTRODUCTION: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver 
disease in the world. Approved therapies for this disorder, however, are still
lacking. In the last decade, pathophysiological insights into this disease have
been tremendous. Various aspects, such as insulin resistance, innate immunity,
metabolic inflammation and the microbiota, have been characterized as major
players. Indeed, at least 1 in 10 sufferers will have the disease escalate toward
its inflammatory phenotype, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). These pathways 
currently represent the most attractive treatment targets. Furthermore,
interference with insulin resistance has shown some efficacy in the past,
although more focused therapies, which also act anti-inflammatory, are needed.
AREAS COVERED: In this review, the authors highlight the current most promising
treatment strategies in NASH/NAFLD.
EXPERT OPINION: Treatment of NAFLD is still in its infancy, although large
controlled studies have demonstrated some efficacy for pioglitazone or vitamin E.
The natural course of this disease demands long-term treatments besides diet and 
lifestyle changes. Based on the current view of NAFLD pathophysiology, effective 
therapies have to target metabolic inflammation, glucose and lipid metabolism.
The search for agents interfering with all of these pathways has recently
generated promising candidates for the treatment of NAFLD such as farnesoid X
receptor, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-α/δ agonists or AdipoR
small-molecule agonists.

DOI: 10.1517/17460441.2014.911283 
PMID: 24766298  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2014 Jul;23(7):965-77. doi:
10.1517/13543784.2014.912274. Epub 2014 Apr 21.

Modulation of autophagy for the treatment of liver diseases.

Gracia-Sancho J(1), Guixé-Muntet S, Hide D, Bosch J.

Author information: 
(1)Barcelona Hepatic Hemodynamic Laboratory, Institut d'Investigacions
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS) - Hospital Clínic de Barcelona -
CIBEREHD , Barcelona , Spain +34932275400 ext: 4306 ; +34932279856 ;
jgracia@clinic.cat ; jbosch@clinic.cat.

INTRODUCTION: Autophagy is a cellular process essential for survival and
homeostasis that confers cellular protection toward a wide range of deleterious
stimuli. It has a highly complex regulation with several autophagic proteins also
belonging to other main signaling pathways as cell proliferation or apoptosis. In
addition, autophagy has an important role in cell metabolism. Interest in the
study of this process is rapidly rising and, in the past few years, autophagy has
been implicated in a variety of hepatic diseases.
AREAS COVERED: The review covers the research and investigational use of
pharmacological strategies that modify autophagy in the treatment of liver
diseases. Autophagy modulation in steatosis, steatohepatitis, viral hepatitis,
fibrogenesis, cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma and ischemia/reperfusion injury
will be described, critically analyzed and discussed. Papers included in the
present manuscript were selected from the PubMed search: liver + (macro)autophagy
+ each of the pathologies described above.
EXPERT OPINION: The complexity of autophagy creates significant controversy on
the potential of its pharmacological modulation. A major requirement for drugs
regulating autophagy in the treatment of liver diseases is that these should be
liver-specific; moreover, they should primarily target one specific hepatic cell 
type.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.2014.912274 
PMID: 24749698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(39):6114-25.

Psoriasis and Vascular Risk : An Update.

Katsiki N, Anagnostis P, Athyros VG, Karagiannis A, Mikhailidis DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Clinical Biochemistry (Vascular Disease Prevention Clinics), Royal
Free Hospital campus, University College London Medical School, University
College London (UCL), Pond Street London NW3 2QG, UK. MIKHAILIDIS@aol.com.

Psoriasis is a chronic systemic inflammatory disease characterized by topical
skin lesions as well as an increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD). There
is also increasing evidence that patients with psoriasis are more prone to
several CVD risk factors (hypertension, obesity, dyslipidemia and smoking),
non-cardiac vascular diseases (carotid, peripheral artery and chronic kidney
disease) and metabolic co-morbidities (type 2 diabetes mellitus, metabolic
syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and obstructive sleep apnea) compared
with the general population. The associations are even greater in patients with
severe psoriasis and those with psoriatic arthritis. Insulin resistance,
endothelial dysfunction and obesity induced by several adipokines and
inflammatory cytokines are proposed as the common mechanisms linking psoriasis
with CVD, vascular risk factors and metabolic diseases. The present narrative
review considers the associations between psoriasis (and psoriatic arthritis)
with CVD, vascular risk factors and metabolic diseases. Drugs that reduce CVD
risk and improve metabolic parameters may also beneficially affect psoriasis
severity and prognosis. Furthermore, anti-psoriatic drugs can exert different
effects on CVD risk and metabolic co-morbidities. Therefore, physicians should be
aware of these associations in order to adequately monitor and treat psoriatic
patients.


PMID: 24745923  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:741465. doi: 10.1155/2014/741465. Epub 2014 Mar 13.

MicroRNAs in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: novel biomarkers and prognostic
tools during the transition from steatosis to hepatocarcinoma.

Gori M(1), Arciello M(2), Balsano C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Virology and Oncology, Francesco Balsano Foundation,
00198 Rome, Italy. (2)Laboratory of Molecular Virology and Oncology, Francesco
Balsano Foundation, 00198 Rome, Italy ; Department of Internal Medicine and
Medical Specialties, Sapienza University of Rome, 00161 Rome, Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a metabolic-related disorder ranging 
from steatosis to steatohepatitis, which may progress to cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The influence of NAFLD on HCC development has
drawn attention in recent years. HCC is one of the most common malignant tumors
and the third highest cause of cancer-related death. HCC is frequently diagnosed 
late in the disease course, and patient's prognosis is usually poor. Early
diagnosis and identification of the correct stage of liver damage during NAFLD
progression can contribute to more effective therapeutic interventions, improving
patient outcomes. Therefore, scientists are always searching for new sensitive
and reliable markers that could be analysed through minimally invasive tests.
MicroRNAs are short noncoding RNAs that act as posttranscriptional regulators of 
gene expression. Several studies identified specific miRNA expression profiles
associated to different histological features of NAFLD. Thus, miRNAs are
receiving growing attention as useful noninvasive diagnostic markers to follow
the progression of NAFLD and to identify novel therapeutic targets. This review
focuses on the current knowledge of the miRNAs involved in NAFLD and related HCC 
development, highlighting their diagnostic and prognostic value for the screening
of NAFLD patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/741465 
PMCID: PMC3972908
PMID: 24745023  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2014 Jun;34(6):1155-61. doi:
10.1161/ATVBAHA.114.303034. Epub 2014 Apr 17.

Ectopic fat, insulin resistance, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease:
implications for cardiovascular disease.

Byrne CD(1), Targher G(2).

Author information: 
(1)From Nutrition and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton,
Southampton, United Kingdom (C.D.B.); Southampton National Institute for Health
Research Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital Southampton,
Southampton, United Kingdom (C.D.B.); and Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and
Metabolism, Department of Medicine, University and Azienda Ospedaliera
Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Verona, Italy (G.T.). cdtb@soton.ac.uk.
(2)From Nutrition and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton,
Southampton, United Kingdom (C.D.B.); Southampton National Institute for Health
Research Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital Southampton,
Southampton, United Kingdom (C.D.B.); and Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and
Metabolism, Department of Medicine, University and Azienda Ospedaliera
Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Verona, Italy (G.T.).

Ectopic fat accumulation in the liver causes nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD), which is the most common cause of chronic liver disease in Western
countries. Ectopic liver lipid, particularly diacylglycerol, exacerbates hepatic 
insulin resistance, promotes systemic inflammation, and increases risk of
developing both type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease. Increasing
evidence suggests that NAFLD is an emerging risk factor for cardiovascular
disease, and although there are currently no licensed treatments for NAFLD per
se, current evidence suggests that statin treatment is safe in NAFLD. Presently, 
there is insufficient evidence to indicate that statins or other cardioprotective
agents, such as angiotensin receptor blockers, are effective in treating NAFLD.
In this brief narrative review, we discuss the diagnosis of NAFLD and the role of
ectopic liver fat to cause insulin resistance and to increase risk of both type 2
diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease. For this review, PubMed was
searched for articles using the key words non-alcoholic fatty liver disease or
fatty liver combined with diabetes risk, cardiovascular risk, and cardiovascular 
mortality between 1990 and 2014. Articles published in languages other than
English were excluded.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.114.303034 
PMID: 24743428  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:106247. doi: 10.1155/2014/106247. Epub 2014 Mar 11.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Kikuchi L(1), Oliveira CP(1), Carrilho FJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)São Paulo Clínicas Liver Cancer Group, Hospital das Clínicas, Instituto do
Câncer do Estado de São Paulo, Department of Gastroenterology, University of São 
Paulo School of Medicine, Avenida Dr. Enéas de Carvalho Aguiar No. 255, Instituto
Central No. 9159, 05403-000 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence is increasing worldwide in recent years.
Most HCC cases develop in the presence of advanced chronic liver disease related 
to chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, chronic hepatitis B (HBV)
infection, and alcohol abuse. Approximately 15-50% of HCC cases are classified as
idiopathic, suggesting that other risk factors are responsible for its rising
incidence. Recent studies suggest that nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
can be associated with these "idiopathic" cases. NAFLD progresses slowly and can 
develop into liver cirrhosis, liver failure, and HCC. In the last few years,
NAFLD has received more attention because of its high prevalence worldwide.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/106247 
PMCID: PMC3971490
PMID: 24738043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Postgrad Med J. 2014 May;90(1063):254-66. doi:
10.1136/postgradmedj-2013-201620rep.

Republished: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: non-invasive investigation and
risk stratification.

Dyson JK(1), McPherson S, Anstee QM.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Unit, Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Trust, Freeman Hospital, ,
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a histological spectrum of 
liver disease, from simple steatosis through to cirrhosis. As the worldwide rates
of obesity have increased, NAFLD has become the commonest cause of liver disease 
in many developed countries, affecting up to a third of the population. The
majority of patients have simple steatosis that carries a relatively benign
prognosis. However, a significant minority have non-alcoholic steatohepatitis,
and have increased liver related and cardiovascular mortality. Identifying those 
at risk of progressive disease is crucial. Liver biopsy remains the gold standard
investigation for assessing stage of disease but its invasive nature makes it
impractical for widespread use as a prognostic tool. Non-invasive tools for
diagnosis and disease staging are required, reserving liver biopsy for those
patients where it offers clinically relevant additional information. This review 
discusses the non-invasive modalities available for assessing steatosis,
steatohepatitis and fibrosis. We propose a pragmatic approach for the assessment 
of patients with NAFLD to identify those at high risk of progressive disease who 
require referral to specialist services.

DOI: 10.1136/postgradmedj-2013-201620rep 
PMID: 24737902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Apr 11;15(4):6184-223. doi: 10.3390/ijms15046184.

Obesity and its metabolic complications: the role of adipokines and the
relationship between obesity, inflammation, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia and 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Jung UJ(1), Choi MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Food and Nutritional Genomics Research, Kyungpook National
University, 1370 Sankyuk Dong Puk-ku, Daegu 702-701, Korea. jungunju@naver.com.
(2)Center for Food and Nutritional Genomics Research, Kyungpook National
University, 1370 Sankyuk Dong Puk-ku, Daegu 702-701, Korea. mschoi@knu.ac.kr.

Accumulating evidence indicates that obesity is closely associated with an
increased risk of metabolic diseases such as insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes,
dyslipidemia and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Obesity results from an
imbalance between food intake and energy expenditure, which leads to an excessive
accumulation of adipose tissue. Adipose tissue is now recognized not only as a
main site of storage of excess energy derived from food intake but also as an
endocrine organ. The expansion of adipose tissue produces a number of bioactive
substances, known as adipocytokines or adipokines, which trigger chronic
low-grade inflammation and interact with a range of processes in many different
organs. Although the precise mechanisms are still unclear, dysregulated
production or secretion of these adipokines caused by excess adipose tissue and
adipose tissue dysfunction can contribute to the development of obesity-related
metabolic diseases. In this review, we focus on the role of several adipokines
associated with obesity and the potential impact on obesity-related metabolic
diseases. Multiple lines evidence provides valuable insights into the roles of
adipokines in the development of obesity and its metabolic complications. Further
research is still required to fully understand the mechanisms underlying the
metabolic actions of a few newly identified adipokines.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms15046184 
PMCID: PMC4013623
PMID: 24733068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2014 Sep;54:288-303. doi: 10.1016/j.biocel.2014.04.002. 
Epub 2014 Apr 13.

Regulation of microRNAs and their role in liver development, regeneration and
disease.

Finch ML(1), Marquardt JU(2), Yeoh GC(3), Callus BA(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Western Australia, Crawley
6009, WA, Australia. Electronic address: 10509477@student.uwa.edu.au.
(2)Department of Medicine I, Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany.
Electronic address: marquarj@uni-mainz.de. (3)School of Chemistry and
Biochemistry, University of Western Australia, Crawley 6009, WA, Australia; Harry
Perkins Institute of Medical Research, Nedlands 6000, WA, Australia. Electronic
address: George.Yeoh@uwa.edu.au. (4)School of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
University of Western Australia, Crawley 6009, WA, Australia. Electronic address:
Bernard.Callus@uwa.edu.au.

Since their discovery more than a decade ago microRNAs have been demonstrated to 
have profound effects on almost every aspect of biology. Numerous studies in
recent years have shown that microRNAs have important roles in development and in
the etiology and progression of disease. This review is focused on microRNAs and 
the roles they play in liver development, regeneration and liver disease;
particularly chronic liver diseases such as alcoholic liver disease,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, viral hepatitis
and primary liver cancer. The key microRNAs identified in liver development and
chronic liver disease will be discussed together with, where possible, the target
messenger RNAs that these microRNAs regulate to profoundly alter these processes.
This article is part of a Directed Issue entitled: The Non-coding RNA Revolution.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biocel.2014.04.002 
PMID: 24731940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2014 Nov;2(11):901-10. doi:
10.1016/S2213-8587(14)70032-4. Epub 2014 Apr 7.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease as a cause and a consequence of metabolic
syndrome.

Yki-Järvinen H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland; Minerva
Foundation Institute for Medical Research, Helsinki, Finland. Electronic address:
ykijarvi@cc.helsinki.fi.

Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of metabolic abnormalities that identifies people
at risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease, whereas non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) is defined as a disorder with excess fat in the liver due to
non-alcoholic causes. Two key components of metabolic syndrome, glucose and
triglycerides, are overproduced by the fatty liver. The liver is therefore a key 
determinant of metabolic abnormalities. The prevalence of both metabolic syndrome
and NAFLD increases with obesity. Other acquired causes for both disorders
include excessive intake of simple sugars and physical inactivity. Both disorders
predict type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), and hepatocellular carcinoma. Because metabolic syndrome can be defined
in many different ways, NAFLD might be a more direct predictor of these diseases.
Half of people with NAFLD carry at least one variant (G) allele at rs738409 in
the PNPLA3 gene, which is associated with high liver fat content. Steatosis in
PNPLA3-associated NAFLD is not accompanied by features of metabolic syndrome. All
forms of NAFLD increase the risk of NASH, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-8587(14)70032-4 
PMID: 24731669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2014 Jun;2(6):513-26. doi:
10.1016/S2213-8587(13)70174-8. Epub 2013 Dec 30.

Effects of iron overload on chronic metabolic diseases.

Fernández-Real JM(1), Manco M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Nutrition, Institut d'Investigació
Biomédica de Girona, Hospital de Girona 'Doctor Josep Trueta', Girona, Spain;
CIBER Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición, Girona, Spain. Electronic
address: jmfreal@idibgi.org. (2)Research Unit for Multifactorial Disease, Bambino
Gesù Children's Hospital and Research Institute, Rome, Italy.

Iron can affect the clinical course of several chronic metabolic diseases such as
type 2 diabetes, obesity, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and atherosclerosis.
Iron overload can affect major tissues involved in glucose and lipid metabolism
(pancreatic β cells, liver, muscle, and adipose tissue) and organs affected by
chronic diabetic complications. Because iron is a potent pro-oxidant, fine-tuned 
control mechanisms have evolved to regulate entry, recycling, and loss of body
iron. These mechanisms include the interplay of iron with transferrin, ferritin, 
insulin, and hepcidin, as well as with adipokines and proinflammatory molecules. 
An imbalance of these homoeostatic mechanisms results in systemic and parenchymal
siderosis that contributes to organ damage (such as β-cell dysfunction, fibrosis 
in liver diseases, and atherosclerotic plaque growth and instability).
Conversely, iron depletion can exert beneficial effects in patients with iron
overload and even in healthy frequent blood donors. Regular assessment of iron
balance should be recommended for patients with chronic metabolic diseases, and
further research is needed to produce guidelines for the identification of
patients who would benefit from iron depletion.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-8587(13)70174-8 
PMID: 24731656  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2014 Sep;38(4):419-22. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2014.02.008. Epub 2014 Apr 14.

Pediatric non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: recent advances.

Della Corte C(1), Vajro P(2), Socha P(3), Nobili V(4).

Author information: 
(1)Hepato-Metabolic Disease Unit and Liver Research Unit, "Bambino Gesù"
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, P.le S. Onofrio 4, 00165 Rome, Italy. (2)Paediatrics,
Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Salerno, Baronissi, Salerno,
Italy. (3)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Malnutrition, the
Children's Memorial Health Institute, Warsaw, Poland. (4)Hepato-Metabolic Disease
Unit and Liver Research Unit, "Bambino Gesù" Children's Hospital, IRCCS, P.le S. 
Onofrio 4, 00165 Rome, Italy. Electronic address: nobili66@yahoo.it.

Central obesity represents the major factor responsible for NAFLD, but several
immunological and endocrinological mechanisms are involved in fatty infiltration 
in the liver, inflammation and fibrosis. Gut microbiota and genetic factors were 
recently indicated as major players in liver injury. Loss of weight and physical 
activity represent till now the cornerstone of treatment, but they are very
difficult to obtain and to maintain. Several pharamocotherapeutic approaches
including insulin sensitizers, omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin E have been
extensively studied in randomized trials, but final conclusions still could not
be formulated. Therefore, new treatments based on pathogenetic mechanisms leading
to NAFLD are under evaluation to establish the effective pharmacological therapy 
of this disorder.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2014.02.008 
PMID: 24726273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2014 May;30(3):223-37. doi:
10.1097/MOG.0000000000000060.

State of the art: treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Pearlman M(1), Loomba R.

Author information: 
(1)aDivision of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine bDivision of
Epidemiology, Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of
California at San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the most common cause of
chronic liver disease in Western countries, and consists of a spectrum of
histopathological changes that range in severity from simple steatosis to
steatohepatitis to cirrhosis. The use of pharmacological agents as adjunctive
therapy to lifestyle modification is crucial, because weight loss is often
difficult to achieve and maintain. The purpose of this review is to analyze the
most recent literature pertaining to current therapies for nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), as there are currently no Food and Drug
Administration-approved medications.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent studies suggest that vitamin E may improve liver
histology in NASH without affecting insulin resistance; however, long-term risks 
remain to be studied. Pioglitazone is beneficial in improving liver histology and
insulin resistance, but is associated with weight gain. Emerging data suggest
that pentoxifylline may also be beneficial in improving serum aminotransferase
and liver histology in patients with biopsy-proven NASH.
SUMMARY: Ongoing research evaluating potential pharmacological agents for NASH is
critical, because these patients are at an increased risk for cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma. The current therapies being used for the treatment of
NASH include the use of vitamin E and pioglitazone, in addition to dietary
counseling and regular exercise.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000060 
PMID: 24717764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Jul;8(5):471-86. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2014.903800. Epub 2014 Apr 10.

Prognosis and treatment of patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis.

Papastergiou V(1), Burroughs AK, Tsochatzis EA.

Author information: 
(1)The Royal Free Sheila Sherlock Liver Centre and UCL Institute of Liver and
Digestive Health, Royal Free Hospital and UCL, London, UK.

Despite alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is the most acute manifestation of
alcohol-related liver disease, its treatment remains controversial.
Corticosteroids, given either as monotherapy or together with N-acetylecysteine, 
have been associated with a moderate short-term survival benefit in patients with
severe disease. The Maddrey's discriminant function; Glasgow alcoholic hepatitis 
score; age, bilirubin, INR and creatinine score; and the Model for end-stage
liver disease have been proposed for stratifying prognosis in AH enabling
selection of the patients to treat. Definition of treatment non-responders using 
the Lille model after 7 days of therapy may prevent a detrimental impact of
prolonged corticosteroids. Pentoxifylline is an effective alternative reducing
the occurrence of hepatorenal syndrome. Emerging evidence supports use of liver
transplantation in a strictly selected subset of corticosteroid non-responders.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2014.903800 
PMID: 24716632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Arch Toxicol. 2014 Aug;88(8):1491-502. doi: 10.1007/s00204-014-1234-6. Epub 2014 
Apr 8.

LC-MS-based metabolomics: an update.

Fang ZZ(1), Gonzalez FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Metabolism, Center for Cancer Research, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.

Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based metabolomics can have a
major impact in multiple research fields, especially when combined with other
technologies, such as stable isotope tracers and genetically modified mice. This 
review highlights recent applications of metabolomic technology in the study of
xenobiotic metabolism and toxicity, and the understanding of disease pathogenesis
and therapeutics. Metabolomics has been employed to study metabolism of
noscapine, an aryl hydrocarbon receptor antagonist, and to determine the
mechanisms of liver toxicities of rifampicin and isoniazid, trichloroethylene,
and gemfibrozil. Metabolomics-based insights into the pathogenesis of
inflammatory bowel disease, alcohol-induced liver diseases, non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis, and farnesoid X receptor signaling pathway-based therapeutic
target discovery will also be discussed. Limitations in metabolomics technology
such as sample preparation and lack of LC-MS databases and metabolite standards, 
need to be resolved in order to improve and broaden the application of
metabolomic studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-014-1234-6 
PMID: 24710571  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Compr Physiol. 2014 Jan;4(1):177-97. doi: 10.1002/cphy.c130024.

Energy metabolism in the liver.

Rui L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, University of Michigan
Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

The liver is an essential metabolic organ, and its metabolic function is
controlled by insulin and other metabolic hormones. Glucose is converted into
pyruvate through glycolysis in the cytoplasm, and pyruvate is subsequently
oxidized in the mitochondria to generate ATP through the TCA cycle and oxidative 
phosphorylation. In the fed state, glycolytic products are used to synthesize
fatty acids through de novo lipogenesis. Long-chain fatty acids are incorporated 
into triacylglycerol, phospholipids, and/or cholesterol esters in hepatocytes.
These complex lipids are stored in lipid droplets and membrane structures, or
secreted into the circulation as very low-density lipoprotein particles. In the
fasted state, the liver secretes glucose through both glycogenolysis and
gluconeogenesis. During pronged fasting, hepatic gluconeogenesis is the primary
source for endogenous glucose production. Fasting also promotes lipolysis in
adipose tissue, resulting in release of nonesterified fatty acids which are
converted into ketone bodies in hepatic mitochondria though β-oxidation and
ketogenesis. Ketone bodies provide a metabolic fuel for extrahepatic tissues.
Liver energy metabolism is tightly regulated by neuronal and hormonal signals.
The sympathetic system stimulates, whereas the parasympathetic system suppresses,
hepatic gluconeogenesis. Insulin stimulates glycolysis and lipogenesis but
suppresses gluconeogenesis, and glucagon counteracts insulin action. Numerous
transcription factors and coactivators, including CREB, FOXO1, ChREBP, SREBP,
PGC-1α, and CRTC2, control the expression of the enzymes which catalyze key steps
of metabolic pathways, thus controlling liver energy metabolism. Aberrant energy 
metabolism in the liver promotes insulin resistance, diabetes, and nonalcoholic
fatty liver diseases.

© 2014 American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cphy.c130024 
PMCID: PMC4050641
PMID: 24692138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


754. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2014 Mar;23(1):79-84.

Recreational drugs: a new health hazard for patients with concomitant chronic
liver diseases.

Tarantino G(1), Citro V(2), Finelli C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, Federico II University Medical
School of Naples, Italy. tarantin@unina.it; giovanni.tarantino5@me.com.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Umberto I Hospital, Nocera Inferiore,
Salerno, Italy. (3)Center of Obesity and Eating Disorders, Stella Maris
Mediterraneum Foundation, C/da S. Lucia, Chiaromonte, Potenza, Italy.

Our purpose in this article is to review the effects of recreational drugs, used 
either on their own but principally combined with alcohol consumption, in
determining hepatic injury or influencing the evolution of some chronic diseases 
of the liver, specifically HCV infection and NAFLD. A deleterious role of daily
use of recreational drugs, in particularly cannabis, has been shown to
demonstrate clearly a rapid progression of fibrosis and steatosis, leading to a
major severity in patients with chronic hepatitis C. On the other hand, the
effects of the misuse of these substances on NAFLD, the main obesity-related
comorbidity, leading to addiction, is still to be elucidated even though some
clues to the recreational drugs hepatotoxicity are already present in the
literature. This short review aims at raising awareness about this topic.


PMID: 24689101  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Nutr Hosp. 2014 Apr 1;29(4):771-5. doi: 10.3305/nh.2014.29.4.7216.

[Adiposity as a risk factor of non alcoholic fat disease; systematic review].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Jiménez-Cruz A(1), Gómez-Miranda LM(2), Díaz Ramírez G(3), Carvalí Meza NY(4),
Bacardí-Gascón M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidad Autónoma de Baja California. Facultad de Medicina y Psicología..
ajimenez@uabc.edu.mx. (2)Universidad Autónoma de Baja California. Escuela de
Deportes.. (3)CISALUD. UABC. USA.. (4)Universidad Autónoma de Baja California.
Facultad de Medicina y Psicología..

INTRODUCTION: Adiposity has been described as a risk factor of nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD).
OBJECTIVE: To conduct a systematic review of prospective studies assessing risk
factors of adiposity indicators for developing NAFLD.
METHODOLOGY: All prospective studies in English and Spanish from January 2005 to 
December 2013 published in the database MEDLINE/PubMed, with a follow up greater 
than or equal to one year were reviewed. The quality of the articles was assessed
using GRADE criteria.
RESULTS: Total study population was 10,640 (6,394 men and 4,246 women), and the
age range was 20-88 years. Five prospective studies met the inclusion criteria
and the follow-up ranged from one to seven years. The diagnostic criteria used
were ultrasonography (4) and computed tomography (1). The OR of BMI, waist
circumference and weight gain ranged from 1.19 to 1.43, 1.04 to 2.15 and 1.21 to 
1.57, respectively.
CONCLUSION: A consistent relationship between adiposity indicators and NAFLD was 
observed.

Publisher: Introducción: Se ha descrito que la adiposidad es un factor de riesgo 
del hígado graso no alcohólico (HGNA). Objetivo: Realizar una revisión
sistemática de estudios prospectivos que evaluaran la asociación de indicadores
de adiposidad con el desarrollo del HGNA. Metodología: Se revisaron todos los
artículos originales encontrados en inglés y en español publicados de enero de
2005 a diciembre de 2013, en la base de datos de MEDLINE/ PubMed, de estudios
prospectivos con una duración igual o mayor a un año de seguimiento. La calidad
de los artículos fue evaluada mediante los criterios de GRADE. Resultados: La
población total estudiada fue de 10.640 (6.394 hombres y 4.246 mujeres), y el
rango de edad fue de 20-88 años. Cumplieron con los criterios de inclusión cinco 
estudios prospectivos, y el seguimiento osciló entre uno y siete años. Los
criterios de diagnóstico utilizados fueron la ultrasonografía (4) y la tomografía
computarizada (1). Los OR de IMC, circunferencia de cintura y ganancia de peso
oscilaron entre 1,19 a 1,43, 1,04 a 2,15 y 1,21 a 1,57 respectivamente.
Conclusión: Se observó una relación consistente entre los indicadores de
adiposidad y el HGNA.
Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.3305/nh.2014.29.4.7216 
PMID: 24679017  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2014 May;30(3):253-9. doi: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000059.

Current status of fibrosis markers.

Patel K(1), Shackel NA.

Author information: 
(1)aDuke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina,
USA bLiver Cell Biology, Centenary Institute, Sydney Medical School, University
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Improved understanding of the pathophysiology of fibrosis and 
recent technological advances have resulted in the development of several serum
biomarkers and imaging tools as noninvasive alternatives to biopsy. Most of these
markers have been developed in chronic hepatitis C (CHC) and nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD) patients. This review highlights some of the recent
advances and potential clinical application of these modalities.
RECENT FINDINGS: Many noninvasive approaches initially developed for binary
disease staging in CHC continue to be refined for diagnostic use in other chronic
liver disease such as NAFLD. A combination of serum markers and imaging tools
appears useful in reducing the need for biopsy for the diagnosis of cirrhosis,
and providing functional assessment in advanced stage disease. Cytokeratin-18
fragments, controlled attenuation parameter (CAP), real-time elastography, and
magnetic resonance imaging approaches appear promising for NAFLD, but require
further validation.
SUMMARY: Current noninvasive tests of fibrosis provide good diagnostic and
prognostic utility for advanced stage liver disease, and have been adapted into
clinical practice for CHC. Reliable biomarkers for steatosis, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis, and assessment of fibrosis progression in chronic liver disease 
are still required. Continued advances in bioimaging and functional genomics will
be important for quantitative assessment of fibrosis and future biomarker
development.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000059 
PMID: 24671009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2014 Jun;10(6):839-57. doi:
10.1517/17425255.2014.902444. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Pharmacokinetic and toxicological considerations for the treatment of diabetes in
patients with liver disease.

Scheen AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Liège, CHU Sart Tilman (B35), Center for Interdisciplinary
Research on Medicines (CIRM), Division of Diabetes, Nutrition and Metabolic
Disorders and Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Medicine , B-4000 
Liege 1 , Belgium +32 4 3667238 ; +32 4 3667068 ; andre.scheen@chu.ulg.ac.be.

INTRODUCTION: Patients with type 2 diabetes have an increased risk of chronic
liver disease (CLD) such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and steatohepatitis
and about one-third of cirrhotic patients have diabetes. However, the use of
several antidiabetic agents may be a cause for concern in the case of hepatic
impairment (HI).
AREAS COVERED: An extensive literature search was performed to analyze the
influence of HI on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of glucose-lowering agents and the
potential consequences for clinical practice as far as the efficacy/safety
balance of their use in diabetic patients with CLD is concerned.
EXPERT OPINION: Almost no PK studies have been published regarding metformin,
sulfonylureas, thiazolidinediones and α-glucosidase inhibitors in patients with
HI. Only mild changes in PK of glinides, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors and
sodium glucose cotransporters type 2 inhibitors were observed in dedicated PK
studies in patients with various degrees of HI, presumably without major clinical
relevance although large clinical experience is lacking. Glucagon-like peptide-1 
receptor agonists have a renal excretion rather than liver metabolism. Rare
anecdotal case reports of hepatotoxicity have been described with various
glucose-lowering agents contrasting with numerous reassuring data. Nevertheless, 
caution should be recommended, especially in patients with advanced cirrhosis,
including with the use of metformin.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.2014.902444 
PMID: 24669954  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Jul;8(5):487-500. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2014.903798. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Management of fatty liver disease with the metabolic syndrome.

Machado MV(1), Cortez-Pinto H.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gastrenterologia, Hospital Santa Maria, CHLN, Unidade de
Nutrição e Metabolismo, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, IMM, Lisbon, Portugal.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the liver disease of this century,
increasing in parallel with obesity, insulin resistance and the metabolic
syndrome. NAFLD can be seen as a component of the metabolic syndrome, and as
such, contributing as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. In fact, these
patients die more often from cardiovascular disease than from direct consequences
of liver disease. In this review, we will summarize the data that link NAFLD as a
central player in this dysmetabolism, as well as the evidence for appropriate
therapy, in order to improve not only liver disease prognosis, but also the
overall prognosis and risk of mortality, with particular focus on cardiovascular 
risk.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2014.903798 
PMID: 24665862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Sheng Li Ke Xue Jin Zhan. 2013 Dec;44(6):415-9.

[Progress in research of the mechanisms related with the hepatic steatosis in the
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Shi LJ, Song GY.

With the increased morbidity of Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, the
pathogenesis of which has become one of the focuses for researchers. Many details
need to be clarified. The hepatic steatosis has been taken as the clinical
pathological characters and the "golden standard of diagnosis" for the
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. More and more studies have shown that the
hepatic steatosis (mainly as triglycerides) is the consequence of hepatic lipid
metabolism disequilibrium. Generally, the related metabolism pathways including
lipid input, lipid uptake, de novo lipogenesis, fatty acid oxidation, fatty acid 
reesterification, and lipid secretion etc. In this review, we focused on the
progress of some key enzymes involved in these pathways in order to clarify the
possible molecular mechanisms and the effective targets so that to broad our
vision about the prevention and treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.


PMID: 24665739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2014 May;30(3):238-44. doi:
10.1097/MOG.0000000000000065.

Current treatment options for alcohol-related liver disease.

Hazeldine S(1), Sheron N.

Author information: 
(1)aSouthampton General Hospital bSouthampton University, Southampton, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The burden of alcohol on global health is increasing, and
there is a strong relationship between population alcohol consumption and
liver-related deaths. As alcohol-related liver disease (ArLD) often develops with
no signs or symptoms, the prevention of liver disease relies on the recognition
of harmful drinking and screening of those patients at risk for early markers of 
liver disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: A robust method of screening patients at risk of ArLD is
essential. Once a patient develops ArLD, abstinence and early recognition of its 
complications are keys to improving outcomes. Corticosteroids remain the mainstay
treatment in alcoholic hepatitis pending the results from large multicentre
trials. More recently, there has been an increased interest in the use of
rifaximin and albumin in various settings of ArLD.
SUMMARY: Advances in the treatment of ArLD and its complications, such as
alcoholic hepatitis, will allow a greater proportion of patients chance for their
liver to recover. However, new strategies to detect and intervene in those
patients at higher risk of ArLD are likely to have the greatest overall impact.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000065 
PMID: 24662843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Apr;37(4):262-8. doi:
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2014.02.001. Epub 2014 Mar 20.

Alcoholic hepatitis: Prognosis and treatment.

Casanova J(1), Bataller R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. (2)Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
NC, USA. Electronic address: ramon_bataller@med.unc.edu.

Alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is a type of acute-on-chronic liver failure and is the
most severe form of alcoholic liver disease. AH occurs in patients with heavy
alcohol abuse and underlying liver disease. In its severe form, AH carries a poor
short-term prognosis. Although the existence of AH can be strongly suspected
based on clinical and biochemical criteria, a definitive diagnosis requires a
liver biopsy. There is a clear need to develop non-invasive markers for these
patients. The prognosis of patients with AH can be established by different score
systems (Maddrey's DF, ABIC, MELD and Glasgow). Recently, a histological scoring 
system able to estimate prognosis has been developed (Alcoholic Hepatitis
Histological Score - AHHS). The management of patients with AH has changed little
in the last few decades. In patients with severe form of AH, prednisolone and
pentoxifylline are the first line therapy. Unfortunately, many patients do not
respond and novel targeted therapies are urgently needed. Current research is
aimed at identifying the main disease drivers and to develop animal models of
true AH. For non-responders to medical therapy, the only curative option is to
perform a salvage liver transplantation. This particular indication of liver
transplantation is currently under debate and prospective studies should evaluate
the specific patient evaluation and selection criteria.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L. and AEEH y AEG. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2014.02.001 
PMID: 24656653  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Gastroenterol. 2014 May;49(5):785-98. doi: 10.1007/s00535-014-0953-z. Epub 2014
Mar 21.

The role of diet on intestinal microbiota metabolism: downstream impacts on host 
immune function and health, and therapeutic implications.

Goldsmith JR(1), Sartor RB.

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
USA, jason_goldsmith@med.unc.edu.

Comment in
    J Gastroenterol. 2015 Apr;50(4):492-3.
    J Gastroenterol. 2015 Apr;50(4):491.

Dietary impacts on health may be one of the oldest concepts in medicine; however,
only in recent years have technical advances in mass spectroscopy, gnotobiology, 
and bacterial sequencing enabled our understanding of human physiology to
progress to the point where we can begin to understand how individual dietary
components can affect specific illnesses. This review explores the current
understanding of the complex interplay between dietary factors and the host
microbiome, concentrating on the downstream implications on host immune function 
and the pathogenesis of disease. We discuss the influence of the gut microbiome
on body habitus and explore the primary and secondary effects of diet on enteric 
microbial community structure. We address the impact of consumption of
non-digestible polysaccharides (prebiotics and fiber), choline, carnitine, iron, 
and fats on host health as mediated by the enteric microbiome. Disease processes 
emphasized include non-alcoholic fatty liver disease/non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis, IBD, and cardiovascular disease/atherosclerosis. The concepts
presented in this review have important clinical implications, although more work
needs to be done to develop fully and validate potential therapeutic approaches. 
Specific dietary interventions offer exciting potential for nontoxic, physiologic
ways to alter enteric microbial structure and metabolism to benefit the natural
history of many intestinal and systemic disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/s00535-014-0953-z 
PMCID: PMC4035358
PMID: 24652102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Liver Int. 2014 Sep;34(8):1133-52. doi: 10.1111/liv.12534. Epub 2014 Apr 9.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: the role of nuclear receptors and circadian
rhythmicity.

Mazzoccoli G(1), Vinciguerra M, Oben J, Tarquini R, De Cosmo S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Internal Medicine and Chronobiology Unit, Department of Medical
Sciences, IRCCS Scientific Institute and Regional General Hospital "Casa Sollievo
della Sofferenza", San Giovanni Rotondo (FG), Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the accumulation of triglycerides in
the hepatocytes in the absence of excess alcohol intake, and is caused by an
imbalance between hepatic synthesis and breakdown of fats, as well as fatty acid 
storage and disposal. Liver metabolic pathways are driven by circadian biological
clocks, and hepatic health is maintained by proper timing of circadian patterns
of metabolic gene expression with the alternation of anabolic processes
corresponding to feeding/activity during wake times, and catabolic processes
characterizing fasting/resting during sleep. A number of nuclear receptors in the
liver are expressed rhythmically, bind hormones and metabolites, sense energy
flux and expenditure, and connect the metabolic pathways to the molecular
clockwork throughout the 24-h day. In this review, we describe the role played by
the nuclear receptors in the genesis of NAFLD in relationship with the circadian 
clock circuitry.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12534 
PMID: 24649929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2014 May;49(5):521-7. doi: 10.3109/00365521.2014.894119.
Epub 2014 Mar 20.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and cholesterol gallstones: which comes first?

Ahmed MH(1), Ali A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Milton Keynes Hospital NHS Foundation Trust ,
Eaglestone, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire , UK.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and gallstone disease (GD) are both
highly prevalent in the general population and are associated with obesity,
insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and high dietary cholesterol intake. Insulin
resistance is a key feature of both NAFLD and GD. Hepatic insulin resistance
provides a crucial link between the metabolic syndrome, NAFLD, and increased
cholesterol gallstone susceptibility. Hepatic insulin resistance is not only
associated with accumulation of hepatic fat but also has a crucial role in
supersaturation and excessive production of bile salts. It is not yet clear
whether NAFLD is a precursor of GD or whether the presence of GD possibly
indicates the presence of long-standing features of metabolic syndrome that
accelerates the progression of NAFLD. Recent reports suggested the association
between gallstones and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and liver fibrosis.
Importantly, both NAFLD and GD are both associated with high incidence of
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and mortality. Emerging evidence suggests a
potential benefit of statin therapy in NAFLD and GD. Further research is needed
to determine (i) how the presence of NAFLD and GD is associated with CVD (ii) and
whether the presence of GD in association with NAFLD increases the risk of liver 
fibrosis, and (iii) the impact of therapy of NAFLD in the incidence of GD.

DOI: 10.3109/00365521.2014.894119 
PMID: 24646400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2013 Nov-Dec;105(10):609-21.

Alcoholic liver disease and changes in bone mineral density.

López-Larramona G, Lucendo AJ, González-Delgado L.

Osteoporosis and osteopenia are alterations in bone mineral density (BMD) that
frequently occur in the context of chronic liver disease (CLD). These alterations
have been studied predominantly in chronic cholestatic disease and cirrhosis of
the liver. Alcohol consumption is an independent risk factor for the onset of
osteoporosis, whose estimated prevalence in patients with alcoholic liver disease
(ALD) ranges between 5 % and 40 %. The loss of BMD in ALD is the result of an
imbalance between bone formation and resorption. Its pathogenesis is
multifactorial and includes the toxic effects of alcohol on bone and endocrine
and nutritional disorders secondary to alcoholism and a deficiency of
osteocalcin, vitamin D and insulin growth factor-1. The diagnosis of BMD
alterations in ALD is based on its measurement using bone densitometry. Treatment
includes smoking and alcohol cessation and general measures such as changes in
nutrition and exercise. Calcium and vitamin D supplements are recommended in all 
patients with ALD and osteoporosis. Bisphosphonates are the most commonly
prescribed drugs for the specific treatment of this condition. Alternatives
include raloxifene, hormone replacement therapy and calcitonin.This review will
address the most important aspects involved in the clinical management of
abnormal BMD in the context of ALD, including its prevalence, pathogenesis and
diagnosis. We will also review the treatment of osteoporosis in CLD in general,
focusing on specific aspects related to bone loss in ALD.


PMID: 24641458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Exp Clin Transplant. 2014 Mar;12 Suppl 1:50-4.

Donor-transmitted, donor-derived, and de novo cancer after liver transplant.

Chapman JR(1), Lynch SV.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Transplant and Renal Research, Westmead Millennium Institute,
University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Cancer is the third most common cause of death (after cardiovascular disease and 
infection) for patients who have a functioning kidney allograft. Kidney and liver
transplant recipients have similar cancer risks because of immunosuppression but 
different risks because of differences in primary diseases that cause renal and
hepatic failure and the inherent behavior of cancers in the liver. There are 4
types of cancer that may develop in liver allograft recipients: (1) recurrent
cancer, (2) donor-transmitted cancer, (3) donor-derived cancer, and (4) de novo
cancer. Identification of potential donor cancer transmission may occur at
postmortem examination of a deceased donor or when a probable donor-transmitted
cancer is identified in another recipient. Donor-transmitted cancer after liver
transplant is rare in Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Aging
of the donor pool may increase the risk of subclinical cancer in donors. Liver
transplant recipients have a greater risk of de novo cancer than the general
population, and risk factors for de novo cancer in liver transplant recipients
include primary sclerosing cholangitis, alcoholic liver disease, smoking, and
increased age. Liver transplant recipients may benefit from cancer screening
because they have a high risk, are clearly identifiable, and are under continuous
medical supervision.


PMID: 24635793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Cell Mol Immunol. 2014 May;11(3):224-31. doi: 10.1038/cmi.2014.2. Epub 2014 Mar
17.

The role of neutrophils in the development of liver diseases.

Xu R(1), Huang H(2), Zhang Z(1), Wang FS(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Translational Hepatology, Research Center for Biological
Therapy, Beijing 302 Hospital, Beijing, China. (2)The Institute of Intensive Care
Unit, Beijing 302 Hospital, Beijing, China.

Liver disease encompasses a wide variety of liver conditions, including liver
failure, liver cirrhosis and a spectrum of acute and chronic hepatitis, such as
alcoholic, fatty, drug, viral and chronic hepatitis. Liver injury is a primary
causative factor in liver disease; generally, these factors include direct liver 
damage and immune-mediated liver injury. Neutrophils (also known as neutrophilic 
granulocytes or polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs)) are the most abundant
circulating white blood cell type in humans, and PMNs are a major innate immune
cell subset. Inappropriate activation and homing of neutrophils to the
microvasculature contributes to the pathological manifestations of many types of 
liver disease. This review summarizes novel concepts of neutrophil-mediated liver
injury that are based on current clinical and animal model studies.

DOI: 10.1038/cmi.2014.2 
PMCID: PMC4085492
PMID: 24633014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol. 2014 Mar;60(1):25-38.

Optimal management of alcoholic hepatitis.

Raff E(1), Singal AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL, USA -
ashwanisingal.com@gmail.com.

Alcoholic hepatitis, a clinical syndrome among people with chronic and active
alcohol abuse presents with with jaundice and liver failure with or without
hepatic encephalopathy. In patients with severe episode, this condition has a
potential for 40-50% mortality within a month of presentation. Corticosteroids
and pentoxifylline, only available current treatment options provide only about
50% survival benefit. Response to corticosteroids can only be assessed at 1 week 
of initiation of these drugs using Lille score or documentation of improvement in
bilirubin levels. Requirement of minimum 6 months abstinence for liver
transplantation cannot be met for alcoholic hepatitis patients who fail to
respond to steroids. Emerging data on the benefit of liver transplantation for
select patients with first episode of severe AH with non-response to steroids are
encouraging. There remains an unmet need for studies assessing newer therapeutic 
targets and drugs and for optimizing the currently available treatment options.
In this regard, decision to promote clinical and translational research by the
National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism will be helpful in improving
survival of patients with alcoholic hepatitis.


PMID: 24632766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol. 2014 Mar;60(1):15-24.

Use of statins in patients with liver disease.

Kalaitzakis E(1), Björnsson ES.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology Skåne University Hospital University of Lund,
Lund, Sweden - einarsb@landspitali.is.

Statins are generally well tolerated and shown to have a good safety profile. In 
clinical trials a similar proportion of patients randomized to statins and
placebo treated developed abnormal liver tests. However, idiosyncratic
drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a rare adverse reaction and clinical trials
are underpowered to detect uncommon side effects. Although probably very rare,
idiosyncratic DILI due to statins has been reported among other drugs in all
major prospective and retrospective series on DILI. A summary of 40 cases of
statin hepatoxicity has been published and, a series of 76 cases suspected statin
induced liver injury has recently been published. In the last mentioned series,
three patients died and/or underwent liver transplantation and three cases had a 
rechallenge with the same statin which produced a similar pattern of liver
injury. Statin therapy appears to be safe in the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease, in compensated patients with chronic hepatitis B or C. Statins
have also been shown to have an inhibitory effect on hepatitis C virus
replication in vitro. Retrospective data as well as data from a recent randomized
controlled trial suggest that statin therapy might be a useful adjunct to
standard combination antiviral therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
Statin therapy seems to be related to a reduced risk for hepatocellular carcinoma
in patients with chronic liver disease, but randomized data are lacking.


PMID: 24632765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol. 2014 Mar;60(1):5-13.

Recommendations for liver biopsy evaluation in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Stinton LM(1), Loomba R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology Department of Medicine, University of California 
San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA - roloomba@ucsd.edu.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in the United States. It is considered the hepatic manifestation of
the metabolic syndrome. Approximately a third of adults in the United States have
NAFLD. While the majority of individuals with NAFLD do not develop progressive
liver disease and have been classified as having non-alcoholic fatty liver
(NAFL), a subset of patients with NAFLD have the progressive form termed
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) that may progress to cirrhosis, and
hepatocellular carcinoma. Liver biopsy evaluation is the gold standard for the
detection of NASH. It is impractical, unnecessary and cost prohibitive to subject
all patients with NAFLD to a liver biopsy evaluation. Here in this review, we
discuss our approach to clinical risk stratification of patients with NAFLD and
who should be referred for a liver biopsy based upon the likelihood of finding
the presence of NASH and/or advanced fibrosis on liver biopsy.


PMID: 24632764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Cell Calcium. 2014 Jun;55(6):306-16. doi: 10.1016/j.ceca.2014.02.007. Epub 2014
Feb 17.

Calcium-dependent regulation of glucose homeostasis in the liver.

Bartlett PJ(1), Gaspers LD(2), Pierobon N(2), Thomas AP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers,
The State University of New Jersey, Newark, NJ, USA. Electronic address:
paula.bartlett@rutgers.edu. (2)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, New
Jersey Medical School, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Newark, NJ,
USA.

A major role of the liver is to integrate multiple signals to maintain normal
blood glucose levels. The balance between glucose storage and mobilization is
primarily regulated by the counteracting effects of insulin and glucagon.
However, numerous signals converge in the liver to ensure energy demand matches
the physiological status of the organism. Many circulating hormones regulate
glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis and mitochondrial metabolism by calcium-dependent
signaling mechanisms that manifest as cytosolic Ca(2+) oscillations.
Stimulus-strength is encoded in the Ca(2+) oscillation frequency, and also by the
range of intercellular Ca(2+) wave propagation in the intact liver. In this
article, we describe how Ca(2+) oscillations and waves can regulate glucose
output and oxidative metabolism in the intact liver; how multiple stimuli are
decoded though Ca(2+) signaling at the organ level, and the implications of
Ca(2+) signal dysregulation in diseases such as metabolic syndrome and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ceca.2014.02.007 
PMID: 24630174  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Obes Rev. 2014 May;15(5):424-33. doi: 10.1111/obr.12159. Epub 2014 Mar 16.

Lysosomal cholesterol accumulation: driver on the road to inflammation during
atherosclerosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Hendrikx T(1), Walenbergh SM, Hofker MH, Shiri-Sverdlov R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The
Netherlands.

Many studies show an association between the accumulation of cholesterol inside
lysosomes and the progression towards inflammatory disease states that are
closely related to obesity. While in the past, the knowledge regarding lysosomal 
cholesterol accumulation was limited to its association with plaque severity
during atherosclerosis, recently, a growing body of evidence indicates a causal
link between lysosomal cholesterol accumulation and inflammation. These findings 
make lysosomal cholesterol accumulation an important target for intervention in
metabolic diseases that are characterized by the presence of an inflammatory
response. In this review, we aim to show the importance of cholesterol trapping
inside lysosomes to the development of inflammation by focusing upon
cardiovascular disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in particular. We
summarize current data supporting the hypothesis that lysosomal cholesterol
accumulation plays a key role in the development of inflammation during
atherosclerosis and NASH. In addition, potential mechanisms by which disturbed
lysosomal function can trigger the inflammatory response, the challenges in
improving cholesterol trafficking in macrophages and recent successful research
directions will be discussed.

© 2014 The Authors. obesity reviews © 2014 International Association for the
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/obr.12159 
PMID: 24629059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Drug Saf. 2014 Apr;37(4):213-24. doi: 10.1007/s40264-014-0147-x.

Potential approaches to ameliorate hepatic fat accumulation seen with MTP
inhibition.

Lin M(1), Zhao S, Shen L, Xu D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South University,
Changsha, 410011, People's Republic of China.

Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) is one of the promising targets
for the therapy of dyslipidemia and MTP inhibition can lead to robust plasma
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction. Lomitapide, a
small-molecule MTP inhibitor, was recently approved by the US FDA as an
additional treatment for homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hoFH).
However, liver-related side effects, including hepatic fat accumulation and
transaminase elevations, are the main safety concerns associated with MTP
inhibitors. Here, we review recent knowledge on the mechanisms underlying liver
toxicity of MTP inhibitors. The contribution of altered levels of intracellular
triglycerides, cholesteryl esters, and free cholesterols toward cellular
dysfunction is specifically addressed. On this basis, therapies targeted to
attenuate cellular lipid accumulation, to reduce risk factors for non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) (i.e., insulin resistance and oxidative stress) and
to specifically inhibit intestinal MTP may be useful for ameliorating liver
damage induced by MTP inhibitors. In particular, weight loss through lifestyle
interventions is expected to be the most effective and safest way to minimize the
undesirable side effects. Specific dietary supplementation might also have
protective effects against hepatosteatosis. Despite that, to date, few clinical
data support these therapeutic options in MTP inhibition-related liver damage,
such proposed approaches may be further explored in the future for their use in
preventing unwanted effects of MTP inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1007/s40264-014-0147-x 
PMID: 24627311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Z Gastroenterol. 2014 Mar;52(3):290-5. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1356138. Epub 2014 Mar
12.

[Cytokeratin 18 as marker for non-invasive diagnosis and prognosis of acute and
chronic liver diseases].

[Article in German]

Canbay A(1), Feldstein A(2), Kronenberger B(3), Schulze-Osthoff K(4), Bantel
H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Gastroenterologie und Hepatologie, Universitätsklinikum Essen,
Universität Duisburg-Essen. (2)Department of Pediatrics, University of California
San Diego (UCSD), USA. (3)Medizinische Klinik I, Universitätsklinikum Frankfurt. 
(4)Interfakultäres Institut für Biochemie, Universität Tübingen. (5)Klinik für
Gastroenterologie, Hepatologie und Endokrinologie, Medizinische Hochschule
Hannover.

INTRODUCTION: Currently liver biopsy represents the gold standard to assess
severity and fibrosis grade in liver diseases. Since this laborious, costly, and 
invasive procedure is associated with possible complications, non-invasive
methods and biomarkers, which allow for an easy, reliable, and repeatable
assessment of liver disease are warranted. Cytokeratin (CK) 18 is an intermediary
filament protein, expressed in hepatocytes, which is proteolytically cleaved
during liver damage. The resultant CK-18 fragments are released by hepatocytes
and can be detected in serum.
METHODS: A selective literature search in PubMed for original publications about 
the detection of CK-18 cell death markers in liver diseases was undertaken.
RESULTS: Assessment of CK-18 cell death biomarkers allows for the early detection
of liver damage in acute and chronic liver diseases. This is even feasible when
transaminases are in the normal ranges. Detection of CK-18 biomarkers can also
hint at disease activity and severity. For example, patients with non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis exhibit elevated serum cell-death markers compared to those with 
simple steatosis. Furthermore, in patients with relevant fibrosis higher CK-18
values are found as compared to those with low fibrosis. In acute liver failure, 
cell death biomarkers may assist decision finding for the necessity of liver
transplantation.
DISCUSSION: Due to promising results of various studies, CK-18 cell death markers
could be applied in clinical routine soon.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1356138 
PMID: 24622872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Liver Int. 2014 Aug;34(7):e180-90. doi: 10.1111/liv.12523. Epub 2014 Mar 28.

Are oxidative stress mechanisms the common denominator in the progression from
hepatic steatosis towards non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)?

Tariq Z(1), Green CJ, Hodson L.

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism (OCDEM), University
of Oxford, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is not a single disease entity, rather 
it describes a spectrum of liver conditions that range from fatty liver
(steatosis) to more severe steatosis coupled with marked inflammation and
fibrosis [non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)] to severe liver disease such as
cirrhosis and possibly hepatocellular carcinoma. Obesity, notably abdominal
obesity, is a common risk factor for NAFLD. The pathogenesis from steatosis to
NASH is poorly understood, and the 'two hit' model, as suggested nearly two
decades ago, provides a feasible starting point for characterization of
underlying mechanisms. This review will examine the oxidative stress factors
('triggers') which have been implicated as a 'second hit' in the development of
primary NASH. It would be reasonable to assume that multiple, rather than single,
pro-oxidative intracellular and extracellular triggers act in conjunction
promoting oxidative stress that drives the development of NASH. It is likely that
the common denominator of these pro-oxidative triggers is mitochondrial
dysfunction. Understanding the contribution of each of these 'triggers' is an
essential step in starting to understand and elucidate the mechanisms responsible
for progression from steatosis to NASH, thus enabling the development of
therapeutic targeting to prevent NASH development and progression.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12523 
PMID: 24621397  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Apr;39(8):790-801. doi: 10.1111/apt.12673. Epub 2014
Feb 24.

Review article: the endocannabinoid system in liver disease, a potential
therapeutic target.

Basu PP(1), Aloysius MM, Shah NJ, Brown RS Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Digestive and Liver Diseases and Center for Liver Disease and
Transplantation, Columbia University Medical Center, NY, USA; King's County
Hospital Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Endocannabinoids are a family of potent lipid-soluble molecules,
acting on the cannabinoid (CB) receptors that mediate the effects of marijuana.
The CB receptors, endocannabinoids and the enzymes involved in their synthesis
and degradation are located in the brain and peripheral tissues, including the
liver.
AIMS: To review the current understanding of the role of the endocannabinoid
system in liver disease-associated pathophysiological conditions, and drugs
targeting the endocannabinoid system as therapy for liver disease.
METHODS: Original articles and reviews were used to summarise the relevant
pre-clinical and clinical research findings relating to this topic.
RESULTS: The endocannabinoid system as a whole plays an important role in liver
diseases (i.e. non-alcoholic liver disease, alcoholic liver disease, hepatic
encephalopathy and autoimmune hepatitis) and related pathophysiological
conditions (i.e. altered hepatic haemodynamics, cirrhotic cardiomyopathy,
metabolic syndrome and ischaemia/reperfusion disease). Pharmacological targeting 
of the endocannabinoid system has had success as treatment for patients with
liver disease, but adverse events led to withdrawal of marketing approval.
However, there is optimism over novel therapeutics targeting the endocannabinoid 
system currently in the pre-clinical stage of development.
CONCLUSIONS: The endocannabinoid system plays an important role in the
pathophysiology of liver disease and its associated conditions. While some drugs 
targeting the endocannabinoid system have deleterious neurological adverse
events, there is promise for a newer generation of therapies that do not cross
the blood-brain barrier.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12673 
PMID: 24612021  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


777. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Mar 7;20(9):2168-75. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2168.

Chronic liver inflammation: clinical implications beyond alcoholic liver disease.

Park BJ(1), Lee YJ(1), Lee HR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Byoung-Jin Park, Department of Family Medicine, CHA University School of
Medicine, Seoul 135-720, South Korea.

Chronic alcohol exposure can lead to alcoholic liver disease, including
hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, and chronic inflammation can
simultaneously cause systemic medical illness. Recent evidence suggests that
alcoholic liver disease is a predictor for liver-related diseases, cardiovascular
disease, immunologic disease, and bone disease. Chronic inflammation in alcoholic
liver disease is mediated by a direct inflammatory cascade from the alcohol
detoxification process and an indirect inflammatory cascade in response to gut
microflora-derived lipopolysaccharides (LPS). The pathophysiology of alcoholic
liver disease and its related systemic illness is characterized by oxidative
stress, activation of the immune cascade, and gut-liver interactions. Integrative
therapeutic strategies for alcoholic liver disease include abstaining from
alcohol consumption; general anti-inflammatories such as glucocorticoid,
pentoxifylline, and tumour necrosis factor-α antagonist; antioxidants such as N- 
acetylcysteine; gut microflora and LPS modulators such as rifaximin and/or
probiotics. This review focuses on the impact of chronic liver inflammation on
systemic health problems and several potential therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2168 
PMCID: PMC3942821
PMID: 24605015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


778. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Mar 7;20(9):2159-67. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2159.

Pharmacotherapy of acute alcoholic hepatitis in clinical practice.

Abenavoli L(1), Milic N(1), Rouabhia S(1), Addolorato G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ludovico Abenavoli, Department of Health Sciences, University Magna Graecia,
Campus Germaneto, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy.

Severe alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is an acute form of alcohol induced liver disease
with a poor prognosis that is seen in the patients who consume large quantities
of alcohol. The diagnosis of AH is based on the appropriate alcohol intake
history and is supported with clinical and histological features, and several
scoring systems. Glucocorticoids are the mainstay for treating severe AH with
pentoxifylline used as an alternative to steroids in addition to total alcohol
abstinence. Liver transplantation is a possible therapeutic option for severe AH.
Among the anti-craving medications able to improve abstinence rate, baclofen
seems to be effective and safe in the alcoholic patients affected by severe liver
damage.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2159 
PMCID: PMC3942820
PMID: 24605014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


779. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Mar 7;20(9):2143-58. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2143.

Therapy for alcoholic liver disease.

Jaurigue MM(1), Cappell MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Maryconi M Jaurigue, Mitchell S Cappell, Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, William Beaumont Hospital, Royal
Oak, MI 48073, United States.

Alcoholism results in about 2.5 million deaths annually worldwide, representing
4% of all mortality. Although alcoholism is associated with more than 60
diseases, most mortality from alcoholism results from alcoholic liver disease
(ALD). ALD includes alcoholic steatosis, alcoholic hepatitis, and alcoholic
cirrhosis, in order of increasing severity. Important scoring systems of ALD
severity include: Child-Pugh, a semi-quantitative scoring system useful to
roughly characterize clinical severity; model for end-stage liver disease, a
quantitative, objective scoring system used for prognostication and
prioritization for liver transplantation; and discriminant function, used to
determine whether to administer corticosteroids for alcoholic hepatitis.
Abstinence is the cornerstone of ALD therapy. Psychotherapies, including
twelve-step facilitation therapy, cognitive-behavioral therapy, and motivational 
enhancement therapy, help support abstinence. Disulfiram decreases alcohol
consumption by causing unpleasant sensations after drinking alcohol from
accumulation of acetaldehyde in serum, but disulfiram can be hepatotoxic.
Adjunctive pharmacotherapies to reduce alcohol consumption include naltrexone,
acamprosate, and baclofen. Nutritional therapy helps reverse muscle wasting,
weight loss, vitamin deficiencies, and trace element deficiencies associated with
ALD. Although reduced protein intake was previously recommended for advanced ALD 
to prevent hepatic encephalopathy, a diet containing 1.2-1.5 g of protein/kg per 
day is currently recommended to prevent muscle wasting. Corticosteroids are
first-line therapy for severe alcoholic hepatitis (discriminant function ≥ 32),
but proof of their efficacy in decreasing mortality remains elusive.
Pentoxifylline is an alternative therapy. Complications of advanced ALD include
ascites, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, esophageal variceal bleeding, hepatic
encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome, hepatopulmonary syndrome, and
portopulmonary hypertension. Alcoholic cirrhotics have increased risk of
developing hepatomas. Liver transplantation is the ultimate therapy for severe
ALD, but generally requires 6 mo of proven abstinence for eligibility. Alcoholic 
cirrhotics who maintain abstinence generally have a relatively favorable
prognosis after liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2143 
PMCID: PMC3942819
PMID: 24605013  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


780. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Mar 7;20(9):2136-42. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2136.

Role of mitochondria in alcoholic liver disease.

Nassir F(1), Ibdah JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fatiha Nassir, Jamal A Ibdah, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Department of Internal Medicine, University of Missouri School of Medicine,
Columbia, MO 65212, United States.

Alcohol abuse is the leading cause of liver related morbidity and mortality.
Chronic or binge alcohol drinking causes hepatic steatosis which can develop to
steatohepatitis, cirrhosis and ultimately hepatocellular carcinoma. The
pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is poorly characterized, however
several recent studies point to a major role of mitochondria in this process.
Mitochondria play a crucial role in cellular energy metabolism and in reactive
species formation. Alcohol treatment causes mitochondrial DNA damage, lipid
accumulation and oxidative stress. Studies in both animal models and in humans
showed that alcohol administration causes changes in the mitochondrial morphology
and function suggesting a role of these changes in the pathogenesis of ALD. We
review recent findings on mechanisms by which alcohol negatively impacts
mitochondrial biogenesis and function and we will discuss the specific
intracellular pathways affected by alcohol consumption. Interestingly, recent
findings indicate that a large number of mitochondrial proteins are acetylated
and that mitochondrial proteins acetylation and sirtuins are modulated by
alcohol. Understanding the mechanisms behind alcohol mediated impaired
mitochondrial biogenesis and function may help identify potential therapeutic
targets for treating ALD in humans.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2136 
PMCID: PMC3942818
PMID: 24605012  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


781. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Mar 7;20(9):2127-35. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2127.

Gender specific medicine in liver diseases: a point of view.

Durazzo M(1), Belci P(1), Collo A(1), Prandi V(1), Pistone E(1), Martorana M(1), 
Gambino R(1), Bo S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Marilena Durazzo, Paola Belci, Alessandro Collo, Vanessa Prandi, Erika
Pistone, Maria Martorana, Roberto Gambino, Simona Bo, Department of Medical
Sciences, University of Turin, 10126 Turin, Italy.

Gender medicine focuses on the patho-physiological, clinical, prevention and
treatment differences in diseases that are equally represented in men and women. 
The purpose of gender medicine is to ensure that each individual man and woman
receives the best treatment possible based on scientific evidence. The concept of
"gender" includes not only the sexual characteristics of individuals but also
physiological and psychological attributes of men and women, including risk
factors, protective/aggravating effects of sexual hormones and variances linked
to genetics and corporal structures that explain biological and physiological
differences between men and women. It is very important to consider all the
biological, physiological, functional, psychological, social and cultural
characteristics to provide patients with individualized disease management.
Herein, we critically analyze the literature regarding gender differences for
diseases and acquired conditions of the most representative hepatic pathologies: 
primary biliary cirrhosis, autoimmune hepatitis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, 
non alcoholic fatty liver disease and alcoholic liver disease, and viral chronic 
hepatitis B and C. The last section addresses hemochromatosis, which is a
prevalent iron overload disorder in the Caucasian population. This review aims to
describe data from the literature concerning viral chronic hepatitis during
pregnancy, management during pregnancy and delivery, and new effective drugs for 
the prevention of maternal infection transmission without significant adverse
effects or complications.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i9.2127 
PMCID: PMC3942817
PMID: 24605011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Indian J Med Res. 2014 Jan;139(1):19-26.

Probiotic foods: can their increasing use in India ameliorate the burden of
chronic lifestyle disorders?

Hajela N(1), Nair GB, Ramakrishna BS, Ganguly NK.

Author information: 
(1)Yakult India Microbiota & Probiotic Science Foundation, New Delhi, India.

Probiotics are defined as live microorganisms which, when ingested in adequate
amounts, confer health benefits on the host. Chronic diseases such as diabetes,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, coronary artery disease, a variety of chronic 
inflammatory disorders with an immune basis, and some forms of cancer are
increasing in incidence around the world and in India, and may be attributable in
part to rapid changes in our lifestyle. There is considerable public interest in 
India in the consumption of probiotic foods. This brief review summarizes the
background of the gut microbiota, the immunological reactions induced by these,
the evidence linking the microbiota to health outcomes, and the evidence linking 
the use of probiotics for amelioration of chronic lifestyle diseases.


PMCID: PMC3994739
PMID: 24604038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


783. J Environ Sci Health C Environ Carcinog Ecotoxicol Rev. 2014;32(1):83-104. doi:
10.1080/10590501.2014.881648.

Endoplasmic reticulum stress in drug- and environmental toxicant-induced liver
toxicity.

Chen S(1), Melchior WB Jr, Guo L.

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Biochemical Toxicology , National Center for Toxicological
Research, U.S. FDA , Jefferson , Arkansas , USA.

Liver injury resulting from exposure to drugs and environmental chemicals is a
major health problem. Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress) is considered to
be an important factor in a wide range of diseases, such as cancer, neurological 
and cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and inflammatory diseases. The role of ER
stress in drug-induced and environmental toxicant-induced liver toxicity has been
underestimated in the past; emerging evidence indicates that ER stress makes a
substantial contribution to the pathogenesis of drug-induced liver toxicity. In
this review, we summarize current knowledge on drugs and environmental toxicants 
that trigger ER stress in liver and on the underlying molecular mechanisms. We
also discuss experimental approaches for ER stress studies.

DOI: 10.1080/10590501.2014.881648 
PMID: 24598041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


784. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Feb 21;20(7):1768-76. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1768.

Role of endoplasmic reticulum stress in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease.

Zhang XQ(1), Xu CF(1), Yu CH(1), Chen WX(1), Li YM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Xue-Qun Zhang, Cheng-Fu Xu, Chao-Hui Yu, Wei-Xing Chen, You-Ming Li,
Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310003, Zhejiang Province, China.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as a common public health
problem in recent decades. However, the underlying mechanisms leading to the
development of NAFLD are not fully understood. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
stress response has recently been proposed to play a crucial role in both the
development of steatosis and progression to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. ER
stress is activated to regulate protein synthesis and restore homeostatic
equilibrium when the cell is stressed due to the accumulation of unfolded or
misfolded proteins. However, delayed or insufficient responses to ER stress may
turn physiological mechanisms into pathological consequences, including fat
accumulation, insulin resistance, inflammation, and apoptosis, all of which play 
important roles in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. Therefore, understanding the role
of ER stress in the pathogenesis of NAFLD has become a topic of intense
investigation. This review highlights the recent findings linking ER stress
signaling pathways to the pathogenesis of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1768 
PMCID: PMC3930975
PMID: 24587654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


785. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Feb 21;20(7):1756-67. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1756.

Dietary habits and behaviors associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Yasutake K(1), Kohjima M(1), Kotoh K(1), Nakashima M(1), Nakamuta M(1), Enjoji
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kenichiro Yasutake, Department of Health and Nutrition Sciences, Faculty of
Health and Social Welfare Sciences, Nishikyushu University, Kanzaki 842-8585,
Japan.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most frequent causes of
health problems in Western (industrialized) countries. Moreover, the incidence of
infantile NAFLD is increasing, with some of these patients progressing to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. These trends depend on dietary habits and
life-style. In particular, overeating and its associated obesity affect the
development of NAFLD. Nutritional problems in patients with NAFLD include excess 
intake of energy, carbohydrates, and lipids, and shortages of polyunsaturated
fatty acids, vitamins, and minerals. Although nutritional therapeutic approaches 
are required for prophylaxis and treatment of NAFLD, continuous nutrition therapy
is difficult for many patients because of their dietary habits and lifestyle, and
because the motivation for treatment differs among patients. Thus, it is
necessary to assess the nutritional background and to identify nutritional
problems in each patient with NAFLD. When assessing dietary habits, it is
important to individually evaluate those that are consumed excessively or
insufficiently, as well as inappropriate eating behaviors. Successful nutrition
therapy requires patient education, based on assessments of individual nutrients,
and continuing the treatment. In this article, we update knowledge about NAFLD,
review the important aspects of nutritional assessment targeting treatment
success, and present some concrete nutritional care plans which can be applied
generally.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1756 
PMCID: PMC3930974
PMID: 24587653  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


786. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Feb 21;20(7):1746-55. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1746.

Modulation of hepatic steatosis by dietary fatty acids.

Ferramosca A(1), Zara V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Alessandra Ferramosca, Vincenzo Zara, Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnologie
Biologiche ed Ambientali, Università del Salento, I-73100 Lecce, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) describes a range of conditions caused 
by fat deposition within liver cells. Liver fat content reflects the equilibrium 
between several metabolic pathways involved in triglyceride synthesis and
disposal, such as lipolysis in adipose tissue and de novo lipogenesis,
triglyceride esterification, fatty acid oxidation and very-low-density
lipoprotein synthesis/secretion in hepatic tissue. In particular, it has been
demonstrated that hepatic de novo lipogenesis plays a significant role in NAFLD
pathogenesis. It is widely known that the fatty acid composition of the diet
influences hepatic lipogenesis along with other metabolic pathways. Therefore,
dietary fat may not only be involved in the pathogenesis of hepatic steatosis,
but may also prevent and/or reverse hepatic fat accumulation. In this review,
major data from the literature about the role of some dietary fats as a potential
cause of hepatic fat accumulation or as a potential treatment for NAFLD are
described. Moreover, biochemical mechanisms responsible for an increase or
decrease in hepatic lipid content are critically analyzed. It is noteworthy that 
both quantitative and qualitative aspects of dietary fat influence triglyceride
deposition in the liver. A high-fat diet or the dietary administration of
conjugated linoleic acids induced hepatic steatosis. In contrast, supplementation
of the diet with krill oil or pine nut oil helped in the prevention and/or in the
treatment of steatotic liver. Quite interesting is the "case" of olive oil, since
several studies have often provided different and/or conflicting results in
animal models.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1746 
PMCID: PMC3930973
PMID: 24587652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


787. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Feb 21;20(7):1724-45. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1724.

Risk of cardiovascular, cardiac and arrhythmic complications in patients with
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Ballestri S(1), Lonardo A(1), Bonapace S(1), Byrne CD(1), Loria P(1), Targher
G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stefano Ballestri, Division of Internal Medicine, Pavullo Hospital, 41026
Pavullo, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as a public health problem 
of epidemic proportions worldwide. Accumulating clinical and epidemiological
evidence indicates that NAFLD is not only associated with liver-related morbidity
and mortality but also with an increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD),
abnormalities of cardiac function and structure (e.g., left ventricular
dysfunction and hypertrophy, and heart failure), valvular heart disease (e.g.,
aortic valve sclerosis) and arrhythmias (e.g., atrial fibrillation). Experimental
evidence suggests that NAFLD itself, especially in its more severe forms,
exacerbates systemic/hepatic insulin resistance, causes atherogenic dyslipidemia,
and releases a variety of pro-inflammatory, pro-coagulant and pro-fibrogenic
mediators that may play important roles in the pathophysiology of cardiac and
arrhythmic complications. Collectively, these findings suggest that patients with
NAFLD may benefit from more intensive surveillance and early treatment
interventions to decrease the risk for CHD and other cardiac/arrhythmic
complications. The purpose of this clinical review is to summarize the rapidly
expanding body of evidence that supports a strong association between NAFLD and
cardiovascular, cardiac and arrhythmic complications, to briefly examine the
putative biological mechanisms underlying this association, and to discuss some
of the current treatment options that may influence both NAFLD and its related
cardiac and arrhythmic complications.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1724 
PMCID: PMC3930972
PMID: 24587651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


788. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Feb 21;20(7):1712-23. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1712.

Clinical approaches to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Schwenger KJ(1), Allard JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Katherine JP Schwenger, Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, 1
King's Circle, Toronto M5S 1A8, Canada.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) ranges from simple steatosis to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), leading to fibrosis and potentially
cirrhosis, and it is one of the most common causes of liver disease worldwide.
NAFLD is associated with other medical conditions such as metabolic syndrome,
obesity, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. NASH can only be diagnosed through 
liver biopsy, but noninvasive techniques have been developed to identify patients
who are most likely to have NASH or fibrosis, reducing the need for liver biopsy 
and risk to patients. Disease progression varies between individuals and is
linked to a number of risk factors. Mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis are
associated with diet and lifestyle, influx of free fatty acids to the liver from 
adipose tissue due to insulin resistance, hepatic oxidative stress, cytokines
production, reduced very low-density lipoprotein secretion and intestinal
microbiome. Weight loss through improved diet and increased physical activity has
been the cornerstone therapy of NAFLD. Recent therapies such as pioglitazone and 
vitamin E have been shown to be beneficial. Omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
and statins may offer additional benefits. Bariatric surgery should be considered
in morbidly obese patients. More research is needed to assess the impact of these
treatments on a long-term basis. The objective of this article is to briefly
review the diagnosis, management and treatment of this disease in order to aid
clinicians in managing these patients.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i7.1712 
PMCID: PMC3930971
PMID: 24587650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct;38(5):564-9. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2013.12.012. Epub 2014 Feb 24.

Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension--concept, diagnosis and clinical management.

Strauss E(1), Valla D(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic
address: ednastrauss@gmail.com. (2)Service d'Hépatologie, Hôpital Beaujon,
Clichy, France.

Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension (NCPH) is mainly related to vascular disorders 
in the portal system, granuloma formation with periportal fibrosis or genetic
alterations affecting the hepatobiliary system. For the diagnosis of the
so-called idiopathic NCPH, it is essential to rule out chronic liver diseases
associated with progression to cirrhosis as viral hepatitis B and C, alcoholic
and non-alcoholic fatty liver, autoimmune disease, hereditary hemochromatosis,
Wilson's disease as well as primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing
cholagitis. This mini review will focus on the most common types of NCPH,
excluding the idiopathic NCPH. Primary Budd-Chiari syndrome, characterized by
obstruction of hepatic venous outflow, must be distinguished from sinusoidal
obstruction syndrome, a cause of portal hypertension associated with exposure to 
toxic plants or therapeutic agents. Noninvasive imaging methods usually help the 
diagnosis of both Budd-Chiari syndrome and portal thrombosis, the later a
relatively frequent cause NCPH. Clinical presentation and management of these
vascular disorders are evaluated. Schistosomiasis, a worldwide spread endemic
parasitic disease, may evolve to severe forms of the disease with huge spleen and
gastroesophageal varices due to presinusoidal portal hypertension. Although
management of acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding is similar to that of
cirrhosis, prevention of rebleeding differs. Instead of portosystemic shunt
procedures, the esophagogastric devascularization with splenectomy is the
accepted surgical alternative. Its association with endoscopic therapy is
suggested to be the best option for PH due to schistosomiasis. In conclusion, the
prompt diagnosis of the disorder leading to non-cirrhotic portal hypertension is 
essential for its correct management.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2013.12.012 
PMID: 24581591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 May;8(4):343-9. doi:
10.1586/17474124.2014.894880. Epub 2014 Mar 3.

Metformin in the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: safety, efficacy
and mechanism.

Rouabhia S(1), Milic N, Abenavoli L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Center Touhami Benfis,
Batna, Algeria.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease
etiology worldwide. It encompasses a spectrum ranging from simple steatosis to
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Although the physiopathology of NAFLD is partly
known. Insulin-resistance plays a central role in the development and progression
of NAFLD. Several studies have indicated that metformin, as an insulin
sensitizer, effectively improves NAFLD and its related metabolic status.
Metformin was effective in reducing enzyme levels in the short period, but very
limited and controversial information are available on liver histology. Larger
randomized controlled trials of sufficient duration using clearly defined
histological endpoints are needed to fully assess the efficacy of this drug in
modifying the natural history of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1586/17474124.2014.894880 
PMID: 24580044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Acta Clin Belg. 2013 Sep-Oct;68(5):368-75.

Invasive aspergillosis in patients with cirrhosis, a case report and review of
the last 10 years.

Jeurissen S(1), Vogelaers D(2), Sermijn E(2), Van Dycke K(3), Geerts A(4), Van
Vlierberghe H(4), Colle I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.
sarah.jeurissen@ugent.be (2)Department of General Internal Medicine and
Infectious Diseases, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium. (3)Department of Internal 
Medicine, Hospital "AZ Gezondheidszorg", Oostkust, campus "OLV Ter Linden",
Knokke, Belgium. (4)Department of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Ghent
University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Untreated invasive aspergillosis (IA) is lethal, yet diagnosis is
often delayed. Recognising the risk factors can lead to earlier diagnosis. We
present a case of an invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a patient with
cirrhosis, who had been treated with corticosteroids for 2.5 weeks for alcoholic 
hepatitis. He was successfully treated with liposomal amphotericin B and
caspofungin (first in combination, then caspofungin monotherapy).
PURPOSE: To evaluate the role of aspergillosis in cirrhosis.
METHODS: A literature search on aspergillosis in cirrhosis and liver failure
patients was conducted in PubMed/Medline (2002-dec 2012), according to pre-set
selection criteria.
RESULTS: 20 out of 330 articles were retrieved, representing 43 patients with
cirrhosis and/or liver failure who had an aspergillosis infection. Most
Aspergillus (A.) infections were due to A. fumigatus and the lungs were the most 
frequent organ involved (42/43). 58% of the patients used steroids and mortality 
was 53.5%. The most frequent used antifungal was caspofungin.
DISCUSSION: Diagnosis of IA is difficult and there might be a delay in diagnosis 
since cirrhosis is not recognised as one of the classical risk factors. Mortality
was 53.5%, but this is lower than in previous decades. Since voriconazole is
hepatotoxic, treatment with caspofungin and/or amphotericin is preferable.
CONCLUSION: Early recognition of aspergillosis in a cirrhosis/liver failure
patient is crucial and should prompt direct treatment.

DOI: 10.2143/ACB.3408 
PMID: 24579244  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Liver Int. 2014 Aug;34(7):e171-9. doi: 10.1111/liv.12514. Epub 2014 Mar 21.

Acetaminophen-induced liver injury in obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Michaut A(1), Moreau C, Robin MA, Fromenty B.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, U991, Université de Rennes 1, Rennes, France.

Although acetaminophen (APAP) is usually considered as a safe drug, this
painkiller can lead to acute liver failure after overdoses. Moreover, there is
evidence that the maximum recommended dosage can induce hepatic cytolysis in some
individuals. Several predisposing factors appear to enhance the risk and severity
of APAP-induced liver injury including chronic alcoholic liver disease and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which refers to a large spectrum of
hepatic lesions linked to obesity. In contrast, obesity by itself does not seem
to be associated with a higher risk of APAP-induced liver injury. Since 1987,
seven studies dealt with APAP-induced hepatotoxicity in rodent models of NAFLD
and five of them found that this liver disease was associated with higher APAP
toxicity. Unfortunately, these studies did not unequivocally established the
mechanism(s) whereby NAFLD could favour APAP hepatotoxicity, although some
investigations suggested that pre-existent induction of hepatic cytochrome P450
2E1 (CYP2E1) could play a significant role by increasing the generation of
N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI), the toxic metabolite of APAP. Moreover,
pre-existent mitochondrial dysfunction associated with NAFLD could also be
involved. In contrast, some investigations suggested that factors that could
reduce the risk and severity of APAP hepatotoxicity in obesity and NAFLD include 
higher hepatic APAP glucuronidation, reduced CYP3A4 activity and increased volume
of body distribution. Thus, the occurrence and the outcome of APAP-induced liver 
injury in an obese individual with NAFLD might depend on a delicate balance
between metabolic factors that can be protective and others that favour large
hepatic levels of NAPQI.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12514 
PMID: 24575957  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


793. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jan 14;20(2):569-77. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i2.569.

Effects of pentoxifylline on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a meta-analysis.

Du J(1), Ma YY(1), Yu CH(1), Li YM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Juan Du, Yan-Yan Ma, Chao-Hui Yu, You-Ming Li, Department of Gastroenterology,
The First Affiliated Hospital, Medical School, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou
310003, Zhejiang Province, China.

AIM: To evaluate the effects of pentoxifylline therapy in patients with
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
METHODS: We searched PubMed, Medline, Google Scholar, Embase, Web of Science, the
Cochrane Library and the Chinese Biomedicine Database for all relevant controlled
trials of pentoxifylline in patients with NAFLD from 1997 to July 2013. Five
studies (3 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials and 2 prospective 
cohort studies with concurrent controls) were included in this meta-analysis.
Statistical analysis was performed using RevMan 5.0 software.
RESULTS: Five randomized trials of 147 patients with NAFLD/nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) were included. The results showed that compared to
placebo, pentoxifylline therapy resulted in a signiﬁcant decrease in body weight 
(P = 0.04), alanine aminotransferase (P < 0.00001), aspartate transaminase (P =
0.0006), glucose (P = 0.0008) and tumor necrosis factor-α (P = 0.007), but did
not significantly affect body mass index (P = 0.28), total cholesterol (P =
0.80), triglyceride (P = 0.98), alkaline phosphatase (P = 0.29), γ-glutamyl
transferase (P = 0.39) and interleukin-6 (P = 0.38). With regard to histological 
changes, pentoxifylline only reduced the NAFLD activity score (P < 0.00001) and
improved lobular inflammation (P < 0.0001). Improvements in steatosis grade (P = 
0.11), ballooning (P = 0.10) and fibrosis (P = 0.50) were not obvious.
CONCLUSION: Pentoxifylline therapy results in weight loss, improved liver
function and histological changes in patients with NAFLD/NASH. Therefore,
pentoxifylline may be a new treatment option for NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i2.569 
PMCID: PMC3923033
PMID: 24574727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


794. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Jan 14;20(2):475-85. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i2.475.

Limitations of liver biopsy and non-invasive diagnostic tests for the diagnosis
of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Sumida Y(1), Nakajima A(1), Itoh Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yoshio Sumida, Yoshito Itoh, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto 602-8566, Japan.

It is estimated that 30% of the adult population in Japan is affected by
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Fatty changes of the liver are
generally diagnosed using imaging methods such as abdominal ultrasonography (US) 
and computed tomography (CT), but the sensitivity of these imaging techniques is 
low in cases of mild steatosis. Alanine aminotransferase levels may be normal in 
some of these patients, warranting the necessity to establish a set of parameters
useful for detecting NAFLD, and the more severe form of the disease, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). Although liver biopsy is currently the gold standard for 
diagnosing progressive NASH, it has many drawbacks, such as sampling error, cost,
and risk of complications. Furthermore, it is not realistic to perform liver
biopsies on all NAFLD patients. Diagnosis of NASH using various biomarkers,
scoring systems and imaging methods, such as elastography, has recently been
attempted. The NAFIC score, calculated from the levels of ferritin, fasting
insulin, and type IV collagen 7S, is useful for the diagnosis of NASH, while the 
NAFLD fibrosis score and the FIB-4 index are useful for excluding NASH in cases
of advanced fibrosis. This article reviews the limitations and merits of liver
biopsy and noninvasive diagnostic tests in the diagnosis of NAFLD/NASH.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i2.475 
PMCID: PMC3923022
PMID: 24574716  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2014 Apr;68(4):416-23. doi: 10.1038/ejcn.2014.8. Epub 2014 Feb
26.

Effect of fructose on markers of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD): a
systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled feeding trials.

Chiu S(1), Sievenpiper JL(2), de Souza RJ(3), Cozma AI(4), Mirrahimi A(4),
Carleton AJ(5), Ha V(4), Di Buono M(6), Jenkins AL(4), Leiter LA(7), Wolever
TM(7), Don-Wauchope AC(8), Beyene J(9), Kendall CW(10), Jenkins DJ(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [2] Department of Human Biology, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. (2)1] Department of
Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, Hamilton, ON,
Canada [2] Toronto 3D Knowledge Synthesis and Clinical Trials Unit, Clinical
Nutrition and Risk Factor Modification Centre, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto,
ON, Canada [3] The Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital,
Toronto, ON, Canada. (3)1] Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [2] Toronto 3D Knowledge
Synthesis and Clinical Trials Unit, Clinical Nutrition and Risk Factor
Modification Centre, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada [3] Department of
Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster
University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. (4)1] Department of Nutritional Sciences,
Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [2] Toronto 3D
Knowledge Synthesis and Clinical Trials Unit, Clinical Nutrition and Risk Factor 
Modification Centre, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada. (5)1] Toronto 3D
Knowledge Synthesis and Clinical Trials Unit, Clinical Nutrition and Risk Factor 
Modification Centre, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada [2] Department of
Undergraduate Medical Education (MD Program), Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. (6)1] Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty
of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [2] Heart and Stroke
Foundation of Ontario, Toronto, ON, Canada [3] American Heart Association,
Dallas, TX, USA. (7)1] Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [2] Toronto 3D Knowledge Synthesis and
Clinical Trials Unit, Clinical Nutrition and Risk Factor Modification Centre, St 
Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada [3] Keenan Research Center of the Li Ka
Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada [4]
Division of Endocrinology, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada [5]
Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada. (8)1] Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Health
Sciences, Hamilton, ON, Canada [2] Division of Clinical Chemistry and Immunology,
Hamilton Regional Laboratory Medicine Program, Hamilton, ON, Canada. (9)1]
Department of Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada [2] The Dalla Lana School of Public
Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [3] Child
Health Evaluative Sciences (CHES), The Hospital for Sick Children Research
Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada. (10)1] Department of Nutritional Sciences,
Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [2] Toronto 3D
Knowledge Synthesis and Clinical Trials Unit, Clinical Nutrition and Risk Factor 
Modification Centre, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada [3] College of
Pharmacy and Nutrition, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: In the absence of consistent clinical evidence, there are 
concerns that fructose contributes to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). 
To determine the effect of fructose on markers of NAFLD, we conducted a
systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled feeding trials.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and the Cochrane Library
(through 3 September 2013). We included relevant trials that involved a follow-up
of ≥ 7 days. Two reviewers independently extracted relevant data. Data were
pooled by the generic inverse variance method using random effects models and
expressed as standardized mean difference (SMD) for intrahepatocellular lipids
(IHCL) and mean difference (MD) for alanine aminotransferase (ALT). Inter-study
heterogeneity was assessed (Cochran Q statistic) and quantified (I(2) statistic).
RESULTS: Eligibility criteria were met by eight reports containing 13 trials in
260 healthy participants: seven isocaloric trials, in which fructose was
exchanged isocalorically for other carbohydrates, and six hypercaloric trials, in
which the diet was supplemented with excess energy (+21-35% energy) from
high-dose fructose (+104-220 g/day). Although there was no effect of fructose in 
isocaloric trials, fructose in hypercaloric trials increased both IHCL (SMD=0.45 
(95% confidence interval (CI): 0.18, 0.72)) and ALT (MD=4.94 U/l (95% CI: 0.03,
9.85)).
LIMITATIONS: Few trials were available for inclusion, most of which were small,
short (≤ 4 weeks), and of poor quality.
CONCLUSIONS: Isocaloric exchange of fructose for other carbohydrates does not
induce NAFLD changes in healthy participants. Fructose providing excess energy at
extreme doses, however, does raise IHCL and ALT, an effect that may be more
attributable to excess energy than fructose. Larger, longer and higher-quality
trials of the effect of fructose on histopathological NAFLD changes are required.

DOI: 10.1038/ejcn.2014.8 
PMCID: PMC3975811
PMID: 24569542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Nutr Hosp. 2014 Mar 1;29(3):491-9. doi: 10.3305/nh.2014.29.3.7178.

[Fructose consumption and its health implications; fructose malabsorption and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Riveros MJ(1), Parada A(2), Pettinelli P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Nutricionista. Alumna de Magíster en Nutrición. Departamento de Nutrición y
Diabetes. Facultad de Medicina. Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile.
Santiago. Chile.. meriveros@uc.cl. (2)Nutricionista. Msc, PhD Nutrición y
Alimentos. Unidad docente asociada, Ciencias de la Salud, Nutrición y Dietética. 
Departamento de Nutrición y Diabetes. Facultad de Medicina. Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Chile. Santiago. Chile.. (3)Nutricionista. Msc, PhD
Nutrición y Alimentos. Unidad docente asociada, Ciencias de la Salud, Nutrición y
Dietética. Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile. Santiago. Chile..

Fructose intake has increased considerably in recent years, especially in the
form high fructose corn syrup, due its high sweetening power. Several studies
have associated high intake of fructose to metabolic alterations, as nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease and fructose malabsorption, among other pathologies. This
review aims to update about the effect of high intake of fructose in the liver
and intestine, mainly associated with processed foods with added
fructose.METHODS: An updated literature search was conducted using databases
(Pubmed, Scopus and SciELO), selecting articles published after the year 2000,
resulting from the keywords "fructose intake, fructose intolerance, nonalcoholic 
fatty liver and fructose, fructose malabsorption"
RESULTS: Of 735 articles initially retrieved, 78 met the inclusion criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: Fructose consumption has increased in recent decades, especially due
to increased consumption of sweetened beverages and processed foods with added
fructose. High fructose intake has been associated to pathologies as NAFLD and
fructose malabsorption.

Publisher: La ingesta de fructosa se ha incrementado considerablemente en los
últimos años, especialmente bajo la forma de jarabe de maíz alto en fructosa,
debido a su gran poder edulcorante. Diversos estudios, han asociado su elevado
consumo con alteraciones metabólicas, hígado graso no alcohólico y malabsorción
de fructosa, entre otras patologías. Esta revisión tiene como objetivo actualizar
acerca del efecto de la alta ingesta de fructosa en el hígado e intestino,
asociada principalmente a alimentos procesados con fructosa agregada. Métodos:
Para la búsqueda bibliográfica se utilizaron las bases de datos de Pubmed, Scopus
y Scielo, seleccionando aquellos artículos publicados después del año 2000 y
resultantes de las palabras claves “fructose intake, high fructose corn syrup,
nonalcoholic fatty liver and fructose, fructose malabsorption, fructose
intolerance/metabolism”. Resultados: La búsqueda arrojó 735 publicaciones de las 
cuales 78 cumplieron con los criterios de inclusión. Conclusiones: El consumo de 
fructosa ha aumentado en las últimas décadas, especialmente a través de bebidas
endulzadas y productos alimentarios con fructosa agregada. La alta ingesta de
fructosa tiene un impacto a nivel intestinal y hepático, asociándose a patologías
como hígado graso no alcohólico y malabsorción de fructosa.
Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.3305/nh.2014.29.3.7178 
PMID: 24558989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Curr Opin Immunol. 2014 Feb;26:76-89. doi: 10.1016/j.coi.2013.10.017. Epub 2013
Nov 30.

More to life than death: molecular determinants of necroptotic and
non-necroptotic RIP3 kinase signaling.

Khan N(1), Lawlor KE(1), Murphy JM(1), Vince JE(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Parkville, Victoria
3052, Australia; Department of Medical Biology, The University of Melbourne,
Parkville, Victoria 3050, Australia. (2)The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of
Medical Research, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia; Department of Medical
Biology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3050, Australia.
Electronic address: vince@wehi.edu.au.

Necroptosis describes a pro-inflammatory form of cell death governed by the
kinases RIP1 and RIP3. Necroptosis can occur following stimulation of the DNA
receptor, DAI, or activation of death receptor, Toll-like receptor, T-cell
antigen receptor, or interferon receptor signaling. Analysis of RIP3 deficient
mice has implicated necroptosis in several inflammatory-driven diseases,
including atherosclerosis, alcoholic liver disease and retinal degeneration.
Although studies have demonstrated that mixed lineage kinase domain-like (MLKL)
is the only substrate of RIP3 kinase that is essential for necroptotic death, the
molecular determinants acting downstream of MLKL remain ambiguous. In addition,
RIP3 can signal necroptosis independent of RIP1, may induce apoptosis, and can
directly promote pro-inflammatory cytokine production. Therefore it will be
important to determine if non-necroptotic RIP3 signaling influences RIP3
dependent pathologies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coi.2013.10.017 
PMID: 24556404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Ann Hepatol. 2014 Mar-Apr;13(2):248-55.

Drug induced liver injury: accuracy of diagnosis in published reports.

Teschke R(1), Frenzel C(2), Wolff A(3), Eickhoff A(1), Schulze J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Academic Teaching Hospital of the Medical
Faculty of the Goethe University Frankfurt/Main, Germany. (2)Department of
Medicine I, University Medical Center Hamburg Eppendorf, Germany. (3)Department
of Internal Medicine II, Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Infectious 
Diseases, Friedrich Schiller University Jena, Germany. (4)Institute of
Industrial, Environmental and Social Medicine, Medical Faculty, Goethe University
Frankfurt/Main, Germany.

The diagnosis of drug induced liver injury (DILI) is based primarily on the
exclusion of alternative causes. To assess the frequency of alternative causes in
initially suspected DILI cases, we searched the Medline database with the
following terms: drug hepatotoxicity, drug induced liver injury, and hepatotoxic 
drugs. For each term, we used the first 100 publications. We reviewed references,
selected those reports relevant to our study, and retrieved finally 15
publications related to DILI and alternative causes. A total of 2,906 cases of
initially assumed DILI were analyzed in these 15 publications, with diagnoses
missed in 14% of the cases due to overt alternative causes. In another 11%, the
diagnosis of DILI could not be established because of confounding variables.
Alternative diagnoses included hepatitis B, C, and E, CMV, EBV, ischemic
hepatitis, autoimmune hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, primary sclerosing
cholangitis, hemochromatosis, Wilson's disease, Gilbert's syndrome, fatty liver, 
non alcoholic steatohepatitis, alcoholic liver diseases, cardiac and thyroid
causes, rhabdomyolysis, polymyositis, postictal state, tumors, lymphomas,
chlamydial and HIV infections. Causality assessment methods applied in these 15
publications were the CIOMS (Council for International Organizations of Medical
Sciences) scale alone (n = 5) or combined with the Maria and Victorino (MV) scale
(n = 1), the DILIN (Drug-Induced Liver Injury Network) method (n = 4), or the
Naranjo scale (n = 1); the qualitative CIOMS method alone (n = 3) or combined
with the MV scale (n = 1). In conclusion, alternative diagnoses are common in
primarily suspected DILI cases and should be excluded early in future cases,
requiring a thorough clinical and causality assessment.


PMID: 24552867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Ann Hepatol. 2014 Mar-Apr;13(2):166-78.

The prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in the Americas.

López-Velázquez JA(1), Silva-Vidal KV(1), Ponciano-Rodríguez G(2), Chávez-Tapia
NC(1), Arrese M(3), Uribe M(1), Méndez-Sánchez N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Unit, Medica Sur Clinic & Foundation, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Departamento de Salud Pública, Facultad de Medicina, UNAM. Mexico City,
Mexico. (3)Departamento de Gastroenterología, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an alarming public health problem.
The disease is one of the main causes of chronic liver disease worldwide and is
directly linked to the increased prevalence of obesity and type 2 diabetes
mellitus (T2DM) in the general population. The worldwide prevalence of NAFLD has 
been estimated at 20-30%, but the prevalence is unknown in the Americas because
of a lack of epidemiological studies. However, given the trends in the prevalence
of diabetes and obesity, the prevalence of NAFLD and its consequences are
expected to increase in the near future. The aim of the present study is to
present the current data on the prevalence of NAFLD in the Americas. We performed
an electronic search of the main databases from January 2000 to September 2013
and identified 356 reports that were reviewed. We focused on the epidemiology and
prevalence of known NAFLD risk factors including obesity, T2DM, and the metabolic
syndrome (MS). The prevalence of the MS was highest in the United States, Mexico,
Costa Rica, Puerto Rico, Chile, and Venezuela. In addition, Puerto Rico, Guyana, 
and Mexico have the highest prevalence of T2DM in the Americas, while USA has the
most people with T2DM. In conclusion, the prevalence rates of NAFLD and obesity
were highest in the United States, Belize, Barbados, and Mexico.


PMID: 24552858  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Jun;29(6):1139-48. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12556.

Gut microbiota and liver disease.

Goel A(1), Gupta M, Aggarwal R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of
Medical Sciences, Lucknow, India.

Microbes are present in large numbers in each human being, in particularly in the
gastrointestinal (GI) tract, and have long been believed to have some beneficial 
effects for their hosts. Till recently, however, we lacked tools for studying
these organisms. Rapid technological advances in recent years have markedly
improved our understanding of their role both in health and disease. Recent
literature suggests that organisms in the GI tract, referred to collectively as
gut microbiota, play an indispensable role in the maintenance of host's
homeostasis. Alterations in the gut microbiota, that is in the nature and
relative density of various constituent bacterial species, appear to have a role 
in pathogenesis and progression of several GI and hepatic diseases. This has also
opened the vista for tinkering with gut flora in an attempt to treat or prevent
such diseases. In this review, we have tried to summarize information on normal
gut microbiota, laboratory techniques and animal models used to study it, and the
role of its perturbations in some of the common hepatic disorders, such as
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (including obesity), non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis, alcoholic liver disease, and liver cirrhosis and its
complications.

© 2014 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12556 
PMID: 24547986  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Angiology. 2015 Jan;66(1):8-24. doi: 10.1177/0003319713520463. Epub 2014 Feb 17.

Adipokines, vascular wall, and cardiovascular disease: a focused overview of the 
role of adipokines in the pathophysiology of cardiovascular disease.

Maresca F(1), Di Palma V(1), Bevilacqua M(1), Uccello G(1), Taglialatela V(1),
Giaquinto A(1), Esposito G(1), Trimarco B(1), Cirillo P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Division of Cardiology, University
of Naples, Naples, Italy. (2)Department of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Division
of Cardiology, University of Naples, Naples, Italy pcirillo@unina.it.

Epidemiological evidence has shown that abdominal obesity is closely associated
with the development of cardiovascular (CV) disease, suggesting that it might be 
considered as an independent CV risk factor. However, the pathophysiological
mechanisms responsible for the association between these 2 clinical entities
remain largely unknown. Adipocytes are considered able to produce and secrete
chemical mediators known as "adipokines" that may exert several biological
actions, including those on heart and vessels. Of interest, a different adipokine
profile can be observed in the plasma of patients with obesity or metabolic
syndrome compared with healthy controls. We consider the main adipokines,
focusing on their effects on the vascular wall and analyzing their role in CV
pathophysiology.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0003319713520463 
PMID: 24535638  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Gut. 2014 May;63(5):844-55. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-306627. Epub 2014 Feb 14.

Hepatocellular carcinoma: clinical frontiers and perspectives.

Bruix J(1), Gores GJ, Mazzaferro V.

Author information: 
(1)Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) Group, Liver Unit, Hospital Clinic
Barcelona, IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, , Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Gut. 2015 Mar;64(3):522.
    Gut. 2016 Apr;65(4):715-6.
    Gut. 2015 Mar;64(3):520-1.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related
death and is currently the main event leading to death in patients with
cirrhosis. Evolving information suggests that the metabolic syndrome with
non-alcoholic liver disease may be an important cause of HCC in addition to viral
hepatitis and alcohol-induced liver disease. The molecular pathogenesis is
extremely complex and heterogeneous. To date the molecular information has not
impacted on treatment decisions. Periodic surveillance imaging of patients with
cirrhosis is widely practiced, especially because diagnostic, radiographic
criteria for early-stage HCC have been defined (including nodules between 1 and 2
cm) and effective treatment is available for tumours detected at an early stage. 
Worldwide the approach to resection versus transplantation varies depending upon 
local resources, expertise and donor availability. The criteria for
transplantation are discussed, and the controversial areas highlighted with
evidence-based recommendations provided. Several approaches are available for
intermediate stage disease, including radiofrequency ablation, transarterial
chemoembolisation and radioembolisation; the rationale for these therapies is
buttressed by appropriate outcome-based studies. For advanced disease, systemic
therapy with sorafenib remains the option best supported by current data. Thus,
while several trials have failed to improve the benefits of established
therapies, studies assessing the sequential or combined application of those
already known to be beneficial are needed. Also, new concepts are provided in
regards to selecting and stratifying patients for second-line studies, which may 
help explain the failure of prior studies.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-306627 
PMCID: PMC4337888
PMID: 24531850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Curr Clin Pharmacol. 2015;10(1):35-46.

Anesthetic pharmacology and perioperative considerations for the end stage liver 
disease patient.

Mcclain RL, Ramakrishna H, Iii SA, Cartwright JA, Phar LG, Pai SL, Rodrigues ES, 
Martin AK, Shine TS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, 4500 San Pablo
Road, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA. shine.timothy@mayo.edu.

The number of patients with end stage liver disease is growing worldwide. This is
likely a result of advances in medical science that have allowed these patients
to lead longer lives since the incidence of diseases such as alcoholic cirrhosis 
and viral hepatitis have remained stable or even decreased in recent years, at
least in more developed nations. Many of these patients will require anesthetic
care at some point. The understanding and application of basic principles of
pharmacokinetics is paramount to the practice of anesthesia. An understanding of 
pharmacokinetic principles provides the anesthesiologist with a scientific
foundation for achieving therapeutic objectives associated with the use of any
drug; however, pathologic conditions often alter the expected kinetic profile of 
many drugs. Anesthesia providers caring for these patients must be aware of the
altered pharmacokinetics that may occur in these patients. We review normal liver
physiology, pathophysiology of liver disease in general, and how liver failure
affects the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of anesthetic agents; providing
some specific examples.


PMID: 24521189  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


804. J Neurochem. 2014 Jun;129(5):770-80. doi: 10.1111/jnc.12677. Epub 2014 Mar 7.

Impaired one carbon metabolism and DNA methylation in alcohol toxicity.

Kruman II(1), Fowler AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, Texas Tech University Health
Sciences Center, Lubbock, Texas, USA.

Excessive alcohol consumption is a prominent problem and one of the major causes 
of mortality and morbidity around the world. Long-term, heavy alcohol consumption
is associated with a number of deleterious health consequences, such as cancer,
heart and liver disease, a variety of neurological, cognitive, and behavioral
deficits. Alcohol consumption is also associated with developmental defects. The 
causes of alcohol-induced toxicity are presently unclear. One of the mechanisms
underlying alcohol toxicity has to do with its interaction with folic
acid/homocysteine or one-carbon metabolism (OCM). OCM is a major donor of methyl 
groups for methylation, particularly DNA methylation critical for epigenetic
regulation of gene expression, and its disturbance may compromise DNA
methylation, thereby affecting gene expression. OCM disturbance mediated by
nutrient deficits is a well-known risk factor for various disorders and
developmental defects (e.g., neural tube defects). In this review, we summarize
the role of OCM disturbance and associated epigenetic aberrations in chronic
alcohol-induced toxicity. In this review, we summarize the role of one-carbon
metabolism (OCM) aberrations in chronic alcohol-induced toxicity. OCM is a major 
donor of methyl groups for methylation reactions, particularly DNA methylation
critical for epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Alcohol interference with 
OCM and consequent reduced availability of methyl groups, improper DNA
methylation, and aberrant gene expression can play a causative role in alcohol
toxicity.

© 2014 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.12677 
PMID: 24521073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Liver Int. 2014 Aug;34(7):976-90. doi: 10.1111/liv.12496. Epub 2014 Mar 11.

MicroRNAs: the fine modulators of liver development and function.

Chen Y(1), Verfaillie CM.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest Hospital, and Key Laboratory of Tumor Immunopathology of the
Ministry of Education of China, Institute of Pathology and Southwest Cancer
Center, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China; Department of
Development and Regeneration, Stem Cell Institute Leuven, Cluster Stem Cell
Biology and Embryology, KU Leuven Medical School, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

MicroRNAs are a class of small non-coding RNAs involved in the transcriptional
and post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. The function of miRNAs in
liver disease including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), hepatitis, and alcoholic 
liver disease, have been widely studied and extensively reviewed. Increasing
evidence demonstrates that miRNAs also play a critical role in normal liver
development and in the fine-tuning of fundamental biological liver processes. In 
this review, we highlight the most recent findings on the role of miRNAs in liver
specification and differentiation, liver cell development, as well as in the many
metabolic functions of the liver, including glucose, lipid, iron and drug
metabolism. These findings demonstrate an important role of miRNAs in normal
liver development and function. Further researches will be needed to fully
understand how miRNAs regulate liver generation and metabolic function, which
should then lead to greater insights in liver biology and perhaps open up the
possibility to correct errors that cause liver diseases or metabolic disorders.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12496 
PMID: 24517588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Jun;43(3):906-19. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyu018. Epub 2014 Feb
10.

Cause-specific mortality risk in alcohol use disorder treatment patients: a
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Roerecke M(1), Rehm J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Canada, Dalla Lana School of 
Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada and Institut für Klinische 
Psychologie und Psychotherapie, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden,
GermanyCentre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Canada, Dalla Lana School
of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada and Institut für
Klinische Psychologie und Psychotherapie, Technische Universität Dresden,
Dresden, Germany m.roerecke@web.de. (2)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health,
Toronto, Canada, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Canada and Institut für Klinische Psychologie und Psychotherapie,
Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, GermanyCentre for Addiction and Mental
Health, Toronto, Canada, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Canada and Institut für Klinische Psychologie und
Psychotherapie, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, GermanyCentre for
Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Canada, Dalla Lana School of Public Health,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada and Institut für Klinische Psychologie und
Psychotherapie, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Jun;43(3):920-1.

BACKGROUND: Alcohol use disorders (AUD) are highly disabling. Recent studies
reported much higher relative risks for all-cause mortality in AUD patients
compared with earlier studies. Systematic evidence regarding cause-specific
mortality among AUD patients has been unavailable to date.
METHODS: Studies were identified through MEDLINE, EMBASE and Web of Science up to
August 2012. Following MOOSE guidelines, prospective and historical cohort
studies assessing cause-specific mortality risk from AUD patients at baseline
compared with the general population were selected. Data on several study
characteristics, including AUD assessment, follow-up period, setting, location
and cause-specific mortality risk compared with the general population were
abstracted. Random-effect meta-analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Overall, 17 observational studies with 6420 observed deaths among 28 087
AUD patients were included. Pooled standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) after 10 
years of follow-up among men were 14.8 (95% confidence interval: 8.7-24.9) for
liver cirrhosis, 18.0 (11.2-30.3) for mental disorders, 6.6 (5.0-8.8) for death
by injury and around 2 for cancer and cardiovascular diseases. SMRs were
substantially higher in women, with fewer studies available. For many outcomes
the risk has been increasing substantially over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Cause-specific mortality among AUD patients was high in all major
categories compared with the general population. There has been a lack of recent 
research, and future studies should focus on the influence of comorbidities on
excess mortality risk among AUD patients. Efforts to reduce these risks should be
a priority, given that successful treatment reduces mortality risk substantially 
for a relatively common psychiatric disease.

© The Author 2014; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press on
behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyu018 
PMID: 24513684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2014 Mar;17(2):124-9. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0000000000000031.

Fatty acid binding proteins: tissue-specific functions in health and disease.

Thumser AE(1), Moore JB, Plant NJ.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Biochemistry and Physiology bDepartment of Nutritional
Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Surrey,
Guildford, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this study is to review recent evidence for the
role of the cytosolic fatty acid binding proteins (FABPs) as central regulators
of whole-body metabolic control.
RECENT FINDINGS: Dysregulated FABPs have been associated with a number of
diseases, including obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (FABP1, FABP2,
FABP4), cardiovascular risk (FABP3) and cancer (FABP5, FABP7). As underlying
mechanisms become better understood, FABPs may represent novel biomarkers for
therapeutic targets. In addition, the role of FABPs as important signalling
molecules has also been highlighted in recent years; for example, FABP3 may act
as a myokine, matching whole-body metabolism to muscular energy demands and FABP4
functions as an adipokine in regulating macrophage and adipocyte interactions
during inflammation.
SUMMARY: In addition to their traditional role as fatty acid trafficking
proteins, increasing evidence supports the role of FABPs as important controllers
of global metabolism, with their dysregulation being linked to a host of
metabolic diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0000000000000031 
PMID: 24500438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Food Funct. 2014 Mar;5(3):426-35. doi: 10.1039/c3fo60551e.

The role of n - 6 and n - 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in the manifestation of
the metabolic syndrome in cardiovascular disease and non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Monteiro J(1), Leslie M, Moghadasian MH, Arendt BM, Allard JP, Ma DW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Health and Nutritional Sciences, College of Biological
Science, 491 Gordon Street, University of Guelph, Animal Science/Nutrition
Building, Room 342, Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1, Canada. davidma@uoguelph.ca
monteirj@uoguelph.ca mleslie@uoguelph.ca.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are
manifestations of the metabolic syndrome. CVD remains the number one cause of
mortality in the West, while NAFLD is the most common liver disease. Growing
evidence suggests that polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) influence risk factors 
including circulating lipids and inflammation on the development of CVD and
NAFLD. N - 6 and n - 3 PUFA are comprised of distinct family members, which are
increasingly recognized for their individual effects. Therefore, this review
examines what is currently known about the specific effects of the major n - 3
and n - 6 PUFA on CVD and NAFLD. Overall, this review supports a beneficial
effect of n - 3 PUFA and highlights distinctive effects between alpha-linolenic
acid found in plant oils relative to marine derived eicosapentaenoic acid and
docosahexaenoic acid. This review also highlights contrasting health effects
between the n - 6 PUFA, linoleic and arachidonic acid.

DOI: 10.1039/c3fo60551e 
PMID: 24496399  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Proc Nutr Soc. 2014 May;73(2):172-85. doi: 10.1017/S0029665113003911. Epub 2014
Feb 4.

'The way to a man's heart is through his gut microbiota'--dietary pro- and
prebiotics for the management of cardiovascular risk.

Tuohy KM(1), Fava F(1), Viola R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition and Nutrigenomics Group, Department of Food Quality and Nutrition,
Research and Innovation Centre, Fondazione Edmund Mach, San Michele all'Adige,
Trento 38010, Italy.

The human gut microbiota has been identified as a possible novel CVD risk factor.
This review aims to summarise recent insights connecting human gut microbiome
activities with CVD and how such activities may be modulated by diet. Aberrant
gut microbiota profiles have been associated with obesity, type 1 and type 2
diabetes and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Transfer of microbiota from obese
animals induces metabolic disease and obesity in germ-free animals. Conversely,
transfer of pathogen-free microbiota from lean healthy human donors to patients
with metabolic disease can increase insulin sensitivity. Not only are aberrant
microbiota profiles associated with metabolic disease, but the flux of
metabolites derived from gut microbial metabolism of choline, phosphatidylcholine
and l-carnitine has been shown to contribute directly to CVD pathology, providing
one explanation for increased disease risk of eating too much red meat. Diet,
especially high intake of fermentable fibres and plant polyphenols, appears to
regulate microbial activities within the gut, supporting regulatory guidelines
encouraging increased consumption of whole-plant foods (fruit, vegetables and
whole-grain cereals), and providing the scientific rationale for the design of
efficacious prebiotics. Similarly, recent human studies with carefully selected
probiotic strains show that ingestion of viable microorganisms with the ability
to hydrolyse bile salts can lower blood cholesterol, a recognised risk factor in 
CVD. Taken together such observations raise the intriguing possibility that gut
microbiome modulation by whole-plant foods, probiotics and prebiotics may be at
the base of healthy eating pyramids advised by regulatory agencies across the
globe. In conclusion, dietary strategies which modulate the gut microbiota or
their metabolic activities are emerging as efficacious tools for reducing CVD
risk and indicate that indeed, the way to a healthy heart may be through a
healthy gut microbiota.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665113003911 
PMID: 24495527  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Semin Pediatr Surg. 2014 Feb;23(1):49-57. doi: 10.1053/j.sempedsurg.2013.10.016. 
Epub 2013 Oct 31.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and bariatric surgery in adolescents.

Holterman A(1), Gurria J(2), Tanpure S(3), DiSomma N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Illinois College of Medicine, Peoria,
Illinois; Pediatric Surgery, Children's Hospital of Illinois, University of
Illinois College of Medicine, Peoria, Illinois. Electronic address:
aixuan.l.holterman@osfhealthcare.org. (2)Department of Surgery, University of
Illinois College of Medicine, Peoria, Illinois. (3)Department of Surgery,
University of Illinois College of Medicine, Peoria, Illinois; Pediatric Surgery, 
Children's Hospital of Illinois, University of Illinois College of Medicine,
Peoria, Illinois.

Obesity is a multi-organ system disease with underlying insulin resistance and
systemic chronic inflammation. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a
hepatic manifestation of the underlying metabolic dysfunction. This review
provides a highlight of the current understanding of NAFLD pathogenesis and
disease characteristics, with updates on the challenges of NAFLD management in
obese and severely obese (SO) patients and recommendations for the pediatric
surgeons' role in the care of SO adolescents.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/j.sempedsurg.2013.10.016 
PMID: 24491369  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2014 Jan 30;13:29. doi: 10.1186/1475-2840-13-29.

Nonalcoholic fatty pancreatic disease and cardio-metabolic risk: is there is a
place for obstructive sleep apnea?

Mirrakhimov AE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kyrgyz State Medical Academy named by I,K, Akhunbaev, Akhunbaev street 92,
Bishkek 720020, Kyrgyzstan. amirrakhimov1@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea is a common disorder acting as a risk factor 
for the development and progression of cardiometabolic derangements including
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Recent research data suggest that
non-alcoholic fatty pancreatic disease may be a more sensitive marker than
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease for early subclinical metabolic risk and may
contribute to the progression of subclinical disease to overt type 2 diabetes
mellitus.
PRESENTATION OF THE HYPOTHESIS: We postulate that obstructive sleep apnea may be 
a risk factor for non-alcoholic fatty pancreatic disease. It is well known that
intermittent hypoxia related to obstructive sleep apnea leads to hormonal
derangements. Excessive lipolysis, enhanced lipid synthesis and systemic and
local inflammation may favor ectopic fat deposition similarly to non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease. Furthermore, it is possible that obstructive sleep apnea can
lead to pancreatic beta cell damage via intermittent hypoxia.
TESTING OF THE HYPOTHESIS: Future research should focus on the following: first, 
whether non-alcoholic fatty pancreatic disease is an independent risk factor for 
the development of metabolic disease including diabetes mellitus or is a simple
consequence of obesity; second, the prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty pancreatic 
disease among people with obstructive sleep apnea and vice versa, which should be
compared to the prevalence of these diseases in general population; third,
whether coexistence of these conditions is related to greater cardiometabolic
risk than either disease alone; and fourth, whether the treatment of obstructive 
sleep apnea will translate into the resolution of non-alcoholic fatty pancreatic 
disease.
IMPLICATIONS OF THE HYPOTHESIS: If proven, this hypothesis will provide new
knowledge on the complex interplay between various metabolic insults. Second,
screening for NAFPD may identify individuals at risk for developing type 2
diabetes mellitus for targeted prevention. Third, screening for the presence of
non-alcoholic fatty pancreatic disease in patients with obstructive sleep apnea
may help to decrease the incidence of diabetes mellitus through a targeted
prevention.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2840-13-29 
PMCID: PMC3909423
PMID: 24475948  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Rev Paul Pediatr. 2013 Dec;31(4):523-30. doi: 10.1590/S0103-05822013000400016.

Antioxidant vitamins in the context of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in obese 
children and adolescents.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Ued Fda V(1), Weffort VR(1).

Author information: 
(1)UFTM, UberabaMG, Brasil.

OBJECTIVE: To review the literature on the importance of antioxidant vitamins,
analyzed in the context of dietary intake, its plasma levels, and its current use
as a supplementation treatment in obese children and adolescents with
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
DATA SOURCES: The articles were identified in Lilacs, Ibecs, SciELO,
PubMed/Medline, and Scopus databases. To conduct the survey, the "fatty liver"
descriptor was associated to the following words: "children", "antioxidants" and 
"vitamins". The search was limited to articles written in Portuguese, Spanish and
English, with publication date until December, 2012.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Six studies were selected. The survey revealed a low dietary
intake and low antioxidant vitamins serum levels in this population. The changes 
in lifestyle, with adequate dietary intake of vitamins, and the increase in
physical activity were associated with a significant improvement in liver
histology and in laboratory tests. Vitamin supplementation also improved the
disease progression markers, as the alanine aminotransferase serum levels and the
histological characteristics of lobular inflammation and hepatocellular damage.
However, these improvements were not statistically significant in all studies.
CONCLUSIONS: There is insufficient evidence to recommend or to refute antioxidant
supplementation in patients with simple steatosis or steatohepatitis. The changes
in lifestyle seem to be, at the present time, the more advisable therapy.

DOI: 10.1590/S0103-05822013000400016 
PMCID: PMC4183033
PMID: 24473959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2014 Mar;30(2):208-14. doi:
10.1097/MOG.0000000000000049.

The evidence for the use of nutritional support in liver disease.

Koretz RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)aDavid Geffen-UCLA School of Medicine bOlive View-UCLA Medical Center, Los
Angeles and Sylmar, California, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Although there is a well established association between
malnutrition and poorer clinical outcomes in patients with liver disease, that
fact alone does not prove that improving the malnutrition will improve outcome.
The best way to determine if nutritional interventions are effective is to
compare them to untreated control groups in well designed and executed randomized
clinical trials.
RECENT FINDINGS: A recent systematic review assessed 37 trials that compared
parenteral nutrition, enteral nutrition, or nutritional supplements to no
nutritional therapy in patients with a variety of liver diseases. Since the
publication of that review, an additional three trials have become available.
Whereas all but one of the trials did have methodologic shortcomings that may
have allowed the introduction of bias (which usually results in an overestimation
of benefit), the trials failed to show much, if any, benefit. In fact, the single
trial at low risk of bias found that more deaths occurred in the recipients of
the supplements.
SUMMARY: Although malnutrition may be associated with a poor outcome, the current
best evidence indicates that the provision of adjunctive nutritional support
(parenteral or enteral nutrition, or nutritional supplements) to patients with a 
variety of liver diseases (alcoholic hepatitis, cirrhosis, hepatocellular
carcinoma, liver surgery, liver transplantation, obstructive jaundice, hepatitis 
C antiviral treatment) does not improve clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000049 
PMID: 24468804  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Gynecol Endocrinol. 2014 May;30(5):325-9. doi: 10.3109/09513590.2013.875992. Epub
2014 Jan 24.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and metabolic syndrome in postmenopausal women.

Rodrigues MH(1), Bruno AS, Nahas-Neto J, Santos ME, Nahas EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Botucatu Medical School-Sao Paulo
State University , Botucatu, Sao Paulo , Brazil .

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered the most common cause of
chronic liver disease in the Western countries. NAFLD includes a spectrum ranging
from a simple steatosis to a nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) which is defined
by the presence of inflammatory infiltrate, cellular necrosis, hepatocyte
ballooning, and fibrosis and cirrhosis that can eventually develop into
hepatocellular carcinoma. Studies emphasize the role of insulin resistance,
oxidative stress, pro-inflammatory cytokines, adipokines in the development and
progression of NAFLD. It seems to be independently associated with type II
diabetes mellitus, increased triglycerides, decreased HDL-cholesterol, abdominal 
obesity and insulin resistance. These findings are in accordance with the
criteria used in the diagnosis of metabolic syndrome (MetS). Here, we will
discuss the current knowledge on the epidemiology, pathophysiology and diagnosis 
of NAFLD and the association of metabolic syndrome in postmenopausal women.

DOI: 10.3109/09513590.2013.875992 
PMID: 24460502  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2014 Feb;16(2):372. doi: 10.1007/s11894-014-0372-6.

Utilization of FibroScan in clinical practice.

Bonder A(1), Afdhal N.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Center, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,
Harvard Medical School, 110 Francis street Suite 8E, Boston, MA, 02215, USA.

The evaluation of liver fibrosis is critical, particularly to rule out cirrhosis.
Novel non-invasive tests such as transient ultrasound elastography are widely
used to stage liver fibrosis as an alternative to liver biopsy, and this
technology has recently been approved in the US. In this review, we discuss the
performance characteristics of elastography for a variety of liver diseases and
highlight practical appropriate suggestions for how to incorporate this
technology into clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-014-0372-6 
PMID: 24452634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Biol Chem. 2014 Apr;395(4):387-99. doi: 10.1515/hsz-2013-0271.

Citrate--new functions for an old metabolite.

Iacobazzi V, Infantino V.

Citrate is an important substrate in cellular energy metabolism. It is produced
in the mitochondria and used in the Krebs cycle or released into cytoplasm
through a specific mitochondrial carrier, CIC. In the cytosol, citrate and its
derivatives, acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetate, are used in normal and pathological
processes. Beyond the classical role as metabolic regulator, recent studies have 
highlighted that citrate is involved in inflammation, cancer, insulin secretion, 
histone acetylation, neurological disorders, and non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease. Monitoring changes in the citrate levels could therefore potentially be 
used as diagnostic tool. This review highlights these new aspects of citrate
functions.

DOI: 10.1515/hsz-2013-0271 
PMID: 24445237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Gastroenterology. 2014 May;146(6):1513-24. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.01.020.
Epub 2014 Jan 15.

Interactions between the intestinal microbiome and liver diseases.

Schnabl B(1), Brenner DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla,
California. Electronic address: beschnabl@ucsd.edu. (2)Department of Medicine,
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California.

The human intestine harbors a diverse community of microbes that promote
metabolism and digestion in their symbiotic relationship with the host.
Disturbance of its homeostasis can result in disease. We review factors that
disrupt intestinal homeostasis and contribute to nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease, steatohepatitis, alcoholic liver disease, and cirrhosis. Liver disease
has long been associated with qualitative and quantitative (overgrowth) dysbiotic
changes in the intestinal microbiota. Extrinsic factors, such as the Western diet
and alcohol, contribute to these changes. Dysbiosis results in intestinal
inflammation, a breakdown of the intestinal barrier, and translocation of
microbial products in animal models. However, the contribution of the intestinal 
microbiome to liver disease goes beyond simple translocation of bacterial
products that promote hepatic injury and inflammation. Microbial metabolites
produced in a dysbiotic intestinal environment and host factors are equally
important in the pathogenesis of liver disease. We review how the combination of 
liver insult and disruptions in intestinal homeostasis contribute to liver
disease.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2014.01.020 
PMCID: PMC3996054
PMID: 24440671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Dig Liver Dis. 2014 May;46(5):391-7. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2013.11.015. Epub 2014
Jan 15.

Molecular mechanisms of stem cell therapy in alcoholic liver disease.

Levine P(1), McDaniel K(2), Francis H(1), Kennedy L(2), Alpini G(3), Meng F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Research, Central Texas Veterans Health Care System, Temple, TX, USA;
Department of Medicine, Scott & White Digestive Disease Research Center, Texas
A&M University Health Science Center and Scott & White Healthcare, Temple, TX,
USA; Academic Operations, Scott & White Hospital, Temple, TX, USA. (2)Department 
of Medicine, Scott & White Digestive Disease Research Center, Texas A&M
University Health Science Center and Scott & White Healthcare, Temple, TX, USA;
Academic Operations, Scott & White Hospital, Temple, TX, USA. (3)Research,
Central Texas Veterans Health Care System, Temple, TX, USA; Department of
Medicine, Scott & White Digestive Disease Research Center, Texas A&M University
Health Science Center and Scott & White Healthcare, Temple, TX, USA. Electronic
address: galpini@tamu.edu. (4)Research, Central Texas Veterans Health Care
System, Temple, TX, USA; Department of Medicine, Scott & White Digestive Disease 
Research Center, Texas A&M University Health Science Center and Scott & White
Healthcare, Temple, TX, USA; Academic Operations, Scott & White Hospital, Temple,
TX, USA. Electronic address: fmeng@tamu.edu.

Alcoholic liver disease affects a great number of people worldwide. With limited 
therapeutic options, stem cell therapy offers significant potential for these
patients. To date, a limited number of clinical trials have produced transient
clinical responses to cell therapy in patients with alcoholic liver disease. Stem
cell therapy to reorganize the postnatal liver is an important theme and mission 
for patients with chronic liver disorders including alcoholic liver injury. We
therefore should redevelop the evidence of cell-based liver regeneration therapy,
focusing on targets (disease, patient's status and hepatic function), materials
(cells, cytokines and genes), and methodology (stem cell types and their derived 
microparticles, transplantation route, implantation technology and tissue
engineering). In this review, we summarize the recent findings regarding the
experimental and clinical use of mesenchymal and liver stem cells, focusing
mainly on the treatment of alcoholic liver disorders and their relevance in the
field of regenerative medicine, and advances on the role of microvesicles and
exosomes in this process. We discuss new advances in stem cell therapy from liver
regeneration to liver re-organization, which is involved in the recent progress
of on-going clinical trials, basic research in stem cell therapy and liver
regeneration, and updated exosomes/microvesicles recovery/repairing technology.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2013.11.015 
PMID: 24440312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Gerontology. 2014;60(3):222-8. doi: 10.1159/000356023. Epub 2014 Jan 9.

Age-related consequences of childhood obesity.

Kelsey MM(1), Zaepfel A, Bjornstad P, Nadeau KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Endocrinology, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora,
Colo., USA.

The severity and frequency of childhood obesity has increased significantly over 
the past three to four decades. The health effects of increased body mass index
as a child may significantly impact obese youth as they age. However, many of the
long-term outcomes of childhood obesity have yet to be studied. This article
examines the currently available longitudinal data evaluating the effects of
childhood obesity on adult outcomes. Consequences of obesity include an increased
risk of developing the metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease, type 2
diabetes and its associated retinal and renal complications, nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease, obstructive sleep apnea, polycystic ovarian syndrome, infertility,
asthma, orthopedic complications, psychiatric disease, and increased rates of
cancer, among others. These disorders can start as early as childhood, and such
early onset increases the likelihood of early morbidity and mortality. Being
obese as a child also increases the likelihood of being obese as an adult, and
obesity in adulthood also leads to obesity-related complications. This review
outlines the evidence for childhood obesity as a predictor of adult obesity and
obesity-related disorders, thereby emphasizing the importance of early
intervention to prevent the onset of obesity in childhood.

DOI: 10.1159/000356023 
PMID: 24434909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Liver Int. 2014 Apr;34(4):487-94. doi: 10.1111/liv.12451. Epub 2014 Jan 16.

Critical appraisal of 13C breath tests for microsomal liver function: aminopyrine
revisited.

Pijls KE(1), de Vries H, Nikkessen S, Bast A, Wodzig WK, Koek GH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the Netherlands.

As liver diseases are a major health problem and especially the incidence of
metabolic liver diseases like non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
rising, the demand for non-invasive tests is growing to replace liver biopsy.
Non-invasive tests such as carbon-labelled breath tests can provide a valuable
contribution to the evaluation of metabolic liver function. This review aims to
critically appraise the value of the (13) C-labelled microsomal breath tests for 
the evaluation of metabolic liver function, and to discuss the role of cytochrome
P450 enzymes in the metabolism of the different probe drugs, especially of
aminopyrine. Although a number of different probe drugs have been used in breath 
tests, the perfect drug to assess the functional metabolic capacity of the liver 
has not been found. Data suggest that both the (13) C(2) -aminopyrine and the
(13) C-methacetin breath test can play a role in assessing the capacity of the
microsomal liver function and may be useful in the follow-up of patients with
chronic liver diseases. Furthermore, CYP2C19 seems to be an important enzyme in
the N-demethylation of aminopyrine, and polymorphisms in this gene may influence 
breath test values, which should be kept in mind when performing the (13) C(2)
-aminopyrine breath test in clinical practice.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12451 
PMID: 24428683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2014 Mar;15(4):493-503. doi:
10.1517/14656566.2014.876992. Epub 2014 Jan 16.

New peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor agonists: potential treatments for
atherogenic dyslipidemia and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Sahebkar A(1), Chew GT, Watts GF.

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences ,
Mashhad , Iran.

INTRODUCTION: Novel peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) modulators 
(selective PPAR modulators [SPPARMs]) and dual PPAR agonists may have an
important role in the treatment of cardiometabolic disorders owing to
lipid-modifying, insulin-sensitizing and anti-inflammatory effects.
AREAS COVERED: This review summarizes the efficacy of new PPAR agonists and
SPPARMs that are under development for the treatment of atherogenic dyslipidemia 
and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
EXPERT OPINION: ABT-335 is a new formulation of fenofibrate that has been
approved for concomitant use with statins. K-877, a SPPARM-α with encouraging
preliminary results in modulating atherogenic dyslipidemia, and INT131, a
SPPARM-γ with predominantly insulin-sensitizing actions, may also have favorable 
lipid-modifying effects. Although the development of dual PPAR-α/γ agonists
(glitazars) and the SPPARM-δ GW501516 has been abandoned because of safety
issues, another SPPARM-δ (MBX-8025) and a dual PPAR-α/δ agonist (GFT-505) have
shown promising efficacy in decreasing plasma triglyceride and increasing
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations, as well as improving insulin
sensitivity and liver function. The beneficial effects of GFT-505 are
complemented by preclinical findings that indicate reduction of hepatic fat
accumulation, inflammation and fibrosis, making it a promising candidate for the 
treatment of NAFLD/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Long-term trials are
required to test the efficacy and safety of these new PPAR agonists in reducing
cardiovascular outcomes and treating NAFLD/NASH.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2014.876992 
PMID: 24428677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Jan;28(1):119-30. doi:
10.1016/j.beem.2013.08.006. Epub 2013 Aug 20.

Adiponectin as a routine clinical biomarker.

Kishida K(1), Funahashi T(2), Shimomura I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Metabolic Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka
University, Osaka, Japan. Electronic address: kkishida@imed2.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Metabolic Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka
University, Osaka, Japan; Department of Metabolism and Atherosclerosis, Graduate 
School of Medicine, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan. (3)Department of Metabolic
Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan.

Adiponectin is a protein synthesized and secreted predominantly by adipocytes
into the peripheral blood. However, circulating adiponectin level is inversely
related with body weight, especially visceral fat accumulation. The mechanism of 
this paradoxical relation remains obscure. Low circulating adiponectin
concentrations (hypoadiponectinemia; <4 μg/mL) are associated with a variety of
diseases, including dysmetabolism (type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance,
hypertension, dyslipidemia, metabolic syndrome, hyperuricemia), atherosclerosis
(coronary artery disease, stroke, peripheral artery disease), sleep apnea,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, gastritis and gastro-esophageal reflux
disease, inflammatory bowel diseases, pancreatitis, osteoporosis, and cancer
(endometrial cancer, postmenopausal breast cancer, leukemia, colon cancer,
gastric cancer, prostate cancer). On the other hand, hyperadiponectinemia is
associated with cardiac, renal and pulmonary diseases. This review article
focuses on the significance of adiponectin as a clinical biomarker of
obesity-related diseases. Routine measurement of adiponectin in patients with
lifestyle-related diseases is highly recommended.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2013.08.006 
PMID: 24417951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Jan;28(1):93-106. doi:
10.1016/j.beem.2013.09.002. Epub 2013 Sep 13.

Adiponectin and the cardiometabolic syndrome: an epidemiological perspective.

Funahashi T(1), Matsuzawa Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Metabolism and Atherosclerosis, Osaka University Graduate School
of Medicine, 2-2 B5 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. Electronic address: 
tohru@imed2.med.osaka-u.ac.jp. (2)Sumitomo Hospital, 5-3-20 Nakanoshima, Kita-Ku,
Osaka 530-0005, Japan. Electronic address: matsuzawa-yuji@sumitomo-hp.or.jp.

Adiponectin is an adipocyte-derived plasma protein with cardio-vasculo-protective
and anti-diabetic properties. Plasma adiponectin levels are low in patients with 
the cardiometabolic syndrome (a cluster of multiple risk factors based on
visceral fat accumulation). Routine measurement of plasma adiponectin may be
useful to encourage life-style changes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2013.09.002 
PMID: 24417949  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Klin Med (Mosk). 2013;91(6):63-7.

[Obesity and diseases of digestive organs].

[Article in Russian]

Luzina EV, Tomina EA, Zhilina AA.

Obesity is non-infectious pandemic. Its association with cardiovascular pathology
is especially widely discussed, but an overweight patient is actually polymorbid.
An increase of body mass provides a pathogenetic basis for many diseases
including those of digestive system This review deals with pathogenesis, clinical
features, and treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, cholelithiasis and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in obese patients. This pathology and its
aggravation result from such pathophysiological processes as a rise in
intra-abdominal pressure, excess adipokine, cholesterol and free fatty acid
synthesis, activation of lipid peroxidation. Gastroesophageal reflux disease in
obese patients has an atypical clinical course characterized by discrepancy
between clinical, endoscopic and morphological features in oesophagus and
frequent formation of Barrett's oesophagus. Cholelethiasis in obesity is fraught 
with further progress of the disease after prescription of low-fat diet. The risk
of calculi formation can be reduced by prescription of ursodeoxycholic acid that 
produces both litholytic and hypolipidemic effects. Treatment of non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease requires combined therapy with statins, insulin sensitizers, 
hepatoprotectors and adequate physical activity. Sustained remission of diseases 
of digestive organs is impossible without correction of body mass and their
pharmacotherapy requires increasing doses of medicines and duration of their
administration.


PMID: 24417071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


825. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Dec 28;19(48):9198-208. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v19.i48.9198.

Long-term survival after liver transplantation for alcoholic liver disease.

Iruzubieta P(1), Crespo J(1), Fábrega E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Paula Iruzubieta, Javier Crespo, Emilio Fábrega, Gastroenterology and
Hepatology Unit, Marqués de Valdecilla University Hospital, Instituto de
Formación e Investigación Marqués de Valdecilla (IFIMAV), 39008 Santander,
Cantabria, Spain.

Currently, alcoholic cirrhosis is the second leading indication for liver
transplantation in the United States and Europe. The quality of life and survival
after a liver transplantation (LT) in patients with alcoholic liver disease (ALD)
are similar to those in patients with other cirrhosis etiologies. The alcoholic
relapse rate after a LT varies from 10%-50%, and these relapse patients are the
ones who present a reduced long-term survival, mainly due to cardiovascular
diseases and the onset of de novo neoplasms, including lung and upper
aerodigestive tract. Nearly 40% of ALD recipients resume smoking and resume it
early post-LT. Therefore, our pre-and post-LT follow-up efforts regarding ALD
should be focused not only on alcoholic relapse but also on treating and avoiding
other modifiable risk factors such as tobacco. The psychiatric and psychosocial
pre-LT evaluation and the post-LT follow-up with physicians, psychiatrists and
addiction specialists are important for reversing these problems because these
professionals help to identify patients at risk for relapse as well as those
patients who have relapsed, thus enabling responsive actions.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i48.9198 
PMCID: PMC3882394
PMID: 24409048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


826. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Dec 28;19(48):9146-55. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i48.9146.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and liver transplantation: outcomes and
advances.

Said A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Adnan Said, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of
Medicine, Transplant Hepatology, School of Medicine and Public Health, University
of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53705, United States.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most prevalent causes of 
chronic liver disease worldwide. In the last decade it has become the third most 
common indication for liver transplantation in the United States. Increasing
prevalence of NAFLD in the general population also poses a risk to organ
donation, as allograft steatosis can be associated with non-function of the
graft. Post-transplant survival is comparable between NAFLD and non-NAFLD causes 
of liver disease, although long term outcomes beyond 10 year are lacking. NAFLD
can recur in the allograft frequently although thus far post transplant survival 
has not been impacted. De novo NAFLD can also occur in the allograft of patients 
transplanted for non-NAFLD liver disease. Predictors for NAFLD post-transplant
recurrence include obesity, hyperlipidemia and diabetes as well as steroid dose
after liver transplantation. A polymorphism in PNPLA3 that mediates triglyceride 
hydrolysis and is linked to pre-transplant risk of obesity and NAFLD has also
been linked to post transplant NAFLD risk. Although immunosuppression side
effects potentiate obesity and the metabolic syndrome, studies of
immunosuppression modulation and trials of specific immunosuppression regimens
post-transplant are lacking in this patient population. Based on pre-transplant
data, sustained weight loss through diet and exercise is the most effective
therapy for NAFLD. Other agents occasionally utilized in NAFLD prior to
transplantation include vitamin E and insulin-sensitizing agents. Studies of
these therapies are lacking in the post-transplant population. A multimodality
and multidisciplinary approach to treatment should be utilized in management of
post-transplant NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i48.9146 
PMCID: PMC3882389
PMID: 24409043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Jan 7;15(1):684-711. doi: 10.3390/ijms15010684.

Meta-omic platforms to assist in the understanding of NAFLD gut microbiota
alterations: tools and applications.

Del Chierico F(1), Gnani D(2), Vernocchi P(3), Petrucca A(4), Alisi A(5),
Dallapiccola B(6), Nobili V(7), Lorenza P(8).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Parasitology, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza
Sant'Onofrio, 4, Rome 00165, Italy. federica.delchierico@opbg.net. (2)Unit of
Parasitology, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza Sant'Onofrio, 4,
Rome 00165, Italy. daniela.gnani@yahoo.it. (3)Unit of Parasitology, Bambino Gesù 
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza Sant'Onofrio, 4, Rome 00165, Italy.
pamela.vernocchi@opbg.net. (4)Unit of Parasitology, Bambino Gesù Children's
Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza Sant'Onofrio, 4, Rome 00165, Italy.
andrea_petrucca@yahoo.com. (5)Unit of Parasitology, Bambino Gesù Children's
Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza Sant'Onofrio, 4, Rome 00165, Italy. anna.alisi@opbg.net. 
(6)Unit of Parasitology, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza
Sant'Onofrio, 4, Rome 00165, Italy. bruno.dallapiccola@opbg.net. (7)Unit of
Parasitology, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza Sant'Onofrio, 4,
Rome 00165, Italy. valerio.nobili@opbg.net. (8)Unit of Parasitology, Bambino Gesù
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza Sant'Onofrio, 4, Rome 00165, Italy.
lorenza.putignani@opbg.net.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease worldwide as a result of the increasing prevalence of obesity,
starting from early life stages. It is characterized by a spectrum of liver
diseases ranging from simple fatty liver (NAFL) to steatohepatitis (NASH), with a
possible progression to fibrosis, thus increasing liver-related morbidity and
mortality. NAFLD development is driven by the co-action of several risk factors, 
including obesity and metabolic syndrome, which may be both genetically induced
and diet-related. Recently, particular attention has been paid to the gut-liver
axis, which may play a physio-pathological role in the onset and progression of
the disease. The gut microbiota is intended to act as a bioreactor that can
guarantee autonomous metabolic and immunological functions and that can drive
functional strategies within the environment of the body in response to external 
stimuli. The complexity of the gut microbiota suggests that it behaves as an
organ. Therefore, the concept of the gut-liver axis must be complemented with the
gut-microbiota-liver network due to the high intricacy of the microbiota
components and metabolic activities; these activities form the active diet-driven
power plant of the host. Such complexity can only be revealed using systems
biology, which can integrate clinical phenomics and gut microbiota data.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms15010684 
PMCID: PMC3907832
PMID: 24402126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Atherosclerosis. 2014 Jan;232(1):99-109. doi:
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.10.030. Epub 2013 Nov 6.

Cardiovascular risk, lipidemic phenotype and steatosis. A comparative analysis of
cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic liver disease due to varying etiology.

Loria P(1), Marchesini G(2), Nascimbeni F(3), Ballestri S(3), Maurantonio M(3),
Carubbi F(3), Ratziu V(4), Lonardo A(5).

Author information: 
(1)University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy; Azienda USL MODENA, Italy.
Electronic address: paola.loria@unimore.it. (2)University of Bologna, Italy.
(3)University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy; Azienda USL MODENA, Italy.
(4)INSERM Salpetriere, France. (5)University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy; 
Azienda USL MODENA, Italy. Electronic address: a.lonardo@ausl.mo.it.

BACKGROUND: Liver regulates lipid metabolism in health and disease states.
Nevertheless, the entity of cardiovascular risk (CVR) resulting from
dysregulation of lipid metabolism secondary to liver disease is poorly
characterized.
AIM AND METHODS: To review, based on a PubMed literature search, the features and
the determinants of serum lipid phenotype and its correlation with hepatic
steatosis, insulin resistance (IR) and CVR across the wide spectrum of the most
common chronic liver diseases due to different etiologies.
RESULTS: Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is associated with steatosis, IR and a
typical lipid profile. The relationship between alcohol intake, incident type 2
diabetes (T2D) and CVR describes a J-shaped curve. Non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD), and probably nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in particular, 
is associated with IR, atherogenic dyslipidemia and increased CVR independent of 
traditional risk factors. Moreover, NASH-cirrhosis and T2D contribute to
increasing CVR in liver transplant recipients. HBV infection is generally free
from IR, steatosis and CVR. HCV-associated dysmetabolic syndrome, featuring
steatosis, hypocholesterolemia and IR, appears to be associated with
substantially increased CVR. Hyperlipidemia is an almost universal finding in
primary biliary cirrhosis, a condition typically spared from steatosis and
associated with neither subclinical atherosclerosis nor excess CVR. Finally,
little is known on CVR in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.
CONCLUSIONS: CVR is increased in ALD, NAFLD and chronic HCV infection, all
conditions featuring IR and steatosis. Therefore, irrespective of serum lipid
phenotype, hepatic steatosis and IR may be major shared determinants in
amplifying CVR in common liver disease due to varying etiology.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.10.030 
PMID: 24401223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


829. J Cell Mol Med. 2014 Feb;18(2):197-207. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.12223. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

The functional role of microRNAs in alcoholic liver injury.

McDaniel K(1), Herrera L, Zhou T, Francis H, Han Y, Levine P, Lin E, Glaser S,
Alpini G, Meng F.

Author information: 
(1)Research, Central Texas Veterans Health Care System, Temple, TX, USA;
Department of Medicine, Scott & White Digestive Disease Research Center, Texas
A&M University Health Science Center and Scott & White Healthcare, Temple, TX,
USA; Academic Operations, Scott & White Hospital, Temple, TX, USA.

The function of microRNAs (miRNAs) during alcoholic liver disease (ALD) has
recently become of great interest in biological research. Studies have shown that
ALD associated miRNAs play a crucial role in the regulation of liver-inflammatory
agents such as tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), one of the key inflammatory 
agents responsible for liver fibrosis (liver scarring) and the critical
contributor of alcoholic liver disease. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a component of 
the cell wall of gram-negative bacteria, is responsible for TNF-α release by
Kupffer cells. miRNAs are the critical mediators of LPS signalling in Kupffer
cells, hepatocytes and hepatic stellate cells. Certain miRNAs, in particular
miR-155 and miR-21, show a positive correlation in up-regulation of LPS
signalling when they are exposed to ethanol. ALD is related to enhanced gut
permeability that allows the levels of LPS to increase, leads to increased
secretion of TNF-α by the Kupffer cells and subsequently promotes alcoholic liver
injury through specific miRNAs. Meanwhile, two of the most frequently
dysregulated miRNAs in steatohepatitis, miR-122 and miR-34a are the critical
mediators in ethanol/LPS activated survival signalling during ALD. In this
review, we summarize recent findings regarding the experimental and clinical
aspects of functions of specific microRNAs, focusing mainly on inflammation and
cell survival after ethanol/LPS treatment, and advances on the role of
circulating miRNAs in human alcoholic disorders.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.12223 
PMCID: PMC3930407
PMID: 24400890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 May;11(5):300-7. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2013.247. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Liver transplantation for alcoholic liver disease.

Lucey MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, 1685 Highland
Avenue, Suite 4000, Madison, WI 53705-2281, USA.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is the major cause of life-threatening liver
disease in Western countries. Abstinence from alcohol is the foundation of all
treatment programmes for patients with ALD. Liver transplantation is a valuable
option for patients with life-threatening ALD. Although the role of liver
transplantation in the treatment of alcoholic hepatitis that is unresponsive to
medical therapy is controversial, the latest prospective studies support this
approach. No single measure gives a reliable estimate of the risk of drinking
relapses before or after liver transplantation, but careful evaluation by an
addiction specialist with a particular interest in transplant medicine is the
best available approach. Survival, both on the waiting list and after the
operation, is better in patients with ALD than in patients with HCV infection.
Alcohol relapse may lead to liver damage and increased mortality, albeit usually 
after many years of renewed drinking. After liver transplantation, patients with 
ALD have increased rates of mortality and morbidity that are attributable to
cardiovascular disease and new-onset cancers of the aerodigestive tract. The
latter are probably linked to the high prevalence of smoking in this population. 
Cessation of smoking is thus an important goal in the care of patients with ALD
after they have undergone liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2013.247 
PMID: 24393837  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Liver Int. 2014 Jul;34(6):e10-8. doi: 10.1111/liv.12457. Epub 2014 Jan 27.

Endoplasmic reticulum stress and angiogenesis: is there an interaction between
them?

Paridaens A(1), Laukens D, Vandewynckel YP, Coulon S, Van Vlierberghe H, Geerts
A, Colle I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Ghent University, Ghent,
Belgium.

When cells are subjected to stress by changes in their extracellular environment,
unfolded proteins accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), causing ER
stress. This initiates the unfolded protein response (UPR), a signal transduction
cascade aiming at restoring cellular homeostasis. The UPR and angiogenesis are
involved in the pathogenesis of many diseases such as cancer, pulmonary diseases 
and chronic liver diseases (CLDs) including alcoholic liver disease,
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and hepatitis B. This review summarizes the
upcoming knowledge of the interaction between the UPR and angiogenesis in
physiological angiogenesis and in different CLDs and other diseases.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12457 
PMID: 24393274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Mediators Inflamm. 2013;2013:495156. doi: 10.1155/2013/495156. Epub 2013 Dec 9.

The effect of inflammatory cytokines in alcoholic liver disease.

Kawaratani H(1), Tsujimoto T(1), Douhara A(1), Takaya H(1), Moriya K(1), Namisaki
T(1), Noguchi R(1), Yoshiji H(1), Fujimoto M(1), Fukui H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, Nara Medical University, 840 Shijo-cho,
Kashihara, Nara 634-8522, Japan.

Alcohol is the most common cause of liver disease in the world. Chronic alcohol
consumption leads to hepatocellular injury and liver inflammation. Inflammatory
cytokines, such as TNF-α and IFN-γ, induce liver injury in the rat model of
alcoholic liver disease (ALD). Hepatoprotective cytokines, such as IL-6, and
anti-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-10, are also associated with ALD. IL-6
improves ALD via activation of the signal transducer and activator of
transcription 3 (STAT3) and the subsequent induction of a variety of
hepatoprotective genes in hepatocytes. IL-10 inhibits alcoholic liver
inflammation via activation of STAT3 in Kupffer cells and the subsequent
inhibition of liver inflammation. Alcohol consumption promotes liver inflammation
by increasing translocation of gut-derived endotoxins to the portal circulation
and activating Kupffer cells through the LPS/Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 pathways.
Oxidative stress and microflora products are also associated with ALD.
Interactions between pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines and other cytokines and
chemokines are likely to play important roles in the development of ALD. The
present study aims to conduct a systemic review of ALD from the aspect of
inflammation.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/495156 
PMCID: PMC3872233
PMID: 24385684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Adv Ther. 2014 Jan;31(1):30-43. doi: 10.1007/s12325-013-0084-6. Epub 2014 Jan 3.

Effect of metformin on ballooning degeneration in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH): when to use metformin in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).

Doycheva I(1), Loomba R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA.

The key histologic feature of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is
hepatocellular ballooning (HB). It plays an important role in NASH progression
and is an independent predictor of liver mortality. In this review, we identified
all studies using metformin in the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 
(NAFLD) that included pre- and post-treatment liver biopsies. We specifically
reviewed the effects of metformin on HB. Improved HB was noted in pediatric
populations and in those adult patients who were able to lose weight and improve 
or normalize transaminases during therapy. Previous studies have supported the
beneficial effects of metformin in reduction of body weight, improvement of
insulin resistance, prevention of complications related to diabetes and
chemo-preventive benefits in reducing hepatocellular carcinoma. All these effects
make it an attractive treatment consideration for patients with diabetes, and
prediabetes who have co-existing NAFLD. Future studies are warranted in order to 
confirm this effect of metformin on HB and its association with improving
long-term outcomes in patients with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-013-0084-6 
PMID: 24385405  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2014 May;29:148-57. doi: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2013.12.015. Epub 
2013 Dec 30.

Nuclear envelope-related lipodystrophies.

Guénantin AC(1), Briand N(2), Bidault G(3), Afonso P(4), Béréziat V(5), Vatier
C(6), Lascols O(7), Caron-Debarle M(8), Capeau J(9), Vigouroux C(10).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UMR_S938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, F-75012 Paris, France;
ICAN, Institute of Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, France. Electronic
address: anne.claire.guenantin@inserm.fr. (2)INSERM UMR_S938, Centre de Recherche
Saint-Antoine, F-75012 Paris, France; ICAN, Institute of Cardiometabolism and
Nutrition, Paris, France. Electronic address: nolwenn.briand@inserm.fr. (3)INSERM
UMR_S938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, F-75012 Paris, France; ICAN,
Institute of Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, France; Sorbonne Universités,
UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S938, F-75005 Paris, France. Electronic address:
guillaume.bidault@inserm.fr. (4)INSERM UMR_S938, Centre de Recherche
Saint-Antoine, F-75012 Paris, France; ICAN, Institute of Cardiometabolism and
Nutrition, Paris, France; Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S938,
F-75005 Paris, France. Electronic address: pauline.afonso@inserm.fr. (5)INSERM
UMR_S938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, F-75012 Paris, France; ICAN,
Institute of Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, France; Sorbonne Universités,
UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S938, F-75005 Paris, France. Electronic address:
veronique.bereziat@inserm.fr. (6)INSERM UMR_S938, Centre de Recherche
Saint-Antoine, F-75012 Paris, France; ICAN, Institute of Cardiometabolism and
Nutrition, Paris, France; Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S938,
F-75005 Paris, France. Electronic address: camille.vatier@inserm.fr. (7)INSERM
UMR_S938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, F-75012 Paris, France; ICAN,
Institute of Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, France; Sorbonne Universités,
UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S938, F-75005 Paris, France; AP-HP, Hôpital
Saint-Antoine, Laboratoire Commun de Biologie et Génétique Moléculaires, F-75012 
Paris, France. Electronic address: olivier.lascols@inserm.fr. (8)INSERM UMR_S938,
Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, F-75012 Paris, France; ICAN, Institute of
Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, France; Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ
Paris 06, UMR_S938, F-75005 Paris, France. Electronic address:
martine.debarle@inserm.fr. (9)INSERM UMR_S938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine,
F-75012 Paris, France; ICAN, Institute of Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, 
France; Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S938, F-75005 Paris,
France; AP-HP, Hôpital Tenon, Service de Biochimie et Hormonologie, F-75020
Paris, France. Electronic address: jacqueline.capeau@inserm.fr. (10)INSERM
UMR_S938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, F-75012 Paris, France; ICAN,
Institute of Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, France; Sorbonne Universités,
UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S938, F-75005 Paris, France; AP-HP, Hôpital Tenon,
Service de Biochimie et Hormonologie, F-75020 Paris, France. Electronic address: 
corinne.vigouroux@inserm.fr.

Several alterations in nuclear envelope proteins building up the lamina meshwork 
beneath the inner nuclear membrane (mutations in lamins A/C, alterations of
prelamin-A maturation, lamin B mutations or deregulation) have been shown to be
responsible for or associated to human lipodystrophic syndromes. Lipodystrophic
syndromes are rare and heterogeneous diseases, either genetic or acquired,
characterized by generalized or partial fat atrophy associated with metabolic
complications comprising insulin-resistant diabetes, dyslipidemia, and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Recent advances in the molecular genetics of
different types of lipodystrophies generally pointed to primary adipocyte
alterations leading to impaired adipogenesis and/or deregulation of the adipocyte
lipid droplet. However, the precise mechanisms linking nuclear envelope
abnormalities to lipodystrophies remain largely unknown. The phenotype of nuclear
envelope-linked lipodystrophies ranges from the typical familial partial
lipodystrophy of the Dunnigan type (FPLD2), due to heterozygous substitutions of 
the 482nd arginine of lamins A/C, to complex diseases that can combine
lipodystrophy, metabolic complications, muscular or cardiac alterations and/or
signs of accelerated aging. In this review we present the clinical, tissular and 
cellular characteristics of the nuclear envelope-linked lipodystrophies, as well 
as their hypothetical pathophysiological mechanisms.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2013.12.015 
PMID: 24384368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Biochem Pharmacol. 2014 Apr 15;88(4):548-59. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.12.012. Epub
2013 Dec 28.

Brain metabolic dysfunction at the core of Alzheimer's disease.

de la Monte SM(1), Tong M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pathology (Neuropathology), Rhode Island Hospital and the
Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI, USA;
Departments of Neurology, Rhode Island Hospital and the Warren Alpert Medical
School of Brown University, Providence, RI, USA; Departments of Neurosurgery,
Rhode Island Hospital and the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University,
Providence, RI, USA; Departments of Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital and the
Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI, USA. Electronic
address: Suzanne_DeLaMonte_MD@Brown.edu. (2)Departments of Medicine, Rhode Island
Hospital and the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence,
RI, USA.

Growing evidence supports the concept that Alzheimer's disease (AD) is
fundamentally a metabolic disease with molecular and biochemical features that
correspond with diabetes mellitus and other peripheral insulin resistance
disorders. Brain insulin/IGF resistance and its consequences can readily account 
for most of the structural and functional abnormalities in AD. However, disease
pathogenesis is complicated by the fact that AD can occur as a separate disease
process, or arise in association with systemic insulin resistance diseases,
including diabetes, obesity, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Whether
primary or secondary in origin, brain insulin/IGF resistance initiates a cascade 
of neurodegeneration that is propagated by metabolic dysfunction, increased
oxidative and ER stress, neuro-inflammation, impaired cell survival, and
dysregulated lipid metabolism. These injurious processes compromise neuronal and 
glial functions, reduce neurotransmitter homeostasis, and cause toxic oligomeric 
pTau and (amyloid beta peptide of amyloid beta precursor protein) AβPP-Aβ fibrils
and insoluble aggregates (neurofibrillary tangles and plaques) to accumulate in
brain. AD progresses due to: (1) activation of a harmful positive feedback loop
that progressively worsens the effects of insulin resistance; and (2) the
formation of ROS- and RNS-related lipid, protein, and DNA adducts that
permanently damage basic cellular and molecular functions. Epidemiologic data
suggest that insulin resistance diseases, including AD, are exposure-related in
etiology. Furthermore, experimental and lifestyle trend data suggest chronic
low-level nitrosamine exposures are responsible. These concepts offer
opportunities to discover and implement new treatments and devise preventive
measures to conquer the AD and other insulin resistance disease epidemics.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.12.012 
PMCID: PMC4550323
PMID: 24380887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


836. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Dec 21;19(47):8831-49. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i47.8831.

Hierarchical and selective roles of galectins in hepatocarcinogenesis, liver
fibrosis and inflammation of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Bacigalupo ML(1), Manzi M(1), Rabinovich GA(1), Troncoso MF(1).

Author information: 
(1)María L Bacigalupo, Malena Manzi, María F Troncoso, Institute of Biological
Chemistry and Biophysics "Prof. Alejandro C. Paladini" (UBA-CONICET), Department 
of Biological Chemistry, School of Pharmacy and Biochemistry, University of
Buenos Aires, C1113AAD, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents a global health problem. Infections
with hepatitis B or C virus, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis disease, alcohol
abuse, or dietary exposure to aflatoxin are the major risk factors to the
development of this tumor. Regardless of the carcinogenic insult, HCC usually
develops in a context of cirrhosis due to chronic inflammation and advanced
fibrosis. Galectins are a family of evolutionarily-conserved proteins defined by 
at least one carbohydrate recognition domain with affinity for β-galactosides and
conserved sequence motifs. Here, we summarize the current literature implicating 
galectins in the pathogenesis of HCC. Expression of "proto-type" galectin-1,
"chimera-type" galectin-3 and "tandem repeat-type" galectin-4 is up-regulated in 
HCC cells compared to their normal counterparts. On the other hand, the
"tandem-repeat-type" lectins galectin-8 and galectin-9 are down-regulated in
tumor hepatocytes. The abnormal expression of these galectins correlates with
tumor growth, HCC cell migration and invasion, tumor aggressiveness, metastasis, 
postoperative recurrence and poor prognosis. Moreover, these galectins have
important roles in other pathological conditions of the liver, where chronic
inflammation and/or fibrosis take place. Galectin-based therapies have been
proposed to attenuate liver pathologies. Further functional studies are required 
to delineate the precise molecular mechanisms through which galectins contribute 
to HCC.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i47.8831 
PMCID: PMC3870534
PMID: 24379606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Orv Hetil. 2014 Jan 5;155(1):16-23. doi: 10.1556/OH.2014.29793.

[The role of fetuin-A in cardiovascular diseases].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Vörös K(1), Cseh K(2), Kalabay L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar Családorvosi Tanszék Budapest
Kútvölgyi út 4. 1125. (2)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar
Népegészségtani Intézet Budapest.

Fetuin-A (also known as α2-Heremans-Schmid glycoprotein) is a multifunctional
molecule secreted by the liver. It is a negative acute phase reactant with a
debated role in subclinical inflammation. Fetuin-A is an inhibitor of the insulin
receptor and its serum level correlates with insulin resistance. The protein has 
been implicated in adipocyte dysfunction and it is associated with obesity and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Although all these properties seem to promote 
atherosclerosis, the role of fetuin-A in cardiovascular diseases is more complex.
As a natural inhibitor of tissue and vascular calcification, fetuin-A also acts
as a protective factor in atherosclerosis. The potential role and prognostic
value of fetuin-A in arterial calcification and cardiovascular diseases is
discussed in this review, along with explanations for seemingly contradicting
results in the literature and possible directions for future research.

Publisher: A máj által termelt fetuin-A (eredeti nevén
α2-Heremans–Schmid-glikoprotein) szerteágazó funkciókkal bíró molekula. Bár
negatív akutfázis-fehérje, szerepe a szubklinikus gyulladásban vitatott. Gátolja 
az inzulinreceptor autofoszforilációját, szérumkoncentrációja korrelál az
inzulinrezisztenciával. A zsírsejtek működészavarát okozza. Szérumszintje
összefügg az elhízással és a nem alkoholos zsírmájbetegséggel. Bár ezen
tulajdonságai alapján azt várnánk, hogy az atherosclerosis progresszióját segíti,
cardiovascularis betegségekben játszott szerepe ennél összetettebb. A fetuin-A a 
szöveti és a vascularis kalcifikáció természetes gátlómolekulájaként az
atherosclerosisban védő szerepet tölt be. A szerzők a fetuin-A
artériakalcifikációban és cardiovascularis betegségekben betöltött szerepét és
prognosztikai értékét tekintik át, kitérve az ellentmondásosnak tűnő irodalmi
eredmények magyarázatára és a lehetséges jövőbeni kutatási irányokra is. Orv.
Hetil., 2014, 155(1), 16–23.
DOI: 10.1556/OH.2014.29793 
PMID: 24379092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Nutrients. 2013 Dec 27;6(1):124-62. doi: 10.3390/nu6010124.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and hepatocellular carcinoma: implications for
lycopene intervention.

Ip BC(1), Wang XD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition and Cancer Biology Laboratory, Jean Mayer United States Department
of Agriculture Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging at Tufts University,
Boston, MA 02111, USA. blanche.ip@tufts.edu. (2)Nutrition and Cancer Biology
Laboratory, Jean Mayer United States Department of Agriculture Human Nutrition
Research Center on Aging at Tufts University, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
Xiang-Dong.Wang@tufts.edu.

Increased prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the
consequences of the current obesity epidemic. NAFLD is a major form of chronic
liver disease that is highly prevalent in obese and overweight adults and
children. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is the severe form of NAFLD, and
uncontrolled inflammation as displayed in NASH has been identified as one of the 
key events in enhancing hepatic carcinogenesis. Lycopene is a non-provitamin A
carotenoid and the pigment principally responsible for the characteristic
deep-red color of ripe tomato and tomato products, as well as some fruits and
vegetables. Lycopene's innate antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties have
generated research interests on its capacity to protect against human diseases
that are associated with oxidative stress and inflammation. In addition,
differential mechanisms of lycopene metabolism including endogenous cleavage by
carotenoid cleavage oxygenases (BCOs), generate lycopene metabolites that may
also have significant impact on human disease development. However, it remains to
be elucidated as to whether lycopene or its metabolites apolycopenoids have
protective effects against obesity-related complications including inflammation
and tumorigenesis. This article summarizes the in vivo experiments that
elucidated molecular mechanisms associated with obesity-related hepatic
inflammation and carcinogenesis. This review also provides an overview of
lycopene metabolism, and the molecular pathways involved in the potential
beneficial properties of lycopene and apolycopenoids. More research is clearly
needed to fully unravel the importance of BCOs in tomato carotenoid metabolism
and the consequence on human health and diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/nu6010124 
PMCID: PMC3916853
PMID: 24379011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2014 Apr;25(2):133-9. doi: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000038.

Cholesterol precursors: more than mere markers of biosynthesis.

Brown AJ(1), Ikonen E, Olkkonen VM.

Author information: 
(1)aSchool of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, The University of New
South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia bInstitute of Biomedicine,
Anatomy, University of Helsinki cMinerva Foundation Institute for Medical
Research, Helsinki, Finland.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Circulating levels of cholesterol precursors in the body have 
proven their value over the years as indicators of in-vivo cholesterol synthesis.
However, there is growing interest in their potential as markers of various
disease states. The purpose of this review is to evaluate current literature on
cholesterol precursors as disease markers.
RECENT FINDINGS: Firstly, we focus on studies linking circulating squalene with
the risk of cardiovascular disease. Secondly, we explore the interplay between
cholesterol precursors (7-dehydrocholesterol and desmosterol) and the enzymes
that act upon them (DHCR7 and DHCR24) in the context of liver disease. For
instance, recent findings indicate that circulating desmosterol is elevated in
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. This may be linked to this regulatory cholesterol
precursor being produced in and effluxed from hepatocytes, or alternatively from 
lipid-laden hepatic macrophages (Kupffer cells), which play an important role in 
the cause of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Desmosterol is also implicated in
Hepatitis C virus replication, and hence may also be involved in viral fatty
liver disease, possibly contributing to virus pathogenicity and/or host defense. 
Furthermore, there is increasing evidence that the activity of DHCR7 may affect
chronic liver diseases by influencing vitamin D levels.
SUMMARY: Beyond their accepted application as markers of cholesterol synthesis,
cholesterol precursors have potential both as disease indicators, and for
providing deeper insights into the disease process.

DOI: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000038 
PMID: 24378747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Dec 27;(12):CD008623. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD008623.pub2.

Statins for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Eslami L(1), Merat S, Malekzadeh R, Nasseri-Moghaddam S, Aramin H.

Author information: 
(1)Golestan University of Medical Science, Taleghani Hospital, North Khayyam
crossroad, East Taleghani Avenue, Gonbad e Kavous, Golestan province, Iran,
49791-31983.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) are common causes of elevated liver enzymes in the general
population. NASH and to some extent NAFLD have been associated with increased
liver-related and all-cause mortality. No effective treatment is yet available.
Recent reports have shown that the use of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A
(HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) in patients with elevated plasma
aminotransferases may result in normalisation of these liver enzymes. Whether
this is a consistent effect or whether it can lead to improved clinical outcomes 
beyond normalisation of abnormal liver enzymes is not clear.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the beneficial and harmful effects of statins (that is,
lovastatin, atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, and
fluvastatin) on all-cause and liver-related mortality, adverse events, and
histological, biochemical, and imaging responses in patients with NAFLD or NASH.
SEARCH METHODS: We performed a computerised literature search in the Cochrane
Hepato-Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Science
Citation Index Expanded up to March 2013. We did fully recursive searches from
the reference lists of all retrieved relevant publications to ensure a complete
and comprehensive search of the published literature. We did not apply any
restrictions regarding language of publication or publication date.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised clinical trials using statins as the primary
treatment for NAFLD or NASH versus no treatment, placebo, or other hypolipidaemic
agents.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data were extracted, and risk of bias of each trial
was assessed independently by two or more review authors. Meta-analyses were
performed whenever possible. Review Manager 5.2 was used.
MAIN RESULTS: When the described search method was used and the eligibility
criteria of the search results were applied, 653 records were found. Only two of 
these were randomised clinical trials that were considered eligible for
inclusion. We assessed both trials as trials with high risk of bias. One of the
trials was a pilot trial in which 16 participants with biopsy-proven NASH were
randomised to receive simvastatin 40 mg (n = 10) or placebo (n = 6) once daily
for 12 months. No statistically significant improvement in the aminotransferase
level was seen in the simvastatin group compared with the placebo group. Liver
histology was not significantly affected by simvastatin.The other trial had three
arms. The trial compared atorvastatin 20 mg daily (n = 63) versus fenofibrate 200
mg daily (n = 62) versus a group treated with a combination of the two
interventions (n = 61). There were no statistically significant differences
between any of the three intervention groups regarding the week 54 mean activity 
levels of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyl
transpeptidase, and alkaline phosphatase. The triglyceride levels seemed higher
in the fenofibrate group compared with the atorvastatin group. Liver histology
was not assessed in this trial. The presence of biochemical and ultrasonographic 
evidence of NAFLD seemed to be higher in the fenofibrate group compared with the 
atorvastatin group (58% versus 33%). Three patients discontinued treatment due to
myalgia and elevated serum creatine kinase activity; one from the atorvastatin
group and two from the combination group. Another patient from the atorvastatin
group discontinued treatment due to alanine aminotransferase activity that was
over three times the upper normal limit.No data for all-cause mortality and
hepatic-related mortality were reported in the included trials.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings of this review, which included two
trials with high risk of bias and a small numbers of participants, it seems
possible that statins may improve serum aminotransferase levels as well as
ultrasound findings. Neither of the trials reported on possible histological
changes, liver-related morbidity or mortality. Trials with larger sample sizes
and low risk of bias are necessary before we may suggest statins as an effective 
treatment for patients with NASH. However, as statins can improve the adverse
outcomes of other conditions commonly associated with NASH (for example,
hyperlipidaemia, diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome), their use in patients
with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis may be justified.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008623.pub2 
PMID: 24374462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Cancer Lett. 2014 Apr 28;346(1):17-23. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.12.024. Epub
2013 Dec 25.

Multiple interactive factors in hepatocarcinogenesis.

Ding J(1), Wang H(2).

Author information: 
(1)International Cooperation Laboratory on Signal Transduction, Eastern
Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital/Institute, Second Military Medical University,
Shanghai 200433, China; National Center for Liver Cancer, Shanghai 200433, China.
Electronic address: dingjin1103@163.com. (2)International Cooperation Laboratory 
on Signal Transduction, Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital/Institute, Second 
Military Medical University, Shanghai 200433, China; National Center for Liver
Cancer, Shanghai 200433, China. Electronic address: hywangk@vip.sina.com.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most prevalent cancer and the third
most frequent cause of cancer mortality globally. Each year there are
approximately 630,000 new cases of HCC in the world and more than half of the new
cases occur in China. Major risk factors of HCC include HBV or HCV infection,
alcoholic liver disease, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Most of these risk
factors lead to chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis, which is present in 80-90% of
HCC patients. Hepatocarcinogenesis has been regarded as a multi-stage process
involving multiple genetic or environmental factors. Interaction and
cross-regulation of distinct factors synergistically contributes to HCC
occurrence. A comprehensive knowledge on the multiple factors and their
interaction in hepatocarcinogenesis is necessary to improve the effectiveness of 
HCC intervention. In this review, we will focus on the recent progress made in
understanding the mechanisms of hepatocarcinogenesis and discuss some potential
issues or challenges in this area.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.12.024 
PMID: 24374016  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi. 2014;37(5):390-7. doi: 10.2177/jsci.37.390.

[Cellular senescence and chronic inflammation].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohtani N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biological Science, Faculty of Science and Technology,
Tokyo University of Science.

It has recently become apparent that obesity is associated with chronic
inflammation and several common types of cancer development. Although several
events were proposed to be involved in these pathologies, the precise mechanisms 
underlying obesity-associated inflammation and cancer largely remain unclear.
Here, we show that senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) plays crucial
roles in promoting obesity-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development 
in mice. Dietary or genetic obesity induces alterations of gut microbiota,
thereby increasing the levels of a bacterial metabolite that cause DNA damage.
The enterohepatic circulation of the bacterial metabolites provokes SASP
phenotype in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), which in turn, secretes various
inflammatory and tumour promoting factors in the liver, thus facilitating HCC
development in mice after exposure to chemical carcinogen. Importantly, reducing 
gut bacteria efficiently prevents HCC development in obese mice. Similar results 
were also observed in mice lacking an SASP inducer or depleted of senescent HSCs,
indicating that the induction of SASP by the gut bacterial metabolite in HSCs
plays key roles in obesity-associated HCC development. Interestingly, moreover,
signs of SASP were also observed in the HSCs in the area of HCC arising in
patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), implying that a similar
pathway may contribute to at least certain aspects of obesity-associated HCC
development in humans as well. These findings provide valuable new insights into 
the development of obesity-associated cancer.

DOI: 10.2177/jsci.37.390 
PMID: 25744638  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Adv Clin Chem. 2014;67:47-71. doi: 10.1016/bs.acc.2014.09.006. Epub 2014 Nov 4.

Ethyl glucuronide and ethyl sulfate.

Walsham NE(1), Sherwood RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, University Hospital Lewisham, London,
United Kingdom. (2)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, King's College Hospital
NHS Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
roy.sherwood@nhs.net.

Alcohol misuse is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Although
clinical history, examination, and the use of self-report questionnaires may
identify subjects with harmful patterns of alcohol use, denial or under-reporting
of alcohol intake is common. Existing biomarkers for detecting alcohol misuse
include measurement of blood or urine ethanol for acute alcohol consumption, and 
carbohydrate-deficient transferrin and gamma-glutamyl transferase for chronic
alcohol misuse. There is a need for a biomarker that can detect excessive alcohol
consumption in the timeframe between 1 day and several weeks. Ethyl glucuronide
(EtG) is a direct metabolite of ethanol detectable in urine for up to 90 h and
longer in hair. Because EtG has high specificity for excess alcohol intake, it
has great potential for use in detecting "binge" drinking. Using urine or hair,
this noninvasive marker has a role in a variety of clinical and forensic
settings.

© 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.acc.2014.09.006 
PMID: 25735859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2014 Feb;25(1):61-6. doi: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000043.

Nutrition, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and the microbiome: recent progress
in the field.

Vos MB(1).

Author information: 
(1)aEmory University bChildren's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common
chronic liver disease worldwide and it has overlapping pathogenesis with diabetes
and cardiovascular disease. Reviewed here are recent advances in understanding
the contribution of diet and selected nutrients to NAFLD.
RECENT FINDINGS: To understand the effect of diet, the microbiome must be
considered because it is the interface of diet and the liver. Early studies
suggest that the characteristic of the microbiota is altered in NAFLD. Fructose
is a lipogenic carbohydrate that contributes to insulin resistance,
hypertriglyceridemia and appears to be associated with the severity of NAFLD.
Fructose absorption and malabsorption may alter the microbiota and could be
mediating effects on the liver. Lipids also have potent microbiome interactions
and could contribute to the benefit of diets emphasizing lipid changes. Several
new studies demonstrate that the Mediterranean diet and 'lifestyle change' are
effective in modestly improving NAFLD. A new study of 'lifestyle' in children
showed simultaneous improvement in cardiovascular disease risk measurements and
hepatic steatosis.
SUMMARY: Current data supports limiting sugar in the diet and 'lifestyle change' 
as a first-line treatment for NAFLD; however, the benefits from these appear to
be modest. The effects of diet on the liver are mediated through the microbiome
and expansion of research in this area is needed.

DOI: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000043 
PMCID: PMC3947892
PMID: 24366230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Acute Med. 2013;12(4):232-8.

The patient presenting with decompensated cirrhosis.

Berry PA(1), Thomson SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Consultant Gastroenterologist and Hepatologist, Frimley Park Hospital NHS
Foundation Trust.

The rates of liver disease in the UK are rising and hence more patients than ever
are presenting to acute medical units with potentially life threatening sequelae.
Early recognition and treatment of sepsis, kidney injury, bleeding and alcoholic 
hepatitis can significantly improve outcomes, but requires a comprehensive
approach to assessment. This patient cohort often suffers from a perceived
uniform poor prognosis, especially in alcohol related disease, but evidence for
this is changing and reassessment of prognosis after 48 hours of organ support
may be more accurate than that made 'at the front door'. This article summarises 
the most important complications of decompensated cirrhosis, their early
management, and presents a targeted system of care: 'RING Liver'--Renal failure, 
Infection, Nutrition, Gastrointestinal bleeding and transit, Liver
dysfunction/transplantation. Factors favouring transfer to tertiary units are
also explored.


PMID: 24364057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


846. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Dec 7;19(45):8238-46. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i45.8238.

Cross-talk between the thyroid and liver: a new target for nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease treatment.

Huang YY(1), Gusdon AM(1), Qu S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yue-Ye Huang, Shen Qu, Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Shanghai 10
People's Hospital, School of Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai 200072, China.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been recognized as the most common
liver metabolic disease, and it is also a burgeoning health problem that affects 
one-third of adults and is associated with obesity and insulin resistance now.
Thyroid hormone (TH) and its receptors play a fundamental role in lipid
metabolism and lipid accumulation in the liver. It is found that thyroid receptor
and its isoforms exhibit tissue-specific expression with a variety of functions. 
TRβ1 is predominantly expressed in the brain and adipose tissue and TRβ2 is the
major isoform in the liver, kidney and fat. They have different functions and
play important roles in lipid metabolism. Recently, there are many studies on the
treatment of NAFLD with TH and its analogues. We review here that thyroid hormone
and TR are a potential target for pharmacologic treatments. Lipid metabolism and 
lipid accumulation can be regulated and reversed by TH and its analogues.

© 2013 Baishideng Publishing Group Co., Limited. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i45.8238 
PMCID: PMC3857446
PMID: 24363514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Radiology. 2014 Jan;270(1):1-2. doi: 10.1148/radiol.13132294.

Science to Practice: can we diagnose nonalcoholic steatohepatitis with intravoxel
incoherent motion diffusion-weighted MR imaging?

Van Beers BE(1).

Author information: 
(1)IPMA Laboratory, U773 INSERM University Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité
Department of Radiology Beaujon University Hospital Paris Nord 100 Boulevard du
General Leclerc 92110 Clichy, France.

By showing that intravoxel incoherent motion parameters at diffusion-weighted
magnetic resonance (MR) imaging may be indicators of the microcirculatory changes
in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and fatty liver disease, Joo et al 
have taken a step forward in the validation of quantitative MR imaging parameters
as biomarkers of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and fatty liver disease. Further
steps, including standardization, validation, and multiparametric imaging, must
be taken before these parameters can be used as biomarkers in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.13132294 
PMID: 24354367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Biofactors. 2014 May-Jun;40(3):277-83. doi: 10.1002/biof.1154. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

Novel insights on interactions between folate and lipid metabolism.

da Silva RP(1), Kelly KB, Al Rajabi A, Jacobs RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Food and Nutritional Science, University of
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Folate is an essential B vitamin required for the maintenance of AdoMet-dependent
methylation. The liver is responsible for many methylation reactions that are
used for post-translational modification of proteins, methylation of DNA, and the
synthesis of hormones, creatine, carnitine, and phosphatidylcholine. Conditions
where methylation capacity is compromised, including folate deficiency, are
associated with impaired phosphatidylcholine synthesis resulting in non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease and steatohepatitis. In addition, folate intake and folate
status have been associated with changes in the expression of genes involved in
lipid metabolism, obesity, and metabolic syndrome. In this review, we provide
insight on the relationship between folate and lipid metabolism, and an outlook
for the future of lipid-related folate research.

© 2013 The Authors BioFactors published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of
International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/biof.1154 
PMCID: PMC4153959
PMID: 24353111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Semin Immunopathol. 2014 Jan;36(1):115-32. doi: 10.1007/s00281-013-0404-6. Epub
2013 Dec 14.

Microbiota and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Imajo K(1), Yoneda M, Ogawa Y, Wada K, Nakajima A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, 3-9 Fuku-ura, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, 236-0004, Japan.

The recent rise in obesity-related diseases, such as nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease and its strong association with microbiota, has elicited interest in the 
underlying mechanisms of these pathologies. Experimental models have highlighted 
several mechanisms connecting microbiota to the development of liver dysfunction 
in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) such as increased energy harvesting from
the diet, small intestine bacterial overgrowth, modulation of the intestinal
barrier by glucagon-like peptide-2 secretions, activation of innate immunity
through the lipopolysaccharide-CD14 axis caused by obesity-induced leptin,
periodontitis, and sterile inflammation. The manipulation of microbiota through
probiotics, prebiotics, antibiotics, and periodontitis treatment yields
encouraging results for the treatment of obesity, diabetes, and NASH, but data in
humans is scarce.

DOI: 10.1007/s00281-013-0404-6 
PMID: 24337650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Vaccine. 2013 Dec 27;31 Suppl 9:J15-20. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.045.

The inception, achievements, and implications of the China GAVI Alliance Project 
on Hepatitis B Immunization.

Kane MA(1), Hadler SC(2), Lee L(3), Shapiro CN(4), Cui F(5), Wang X(6), Kumar
R(7).

Author information: 
(1)Consultant on Immunization Policy, Mercer Island, WA, United States.
Electronic address: mark.a.kane@gmail.com. (2)Division of Bacterial Diseases,
NCIRD, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, United States.
(3)Consultant, Bethesda, MD, United States. (4)Office of Global Affairs,
Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, DC, United States.
(5)Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China. (6)WHO
Regional Office for the Western Pacific, Manila, Philippines. (7)The GAVI
Alliance, Geneva, Switzerland.

The China GAVI Hepatitis B Immunization Project was initiated in 2002 with the
signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between GAVI and the Government of
China. The Project was one of the three (China, India, and Indonesia)
GAVI-initiated special projects done to support countries too large to receive
full GAVI support for hepatitis B vaccine and safe injections. The Project in
China was designed by the Chinese Government and partners to deliver free
hepatitis B vaccine and safe injections to all newborns in the 12 Western
Provinces and Poverty Counties in 10 Provinces of Central China (1301 Counties
with approximately 5.6 million births per year), eliminating the gap in
immunization coverage between wealthier and poorer regions of China. The project 
budget (USD 76 million) was equally shared by GAVI and the Chinese Government.
Initially planned for 5 years, two no cost extensions extended the project to
2011. Although China produced hepatitis B vaccine, before the project the vaccine
was sold to parents who were also charged a "user fee" for the syringe and
vaccine administration. Basic Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) vaccines
such as BCG, DTP, Polio, and measles vaccines were provided free to parents,
although they were charged a user fee. Vaccines were sold by China CDC Offices at
provincial, prefecture, county level and township hospitals, and village doctors 
received a substantial portion of their income from the sale of hepatitis B and
other vaccines. The result of charging for hepatitis B vaccine was that coverage 
was relatively high in Eastern and wealthier counties in Central China (~80-90%),
but was much lower (~40%) in Western China and Poverty Counties where parents
could not afford the vaccine. The Project was administered by the China MOH and
China CDC EPI program, and two Project Co-managers, one from the Chinese
Government and the other an international assignee, were chosen. The project had 
an oversight Operational Advisory Group composed of the Chinese Government, WHO, 
UNICEF, and GAVI. The initial targets of the project as delineated in the initial
MOU for the Project areas (HepB3 coverage will reach 85% at the county level,
>75% of newborns at the county level will receive the first dose of hepatitis B
within 24h of birth, and all immunization injections will be with auto disable
[AD] syringes) were substantially exceeded. The differential in vaccine coverage 
between wealthier and poorer parts of China was eliminated contributing to a
great improvement in equity. With additional contributions of the Chinese
Government the Project was accomplished substantially under budget allowing for
additional catch up immunization of children under 15 years of age. More than 5
million health workers were trained in how to deliver hepatitis B vaccine, timely
birth dose (TBD), and safe injections, and public awareness of hepatitis B and
its prevention rose significantly. TBD coverage was expedited by concurrent
efforts to have women deliver in township clinics and district hospitals instead 
of at home. The effective management of the Project, with a Project office
sitting within the China EPI and an Operational Advisory Group for oversight,
could serve as a model for other GAVI projects worldwide. Most importantly, the
carrier rate in Chinese children less than 5 years of age has fallen to 1%, from 
a level of 10% before the inception of the Project. Liver cancer, one of the
major cancer killers in China (250,000-300,000 annual estimated deaths), will
dramatically decline as immunized cohorts of Chinese children age. While
hepatitis C and non-alcoholic liver disease also exist in China and can lead to
liver cancer and cirrhosis, the majority of liver disease in China is hepatitis B
related and therefore preventable. The authors believe that China's success in
preventing hepatitis B is one of the greatest public health achievements of the
21st century. Work remains to be done in several key areas. There are still
pockets of home births in rural provinces where a TBD is difficult to deliver,
and China is strengthening its policy of screening pregnant women for HBsAg and
delivering HBIG plus vaccine to newborns of HBV carrier mothers. Approximately
10% of the adult population of China remain chronic carriers of hepatitis B virus
and cannot be helped by the vaccine, so prevention of liver cancer and cirrhosis 
in those groups remains a future challenge for China.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.045 
PMID: 24331015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2013 Dec;12(6):584-8.

Novel anti-diabetic agents in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a mini-review.

Olaywi M(1), Bhatia T, Anand S, Singhal S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, The Brooklyn Hospital Center/New 
York Presbyterian Healthcare System, Brooklyn, New York, USA; Division of
Digestive and Liver Diseases, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, USA. 
sdsinghal@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a spectrum that
ranges from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and to
cirrhosis. The recommended treatment for this disease includes measures that
target obesity and insulin resistance. The present review summarizes the role of 
newer anti-diabetic agents in treatment of NAFLD.
DATA SOURCES: PubMed, MEDLINE and Ovid databases were searched to identify human 
studies between January 1990 and January 2013 using specified key words. Original
studies that enrolled patients with a diagnosis of NAFLD or NASH and involved use
of newer classes of anti-diabetic agents for a duration of at least 3 months were
included.
RESULTS: Out of the screened articles, four met eligibility criteria and were
included in our review. The classes of newer anti-diabetic medications described 
were dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide-1 analogues.
CONCLUSIONS: Liraglutide and Exenatide showed improvement in transaminases as
well as histology in patients with NASH. Sitagliptin showed improvement in
transaminases but limited studies are there to access its effect on histology.
Further studies are needed to support use of newer anti-diabetic medications in
patients with NAFLD.


PMID: 24322742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Dig Liver Dis. 2014 Apr;46(4):295-301. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2013.10.018. Epub 2013 
Dec 8.

Management of adults with paediatric-onset chronic liver disease: strategic
issues for transition care.

Vajro P(1), Ferrante L(2), Lenta S(3), Mandato C(3), Persico M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Chair of Paediatrics, Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of
Salerno, Baronissi (Salerno), Italy. Electronic address: pvajro@unisa.it.
(2)Department of Translational Medicine, Paediatrics Section, School of Medicine,
University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy. (3)AORN Paediatric Hospital
Santobono, Naples, Italy. (4)Chair of Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine
and Surgery, University of Salerno, Baronissi (Salerno), Italy.

Advances in the management of children with chronic liver disease have enabled
many to survive into adulthood with or without their native livers, so that the
most common of these conditions are becoming increasingly common in adult
hepatology practice. Because the aetiologies of chronic liver disease in children
may vary significantly from those in adulthood, adults with paediatric-onset
chronic liver disease may often present with clinical manifestations unfamiliar
to their adulthood physician. Transition of medical care to adult practice
requires that the adulthood medical staff (primary physicians and subspecialists)
have a comprehensive knowledge of childhood liver disease and their implications,
and of the differences in caring for these patients. Pending still unavailable
Scientific Society guidelines, this article examines causes, presentation modes, 
evaluation, management, and complications of the main paediatric-onset chronic
liver diseases, and discusses key issues to aid in planning a program of
transition from paediatric to adult patients.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2013.10.018 
PMID: 24321359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(31):5010-24.

The metabolic syndrome and chronic liver disease.

Rosselli M, Lotersztajn S, Vizzutti F, Arena U, Pinzani M, Marra F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale e Clinica, Largo Brambilla, 3, I-50134
Florence, Italy. fabio.marra@unifi.it.

The prevalence of the metabolic syndrome (MetS), a cluster of cardiovascular risk
factors associated with obesity and insulin resistance, is dramatically
increasing in Western and developing countries. This disorder is not only
associated with a higher risk of appearance of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular
events, but impacts on the liver in different ways. Nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) is considered the hepatic manifestation of MetS, and is
characterized by triglyceride accumulation and a variable degree of hepatic
injury, inflammation, and repair. In the presence of significant hepatocellular
injury and inflammation, the picture is defined 'nonalcoholic steatohepatitis'
(NASH), that has the potential to progress to advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis.
Diagnosis of NASH is based on a liver biopsy, and active search for noninvasive
tests is ongoing. Progression of steatohepatitis to advanced fibrosis or
cirrhosis has been shown in at least one third of patients followed with paired
biopsies. Presence of NASH is associated with lower life expectancy, both due to 
liver-related death and to an increase in cardiovascular events. The appearance
of NAFLD is mainly dependent on increased flow of fatty acids derived from an
excess of lipolysis from insulin-resistant adipose tissue. Development of NASH is
based on lipotoxicity and is influenced by signals derived from outside the liver
and from intrahepatic activation of inflammatory and fibrogenic pathways. The
presence of the MetS is also associated with worse outcomes in patients with
cirrhosis due to any causes, and has complex interactions with hepatitis C virus 
infection. Moreover, MetS poses a higher risk of development of hepatocellular
carcinoma, not necessarily through the development of NASH-related cirrhosis. In 
conclusion, the presence of metabolic alterations has a severe and multifaceted
impact on the liver, and is responsible for a higher risk of liver-dependent and 
-independent mortality.


PMID: 24320032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Alcohol Res. 2013;35(1):97-113.

Epigenetic targets for reversing immune defects caused by alcohol exposure.

Curtis BJ(1), Zahs A, Kovacs EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Burn & Shock Trauma Institute, Loyola University,
Chicago, Illinois, USA.

Alcohol consumption alters factors that modify gene expression without changing
the DNA code (i.e., epigenetic modulators) in many organ systems, including the
immune system. Alcohol enhances the risk for developing several serious medical
conditions related to immune system dysfunction, including acute respiratory
distress syndrome (ARDS), liver cancer, and alcoholic liver disease (ALD). Binge 
and chronic drinking also render patients more susceptible to many infectious
pathogens and advance the progression of HIV infection by weakening both innate
and adaptive immunity. Epigenetic mechanisms play a pivotal role in these
processes. For example, alcohol-induced epigenetic variations alter the
developmental pathways of several types of immune cells (e.g., granulocytes,
macrophages, and T-lymphocytes) and through these and other mechanisms promote
exaggerated inflammatory responses. In addition, epigenetic mechanisms may
underlie alcohol's ability to interfere with the barrier functions of the gut and
respiratory systems, which also contribute to the heightened risk of infections. 
Better understanding of alcohol's effects on these epigenetic processes may help 
researchers identify new targets for the development of novel medications to
prevent or ameliorate alcohol's detrimental effects on the immune system.


PMCID: PMC3860427
PMID: 24313169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Alcohol Res. 2013;35(1):47-55.

Epigenetic effects of ethanol on the liver and gastrointestinal system.

Shukla SD(1), Lim RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Pharmacology & Physiology, School of Medicine,
University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri, USA.

The widening web of epigenetic regulatory mechanisms also encompasses
ethanol-induced changes in the gastrointestinal (GI)-hepatic system. In the past 
few years, increasing evidence has firmly established that alcohol modifies
several epigenetic parameters in the GI tract and liver. The major pathways
affected include DNA methylation, different site-specific modifications in
histone proteins, and microRNAs. Ethanol metabolism, cell-signaling cascades, and
oxidative stress have been implicated in these responses. Furthermore,
ethanol-induced fatty liver (i.e., steatohepatitis) and progression of liver
cancer (i.e., hepatic carcinoma) may be consequences of the altered epigenetics. 
Modification of gene and/or protein expression via epigenetic changes also may
contribute to the cross-talk among the GI tract and the liver as well as to
systemic changes involving other organs. Thus, epigenetic effects of ethanol may 
have a central role in the various pathophysiological responses induced by
ethanol in multiple organs and mediated via the liver-GI axis.


PMCID: PMC3860425
PMID: 24313164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Feb;39(3):254-69. doi: 10.1111/apt.12569. Epub 2013 
Dec 5.

Systematic review with meta-analysis: non-invasive assessment of non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease--the role of transient elastography and plasma cytokeratin-18
fragments.

Kwok R(1), Tse YK, Wong GL, Ha Y, Lee AU, Ngu MC, Chan HL, Wong VW.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Digestive Disease, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong
Kong, China; Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Concord Repatriation 
Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects 15-40% of the
general population. Some patients have non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and
progressive fibrosis, and would be candidates for monitoring and treatment.
AIM: To review current literature on the use of non-invasive tests to assess the 
severity of NAFLD.
METHODS: Systematic literature searching identified studies evaluating
non-invasive tests of NASH and fibrosis using liver biopsy as the reference
standard. Meta-analysis was performed for areas with adequate number of
publications.
RESULTS: Serum tests and physical measurements like transient elastography (TE)
have high negative predictive value (NPV) in excluding advanced fibrosis in NAFLD
patients. The NAFLD fibrosis score comprises of six routine clinical parameters
and has been endorsed by current American guidelines as a screening test to
exclude low-risk individuals. The pooled sensitivities and specificities for TE
to diagnose F ≥ 2, F ≥ 3 and F4 disease were 79% and 75%, 85% and 85%, and 92%
and 92% respectively. Liver stiffness measurement often fails in obese patients, 
but the success rate can be improved with the use of the XL probe. A number of
biomarkers have been developed for the diagnosis of NASH, but few were
independently validated. Serum/plasma cytokeratin-18 fragments have been most
extensively evaluated and have a pooled sensitivity of 66% and specificity of 82%
in diagnosing NASH.
CONCLUSIONS: Current non-invasive tests are accurate in excluding advanced
fibrosis in NAFLD patients, and may be used for initial assessment. Further
development and evaluation of NASH biomarkers are needed.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12569 
PMID: 24308774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


857. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Nov 28;19(44):7972-82. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i44.7972.

Alcoholism and liver disease in Mexico: genetic and environmental factors.

Roman S(1), Zepeda-Carrillo EA, Moreno-Luna LE, Panduro A.

Author information: 
(1)Sonia Roman, Eloy Alfonso Zepeda-Carrillo, Laura Eugenia Moreno-Luna, Arturo
Panduro, Department of Molecular Biology in Medicine, Civil Hospital of
Guadalajara, "Fray Antonio Alcalde" and Health Sciences Center, University of
Guadalajara, Guadalajara, Jalisco 44280, Mexico.

Alcoholism and cirrhosis, which are two of the most serious health problems
worldwide, have a broad spectrum of clinical outcomes. Both diseases are
influenced by genetic susceptibility and cultural traits that differ globally but
are specific for each population. In contrast to other regions around the world, 
Mexicans present the highest drinking score and a high mortality rate for
alcoholic liver disease with an intermediate category level of per capita alcohol
consumption. Mexico has a unique history of alcohol consumption that is linked to
profound anthropological and social aspects. The Mexican population has an
admixture genome inherited from different races, Caucasian, Amerindian and
African, with a heterogeneous distribution within the country. Thus, genes
related to alcohol addiction, such as dopamine receptor D2 in the brain, or liver
alcohol-metabolizing enzymes, such as alcohol dehydrogenase class I polypeptide
B, cytochrome P450 2E1 and aldehyde dehydrogenase class 2, may vary from one
individual to another. Furthermore, they may be inherited as risk or non-risk
haplogroups that confer susceptibility or resistance either to alcohol addiction 
or abusive alcohol consumption and possibly liver disease. Thus, in this era of
genomics, personalized medicine will benefit patients if it is directed according
to individual or population-based data. Additional association studies will be
required to establish novel strategies for the prevention, care and treatment of 
liver disease in Mexico and worldwide.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i44.7972 
PMCID: PMC3848144
PMID: 24307790  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


858. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Nov 28;19(44):7825-9. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i44.7825.

Is liver biopsy necessary in the management of alcoholic hepatitis?

Dhanda AD(1), Collins PL, McCune CA.

Author information: 
(1)Ashwin D Dhanda, Peter L Collins, C Anne McCune, Department of Liver Medicine,
University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, Bristol BS2 8HW, United
Kingdom.

Acute alcoholic hepatitis (AAH) is characterised by deep jaundice in patients
with a history of heavy alcohol use, which can progress to liver failure. A
clinical diagnosis of AAH can be challenging to make in patients without a clear 
alcohol history or in the presence of risk factors for other causes of acute
liver failure. Other causes of acute on chronic liver failure such as sepsis or
variceal haemorrhage should be considered. Liver biopsy remains the only reliable
method to make an accurate diagnosis. However, there is controversy surrounding
the use of liver biopsy in patients with AAH because of the risks of performing a
percutaneous biopsy and limitations in access to transjugular biopsy. We review
the existing literature and find there are few studies directly comparing
clinical and histological diagnosis of AAH. In the small number of studies that
have been conducted the correlation between a clinical and histological diagnosis
of AAH is poor. Due to this lack of agreement together with difficulties in
accessing transjugular liver biopsy outside tertiary referral centres and
research institutions, we cannot advocate universal biopsy for AAH but there
remains a definite role for liver biopsy where there is clinical diagnostic doubt
or dual pathology. It also adds value in a clinical trial context to ensure a
homogeneous trial population and to further our understanding of the disease
pathology. Further prospective studies are required to determine whether
non-invasive markers can be used to accurately diagnose AAH.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i44.7825 
PMCID: PMC3848129
PMID: 24307775  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Acta Gastroenterol Latinoam. 2013 Sep;43(3):254-60.

[Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. A current perspective].

[Article in Spanish]

Pérez Blanco LA(1), Vilar Gómez E, Martínez Pérez Y, Calzadilla Bertot L.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Gastroenterología, La Habana, Cuba. luis.perez@infomed.sld.cu

A review about nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is presented, considering the
updated aspects related to pathophysiology, diagnosis and management of this
medical condition.


PMID: 24303694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2014 Jan;58(1):147-71. doi: 10.1002/mnfr.201300522. Epub 2013 
Dec 3.

Chemoprevention of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease by dietary natural compounds.

Pan MH(1), Lai CS, Tsai ML, Ho CT.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Food Science and Technology, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
Taiwan; Department of Medical Research, China Medical University Hospital, China 
Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) refers to a wide spectrum of liver
disease that is not from excess alcohol consumption, but is often associated with
obesity, type 2 diabetes, and metabolic syndrome. NAFLD pathogenesis is
complicated and involves oxidative stress, lipotoxicity, mitochondrial damage,
insulin resistance, inflammation, and excessive dietary fat intake, which
increase hepatic lipid influx and de novo lipogenesis and impair insulin
signaling, thus promoting hepatic triglyceride accumulation and ultimately NAFLD.
Overproduction of proinflammatory adipokines from adipose tissue also affects
hepatic metabolic function. Current NAFLD therapies are limited; thus, much
attention has been focused on identification of potential dietary substances from
fruits, vegetables, and edible plants to provide a new strategy for NAFLD
treatment. Dietary natural compounds, such as carotenoids, omega-3-PUFAs,
flavonoids, isothiocyanates, terpenoids, curcumin, and resveratrol, act through a
variety of mechanisms to prevent and improve NAFLD. Here, we summarize and
briefly discuss the currently known targets and signaling pathways as well as the
role of dietary natural compounds that interfere with NAFLD pathogenesis.

© 2013 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/mnfr.201300522 
PMID: 24302567  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2014 Jun;15(2):137-47. doi: 10.1007/s11154-013-9280-6.

Adiponectin signaling in the liver.

Combs TP(1), Marliss EB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel
Hill, NC, 27516, USA, terrycombs@unc.edu.

High glucose production contributes to fed and fasted hyperglycemia in Type 1
Diabetes (T1D) and Type 2 Diabetes (T2D). The breakdown of the adiponectin
signaling pathway in T1D and the reduction of circulating adiponectin in T2D
contribute to this abnormal increase in glucose production. Sufficient amounts of
insulin could compensate for the loss of adiponectin signaling in T1D and T2D and
reduce hyperglycemia. However, the combination of low adiponectin signaling and
high insulin resembles an insulin resistance state associated with cardiovascular
disease, fatty liver disease and decreased life expectancy. The future
development of "adiponectin sensitizers", medications that correct the deficiency
in adiponectin signaling, could restore the metabolic balance in T1D and T2D and 
reduce the need for insulin. This article reviews the adiponectin signaling
pathway in the liver through T-cadherin, AdipoR1, AdipoR2, AMPK, ceramidase
activity, APPL1 and the recently discovered Suppressor Of Glucose from Autophagy 
(SOGA).

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-013-9280-6 
PMCID: PMC4152934
PMID: 24297186  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Sep 1;21(7):1119-42. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5486. Epub
2014 Feb 19.

Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species in steatotic hepatocytes: a molecular
perspective on the pathophysiology of ischemia-reperfusion injury in the fatty
liver.

Reiniers MJ(1), van Golen RF, van Gulik TM, Heger M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Surgical Laboratory, Academic Medical Center,
University of Amsterdam , Amsterdam, The Netherlands .

SIGNIFICANCE: Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury results from the temporary
deprivation of hepatic blood supply and is a common side effect of major liver
surgery (i.e., transplantation or resection). IR injury, which in most severe
cases culminates in acute liver failure, is particularly pronounced in livers
that are affected by non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). In NAFLD,
fat-laden hepatocytes are damaged by chronic oxidative/nitrosative stress (ONS), 
a state that is acutely exacerbated during IR, leading to extensive parenchymal
damage.
RECENT ADVANCES: NAFLD triggers ONS via increased (extra)mitochondrial fatty acid
oxidation and activation of the unfolded protein response. ONS is associated with
widespread protein and lipid (per)oxidation, which reduces the hepatic
antioxidative capacity and shifts the intracellular redox status toward an
oxidized state. Moreover, activation of the transcription factor peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor α induces expression of mitochondrial uncoupling 
protein 2, resulting in depletion of cellular energy (ATP) reserves. The
reduction in intracellular antioxidants and ATP in fatty livers consequently
gives rise to severe ONS and necrotic cell death during IR.
CRITICAL ISSUES: Despite the fact that ONS mediates both NAFLD and IR injury, the
interplay between the two conditions has never been described in detail. An
integrative overview of the pathophysiology of NAFLD that renders steatotic
hepatocytes more vulnerable to IR injury is therefore presented in the context of
ONS.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: Effective methods should be devised to alleviate ONS and the
consequences thereof in NAFLD before surgery in order to improve resilience of
fatty livers to IR injury.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5486 
PMCID: PMC4123468
PMID: 24294945  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


863. J Hepatol. 2014 Apr;60(4):866-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.11.015. Epub 2013 Nov 
26.

Ethical considerations regarding early liver transplantation in patients with
severe alcoholic hepatitis not responding to medical therapy.

Donckier V(1), Lucidi V(2), Gustot T(3), Moreno C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Abdominal Surgery, Hôpital Erasme, Université Libre de
Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address:
vincent.donckier@erasme.ulb.ac.be. (2)Department of Abdominal Surgery, Hôpital
Erasme, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium. (3)Department of
Gastroenterology, Liver Transplant Unit, Hôpital Erasme, Université Libre de
Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2014 Sep;61(3):706-7.
    J Hepatol. 2014 Sep;61(3):707.

A recent study proposed that liver transplantation may represent life-saving
treatment in patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis not responding to medical
therapy. In this pilot experience, stringent patient selection resulted in major 
improvement of short-term survival with low rates of post-transplant alcohol
relapse. In the context of organ shortage, which imposes a need for strict
selection of transplant candidates, these results raise major ethical questions. 
Reluctance to perform liver transplantation in alcoholics is based on the fact
that alcoholism is frequently considered to be self-inflicted and on fears of
harmful post-transplant alcoholism recurrence. A minimal interval of sobriety
lasting at least 6 months is a widely adopted criterion for the selection of
patients with alcoholic liver disease for liver transplantation. In severe
alcoholic hepatitis, the disastrous short-term prognosis in patients not
responding to medical therapy does not allow one to reasonably impose an
arbitrary period of 6-months of abstinence. This means that these patients must
be either systematically excluded from transplantation or selected according to
other criteria. Without significant pre-transplant abstinence, it might be argued
that these patients do not merit a graft as they have not demonstrated their
ability to gain control over their disease through durable modification of their 
behaviour. Consequently, this procedure could have a negative impact in the
public, affecting organ donation and confidence in the fairness of transplant
programs. In contrast, ethical principles recommend active treatment of patients,
without discrimination, according to the best scientific knowledge. At this
stage, we propose that there are no major ethical barriers for further evaluation
of this new therapeutic option. The next steps should include transparent
communication with the public and further studies to reproduce these results and 
identify the selection criteria that provide the best long-term outcomes.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.11.015 
PMID: 24291238  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 2013 Oct-Dec;78(4):240-8. doi: 10.1016/j.rgmx.2013.04.004.
Epub 2013 Nov 28.

[Gut microbiota in health and disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Icaza-Chávez ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Titular de Gastroenterología, Universidad Anáhuac Mayab, Hospital Star Médica 
de Mérida, Mérida, Yucatán, México. Electronic address: maruicaza@gmail.com.

Gut microbiota is the community of live microorganisms residing in the digestive 
tract. There are many groups of researchers worldwide that are working at
deciphering the collective genome of the human microbiota. Modern techniques for 
studying the microbiota have made us aware of an important number of
nonculturable bacteria and of the relation between the microorganisms that live
inside us and our homeostasis. The microbiota is essential for correct body
growth, the development of immunity, and nutrition. Certain epidemics affecting
humanity such as asthma and obesity may possibly be explained, at least
partially, by alterations in the microbiota. Dysbiosis has been associated with a
series of gastrointestinal disorders that include non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease, celiac disease, and irritable bowel syndrome. The present article deals 
with the nomenclature, modern study techniques, and functions of gut microbiota, 
and its relation to health and disease.

Copyright © 2013 Asociación Mexicana de Gastroenterología. Published by Masson
Doyma México S.A. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rgmx.2013.04.004 
PMID: 24290319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Endocrine. 2014 Apr;45(3):344-53. doi: 10.1007/s12020-013-0087-8. Epub 2013 Nov
28.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a diabetologist's perspective.

Pappachan JM(1), Antonio FA, Edavalath M, Mukherjee A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes & Metabolism, University Hospital of
North Staffordshire, Stoke-on-Trent, ST4 6QG, UK, drpappachan@yahoo.co.in.

In the recent years, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as the
commonest cause of chronic liver disease in the developed world. The global
epidemic of obesity secondary to physical inactivity and adverse food habits
accounts for the alarming rise in NAFLD. Metabolic syndrome plays a major role in
the pathogenesis of both NAFLD and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Whilst most
cases of NAFLD remain asymptomatic with only hepatic steatosis, about 30 %
progress to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with chronic liver inflammation that
can lead on to fibrosis, cirrhosis, liver failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Because of the similar pathogenesis shared between T2DM and NAFLD, T2DM occurs as
an important complication in many cases of NAFLD, and many cases of T2DM are
further complicated by NAFLD. Rapid progression and increased complications of
the individual diseases is the end result of this dual coexistence. Diagnosis of 
NAFLD relies upon hepatic imaging, serum biochemical markers, and liver biopsy.
As in T2DM, the most important management option for patients with NAFLD is
lifestyle changes targeted at weight reduction. Other treatment options include
insulin sensitizers (metformin and pioglitazone), vitamin E, incretin mimetics,
omega-3 fatty acids, cholesterol lowering agents, orlistat, and bariatric
surgery. The clinical spectrum, patho-physiological features and therapeutic
options of NAFLD share many things in common with T2DM and therefore, this review
is to highlight the diabetologist's perspective of the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-013-0087-8 
PMID: 24287794  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Oct 24;14(11):21240-57. doi: 10.3390/ijms141121240.

Lessons from mouse models of high-fat diet-induced NAFLD.

Nakamura A(1), Terauchi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology and Metabolism, Graduate School of Medicine, Hokkaido
University, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan. terauchi@yokohama-cu.ac.jp.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a clinicopathologic spectrum
of diseases ranging from isolated hepatic steatosis to nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), the more aggressive form of fatty liver disease that may 
progress to cirrhosis and cirrhosis-related complications, including
hepatocellular carcinoma. The prevalence of NAFLD, including NASH, is also
increasing in parallel with the growing epidemics of obesity and diabetes.
However, the causal relationships between obesity and/or diabetes and NASH or
liver tumorigenesis have not yet been clearly elucidated. Animal models of
NAFLD/NASH provide crucial information, not only for elucidating the pathogenesis
of NAFLD/NASH, but also for examining therapeutic effects of various agents. A
high-fat diet is widely used to produce hepatic steatosis and NASH in
experimental animals. Several studies, including our own, have shown that
long-term high-fat diet loading, which can induce obesity and insulin resistance,
can also induce NASH and liver tumorigenesis in C57BL/6J mice. In this article,
we discuss the pathophysiology of and treatment strategies for NAFLD and
subsequent NAFLD-related complications such as NASH and liver tumorigenesis,
mainly based on lessons learned from mouse models of high-fat diet-induced
NAFLD/NASH.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms141121240 
PMCID: PMC3856002
PMID: 24284392  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2013;2013:145421. doi: 10.1155/2013/145421. Epub 2013 Oct
24.

Dietary anthocyanins as nutritional therapy for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Valenti L(1), Riso P, Mazzocchi A, Porrini M, Fargion S, Agostoni C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation (DEPT), Università degli
Studi di Milano, Internal Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale
Policlinico, 20122 Milano, Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), defined by excessive lipid accumulation
in the liver, is the hepatic manifestation of insulin resistance and the
metabolic syndrome. Due to the epidemics of obesity, NAFLD is rapidly becoming
the leading cause of altered liver enzymes in Western countries. NAFLD
encompasses a wide spectrum of liver disease ranging from simple uncomplicated
steatosis, to steatohepatitis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Diet may 
affect the development of NAFLD either by increasing risk or by providing
protective factors. Therefore, it is important to investigate the role of foods
and/or food bioactives on the metabolic processes involved in steatohepatitis for
preventive strategies. It has been reported that anthocyanins (ACNs) decrease
hepatic lipid accumulation and may counteract oxidative stress and hepatic
inflammation, but their impact on NAFLD has yet to be fully determined. ACNs are 
water-soluble bioactive compounds of the polyphenol class present in many
vegetable products. Here, we summarize the evidence evaluating the mechanisms of 
action of ACNs on hepatic lipid metabolism in different experimental setting: in 
vitro, in vivo, and in human trials. Finally, a working model depicting the
possible mechanisms underpinning the beneficial effects of ACNs in NAFLD is
proposed, based on the available literature.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/145421 
PMCID: PMC3824564
PMID: 24282628  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):249-67. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.017. Epub 2013 
Oct 24.

Host genetic variants in obesity-related nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Mehta R(1), Birerdinc A, Younossi ZM.

Author information: 
(1)Betty and Guy Beatty Center for Integrated Research, Center for Liver Disease,
Inova Health System, Claude Moore Building, 3300 Gallows Road, Falls Church, VA
22042, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a complex disease. The considerable
variability in the natural history of the disease suggests an important role for 
genetic variants in the disease development and progression. There is evidence
based on genome-wide association studies and/or candidate gene studies that
genetic polymorphisms underlying insulin signaling, lipid metabolism, oxidative
stress, fibrogenesis, and inflammation can predispose individuals to NAFLD. This 
review highlights some of the genetic variants in NAFLD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.017 
PMID: 24274878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):233-48. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.014. Epub 2013 
Oct 25.

The interactions of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiovascular diseases.

Perazzo H(1), Poynard T, Dufour JF.

Author information: 
(1)Hepatology Department, Liver Center, Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière
(GHPS), Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris (APHP), 47-83, Boulevard de
l'Hôpital, Paris 75013, France; Pierre et Marie Curie University (Paris 6),
Inserm UMR_S 938, Paris, France.

A complex interaction among metabolic factors, adipose tissue lipolysis,
oxidative stress, and insulin resistance results in a deleterious process that
may link nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) with severe cardiovascular (CV)
outcomes. Patients with NAFLD are at higher risk of atherosclerosis, new onset of
CV events, and overall mortality. The strong association between NAFLD and CV
disease should affect clinical practice, with screening and surveillance of
patients with NAFLD. This review discusses the data linking these major diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.014 
PMID: 24274877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):219-31. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.003.

Obesity, nutrition, and liver disease in children.

Feldstein AE(1), Patton-Ku D, Boutelle KN.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Rady
Children's Hospital, 3020 Children's Way, San Diego, CA 92123, USA; Division of
Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, University of California, 
San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, MC 0984, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Electronic
address: afeldstein@ucsd.edu.

In this article, several aspects of childhood obesity are discussed, including
epidemiology, associated metabolic complications, management strategies, and
therapy with particular attention to the impact of obesity on the liver,
resulting in nonalcoholic or metabolic fatty liver disease. The deleterious
effects of obesity on the liver and health overall can be significantly impacted 
by a culture that fosters sustained nutritional improvement and regular physical 
activity. The current evidence is summarized supporting pharmacologic,
behavioral, and dietary interventions for the management of obesity and fatty
liver disease in children.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.003 
PMCID: PMC4008146
PMID: 24274876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):205-18. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.008. Epub 2013 
Oct 25.

Impact of nutrition and obesity on chronic liver disease.

Manne V(1), Saab S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, Los Angeles, 200 Medical
Plaza, Suite 214, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

Undernutrition and obesity are at opposite ends of a spectrum that has an
enormous impact on all aspects of liver diseases. The myriad effects of the
opposing ends of the nutrition spectrum have led to a wealth of research aimed at
elucidating the exact mechanisms of how they cause liver damage. In this article,
the role of the liver in nutrient and energy metabolism is discussed, as well as 
the known and possible effects of specific nutrient deficiencies and obesity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.008 
PMID: 24274875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):191-203. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.001. Epub 2013
Oct 24.

Obesity and liver cancer.

Vanni E(1), Bugianesi E.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medical Sciences,
University of Torino, Corso Dogliotti 14, I-10126 Torino, Italy.

Obesity is an established risk factor for many types of cancers, particularly for
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), owing to its carcinogenic potential and the
association with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). HCC may develop in
cirrhotic and noncirrhotic livers with NAFLD, particularly in the presence of
multiple metabolic risk factors such as obesity and diabetes. This issue is
alarming because the population potentially at higher risk is greatly increasing.
This review summarizes current evidence linking obesity and liver cancer, and
discusses recent advances on the mechanisms underlying this relationship.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.001 
PMID: 24274874  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):165-78. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.015.

The impact of obesity and metabolic syndrome on chronic hepatitis B and
drug-induced liver disease.

Pais R(1), Rusu E, Ratziu V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatogastroenterology, Université Pierre et Marie Curie,
Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Inserm UMR_S
938, Paris 75013, France.

Steatosis and insulin resistance (IR) are no more frequent in chronic hepatitis B
(CHB) than in the general population. Although experimental studies suggest that 
the HBx protein induces liver fat, human studies have shown that steatosis and IR
are related to coexistent metabolic risk factors, thus epidemiologically linked
rather than virally induced. Diabetes and obesity are associated with advanced
fibrosis and increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma in CHB. Despite abundant 
experimental data showing that fatty liver is more susceptible to liver injury,
drug-induced liver disease seems no more frequent in NAFLD patients, except,
possibly, a higher incidence but not severity of acetaminophen hepatotoxicity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.015 
PMID: 24274872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):157-63. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.006. Epub 2013 
Oct 24.

The impact of obesity and metabolic syndrome on alcoholic liver disease.

Chiang DJ(1), McCullough AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Digestive Disease Institute,
Cleveland Clinic, A51, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) remains a major cause of chronic liver diseases and
liver failure. Population-based prospective studies and patient cohort studies
have demonstrated that obesity and the metabolic syndrome exacerbate progression 
of ALD and increase hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence and mortality.
Emerging evidence also suggests a synergism between alcohol and obesity in
mortality and HCC incidence. Recognition of these increased risks and detection
of early-stage liver disease may offer the opportunity to address these
modifiable risk factors and prevent disease progression in these patients.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.006 
PMID: 24274871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):147-56. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.007. Epub 2013 
Oct 24.

The impact of obesity and metabolic syndrome on chronic hepatitis C.

Goossens N(1), Negro F.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Geneva University Hospital, 4 rue
Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil, 1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.

The metabolic syndrome and the hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection are 2 global
health care challenges with a complex interaction. Insulin resistance, a central 
component of the metabolic syndrome, is epidemiologically and
pathophysiologically intrinsically linked to HCV infection. Insulin resistance
and diabetes affect clinical outcomes in patients with liver disease related to
HCV, namely, incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma, liver-related mortality,
fibrosis progression rate, response to antiviral therapy, and possibly the
incidence of cardiovascular events. Viral and metabolic steatosis and its
interactions with HCV and the metabolic syndrome are discussed. Management and
the need for further research conclude the article.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.007 
PMID: 24274870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):129-46. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.011. Epub 2013 
Oct 24.

Surgical management of obesity in patients with morbid obesity and nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease.

Dixon JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Obesity Research, Baker IDI Heart & Diabetes Institute, PO Box 6492, 
St Kilda Road Central, Melbourne, Victoria 8008, Australia; Primary Care Research
Unit, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address:
john.dixon@bakeridi.edu.au.

Most patients with severe complex obesity presenting for bariatric-metabolic
surgery have nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD is associated with
central obesity, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and
obesity-related dyslipidemia. Weight loss should be a primary therapy for NAFLD. 
However, evidence supporting intentional weight loss as a therapy for NAFLD is
limited. Bariatric-metabolic surgery provides the most reliable method of
achieving substantial sustained weight loss and the most commonly used procedures
are associated with reduced steatosis and lobular inflammatory changes, but there
are mixed reports regarding fibrosis. Surgery should complement treatment of
obesity-related comorbidity, but not replace established therapy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.011 
PMID: 24274869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):113-27. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.016.

Role of exercise in optimizing the functional status of patients with
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Gerber LH(1), Weinstein A, Pawloski L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Inova Fairfax Hospital, 3300 Gallows Road, Falls
Church, VA 22042, USA. Electronic address: lynn.gerber@inova.org.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is frequently concomitant with obesity. 
This article discusses factors that influence health and functional outcomes of
people who develop NAFLD, including increased burden of illness, whole body
function, performance, and perception of self-efficacy. Changes in
macronutrients, amount of calories consumed, and decreased physical activity all 
negatively influence patient outcome. The benefits of exercise in this population
are also discussed. To be effective, exercise must be performed, regularly and in
conjunction with dietary and other behavioral change. Therefore, a lifelong
commitment to exercise, activity, and diet are needed if NAFLD is to be
successfully treated.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.016 
PMID: 24274868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):91-112. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.009. Epub 2013 
Oct 24.

The role of diet and nutritional intervention for the management of patients with
NAFLD.

Barrera F(1), George J.

Author information: 
(1)Storr Liver Unit, Westmead Millennium Institute, Westmead Hospital, University
of Sydney, Darcy Road, Westmead, New South Wales 2145, Australia; Department of
Gastroenterology, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Marcoleta 367,
Santiago 8330024, Chile.

During the last few decades, the prevalence of obesity, insulin resistance and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) have dramatically increased. Nutrition 
and modern lifestyle habits are intimately involved in this epidemiological
change. Although lifestyle intervention can theoretically revert the metabolic
disturbances and prevent the long term complications of NAFLD, its efficacy is
diminished in clinical practice by poor implementation and reduced adherence to
lifestyle intervention programs. In this article we summarize the main elements
of dietary interventions for NAFLD, describe practical strategies to optimize
efficacy and review potential nutritional strategies under development that
hopefully will improve outcomes in the future.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.009 
PMID: 24274867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):73-89. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.005. Epub 2013
Oct 24.

The role of medications for the management of patients with NAFLD.

Mazzella N(1), Ricciardi LM, Mazzotti A, Marchesini G.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Metabolic Diseases & Clinical Dietetics, Postgraduate School of
Nutrition, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, Alma Mater Studiorum University, Via
Massarenti, 9, Bologna 40138, Italy.

The article is intended to provide an overview of the strengths and limits of
controlled trials of pharmacologic treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
No drug has so far been approved, although validated on histologic outcomes.
Several new drugs are under scrutiny, acting with different mechanisms along the 
chain of events from fatty liver to fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular
carcinoma. The article investigates which drug, if any, should be preferred for a
tailored intervention in individual patients, according to age, comorbidities,
and disease severity, and if treatment should be continued lifelong, to prevent
disease progression and long-term occurrence of cirrhosis.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.005 
PMID: 24274866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):59-71. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.002. Epub 2013
Oct 24.

Obesity and NAFLD: the role of bacteria and microbiota.

Duseja A(1), Chawla YK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and
Research, Sector 12, Chandigarh 160012, India.

There are trillions of microorganisms in the human intestine collectively called 
gut microbiota. Obesity may be affected by the gut microbiota through energy
harvesting and fat storage by the bacteria. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
is also responsible for endotoxemia, systemic inflammation, and its consequences 
including obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Relationship
between gut microbiota and NAFLD is also dependent on altered choline and bile
acid metabolism and endogenous alcohol production by gut bacteria. Further
evidence linking gut microbiota with obesity and NAFLD comes from studies showing
usefulness of probiotics in animals and patients with NAFLD. This article reviews
the relationship among gut microbiota, obesity, and NAFLD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.002 
PMID: 24274865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):33-40. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.010. Epub 2013
Oct 25.

The impact of obesity on liver histology.

Goodman ZD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Liver Diseases, Inova Fairfax Hospital, 3300 Gallows Road, Falls
Church, VA 22042, USA. Electronic address: zachary.goodman@inova.org.

Obesity and insulin resistance produce alterations in the liver's normal role in 
lipid metabolism resulting in a sequence of changes recognizable on liver biopsy.
Hepatocellular fat vacuoles increase with BMI, producing steatosis.
Steatohepatitis occurs when there is also cytoskeletal damage with loss of
keratin filaments, ballooning of affected liver cells and formation of
Mallory-Denk bodies. Activation of hepatic stellate cells produces fibrosis in
the perisinusoidal spaces. With continuing fibrogenesis there is progression to
bridging fibrosis and cirrhosis. Hepatocellular carcinoma may develop in the
cirrhotic liver, but both hepatocellular adenoma and hepatocellular carcinoma may
occur in pre-cirrhotic fatty liver disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.010 
PMID: 24274863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):19-31. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.018. Epub 2013
Oct 24.

Obesity-associated nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Yilmaz Y(1), Younossi ZM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, School of Medicine, Marmara University, Fevzi 
Cakmak Mah, Mimar Sinan Cad. No. 41 Ust Kaynarca, Pendik, Istanbul 34899, Turkey;
Institute of Gastroenterology, Marmara University, Karaciger Arastirmalari
Birimi, Basibuyuk, Maltepe, Istanbul 34840, Turkey.

Obesity is strongly associated with the prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) in adult and pediatric populations. Nutrition, physical activity,
and behavioral modifications are critical components of the treatment regimen for
all obese patients with NAFLD. Bariatric surgeries that affect or restrict the
flow of food through the gastrointestinal tract may improve liver histology in
morbidly obese patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), although
randomized clinical trials and quasi-randomized clinical studies are lacking.
Early detection of NASH and hepatic fibrosis using noninvasive biochemical and
imaging markers that may replace liver biopsy is the current challenge.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.018 
PMID: 24274862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Clin Liver Dis. 2014 Feb;18(1):1-18. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.019.

Obesity and liver disease: the epidemic of the twenty-first century.

Corey KE(1), Kaplan LM.

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, Weight Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, 55 Fruit Street, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Obesity is a rapidly growing health problem that is associated with more than 65 
comorbidities and results in substantially increased all-cause mortality. The
increase of obesity has played an important role in the increasing prevalence of 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most common cause of liver disease 
in the United States. Understanding the prevalence, comorbidities, and
pathogenesis of obesity provides an essential foundation for clinicians who care 
for individuals with NAFLD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2013.09.019 
PMID: 24274861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


884. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Dec;28 Suppl 4:88-92. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12239.

Hepatocarcinogenesis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in Japan.

Tokushige K(1), Hashimoto E, Kodama K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, Tokyo Women's Medical
University, Tokyo, Japan.

In Japan, there has been a gradual increase in cases of non-viral chronic liver
diseases, including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), occurring with
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). First, a national survey investigating the
etiology of HCC in Japan was performed. Among HCCs based on non-viral disease,
alcoholic liver disease with HCC accounted for 7.2% of all HCCs, followed by
chronic liver disease of unknown etiology with HCC (5.1%) and NAFLD with HCC
(2.0%). The clinical characteristics of these three HCC groups were clearly
different. In our second analysis, the HCC development rates among liver
cirrhosis with NAFLD, alcoholic cirrhosis, and cirrhosis with hepatitis C virus
(HCV) were compared. HCC development rates were 11.3%/5 years in NAFLD cirrhosis,
30.5%/5 years in HCV cirrhosis, and 12.5%/5 years in alcoholic cirrhosis,
suggesting that the hepatocarcinogenesis in NAFLD and alcoholic liver disease
were similar but were lower than that in HCV. Using Cox hazards analysis, older
age, higher serum γ-glutamyl transpeptidase level, and higher Child-Pugh score as
risk factors of HCC were identified. Finally, clinical data of NAFLD-HCC with the
data for HCC with HCV (HCV-HCC) were compared. The percentage of NAFLD-HCC
patients with des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin-positive was higher than that with
α-fetoprotein-positive. The 5-year survival and recurrence rates for NAFLD-HCC
were almost similar to those for HCV-HCC. In Asian countries, the prevalence of
NAFLD is increasing. Therefore, elucidating the pathogenesis and clinical
features of HCC in patients with NAFLD is indeed an urgent problem.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12239 
PMID: 24251711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Dec;28 Suppl 4:79-80. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12242.

Treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Takei Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mie University Graduate School 
of Medicine, Tsu, Mie, Japan.

Treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease involves not only the management
of the liver disease itself but the associated metabolic risk factors as well.
However, no single treatment has been shown to be universally efficacious.
Effective treatment regimens directed at both decreasing insulin resistance as
well as the processes of necroinflammation have been investigated and include
lifestyle intervention, surgical treatment, and pharmacotherapy. Lifestyle
modification, weight loss, and physical activity represent the cornerstone of
treatment. Given the important role of insulin resistance in the pathophysiology 
of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, thiazolidinediones are used to improve insulin 
resistance. Ongoing large multicenter studies will provide information about
long-term efficacy and safety of pioglitazone in patients with non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis. Many other medications have shown promising results in the
investigations using animal models and in preliminary pilot studies. Because the 
sample sizes of these studies were relatively small and the durations were short,
further validation is required.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12242 
PMID: 24251709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


886. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Dec;28 Suppl 4:71-8. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12251.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: factors associated with its presence and
onset.

Miyake T(1), Kumagi T, Furukawa S, Tokumoto Y, Hirooka M, Abe M, Hiasa Y,
Matsuura B, Onji M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Metabology, Ehime University Graduate
School of Medicine, Toon, Ehime, Japan.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) may progress to cirrhosis, liver
failure, and complicated hepatocellular carcinoma. In addition, NAFLD is a risk
factor for the development of other serious diseases, such as diabetes or
cardiovascular disease. Therefore, the detection of early-stage NAFLD is
important. Many studies have described the factors that predict the presence of
NAFLD and its onset, and several markers have been identified. These markers have
enabled the identification of high-risk patients and have improved routine
medical practice. To prevent advanced disease, clinicians need to have simple
markers that predict the onset of NAFLD so that interventions can be started at
much earlier stages of disease. This review summarizes the current state of
knowledge regarding independent factors, as reported in large studies, that
predict the presence of NAFLD and its onset, especially markers that can be used 
in daily medical practice, such as physical measurements and blood tests.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12251 
PMID: 24251708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Dec;28 Suppl 4:64-70. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12271.

Characteristics and diagnosis of NAFLD/NASH.

Hashimoto E(1), Taniai M, Tokushige K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, Tokyo Women's Medical
University, Tokyo, Japan.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered to be a hepatic
manifestation of metabolic syndrome. NAFLD has become an important public health 
issue because of its high prevalence. NAFLD consists of two clinicopathological
entities: simple steatosis, which generally follows a benign non-progressive
clinical course, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which may progress to 
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The diagnosis of NAFLD is based on the
following three criteria: non-alcoholic, detection of steatosis either by imaging
or by histology, and appropriate exclusion of other liver diseases. Alcoholic
liver disease can occur when daily alcohol consumption exceeds 20 g in women or
30 g in men. Thus, non-alcoholic indicates lower levels of these alcohol
consumptions. However, there is still no clear consensus regarding the threshold 
alcohol consumption for defining non-alcoholic liver disease. Then, there is the 
strong recommendation for a change in the nomenclature, such as use of the term
metabolic fatty liver and metabolic steatohepatitis. NASH has emerged as a
clinicopathological entity, and even now, a liver biopsy remains the gold
standard for making a definitive diagnosis. However, liver biopsy has several
drawbacks. In general practice, NAFLD is a convenient-to-use term for the
diagnosis and management of these patients, and serum biomarkers that indicate
the severity of fibrosis serve as clinically useful tools for the identification 
of NAFLD in patients with bridging fibrosis or cirrhosis. In the future, improved
understanding of the pathogenesis of NASH and new technologies may contribute to 
the diagnostic process and provide reliable, non-invasive alternatives to liver
biopsy.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12271 
PMID: 24251707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Dec;28 Suppl 4:59-63. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12407.

Diet and exercise in management of obesity and overweight.

Fock KM(1), Khoo J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Changi General Hospital, Singapore.

According to World Health Organization, in 2010 there were over 1 billion
overweight adults worldwide with 400 million adults who were obese. Obesity is a 
major risk factor for diabetes, cardiovascular disease, musculoskeletal
disorders, obstructive sleep apnea, and cancers (prostate, colorectal,
endometrial, and breast). Obese people may present to the gastroenterologists
with gastroesophageal reflux, non-alcoholic fatty liver, and gallstones. It is
important, therefore, to recognize and treat obesity. The main cause of obesity
is an imbalance between calories consumed and calories expended, although in a
small number of cases, genetics and diseases such as hypothyroidism, Cushing's
disease, depression, and use of medications such as antidepressants and
anticonvulsants are responsible for fat accumulation in the body. The main
treatment for obesity is dieting, augmented by physical exercise and supported by
cognitive behavioral therapy. Calorie-restriction strategies are one of the most 
common dietary plans. Low-calorie diet refers to a diet with a total dietary
calorie intake of 800-1500, while very low-calorie diet has less than 800
calories daily. These dietary regimes need to be balanced in macronutrients,
vitamins, and minerals. Fifty-five percent of the dietary calories should come
from carbohydrates, 10% from proteins, and 30% from fats, of which 10% of total
fat consist of saturated fats. After reaching the desired body weight, the amount
of dietary calories consumed can be increased gradually to maintain a balance
between calories consumed and calories expended. Regular physical exercise
enhances the efficiency of diet through increase in the satiating efficiency of a
fixed meal, and is useful for maintaining diet-induced weight loss. A
meta-analysis by Franz found that by calorie restriction and exercise, weight
loss of 5-8.5 kg was observed 6 months after intervention. After 48 months, a
mean of 3-6 kg was maintained. In conclusion, there is evidence that obesity is
preventable and treatable. Dieting and physical exercise can produce weight loss 
that can be maintained.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12407 
PMID: 24251706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


889. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Dec;28 Suppl 4:48-53. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12238.

Obesity and gastrointestinal liver disorders in Japan.

Matsuura B(1), Nunoi H, Miyake T, Hiasa Y, Onji M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Lifestyle-Related Medicine and Endocrinology, Ehime University
Graduate School of Medicine, Toon, Ehime, Japan.

In Japan, the prevalence of obesity in adult men has increased since the 1970s,
while that in adult women has not changed. The prevalence of obesity in 5-, 8-,
11-, and 14-year-old boys and girls increased from the late 1980s to late 1990 s 
and has decreased since 2000, while that in 17-year-old girls increased in 2002, 
similar to that for boys, but has since decreased. In 2009, 33.3% of adult men
and 25.0% of adult women were obese, and 8-10% of children (age, 5-17 years) were
obese. The prevalence of visceral obesity in adults was 50.8% of men and 18.0% of
women. Obesity, especially visceral obesity, affects insulin resistance and
increases metabolic diseases (diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, hypertension,
cardiovascular disease, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease [NAFLD]) and
various cancers. In Japan, with a body mass index (BMI) of 23-25 as the reference
category, the hazard ratio of total mortality is 1.36 for a BMI of 30-40 in men
and 1.37 with a BMI of 30-40 in women. The frequency of patients with NAFLD has
gradually increased in proportion to the increase in the population with obesity.
From recent studies in Japan, the number of NAFLD patients is estimated to be 10 
million, and around 2 million are considered to have non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis. Dietary and behavioral modification is effective for body weight
loss and for improvement of obesity-related gastrointestinal liver diseases. If
necessary, bariatric surgery is useful for obesity treatment.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12238 
PMID: 24251704  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


890. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Dec;28 Suppl 4:9-17. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12294.

Role of the gut microbiota in human nutrition and metabolism.

Ramakrishna BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, SRM Institutes of Medical Science, Chennai,
India; Flinders University of South Australia, Bedford Park, South Australia,
Australia.

The human gastrointestinal tract harbors trillions of bacteria, most of which are
commensal and have adapted over time to the milieu of the human colon. Their many
metabolic interactions with each other, and with the human host, influence human 
nutrition and metabolism in diverse ways. Our understanding of these influences
has come through breakthroughs in the molecular profiling of the phylogeny and
the metabolic capacities of the microbiota. The gut microbiota produce a variety 
of nutrients including short-chain fatty acids, B vitamins, and vitamin K.
Because of their ability to interact with receptors on epithelial cells and
subepithelial cells, the microbiota also release a number of cellular factors
that influence human metabolism. Thus, they have potential roles in the
pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome, diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, 
and cognition, which extend well beyond their traditional contribution to
nutrition. This review explores the roles of the gut microbiota in human
nutrition and metabolism, and the putative mechanisms underlying these effects.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12294 
PMID: 24251697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Med Clin North Am. 2014 Jan;98(1):55-72. doi: 10.1016/j.mcna.2013.09.001. Epub
2013 Oct 23.

Review of treatment options for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Corrado RL(1), Torres DM, Harrison SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, 8901
Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda, MD 20889-5600, USA.

Although the future of NAFLD and NASH treatment has many promising agents,
clinicians are currently faced with limited options with an emphasis on lifestyle
modification. Figs. 1 and 2 summarize current practices for the diagnosis and
treatment of NAFLD with the understanding that each patient's treatment must be
customized to their comorbidities, exercise tolerance, and willingness to comply 
with therapy.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcna.2013.09.001 
PMID: 24266914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Compr Physiol. 2013 Oct;3(4):1493-532. doi: 10.1002/cphy.c130001.

Steatosis in the liver.

Wang DQ(1), Portincasa P, Neuschwander-Tetri BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 
Saint Louis University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri.

Accumulation of triacylglycerols within the cytoplasm of hepatocytes to the
degree that lipid droplets are visible microscopically is called liver steatosis.
Most commonly, it occurs when there is an imbalance between the delivery or
synthesis of fatty acids in the liver and their disposal through oxidative
pathways or secretion into the blood as a component of triacylglycerols in very
low density lipoprotein. This disorder is called nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) in the absence of alcoholic abuse and viral hepatitis, and it is often
associated with insulin resistance, obesity and type 2 diabetes. Also, liver
steatosis can be induced by many other causes including excessive alcohol
consumption, infection with genotype 3 hepatitis C virus and certain medications.
Whereas hepatic triacylglycerol accumulation was once considered the ultimate
effector of hepatic lipotoxicity, triacylglycerols per se are quite inert and do 
not induce insulin resistance or cellular injury. Rather, lipotoxic injury in the
liver appears to be mediated by the global ongoing fatty acid enrichment in the
liver, paralleling the development of insulin resistance. A considerable number
of fatty acid metabolites may be responsible for hepatic lipotoxicity and liver
injury. Additional key contributors include hepatic cytosolic lipases and the
"lipophagy" of lipid droplets, as sources of hepatic fatty acids. The specific
origin of the lipids, mainly triacylglycerols, accumulating in liver has been
unraveled by recent kinetic studies, and identifying the origin of the
accumulated triacylglycerols in the liver of patients with NAFLD may direct the
prevention and treatment of this condition.

© 2013 American Physiological Society. Compr Physiol 3:1493-1532, 2013.

DOI: 10.1002/cphy.c130001 
PMID: 24265237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Nov 20;14(11):22933-66. doi: 10.3390/ijms141122933.

Nonalcoholic Fatty liver: a possible new target for type 2 diabetes prevention
and treatment.

Fruci B(1), Giuliano S, Mazza A, Malaguarnera R, Belfiore A.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology, Department of Health Sciences, University Magna Graecia of
Catanzaro, Catanzaro 88100, Italy. belfiore@unicz.it.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disorder
worldwide. Several lines of evidence have indicated a pathogenic role of insulin 
resistance, and a strong association with type 2 diabetes (T2MD) and metabolic
syndrome. Importantly, NAFLD appears to enhance the risk for T2MD, as well as
worsen glycemic control and cardiovascular disease in diabetic patients. In turn,
T2MD may promote NAFLD progression. The opportunity to take into account NAFLD in
T2MD prevention and care has stimulated several clinical studies in which
antidiabetic drugs, such as metformin, thiazolidinediones, GLP-1 analogues and
DPP-4 inhibitors have been evaluated in NAFLD patients. In this review, we
provide an overview of preclinical and clinical evidences on the possible
efficacy of antidiabetic drugs in NAFLD treatment. Overall, available data
suggest that metformin has beneficial effects on body weight reduction and
metabolic parameters, with uncertain effects on liver histology, while
pioglitazone may improve liver histology. Few data, mostly preclinical, are
available on DPP4 inhibitors and GLP-1 analogues. The heterogeneity of these
studies and the small number of patients do not allow for firm conclusions about 
treatment guidelines, and further randomized, controlled studies are needed.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms141122933 
PMCID: PMC3856099
PMID: 24264040  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Clin Nutr. 2014 Apr;33(2):186-90. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2013.11.003. Epub 2013 Nov 
8.

Diets and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: the good and the bad.

Asrih M(1), Jornayvaz FR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Service of Endocrinology, Diabetes, Hypertension and Nutrition, Geneva
University Hospitals, Rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, 1211 Geneva 14, Switzerland.
(2)Service of Endocrinology, Diabetes, Hypertension and Nutrition, Geneva
University Hospitals, Rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, 1211 Geneva 14, Switzerland.
Electronic address: Francois.Jornayvaz@hcuge.ch.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now described as the hepatic
manifestation of the metabolic syndrome and is the most frequent chronic liver
disease, affecting about one out of three people in the western world. NAFLD is
strongly linked to insulin resistance, which represents a key risk factor for the
development of type 2 diabetes. To date, there are no reliable and efficient
pharmacotherapies in the treatment of NAFLD. However, obesity, which represents
one of the main features of the metabolic syndrome, is strongly associated with
NAFLD. Therefore, lifestyle modifications, i.e. weight loss and increased
physical activity, are the very first clinical approaches aiming at treating
NAFLD. However, although weight loss is beneficial in NAFLD, certain diets known 
to induce weight loss can actually cause or exacerbate this disease, and
therefore induce insulin resistance, such as very low carbohydrate, high fat
diets. Moreover, macronutrient diet composition can impact NAFLD without any
change in body weight. Indeed, diets rich in fatty acids, particularly saturated,
or in refined carbohydrates such as those found in soft drinks, can actually
exacerbate NAFLD. The aim of this review is to discuss the role of weight loss
and macronutrients modifications, particularly the role of fat and carbohydrate
diet composition, in the treatment of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2013.11.003 
PMID: 24262589  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


895. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Nov 14;19(42):7327-40. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i42.7327.

Hepatobiliary manifestations in inflammatory bowel disease: the gut, the drugs
and the liver.

Rojas-Feria M(1), Castro M, Suárez E, Ampuero J, Romero-Gómez M.

Author information: 
(1)María Rojas-Feria, Manuel Castro, Emilio Suárez, Javier Ampuero, Manuel
Romero-Gómez, Unit for Medical and Surgical Management of Digestive Diseases and 
CIBERehd, Valme University Hospital, University of Seville, E-41014 Sevilla,
Spain.

Abnormal liver biochemical tests are present in up to 30% of patients with
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and therefore become a diagnostic challenge.
Liver and biliary tract diseases are common extraintestinal manifestations for
both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis (UC), and typically do not correlate 
with intestinal activity. Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is the most common
hepatobiliary manifestation of IBD, and is more prevalent in UC. Approximately 5%
of patients with UC develop PSC, with the prevalence reaching up to 90%.
Cholangiocarcinoma and colon cancer risks are increased in these patients. Less
common disorders include autoimmune hepatitis/PSC overlap syndrome,
IgG4-associated cholangiopathy, primary biliary cirrhosis, hepatic amyloidosis,
granulomatous hepatitis, cholelithiasis, portal vein thrombosis, liver abscess,
and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Hepatitis B reactivation during
immunosuppressive therapy is a major concern, with screening and vaccination
being recommended in serologically negative cases for patients with IBD.
Reactivation prophylaxis with entecavir or tenofovir for 6 to 12 mo after the end
of immunosuppressive therapy is mandatory in patients showing as hepatitis B
surface antigen (HBsAg) positive, independently from viral load. HBsAg negative
and anti-HBc positive patients, with or without anti-HBs, should be closely
monitored, measuring alanine aminotransferase and hepatitis B virus DNA within 12
mo after the end of therapy, and should be treated if the viral load increases.
On the other hand, immunosuppressive therapy does not seem to promote
reactivation of hepatitis C, and hepatitis C antiviral treatment does not
influence IBD natural history either. Most of the drugs used for IBD treatment
may induce hepatotoxicity, although the incidence of serious adverse events is
low. Abnormalities in liver biochemical tests associated with aminosalicylates
are uncommon and are usually not clinically relevant. Methotrexate-related
hepatotoxicity has been described in 14% of patients with IBD, in a
dose-dependent manner. Liver biopsy is not routinely recommended.
Biologics-related hepatotoxicity is rare, but has been shown most frequently in
patients treated with infliximab. Thiopurines have been associated with
veno-occlusive disease, regenerative nodular hyperplasia, and liver peliosis.
Routine liver biochemical tests are recommended, especially during the first
month of treatment. All these conditions should be considered in IBD patients
with clinical or biochemical features suggestive of hepatobiliary involvement.
Diagnosis and management of these disorders usually involve hepatologists and
gastroenterologists due to its complexity.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i42.7327 
PMCID: PMC3831215
PMID: 24259964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Semin Immunopathol. 2014 Jan;36(1):55-71. doi: 10.1007/s00281-013-0407-3. Epub
2013 Nov 21.

CEACAM1 loss links inflammation to insulin resistance in obesity and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).

Najjar SM(1), Russo L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Diabetes and Endocrine Research, University of Toledo, Health
Science Campus, 3000 Arlington Avenue, Mail stop 1009, Toledo, OH, 43614, USA,
Sonia.Najjar@utoledo.edu.

Mounting epidemiological evidence points to an association between metabolic
syndrome and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), an increasingly recognized new
epidemic. NASH pathologies include hepatocellular ballooning, lobular
inflammation, hepatocellular injury, apoptosis, and hepatic fibrosis. We will
review the relationship between insulin resistance and inflammation in visceral
obesity and NASH in an attempt to shed more light on the pathogenesis of these
major metabolic diseases. Moreover, we will identify loss of the carcinoembryonic
antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 1 as a unifying mechanism linking the
immunological and metabolic abnormalities in NASH.

DOI: 10.1007/s00281-013-0407-3 
PMCID: PMC3946532
PMID: 24258517  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(30):4828-33.

Protective role of melatonin in liver damage.

Chojnacki C, Walecka-Kapica E, Romanowski M, Chojnacki J, Klupinska G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Medical University of Lodz, 1 Haller's Square,
90-647 Lodz, Poland. gastrologia@umed.lodz.pl.

The liver plays a key role in the detoxification of numerous molecules which
results in the formation of an excessive number of toxic reactive oxygen species.
This results in oxidative damage to the hepatocytes, which when severe,
compromises the function of this critical organ. A variety of antioxidants
protect the liver from free radical-mediated damage, one of the best of which is 
melatonin. Clinical studies have confirmed the melatonin, as well as it precursor
tryptophan, protect the liver from non-alcoholic liver disease and also during
the surgical procedure of partial liver resection.


PMID: 24251675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


898. World J Pediatr. 2013 Nov;9(4):293-9. doi: 10.1007/s12519-013-0438-9. Epub 2013
Nov 14.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus in pediatrics: a new challenge.

Van Name M(1), Santoro N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT,
USA.

BACKGROUND: The increased prevalence of childhood obesity in the last few years
has been accompanied by the increase in prevalence of type 2 diabetes in
pediatrics. In this paper, we will review the risk factors and the pathogenic
determinants leading to type 2 diabetes in youth.
DATA SOURCES: We searched on PubMed with the key words: obesity, type 2 diabetes,
children, adolescents, youth, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, genes and
selected those publications written in English that we judged to be relevant to
the topic of the review.
RESULTS: Based on the data present in the literature, we reviewed the following
three topics: 1) the role of ectopic fat deposition, in particular of fatty
liver, in the pathogenesis of pediatric type 2 diabetes; 2) the progression to
type 2 diabetes in pediatrics and how it differs from adults, and 3) current
theraputic options.
CONCLUSION: Type 2 diabetes in youth is a complex disease, creating new
challenges in treatment and prevention.

DOI: 10.1007/s12519-013-0438-9 
PMID: 24235062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Adv Nutr. 2013 Nov 6;4(6):697-710. doi: 10.3945/an.113.004648. eCollection 2013.

Hepatic fatty acid trafficking: multiple forks in the road.

Mashek DG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, University of Minnesota, St. Paul,
MN.

The liver plays a unique, central role in regulating lipid metabolism. In
addition to influencing hepatic function and disease, changes in specific
pathways of fatty acid (FA) metabolism have wide-ranging effects on the
metabolism of other nutrients, extra-hepatic physiology, and the development of
metabolic diseases. The high prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) has led to increased efforts to characterize the underlying biology of
hepatic energy metabolism and FA trafficking that leads to disease development.
Recent advances have uncovered novel roles of metabolic pathways and specific
enzymes in generating lipids important for cellular processes such as signal
transduction and transcriptional activation. These studies have also advanced our
understanding of key branch points involving FA partitioning between metabolic
pathways and have identified new roles for lipid droplets in these events. This
review covers recent advances in our understanding of FA trafficking and its
regulation. An emphasis will be placed on branch points in these pathways and how
alterations in FA trafficking contribute to NAFLD and related comorbidities.

DOI: 10.3945/an.113.004648 
PMCID: PMC3823518
PMID: 24228201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


900. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Nov 7;19(41):7024-31. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i41.7024.

Potential role of Helicobacter pylori infection in nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Li M(1), Shen Z, Li YM.

Author information: 
(1)Meng Li, Zhe Shen, You-Ming Li, Department of Gastroenterology, The First
Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003,
Zhejiang Province, China.

Accumulating evidence has implicated Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection in
extragastrointestinal diseases, including obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus,
cardiovascular disease, and liver disease. Recently, there has been a special
focus on H. pylori infection as a risk factor for the development of nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD is currently considered to be the most common 
liver disorder in western countries, and is rapidly becoming a serious threat to 
public health. The mechanisms of pathogenesis underlying NAFLD remain unclear at 
present and therapeutic options are limited. The growing awareness of the role of
H. pylori in NAFLD is thus important to aid the development of novel intervention
and prevention strategies, because the eradication of H. pylori is easy and much 
less expensive than long-term treatment of the other risk factors. H. pylori
infection is involved in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance (IR), which is
closely linked with NAFLD. It provides a new insight into the pathogenesis of
NAFLD. This review probes the possible relationship between H. pylori and NAFLD, 
from the perspective of the potential mechanism of how H. pylori infection brings
about IR and other aspects concerning this correlation.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i41.7024 
PMCID: PMC3819536
PMID: 24222944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


901. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Nov 7;19(41):6969-78. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i41.6969.

PNPLA3 I148M polymorphism and progressive liver disease.

Dongiovanni P(1), Donati B, Fares R, Lombardi R, Mancina RM, Romeo S, Valenti L.

Author information: 
(1)Paola Dongiovanni, Benedetta Donati, Roberta Fares, Rosa Lombardi, Luca
Valenti, Internal Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Policlinico
Milano, Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, Università degli Studi
di Milano, 20122 Milano, Italy.

The 148 Isoleucine to Methionine protein variant (I148M) of patatin-like
phospholipase domain-containing 3 (PNPLA3), a protein is expressed in the liver
and is involved in lipid metabolism, has recently been identified as a major
determinant of liver fat content. Several studies confirmed that the I148M
variant predisposes towards the full spectrum of liver damage associated with
fatty liver: from simple steatosis to steatohepatitis and progressive fibrosis.
Furthermore, the I148M variant represents a major determinant of progression of
alcohol related steatohepatitis to cirrhosis, and to influence fibrogenesis and
related clinical outcomes in chronic hepatitis C virus hepatitis, and possibly
chronic hepatitis B virus hepatitis, hereditary hemochromatosis and primary
sclerosing cholangitis. All in all, studies suggest that the I148M polymorphism
may represent a general modifier of fibrogenesis in liver diseases. Remarkably,
the effect of the I148M variant on fibrosis was independent of that on hepatic
steatosis and inflammation, suggesting that it may affect both the quantity and
quality of hepatic lipids and the biology of non-parenchymal liver cells besides 
hepatocytes, directly promoting fibrogenesis. Therefore, PNPLA3 is a key player
in liver disease progression. Assessment of the I148M polymorphism will possibly 
inform clinical practice in the future, whereas the determination of the effect
of the 148M variant will reveal mechanisms involved in hepatic fibrogenesis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i41.6969 
PMCID: PMC3819533
PMID: 24222941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Semin Liver Dis. 2013 Nov;33(4):380-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1358519. Epub 2013 Nov
12.

Lipoprotein metabolism, dyslipidemia, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Cohen DE(1), Fisher EA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Cardiovascular disease represents the most common cause of death in patients with
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Patients with NAFLD exhibit an
atherogenic dyslipidemia that is characterized by an increased plasma
concentration of triglycerides, reduced concentration of high-density lipoprotein
(HDL) cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles that are smaller
and more dense than normal. The pathogenesis of NAFLD-associated atherogenic
dyslipidemia is multifaceted, but many aspects are attributable to manifestations
of insulin resistance. Here the authors review the structure, function, and
metabolism of lipoproteins, which are macromolecular particles of lipids and
proteins that transport otherwise insoluble triglyceride and cholesterol
molecules within the plasma. They provide a current explanation of the metabolic 
perturbations that are observed in the setting of insulin resistance. An improved
understanding of the pathophysiology of atherogenic dyslipidemia would be
expected to guide therapies aimed at reducing morbidity and mortality in patients
with NAFLD.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1358519 
PMCID: PMC3988578
PMID: 24222095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Semin Liver Dis. 2013 Nov;33(4):369-79. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1358525. Epub 2013
Nov 12.

PNPLA3-associated steatohepatitis: toward a gene-based classification of fatty
liver disease.

Krawczyk M(1), Portincasa P, Lammert F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine II, Saarland University Medical Center, Homburg,
Germany.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is one of the most common hepatic disorders
worldwide. Given the high-calorie nutrition of children and adults, nonalcoholic 
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is expected to become a major cause of cirrhosis and 
eventually liver transplantation. Familial clustering and ethnic differences
indicate that genetic factors contribute to NAFLD. Recently, the common variant
p.I148M of the enzyme adiponutrin (PNPLA3) has emerged as a major genetic
determinant of hepatic steatosis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis as well as its 
pathobiological sequelae fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular cancer. PNPLA3
encodes a lipid droplet-associated, carbohydrate-regulated lipogenic and/or
lipolytic enzyme. Homozygous carriers of the PNPLA3 variant are prone to develop 
cirrhosis in the absence of other risk factors such as alcohol or viral
hepatitis. Here we review the plethora of studies that unraveled the association 
between PNPLA3 and NAFLD in children and adults, discuss its distinct effects on 
liver and metabolic traits, and introduce the term PNPLA3-associated
steatohepatitis (PASH) as a novel gene-based liver disease. Given the prevalence 
of the risk allele in 40 to 50% of Europeans, the authors conclude that PNPLA3
should be considered in the diagnostic workup of fatty liver disease and that
homozygous risk allele carriers might benefit from careful cancer surveillance.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1358525 
PMID: 24222094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Semin Liver Dis. 2013 Nov;33(4):343-57. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1358527. Epub 2013
Nov 12.

The role of gastrointestinal hormones in hepatic lipid metabolism.

Mells JE(1), Anania FA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Digestive Diseases, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
Georgia.

Hepatocellular accumulation of free fatty acids (FFAs) in the form of
triglycerides constitutes the metabolic basis for the development of nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Recent data demonstrate that excess FFA hepatocyte
storage is likely to lead to lipotoxicity and hepatocyte apoptosis. Hence,
FFA-mediated hepatocyte injury is a key contributor to the pathogenesis of
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, obesity, type 
2 diabetes, essential hypertension, and other common medical problems together
comprise metabolic syndrome. Evidence suggests that peptide hormones from the L
cells of the distal small intestine, which comprise the core of the
enteroendocrine system (EES), play two key roles, serving either as incretins, or
as mediators of appetite and satiety in the central nervous system. Recent data
related to glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and other known L-cell hormones have
accumulated due to the increasing frequency of bariatric surgery, which increase 
delivery of bile salts to the hindgut. Bile acids are a key stimulus for the TGR5
receptor of the L cells. Enhanced bile-salt flow and subsequent EES stimulation
may be central to elimination of hepatic steatosis following bariatric surgery.
Although GLP-1 is a clinically relevant pharmacological analogue that drives
pancreatic β-cell insulin output, GLP-1 analogues also have independent benefits 
via their effects on hepatocellular FFA metabolism. The authors also discuss
recent data regarding the role of the major peptides released by the EES, which
promote satiety and modulate energy homeostasis and utilization, as well as those
that control fat absorption and intestinal permeability. Taken together,
elucidating novel functions for EES-related peptides and pharmacologic
development of peptide analogues offer potential far-ranging treatment for
obesity-related human disease.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1358527 
PMCID: PMC3956077
PMID: 24222092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Semin Liver Dis. 2013 Nov;33(4):330-42. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1358520. Epub 2013
Nov 12.

Bile acid-mediated control of liver triglycerides.

Fuchs C(1), Claudel T, Trauner M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine
III, Hans Popper Laboratory of Molecular Hepatology, Medical University of
Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Bile acids (BAs) are steroidal molecules generated in the liver by cholesterol
oxidation. Beside their well-established role in lipid absorption and cholesterol
homeostasis, they function as signaling molecules and activate dedicated BA
receptors such as the farnesoid X receptor (FXR) and the G-protein coupled
receptor TGR5. Through activation of downstream signaling pathways of these key
receptors, BAs regulate not only their own synthesis and enterohepatic
circulation, but also impact on hepatic lipid, glucose, and energy homeostasis.
Therefore, BA-regulated signaling pathways have emerged as attractive targets for
understanding the regulation of hepatic triglyceride metabolism in health and
disease and treating fatty liver disease and associated metabolic disorders.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1358520 
PMID: 24222091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Semin Liver Dis. 2013 Nov;33(4):321-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1358522. Epub 2013 Nov
12.

The unfolded protein response in fatty liver disease.

Henkel A(1), Green RM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Section of Hepatology,
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.

The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a protective cellular response activated
under conditions of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. The hepatic UPR is
activated in several forms of liver disease including nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD). Recent data defining the role of the UPR in hepatic lipid
metabolism have identified molecular mechanisms that may underlie the association
between UPR activation and NAFLD. It has become increasingly evident that the
IRE1α/Xbp1 pathway of the UPR is critical for hepatic lipid homeostasis, and
dysregulation of this evolutionarily conserved pathway is associated with human
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Although increasing evidence has delineated 
the importance of UPR pathway signaling in fatty liver disorders, the regulation 
of the hepatic UPR in normal physiology and fatty liver disorders remains
incompletely understood. Understanding the role of the UPR in hepatic lipid
metabolism may lead to the identification of novel therapeutic targets for the
treatment of NAFLD.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1358522 
PMCID: PMC4110953
PMID: 24222090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Semin Liver Dis. 2013 Nov;33(4):312-20. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1358521. Epub 2013
Nov 12.

The lipid droplet as a potential therapeutic target in NAFLD.

Goh VJ(1), Silver DL.

Author information: 
(1)Signature Research Program in Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disorders, Duke-NUS
Graduate Medical School, Singapore.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a growing problem worldwide.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is characterized by an abnormal accumulation of 
triglyceride-rich lipid droplets (LDs) in the liver, which can lead to liver
inflammation and metabolic disturbances. Lipid droplets are dynamic organelles
that have recently gained considerable scientific interest. Their formation and
growth are regulated processes requiring the participation of many endoplasmic
reticulum- (ER-) and LD-associated proteins, which may serve as potential
therapeutic targets for NAFLD. Protein families such as fat-inducing
transmembrane proteins 1 and 2 (FITM1/FIT1 and FITM2/FIT2), the CIDE family of
proteins, and the perilipin family, play important roles in LD biology. In this
review, the authors discuss current views on LD formation and growth, and how
various proteins may affect LD metabolism and lipoprotein assembly in the
pathogenesis of NAFLD.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1358521 
PMID: 24222089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Nov 7;14(11):22052-66. doi: 10.3390/ijms141122052.

Environmental pollution: a tangible risk for NAFLD pathogenesis.

Arciello M(1), Gori M, Maggio R, Barbaro B, Tarocchi M, Galli A, Balsano C.

Author information: 
(1)Francesco Balsano Foundation, via G.B. Martini 6, Rome 00198, Italy.
clara.balsano@cnr.it.

The liver is crucial for human life, and the health of this organ often mirrors
the health of the individual. The liver can be the target of several diseases,
the most prevalent of which, as a consequence of development and changes in human
lifestyles, is the nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD is a
multifactorial disease that embraces many histo-pathologic conditions and is
highly linked to metabolic derangements. Technological progress and
industrialization have also had the consequence of releasing pollutants in the
environment, for instance pesticides or solvents, as well as by-products of
discharge, such as the particulate matter. In the last decade, a growing body of 
evidence has emerged, shedding light on the potential impact of environmental
pollutants on liver health and, in particular, on NAFLD occurrence. These
contaminants have a great steatogenic potential and need to be considered as
tangible NAFLD risk factors. There is an urgent need for a deeper comprehension
of their molecular mechanisms of action, as well as for new lines of intervention
to reduce their worldwide diffusion. This review wishes to sensitize the
community to the effects of several environmental pollutants on liver health.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms141122052 
PMCID: PMC3856051
PMID: 24213605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol. 2013 Dec;59(4):341-56.

Silymarin and S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe): two promising pharmacological
agents in case of chronic alcoholic hepathopathy. A review and a point of view.

Testino G(1), Leone S, Ansaldi F, Borro P.

Author information: 
(1)Centro Alcologico Regionale - Regione Liguria Unità Operativa di Alcologia e
Patologie Correlate, Department of General Internal and Specialistic Medicine
Irccs AOU San Martino -National Institute for CancerResearch, Genoa, Italy -
gianni.testino@hsanmartino.it.

The alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is the leading cause of death from liver
failure in Italy and worldwide. Ethanol abstention, a healthy diet, and a
significant improvement of life-style are the mainstay of treatment for this
disease. Currently, we do not have effective therapeutic options are at our
disposal to restore and maintain an improved clinical status. Silymarin is a
complementary and alternative medicine often prescribed and self-prescribed; it
has anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic, and metabolic properties. It 
improves the laboratoristic values and the ultrasonographic grading of liver
disease in case of steatosis/steatohepatitis. S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe) is
the principal biological methyl donor, and it is also a precursor of glutathione 
(GSH), essential for the anti-oxidant pathways. SAMe is particularly important
for opposing the toxicity of free radicals generated by various toxins, including
alcohol. An association between Silymarin and SAMe (labelled as a dietary
supplement) has been recently brought to market, and seems to be promising. It
could be beneficial in such cases of alcoholic hepathopathies. New therapeutic
options are needed by hepatologists to successfully overcome a constantly growing
disease.


PMID: 24212353  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Lipids Health Dis. 2013 Nov 9;12:171. doi: 10.1186/1476-511X-12-171.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: molecular pathways and therapeutic strategies.

Huang YY, Gusdon AM, Qu S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Shanghai 10th People's Hospital,
School of Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai 200072, China.
qushencn@hotmail.com.

Along with rising numbers of patients with metabolic syndrome, the prevalence of 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has increased in proportion with the
obesity epidemic. While there are no established treatments for NAFLD, current
research is targeting new molecular mechanisms that underlie NAFLD and associated
metabolic disorders. This review discusses some of these emerging molecular
mechanisms and their therapeutic implications for the treatment of NAFLD. The
basic research that has identified potential molecular targets for
pharmacotherapy will be outlined.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-511X-12-171 
PMCID: PMC3827997
PMID: 24209497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Jan;39(1):3-14. doi: 10.1111/apt.12543. Epub 2013
Nov 10.

Systematic review with meta-analysis: non-alcoholic steatohepatitis - a case for 
personalised treatment based on pathogenic targets.

Younossi ZM(1), Reyes MJ, Mishra A, Mehta R, Henry L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Center for Liver Diseases, Inova Fairfax Hospital,
Falls Church, VA, USA; Betty and Guy Beatty Center for Integrated Research, Inova
Health System, Falls Church, VA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an umbrella term, which 
encompasses simple steatosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The entire
spectrum of NAFLD has been associated with metabolic syndrome. NASH is associated
with increased mortality compared with that of the general population. Many
therapeutic options for NASH have been studied. However, there is very little
evidence supporting the efficacy of most regimens for the treatment of NASH.
AIM: To provide a review focusing on the current therapeutic options available
for patients with NASH as well as to briefly introduce possible future
interventions.
METHODS: A MEDLINE, Pubmed and Cochrane Review database search using a
combination of keywords, which included non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,
non-alcoholic hepatic steatosis, NAFLD, NASH, treatment, therapeutics, vitamin E,
orlistat and bariatric surgery. An overall summary of the articles was developed 
for each section of discussion in this review.
RESULTS: NASH associated with metabolic syndrome can progress advanced fibrosis
and cirrhosis. Weight loss and lifestyle modification have been shown to improve 
NASH. Other medications used for weight loss and metabolic syndrome have been
evaluated, such as orlistat, metformin and thiazolidinediones. Alternative
regimens using ursodeoxycholic acid, statins and probiotics as well as bariatric 
surgery have been evaluated, but have not been recommended as first-line
treatment for NASH. Vitamin E for NASH patients without diabetes seems to be
promising. The lack of effective treatment for NASH suggests the heterogeneity of
patients presenting with the NASH phenotype. The best treatment strategy for
these patients may be to identify their pathogenic target and develop
personalised treatment protocols.
CONCLUSIONS: Currently, there are few options available for the management of
NASH. Future targeted treatment strategies based on the pathogenic pathways may
be needed to develop effective treatment for patients with NASH.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12543 
PMID: 24206433  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Nihon Rinsho. 2013 Sep;71(9):1623-9.

[Pathophysiology of NAsh/NAFLD associated with high levels of serum
triglycerides].

[Article in Japanese]

Ogawa Y, Imajo K, Yoneda M, Nakajima A.

The patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic
steatohepa-titis(NASH) often have dyslipidemia along with other features of
metabolic syndrome such as obesity, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension. The
dyslipidemia in NAFLD is characterized by increased serum triglycerides,
increased small dense low-density lipoprotein, and low high-density lipoprotein
cholesterol. The pathogenesis of dyslipidemia in NAFLD is not well understood,
but it is likely related to hepatic overproduction of the very low-density
lipoprotein 1 and decreasing clearance of lipoproteins from the circulation.
Recently it is showed that free fatty acids induce hepatocyte lipoapoptosis in
vitro. In this manuscript we discuss about "hypertriglyceridemia and NASH/NAFLD".


PMID: 24205725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


913. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Mar;29(3):435-41. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12422.

Coffee and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: brewing evidence for
hepatoprotection?

Chen S(1), Teoh NC, Chitturi S, Farrell GC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China; Liver Research Group, ANU Medical
School at the Canberra Hospital, Garran, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.

Coffee is one of the most popular beverages in the world. Several studies
consistently show that coffee drinkers with chronic liver disease have a reduced 
risk of cirrhosis and a lower incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma regardless of
primary etiology. With the increasing prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) worldwide, there is renewed interest in the effect of coffee
intake on NAFLD severity and positive clinical outcomes. This review gives an
overview of growing epidemiological and clinical evidence which indicate that
coffee consumption reduces severity of NAFLD. These studies vary in methodology, 
and potential confounding factors have not always been completely excluded.
However, it does appear that coffee, and particular components other than
caffeine, reduce NAFLD prevalence and inflammation of non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis. Several possible mechanisms underlying coffee's hepatoprotective
effects in NAFLD include antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, and antifibrotic
effects, while a chemopreventive effect against hepatocarcinogenesis seems
likely. The so-far limited data supporting such effects will be discussed, and
the need for further study is highlighted.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12422 
PMID: 24199670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Semin Immunopathol. 2014 Jan;36(1):103-14. doi: 10.1007/s00281-013-0399-z. Epub
2013 Nov 6.

Gut microbiome and metabolic diseases.

Fukuda S(1), Ohno H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University, 246-2 Mizukami,
Kakuganji, Tsuruoka, Yamagata, 997-0052, Japan.

The prevalence of obesity and obesity-related disorders is increasing worldwide. 
In the last decade, the gut microbiota has emerged as an important factor in the 
development of obesity and metabolic syndrome, through its interactions with
dietary, environmental, and host genetic factors. Various studies have shown that
alteration of the gut microbiota, shifting it toward increased energy harvest, is
associated with an obese phenotype. However, the molecular mechanisms by which
the gut microbiota affects host metabolism are still obscure. In this review, we 
discuss the complexity of the gut microbiota and its relationship to obesity and 
obesity-related diseases. Furthermore, we discuss the anti-obesity potential of
probiotics and prebiotics.

DOI: 10.1007/s00281-013-0399-z 
PMID: 24196453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Nov 4;14(11):21833-57. doi: 10.3390/ijms141121833.

Rodent models of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Imajo K(1), Yoneda M, Kessoku T, Ogawa Y, Maeda S, Sumida Y, Hyogo H, Eguchi Y,
Wada K, Nakajima A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, 3-9 Fuku-ura, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan. nakajima-tky@umin.ac.jp.

Research in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), including nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), has been limited by the availability of suitable models
for this disease. A number of rodent models have been described in which the
relevant liver pathology develops in an appropriate metabolic context. These
models are promising tools for researchers investigating one of the key issues of
NASH: not so much why steatosis occurs, but what causes the transition from
simple steatosis to the inflammatory, progressive fibrosing condition of
steatohepatitis. The different rodent models can be classified into two large
groups. The first includes models in which the disease is acquired after dietary 
or pharmacological manipulation, and the second, genetically modified models in
which liver disease develops spontaneously. To date, no single rodent model has
encompassed the full spectrum of human disease progression, but individual models
can imitate particular characteristics of human disease. Therefore, it is
important that researchers choose the appropriate rodent models. The purpose of
the present review is to discuss the metabolic abnormalities present in the
currently available rodent models of NAFLD, summarizing the strengths and
weaknesses of the established models and the key findings that have furthered our
understanding of the disease's pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms141121833 
PMCID: PMC3856038
PMID: 24192824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Pediatr Res. 2014 Jan;75(1-2):140-7. doi: 10.1038/pr.2013.193. Epub 2013 Nov 5.

Developmental origins of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Brumbaugh DE(1), Friedman JE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora,
Colorado. (2)1] Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado School of
Medicine, Aurora, Colorado [2] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics,
University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado.

Obese pregnant women may transmit their metabolic phenotype to offspring, leading
to a cycle of obesity and diabetes over generations. Early childhood obesity
predicts nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most common chronic human 
liver disease. The fetus may be vulnerable to steatosis because immature fetal
adipose depots are not available to buffer the excess transplacental lipid
delivery in maternal obesity. In animal models, in utero high-fat diet exposure
results in an increase in the accumulation of liver triglycerides in offspring
and increased hepatic oxidative stress and apoptosis, perhaps priming the liver
for later development of NAFLD. Innate immune dysfunction and necroinflammatory
changes have been observed in postnatal offspring liver of animals born to
high-fat-fed dams. Postweaning, livers of offspring exposed to maternal high-fat 
feeding in utero share pathophysiologic features with human NAFLD, including
increased de novo lipogenesis and decreased free fatty acid oxidation. Human
studies using magnetic resonance imaging have shown that maternal BMI predicts
infant intrahepatocellular lipid storage, as seen in animal models. The
generational transfer of NAFLD may occur via epigenetic changes in offspring
liver. Transmission of microbiota from mother to infant may impact energy
retention and immune function that contribute to a predisposition to NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1038/pr.2013.193 
PMCID: PMC4081536
PMID: 24192698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


917. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Oct 28;19(40):6911-8. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i40.6911.

Effects of probiotics on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a meta-analysis.

Ma YY(1), Li L, Yu CH, Shen Z, Chen LH, Li YM.

Author information: 
(1)Yan-Yan Ma, Lin Li, Chao-Hui Yu, Zhe Shen, Li-Hua Chen, You-Ming Li,
Department of Gastroenterology, the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, Zhejiang Province, China.

AIM: To investigate the relationship between the gut-liver axis and nonalcoholic 
fatty liver disease (NAFLD), we performed a meta-analysis to evaluate the effects
of probiotic therapy in NAFLD.
METHODS: We searched PubMed, Medline, Embase, Web of Science, the Cochrane
Library and Chinese Biomedicine Database for all relevant randomized controlled
trials on probiotics in patients with NAFLD/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). 
A statistical analysis was performed using RevMan 5.0 software.
RESULTS: Four randomized trials involving 134 NAFLD/NASH patients were included. 
The results showed that probiotic therapy signiﬁcantly decreased alanine
aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), total-cholesterol (T-chol),
high density lipoprotein (HDL), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and homeostasis
model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) [ALT: weighted mean difference
(WMD) -23.71, 95%CI: -33.46--13.95, P < 0.00001; AST: WMD -19.77, 95%CI:
-32.55--7.00, P = 0.002; T-chol: WMD -0.28, 95%CI: -0.55--0.01, P = 0.04; HDL:
WMD -0.09, 95%CI: -0.16-0.01, P = 0.03; TNF-α: WMD -0.32, 95%CI: -0.48--0.17, P <
0.0001; HOMA-IR: WMD -0.46, 95%CI: -0.73--0.19, P = 0.0008]. However, the use of 
probiotics was not associated with changes in body mass index (BMI), glucose
(GLU) and low density lipoprotein (LDL) (BMI: WMD 0.05, 95%CI: -0.18-0.29, P =
0.64; GLU: WMD 0.05, 95%CI: -0.25-0.35, P = 0.76; LDL: WMD -0.38, 95%CI:
-0.78-0.02, P = 0.06).
CONCLUSION: Probiotic therapies can reduce liver aminotransferases,
total-cholesterol, TNF-α and improve insulin resistance in NAFLD patients.
Modulation of the gut microbiota represents a new treatment for NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i40.6911 
PMCID: PMC3812493
PMID: 24187469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


918. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Oct 28;19(40):6744-56. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i40.6744.

Surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma in chronic liver disease: evidence and 
controversies.

van Meer S(1), de Man RA, Siersema PD, van Erpecum KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Suzanne van Meer, Peter D Siersema, Karel J van Erpecum, Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 3508 GA
Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Primary liver cancer is the sixth most common cancer in the world and the third
cause of cancer-related death. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents more
than 90% of primary liver cancers and generally occurs in patients with
underlying chronic liver disease such as viral hepatitis, hemochromatosis,
primary biliary cirrhosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Especially cirrhotic
patients are at risk of HCC and regular surveillance could enable early detection
and therapy, with potentially improved outcome. We here summarize existing
evidence for surveillance including ultrasound, other radiological modalities and
various serum biomarkers, and current international guideline recommendations for
surveillance. Ultrasound and α-fetoprotein (alone or in combination) are most
frequently used for surveillance, but their sensitivities and specificities are
still far from perfect, and evidence for surveillance remains weak and
controversial. Various other potential surveillance tools have been tested,
including serum markers as des-carboxyprothrombin, lectin-bound α-fetoprotein,
and (most recently) circulating TIE2-expressing monocytes, and radiological
investigations such as computed tomography-scan or magnetic resonance
imaging-scan. Although early results appear promising, these tools have generally
been tested in diagnostic rather than surveillance setting, and in most cases, no
detailed information is available on their cost-effectiveness. For the near
future, it remains important to define those patients with highest risk of HCC
and most benefit from surveillance, and to restrict surveillance to these
categories.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i40.6744 
PMCID: PMC3812474
PMID: 24187450  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


919. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Oct 28;19(40):6735-43. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i40.6735.

Pathogenesis of hepatic steatosis: the link between hypercortisolism and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Tarantino G(1), Finelli C.

Author information: 
(1)Giovanni Tarantino, Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, Federico II
University Medical School of Naples, 80131 Naples, Italy.

Based on the available literature, non alcoholic fatty liver disease or generally
speaking, hepatic steatosis, is more frequent among people with diabetes and
obesity, and is almost universally present amongst morbidly obese diabetic
patients. Non alcoholic fatty liver disease is being increasingly recognized as a
common liver condition in the developed world, with non alcoholic steatohepatitis
projected to be the leading cause of liver transplantation. Previous data report 
that only 20% of patients with Cushing's syndrome have hepatic steatosis. Aiming 
at clarifying the reasons whereby patients suffering from Cushing's syndrome - a 
condition characterized by profound metabolic changes - present low prevalence of
hepatic steatosis, the Authors reviewed the current concepts on the link between 
hypercortisolism and obesity/metabolic syndrome. They hypothesize that this low
prevalence of fat accumulation in the liver of patients with Cushing's syndrome
could result from the inhibition of the so-called low-grade chronic-inflammation,
mainly mediated by Interleukin 6, due to an excess of cortisol, a hormone
characterized by an anti-inflammatory effect. The Cushing's syndrome,
speculatively considered as an in vivo model of the hepatic steatosis, could also
help clarify the mechanisms of non alcoholic fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i40.6735 
PMCID: PMC3812473
PMID: 24187449  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Am Assoc Nurse Pract. 2013 Sep;25(9):459-65. doi:
10.1111/j.1745-7599.2012.00797.x. Epub 2012 Dec 3.

Correlates of nonalcoholic fatty liver among women receiving residential mental
health care.

Cook LA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Soldier Health Services, Fort Campbell, Kentucky.

PURPOSE: To review the risk factors for diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) in women in a mental health, dual diagnosis, treatment facility.
DATA SOURCES: A review of the literature and retrospective chart reviews of
patients to identify factors within this population of women most closely
associated with diagnosis of NAFLD.
CONCLUSIONS: NAFLD is a common diagnosis and as obesity rates increase in the
United States the incidence for this disease is also increasing. Identifiable
risk factors are associated with the presence of this disease. Advanced practice 
nurses, as prescribers, need to be aware that the presence of NAFLD may interfere
with drug metabolism and toxin elimination in their patients.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Numerous physical conditions, behavioral symptoms, and
laboratory findings are identified as associated conditions of NAFLD. Patients
seen in primary care practices have NAFLD, but patients in treatment centers for 
mental health disorders are also affected. This population is particularly at
risk because of the hepatotoxic effects of many medications used in
psychiatric-mental health settings.

©2012 The Author(s) ©2012 American Association of Nurse Practitioners.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1745-7599.2012.00797.x 
PMID: 24170649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Exp Mol Pathol. 2013 Dec;95(3):376-84. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2013.10.006. Epub
2013 Oct 23.

Changes in the pathogenesis of alcohol-induced liver disease -- preclinical
studies.

Neuman MG(1), French SW, Casey CA, Kharbanda KK, Nanau RM, Rasineni K, McVicker
BL, Kong V, Donohue TM Jr.

Author information: 
(1)In Vitro Drug Safety and Biotechnology, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department
of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: manuela.neuman@utoronto.ca.

Excessive alcohol consumption presents considerable health risks in humans. A
variety of morphologic and functional changes contribute to hepatic injury
produced by heavy drinking. The present review summarizes the current knowledge
of alcohol-induced liver disease and describes preclinical experimental
approaches used to understand alcoholic liver disease (ALD), with a particular
emphasis on impaired protein and lipid trafficking, disruption of proteolysis and
autophagy, alterations in methionine metabolism and perturbations in metabolic
signaling that cause dysfunctional gene expression and the eventual formation of 
aggresomal Mallory-Denk bodies (MDB) in liver cells. These changes eventually
lead to some of the more severe hepatic impairments, including alcoholic
hepatitis and fibrosis. Moreover the misuse of alcohol contributes to immune
dysfunction and inadequate immune response to viral infections.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2013.10.006 
PMID: 24161955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Nutrients. 2013 Oct 11;5(10):4093-114. doi: 10.3390/nu5104093.

Nutritional management of insulin resistance in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 
(NAFLD).

Conlon BA(1), Beasley JM, Aebersold K, Jhangiani SS, Wylie-Rosett J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.
beth.conlon@phd.einstein.yu.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an emerging global health concern. It
is the most common form of chronic liver disease in Western countries, affecting 
both adults and children. NAFLD encompasses a broad spectrum of fatty liver
disease, ranging from simple steatosis (NAFL) to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), and is strongly associated with obesity, insulin resistance, and
dyslipidemia. First-line therapy for NAFLD includes weight loss achieved through 
diet and physical activity. However, there is a lack of evidenced-based dietary
recommendations. The American Diabetes Association's (ADA) recommendations that
aim to reduce the risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease may also be
applicable to the NAFLD population. The objectives of this review are to: (1)
provide an overview of NAFLD in the context of insulin resistance, and (2)
provide a rationale for applying relevant aspects of the ADA recommendations to
the nutritional management of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3390/nu5104093 
PMCID: PMC3820061
PMID: 24152749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Nutr Rev. 2013 Nov;71(11):753-71. doi: 10.1111/nure.12073. Epub 2013 Oct 22.

Potential treatment of human nonalcoholic fatty liver disease with long-chain
omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids.

Bouzianas DG(1), Bouziana SD, Hatzitolios AI.

Author information: 
(1)First Propedeutic Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, AHEPA
University Hospital, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki,
Macedonia, Greece.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver
disorder in the Western world. Its prevalence has increased with the growing
obesity epidemic, yet no definitive treatment has been developed, and optimal
management remains a clinical challenge. Long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty
acids (PUFAs) have recently been proposed as a potential treatment for liver
inflammation associated with fat accumulation. PubMed literature and the
ClinicalTrials.gov database were reviewed for the effects of omega-3 PUFA
treatment on NAFLD, from mechanisms to the results of preclinical studies, human 
studies, and unreported ongoing clinical trials, using terms such as NAFLD,
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, omega-3 fatty acids, and fish oil. Articles
published over the last 3-4 years were emphasized, and relevancy was ensured by
scanning their abstracts. Preliminary studies have confirmed an ameliorative
effect, yet the translation of promising early data into therapeutic
interventions will have to await the results of larger, properly conducted,
ongoing clinical trials.

© 2013 International Life Sciences Institute.

DOI: 10.1111/nure.12073 
PMID: 24148001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Presse Med. 2014 Feb;43(2):124-34. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2013.04.016. Epub 2013 Oct 
17.

[Prognosis assessment of alcoholic liver disease: how and why?].

[Article in French]

Trabut JB(1), Thépot V(2), Terris B(3), Sogni P(4), Nalpas B(5), Pol S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Cochin, AP-HP, unité d'hépatologie et d'addictologie, 75014 Paris,
France; Institut d'histoire et de philosophie des sciences et des techniques,
75006 Paris, France. Electronic address: jean-baptiste.trabut@cch.aphp.fr.
(2)Hôpital Cochin, AP-HP, unité d'hépatologie et d'addictologie, 75014 Paris,
France. (3)Hôpital Cochin, laboratoire d'anatomie pathologie, université Paris
Descartes, 75014 Paris, France. (4)Hôpital Cochin, AP-HP, unité d'hépatologie et 
d'addictologie, 75014 Paris, France; Inserm U1016, université Paris Descartes,
75014 Paris, France. (5)Inserm, département de l'alcool et des addictions, 75013 
Paris, France.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) causes more than 5000 deaths per year in France.
Most of those deaths could be prevented by an early diagnosis, which would give
the patients the opportunity to modify their alcohol consumption while liver
lesions are still reversible. Hepatic histology is the main parameter that
predicts morbidity and mortality in patients with ALD. Non-invasive methods such 
as biomarker tests (e.g. FibroTest(®) or FibroMetre A(®)) or hepatic elastography
(FibroScan(®)) may allow diagnosing alcohol-induced liver lesion without
systematic biopsy. Despite promising preliminary results, those methods are not
validated yet in ALD. A validation of non-invasive methods for ALD could allow a 
large screening of the severe forms of this pathology.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2013.04.016 
PMID: 24140195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Clin Mol Hepatol. 2013 Sep;19(3):210-5. doi: 10.3350/cmh.2013.19.3.210. Epub 2013
Sep 30.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: molecular mechanisms for the hepatic steatosis.

Koo SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Korea University, Seoul, Korea.

Liver plays a central role in the biogenesis of major metabolites including
glucose, fatty acids, and cholesterol. Increased incidence of obesity in the
modern society promotes insulin resistance in the peripheral tissues in humans,
and could cause severe metabolic disorders by inducing accumulation of lipid in
the liver, resulting in the progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD). NAFLD, which is characterized by increased fat depots in the liver,
could precede more severe diseases such as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), 
cirrhosis, and in some cases hepatocellular carcinoma. Accumulation of lipid in
the liver can be traced by increased uptake of free fatty acids into the liver,
impaired fatty acid beta oxidation, or the increased incidence of de novo
lipogenesis. In this review, I would like to focus on the roles of individual
pathways that contribute to the hepatic steatosis as a precursor for the NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3350/cmh.2013.19.3.210 
PMCID: PMC3796672
PMID: 24133660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Oct 15;14(10):20704-28. doi: 10.3390/ijms141020704.

Multiple hits, including oxidative stress, as pathogenesis and treatment target
in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).

Takaki A(1), Kawai D, Yamamoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Okayama University Graduate
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho,
Kita-ku, Okayama City, Okayama 700-8558, Japan. akitaka@md.okayama-u.ac.jp.

Multiple parallel hits, including genetic differences, insulin resistance and
intestinal microbiota, account for the progression of non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). Multiple hits induce adipokine secretion, endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) and oxidative stress at the cellular level that subsequently
induce hepatic steatosis, inflammation and fibrosis, among which oxidative stress
is considered a key contributor to progression from simple fatty liver to NASH.
Although several clinical trials have shown that anti-oxidative therapy can
effectively control hepatitis activities in the short term, the long-term effect 
remains obscure. Several trials of long-term anti-oxidant protocols aimed at
treating cerebrovascular diseases or cancer development have failed to produce a 
benefit. This might be explained by the non-selective anti-oxidative properties
of these drugs. Molecular hydrogen is an effective antioxidant that reduces only 
cytotoxic reactive oxygen species (ROS) and several diseases associated with
oxidative stress are sensitive to hydrogen. The progress of NASH to
hepatocellular carcinoma can be controlled using hydrogen-rich water. Thus,
targeting mitochondrial oxidative stress might be a good candidate for NASH
treatment. Long term clinical intervention is needed to control this complex
lifestyle-related disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms141020704 
PMCID: PMC3821639
PMID: 24132155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Semin Nephrol. 2013 Sep;33(5):457-67. doi: 10.1016/j.semnephrol.2013.07.007.

Race and the insulin resistance syndrome.

Kramer H(1), Dugas L, Rosas SE.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Public Health Sciences and Medicine, Division of Nephrology and
Hypertension, Loyola University Chicago Health Sciences Campus, Maywood, IL.
Electronic address: hkramer@lumc.edu.

Type 2 diabetes remains an important cause of morbidity and mortality. The
metabolic syndrome affects 25% of the adult US population based on the Third
Report of the Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation and Treatment of High Blood
Cholesterol in Adults from the National Cholesterol Education Program. Knowledge 
on the impact of obesity on metabolic health parameters has increased greatly
over the past decade. This review discusses the limitations of the National
Cholesterol Education Program metabolic syndrome definition and the racial
disparities in the clinical presentation of the insulin resistance syndrome. We
also examine the current literature with particular emphasis on albuminuria,
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and intramyocellular lipid content. This review
explores potential environmental and genetic reasons for differences in the
manifestation of insulin resistance across racial/ethnic groups and highlights
several promising areas for further study.

© 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semnephrol.2013.07.007 
PMID: 24119851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Acta Physiol (Oxf). 2014 Feb;210(2):296-306. doi: 10.1111/apha.12171. Epub 2013
Oct 28.

Lipotoxicity and the role of maternal nutrition.

Pruis MG(1), van Ewijk PA, Schrauwen-Hinderling VB, Plösch T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Laboratory Medicine, Center for Liver, Digestive and
Metabolic Diseases, University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen,
Groningen, the Netherlands.

Intrauterine malnutrition predisposes the offspring towards the development of
type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. To explain this association, the
Developmental Origins of Health and Disease hypothesis was introduced, meaning
that subtle environmental changes during embryonic and foetal development can
influence post-natal physiological functions. Different mechanisms, including
epigenetics, are thought to be involved in this foetal programming, but the link 
between epigenetics and disease is missing. There is increasing evidence that
ectopic lipid accumulation and/or lipotoxicity is induced by foetal programming. 
The aim of this review is to provide insights into the mechanisms underlying
lipotoxicity through programming, which contributes to the increase in hepatic
and cardiac metabolic risk.

© 2013 Scandinavian Physiological Society. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apha.12171 
PMID: 24119080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Ann Hepatol. 2013 Nov-Dec;12(6):861-70.

Hepatitis E virus: new faces of an old infection.

Riveiro-Barciela M(1), Rodríguez-Frías F, Buti M.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, Vall d'Hebron Hospital,
Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Ann Hepatol. 2015 Jan-Feb;14(1):141-2.

Hepatitis E virus is one of the most common causes of acute hepatitis worldwide, 
with the majority of cases occurring in Asia. In recent years, however, an
increasing number of acute and chronic hepatitis E virus infections have been
reported in industrialized countries. The importance of this infection resides in
the associated morbidity and mortality. In acute cases, a high mortality rate has
been reported in patients with previously undiagnosed alcoholic liver disease.
Hepatitis E infection can become chronic in immunocompromised patients, such as
solid organ transplant recipients, patients receiving chemotherapy, and
HIV-infected patients, and lead to the development of hepatic fibrosis and
cirrhosis. Hence, treatment strategies involving reductions in immunosuppressive 
regimens and therapy with ribavirin or peg-interferon have been evaluated. In
terms of prevention, a promising new vaccine was recently licensed in China,
although its efficacy is uncertain and potential adverse effects in risk groups
such as chronic liver disease patients and pregnant women require investigation. 
In conclusion, physicians should be aware of hepatitis E as a cause of both acute
and chronic hepatitis in immunocompromised patients. The best treatment option
for HEV infection remains to be defined, but both ribavirin and peg-interferon
may have a role in therapy for this condition.


PMID: 24114815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Oct 9;14(10):20112-30. doi: 10.3390/ijms141020112.

Role of hepatic progenitor cells in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease development:
cellular cross-talks and molecular networks.

Carpino G(1), Renzi A, Onori P, Gaudio E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomical, Histological, Forensic Medicine and Orthopedics
Sciences, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome 00161, Italy.
guido.carpino@uniroma1.it.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) includes a spectrum of diseases ranging 
from simple fatty liver to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, (NASH) which may
progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. NASH has been independently
correlated with atherosclerosis progression and cardiovascular risk. NASH
development is characterized by intricate interactions between resident and
recruited cells that enable liver damage progression. The increasing general
agreement is that the cross-talk between hepatocytes, hepatic stellate cells
(HSCs) and macrophages in NAFLD has a main role in the derangement of lipid
homeostasis, insulin resistance, danger recognition, immune tolerance response
and fibrogenesis. Moreover, several evidences have suggested that hepatic
stem/progenitor cell (HPCs) activation is a component of the adaptive response of
the liver to oxidative stress in NAFLD. HPC activation determines the appearance 
of a ductular reaction. In NASH, ductular reaction is independently correlated
with progressive portal fibrosis raising the possibility of a periportal
fibrogenetic pathway for fibrogenesis that is parallel to the deposition of
subsinusoidal collagen in zone 3 by HSCs. Recent evidences indicated that
adipokines, a class of circulating factors, have a key role in the cross-talk
among HSCs, HPCs and liver macrophages. This review will be focused on cellular
cross-talk and the relative molecular networks which are at the base of NASH
progression and fibrosis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms141020112 
PMCID: PMC3821605
PMID: 24113587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


931. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Sep 28;19(36):5953-63. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i36.5953.

Liver transplantation in alcoholic liver disease current status and
controversies.

Singal AK(1), Chaha KS, Rasheed K, Anand BS.

Author information: 
(1)Ashwani K Singal, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of
Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294-0012, United 
States.

Alcoholic cirrhosis remains the second most common indication for liver
transplantation. A comprehensive medical and psychosocial evaluation is needed
when making a decision to place such patients on the transplant list. Most
transplant centers worldwide need a minimum of 6 mo of alcohol abstinence for
listing these patients. Patients with alcohol dependence are at high risk for
relapse to alcohol use after transplantation (recidivism). These patients need to
be identified and require alcohol rehabilitation treatment before
transplantation. Recidivism to the level of harmful drinking is reported in about
15%-20% cases. Although, recurrent cirrhosis and graft loss from recidivism is
rare, occurring in less than 5% of all alcoholic cirrhosis-related transplants,
harmful drinking in the post-transplant period does impact the long-term outcome.
The development of metabolic syndrome with cardiovascular events and de novo
malignancy are important contributors to non liver-related mortality amongst
transplants for alcoholic liver disease. Surveillance protocols for earlier
detection of de novo malignancy are needed to improve the long-term outcome. The 
need for a minimum of 6 mo of abstinence before listing makes transplant a
nonviable option for patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis who do not respond 
to corticosteroids. Emerging data from retrospective and prospective studies has 
challenged the 6 mo rule, and beneficial effects of liver transplantation have
been reported in select patients with a first episode of severe alcoholic
hepatitis who are unresponsive to steroids.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i36.5953 
PMCID: PMC3785616
PMID: 24106395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Liver Int. 2014 Apr;34(4):495-504. doi: 10.1111/liv.12304. Epub 2013 Sep 15.

Impact of coffee on liver diseases: a systematic review.

Saab S(1), Mallam D, Cox GA 2nd, Tong MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of
California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Department of Surgery, David
Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California at Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, CA, USA.

Coffee is one of the most commonly consumed beverages in the world. Its health
benefits including improved overall survival have been demonstrated in a variety 
of disease states. To examine the association of coffee consumption with liver
disease, a systematic review of studies on the effects of coffee on liver
associated laboratory tests, viral hepatitis, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD), cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was performed. Coffee
consumption was associated with improved serum gamma glutamyltransferase,
aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase values in a dose
dependent manner in individuals at risk for liver disease. In chronic liver
disease patients who consume coffee, a decreased risk of progression to
cirrhosis, a lowered mortality rate in cirrhosis patients, and a lowered rate of 
HCC development were observed. In chronic hepatitis C patients, coffee was
associated with improved virologic responses to antiviral therapy. Moreover,
coffee consumption was inversely related to the severity of steatohepatitis in
patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Therefore, in patients with
chronic liver disease, daily coffee consumption should be encouraged.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12304 
PMID: 24102757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Clin Radiol. 2014 Mar;69(3):299-306. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2013.07.011. Epub 2013
Oct 3.

Paraduodenal pancreatitis.

Arora A(1), Dev A(2), Mukund A(2), Patidar Y(2), Bhatia V(3), Sarin SK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Delhi,
India. Electronic address: aroradrankur@yahoo.com. (2)Department of Radiology,
Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Delhi, India. (3)Department of
Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Delhi, 
India.

Paraduodenal pancreatitis is a distinct clinicopathological entity involving the 
duodenum and the pancreatic tissue in the vicinity of the minor papilla. Most
afflicted patients are young alcoholic males who present clinically with upper
abdominal pain, weight loss, nausea, and vomiting. Pancreatic tissue elements in 
the duodenal wall and impedance to exocrine pancreatic secretions at the minor
papilla are key factors in the pathogenesis of this condition. On imaging, the
condition may manifest as a solid fibrotic mass around the minor papilla or as
cysts in the duodenum and the pancreaticoduodenal groove. Duodenal stenosis,
biliary strictures, chronic calcifying pancreatitis, and pancreatic ductal
dilatation are also often observed.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crad.2013.07.011 
PMID: 24094726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Ther Umsch. 2013 Oct;70(10):577-9. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000450.

[Hepatology scores].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Tonko S(1), Dufour JF.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinik für viszerale Medizin und Chirurgie, Universitätsspital,
Bern und Departement für Klinische Forschung, Universität Bern.

We are performing a complex medicine in an environment of limited resources.
Therefore we need to accurately diagnose, predict and treat. Many scores have
been developed with these goals in Hepatology. We choose to limit our attention
to those widely used and established which are really decisive in daily clinical 
management: the Child-Pugh-Turcotte-Score (CTP); the MELD-Score, the simplified
criteria for the diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis, the Mayo-Score for primary
biliary cirrhosis and the Lille-Score for alcoholic hepatitis. All scores use
clinical features as well as laboratory findings to make these statements. It is 
likely that these scores will remain in clinical practice for many more years
even if new scores based on molecular signatures may be introduced in a near
future.

Publisher: Die folgenden hepatologischen Scores sind hilfreich dabei den
Schweregrad für Lebererkrankungen einschätzen zu können, manche helfen bei der
Diagnosestellung, andere können sogar dazu verwendet werden um eine Prognose für 
die weitere Entwicklung zu zeigen. Wir entschieden uns für 5 Scores welche im
klinischen Alltag sehr nützlich sind: Child-Pugh-Turcotte-Score(CTP); MELD-Score,
Score zur Diagnose einer Autoimmunhepatitis, den Mayo-Score für primär biliäre
Zirrhose und den Lille-Score für alkoholische Hepatitis. In allen Scores werden
klinische Merkmale und laborchemische Parameter verwendet um diese Aussagen
treffen zu können.
DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000450 
PMID: 24091337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2013 Aug;27(4):619-29. doi:
10.1016/j.bpg.2013.06.018.

Liver disease and malnutrition.

Purnak T(1), Yilmaz Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Ankara Numune Education and Research Hospital,
Ankara, Turkey.

Patients with hepatic disorders are exceptionally vulnerable to developing
malnutrition because of the key role played by the liver in regulating the
nutritional state and the energy balance. Moreover, the presence of chronic liver
disorders could reduce the appetite and thus influence the nutrient intake. Poor 
nutritional status has been shown in various patient groups with hepatic
disorders, and particularly in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis who are at high 
nutritional risk. It is well established that malnourished patients with liver
diseases generally have a higher risk of developing adverse clinical outcomes and
increased healthcare costs. Nutrition screening with the Subjective Global
Assessment and anthropometric measurements are an important first step in the
early identification of malnutrition and initiates the whole nutrition care
process. It is therefore important for appropriate nutrition policies and
protocols to be implemented so that all patients with chronic liver diseases are 
monitored closely from a nutritional standpoint. Early and evidence-based
nutritional interventions are eagerly needed to minimize the nutritional decline 
associated with chronic liver disorders and ultimately improve the prognosis of
such patients. This review includes a comprehensive analysis of methods to
identify malnutrition in patients with chronic liver diseases as well as the
extent and impact of the malnutrition problem in selected patient populations.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2013.06.018 
PMID: 24090946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2013 Aug;27(4):577-96. doi:
10.1016/j.bpg.2013.08.001. Epub 2013 Aug 22.

Liver abnormalities in drug and substance abusers.

Pateria P(1), de Boer B, MacQuillan G.

Author information: 
(1)Western Australian Liver Transplant Service, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital,
Hospital Avenue, Nedlands, Western Australia 6009, Australia. Electronic address:
Puraskar.Pateria@health.wa.gov.au.

Drug and substance abuse remains a major medical problem. Alcohol use, abuse and 
dependence are highly prevalent conditions. Alcohol related liver disease can
present as simple steatosis, steatohepatitis, alcoholic hepatitis or liver
cirrhosis. Paracetamol hepatotoxicity secondary to accidental or deliberate
overdose is another common problem. While the adverse cardiovascular,
neurological, renal and psychiatric consequences of various illicit substance
abuses are widely studied and publicized, less attention has been directed
towards possible hepatotoxic effects. Illicit drug abuse can cause a range of
liver abnormalities ranging from asymptomatic derangement of liver function tests
to fulminant hepatic failure. This article reviews the epidemiology, risk
factors, clinical manifestations, pathogenesis, investigations, management and
prognostic factors of alcohol related liver disease and paracetamol
hepatotoxicity as well as the current knowledge pertaining to hepatotoxicity of
the more commonly used illicit substances including cannabis, amphetamine type
stimulants, cocaine, khat chewing and complementary and alternate medicine.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2013.08.001 
PMID: 24090944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2013 Aug;27(4):553-63. doi:
10.1016/j.bpg.2013.06.014.

Liver abnormalities and endocrine diseases.

Burra P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Multivisceral Transplant Unit, Gastroenterology, Department of Surgery,
Oncology and Gastroenterology, Padua University Hospital, Via Giustiniani 2,
35128 PD Padua, Italy. Electronic address: burra@unipd.it.

The liver and its pleotropic functions play a fundamental role in regulating
metabolism, and is also an inevitable target of multiple metabolic disorders. The
numerous and constant relationships and feedback mechanisms between the liver and
all endocrine organs is reflected by the fact that an alteration of one
oftentimes results in the malfunction of the other. Hypo- and hyperthyroidism are
frequently associated with hepatic alterations, and thyroid diseases must be
excluded in transaminase elevation of unknown cause. Drugs such as
propylthiouracil, used in the treatment of hyperthyroidism, may induce liver
damage, and other drugs such as amiodarone, carbamazepine, and several
chemotherapeutic agents can lead to both thyroid and liver abnormalities. Liver
diseases such as hepatitis, hepatocellular carcinoma, and cirrhosis may cause
altered levels of thyroid hormones, and alcoholic liver disease, both due to the 
noxious substance ethanol as well as to the hepatic damage it causes, may be
responsible for altered thyroid function. Both excess and insufficiency of
adrenal function may result in altered liver function, and adrenocortical
dysfunction may be present in patients with cirrhosis, especially during episodes
of decompensation. Again an important player which affects both the endocrine
system and the liver, alcohol may be associated with pseudo-Cushing syndrome. Sex
hormones, both intrinsic as well as extrinsically administered, have an important
impact on liver function. While oestrogens are related to cholestatic liver
damage, androgens are the culprit of adenomas and hepatocellular carcinoma, among
others. Chronic liver disease, on the other hand, has profound repercussions on
sex hormone metabolism, inducing feminization in men and infertility and
amenorrhoea in women. Lastly, metabolic syndrome, the pandemia of the present and
future centuries, links the spectrum of liver damage ranging from steatosis to
cirrhosis, to the array of endocrine alterations that are features of the
syndrome, including insulin resistance, central obesity, and hyperlipidaemia.
Clinical practice must integrally evaluate the effects of the intricate and tight
relationship between the liver and the endocrine system, in order to better
address all manifestations, complications, and prevent deterioration of one or
the other organ-system.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2013.06.014 
PMID: 24090942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Oct 1;14(10):19867-90. doi: 10.3390/ijms141019867.

Immunological mechanisms in the pathophysiology of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Vonghia L(1), Michielsen P, Francque S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Antwerp,
Wilrijkstraat 10, Edegem 2650, Belgium. lvonghia@gmail.com.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is characterized by the presence of
steatosis, inflammation and hepatocyte injury and constitutes hepatic
manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. The pathogenesis of NASH is complex and 
implicates cross-talk between different metabolically active sites, such as liver
and adipose tissue. Obesity is considered a chronic low-grade inflammatory state 
and the liver has been recognized as being an "immunological organ". The complex 
role of the immune system in the pathogenesis of NASH is currently raising great 
interest, also in view of the possible therapeutic potential of immunotherapy in 
NASH. This review focuses on the disturbances of the cells constituting the
innate and adaptive immune system in the liver and in adipose tissue.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms141019867 
PMCID: PMC3821591
PMID: 24084730  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Oct 1;14(10):19846-66. doi: 10.3390/ijms141019846.

Development of nonalcoholic hepatopathy: contributions of oxidative stress and
advanced glycation end products.

Santos JC(1), Valentim IB, de Araújo OR, Ataide Tda R, Goulart MO.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Chemistry and Biotechnology, Federal University of Alagoas
(IQB/UFAL), Maceio, Alagoas 57072-900, Brazil. mariliaofg@gmail.com.

Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are generated spontaneously in cells;
however, under conditions of hyperglycemia and lipid peroxidation, their levels
are higher than usual, which contribute to the development of diseases such as
the nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD is associated with oxidative 
stress (OS), which is linked to the transition of steatosis to steatohepatitis
due to lipid peroxidation. The AGE-receptor interaction in hepatic stellate cells
leads to an increase in reactive oxygen species and enhances the proliferation
and activation of these cells, worsening liver fibrosis and disease progression. 
In this vicious cycle, there is production of (carboxymethyl)lysine, a biomarker 
for products of advanced glycation and lipid peroxidation, being a shared
component between the two pathways. In this review, we aim to compile evidence to
support the basic molecular mechanisms of AGEs and OS generation and their
influence, independently or combined, on the evolution of NAFLD. The deeper
understanding of the interrelations of AGEs + OS may help to elucidate the
pathogenic pathways of NAFLD and to devise rational therapeutic interventions for
this disease, with an expected positive impact on quality of life of patients.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms141019846 
PMCID: PMC3821590
PMID: 24084729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Nov;10(11):656-65. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2013.183. Epub 2013 Oct 1.

NAFLD, NASH and liver cancer.

Michelotti GA(1), Machado MV, Diehl AM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical 
Center, 595 LaSalle Street, Snyderman Building, Suite 1073, Durham, NC 27710,
USA.

NAFLD affects a large proportion of the US population and its incidence and
prevalence are increasing to epidemic proportions around the world. As with other
liver diseases that cause cirrhosis, NAFLD increases the risk of liver cancer, a 
disease with poor outcomes and limited therapeutic options. The incidences of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma are also
rising, and HCC is now the leading cause of obesity-related cancer deaths in
middle-aged men in the USA. In this Review, we summarize the correlations between
liver cancer and NAFLD-related cirrhosis, and the role of the metabolic syndrome 
in the development of liver cancer from diverse aetiologies, including
HCV-mediated cirrhosis. Recent advances in understanding the progression of NAFLD
to HCC from preclinical models will also be discussed. Targeted genetic
manipulation of certain metabolic or stress-response pathways, including
one-carbon metabolism, NF-κB, PTEN and microRNAs, has been valuable in
elucidating the pathways that regulate carcinogenesis in NAFLD. Although
tremendous advances have occurred in the identification of diagnostic and
therapeutic opportunities to reduce the progression of NAFLD, considerable gaps
in our knowledge remain with regard to the mechanisms by which NAFLD and its risk
factors promote liver cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2013.183 
PMID: 24080776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Surg Today. 2014 Sep;44(9):1611-25.

Ischemia–reperfusion injury in patients with fatty liver and the clinical impact 
of steatotic liver on hepatic surgery.

Tashiro H, Kuroda S, Mikuriya Y, Ohdan H.

Hepatic steatosis is one of the most common hepatic disorders in developed
countries. The epidemic of obesity in developed countries has increased with its 
attendant complications, including metabolic syndrome and non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease. Steatotic livers are particularly vulnerable to
ischemia/reperfusion injury, resulting in an increased risk of postoperative
morbidity and mortality after liver surgery, including liver transplantation.
There is growing understanding of the molecular and cellular mechanisms and
therapeutic approaches for treating ischemia/reperfusion injury in patients with 
steatotic livers. This review discusses the mechanisms underlying the
susceptibility of steatotic livers to ischemia/reperfusion injuries, such as
mitochondrial dysfunction and signal transduction alterations, and summarizes the
clinical impact of steatotic livers in the setting of hepatic resection and liver
transplantation. This review also describes potential therapeutic approaches,
such as ischemic and pharmacological preconditioning, to prevent
ischemia/reperfusion injury in patients with steatotic livers. Other approaches, 
including machine perfusion, are also under clinical investigation; however, many
pharmacological approaches developed through basic research are not yet suitable 
for clinical application.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-013-0736-9 
PMID: 24078000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Korean J Gastroenterol. 2013 Sep;62(3):160-4.

[Occult hepatitis B virus infection and hepatocellular carcinoma].

[Article in Korean]

Lee JJ(1), Kwon OS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Gachon 
University School of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.

Many studies have suggested that occult HBV infection has a substantial clinical 
relevance to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Occult HBV infection is an important
risk factor for the development of cirrhosis and HCC in patients without HBsAg.
As a matter of fact, occult HBV infection is one of the most common causes of
crytogenic HCC in endemic areas of HBV. However, there still are controversial
issues about the association between occult HBV infection and HCC according to
the underlying liver disease. In alcoholic cirrhosis, occult HBV infection may
exert synergistic effect on the development of HCC. However, there is
insufficient evidence to relate occult HBV infection to hepatocarcinogenesis in
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. In cryptogenic HCC, occult HBV infection may
play a direct role in the development of HCC. In order to elucidate the
assocciation between occult HBV infection and HCC, underlying liver disease must 
be specified and larger number of cases must be included in future studies.


PMID: 24077626  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Orv Hetil. 2013 Oct 6;154(40):1579-86. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29707.

[Hungarian twin studies: results of four decades].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Tárnoki ÁD(1), Tárnoki DL, Horváth T, Métneki J, Littvay L.

Author information: 
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar Radiológiai és Onkoterápiás
Klinika Budapest Üllői út 78/A 1082.

Twin studies play a role in examining the contribution of genetic variations and 
environmental factors responsible for the determination of phenotypic variables
and of genetic linkage between genotypes. Hungarian twin studies, supported by
three twin registries (among them two twin-database), date back to 1970s. Studies
mainly focused on various congenital abnormalities, the effect of contraceptive
pills and folic acid on the frequency of twin pregnancies, as well as
psychosexual and alcohol consumptional behaviors. Monogenic Mendelian inheritance
of lactose (mal)absorption was demonstrated for the first time. Hungarian Twin
Registry was founded in 2007, which contributed to the current understanding on
the background of several disorders, e.g. metabolic syndrome and atherosclerosis.
As part of an international twin study, among others, arterial stiffness, central
blood pressure, carotid intima/media thickness, venous biomechanics, body
composition, lung function and smoking characteristics were also assessed.
Absence of genetic background in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and high
inheritance of carotid plaque characteristics were demonstrated for the first
time. The review also aims to summarize future plans of the Hungarian Twin
Registry.

Publisher: Az ikervizsgálatok szerepet játszanak a fenotípusos változók
kialakulásáért felelős genetikai és környezeti tényezők arányának, továbbá a
genotípusok közötti genetikai kapcsoltság vizsgálatában. Magyarországon az
ikerkutatások döntően az 1970-es években kezdődtek és alapjukat három
ikernyilvántartás (köztük két iker-regiszter) biztosította. A vizsgálatok
elsősorban a különböző veleszületett rendellenességekre, a fogamzásgátló
tabletták és a folsav ikergyakoriságra való hatására, az ikrek pszichoszexuális
viselkedésének megismerésére, az alkoholfogyasztási szokások örökletességének
becslésére irányultak. Először mutatták ki a laktóz(mal)abszorpció monogénes
mendeli öröklődését. 2007-ben alakult meg a Magyar Ikerregiszter, amelynek
segítségével több ikervizsgálatra nyílt ismét lehetőség, például a metabolikus
szindróma és az érelmeszesedés hátterének megértésére. Nemzetközi ikervizsgálat
során többek között az artériás stiffness, a centrális vérnyomás, a carotis
intima/media falvastagság, a vénás biomechanika, a testösszetétel, a
légzésfunkció és a dohányzási szokások vizsgálatára is sor került. Először
sikerült kimutatni a nem alkoholos zsírmáj örökletességének hiányát és a
carotisplakkok kialakulásában az öröklődés szerepét. A dolgozat a Magyar
Ikerregiszter jövőbeni terveiről is áttekintést nyújt. Orv. Hetil., 2013, 154,
1579–1586.
DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29707 
PMID: 24077161  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Mar;12(3):394-402.e1. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2013.09.023. Epub 2013 Sep 25.

Outcomes of liver transplantation for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis.

Wang X(1), Li J(2), Riaz DR(1), Shi G(1), Liu C(1), Dai Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of North Sichuan Medical
College, Nanchong, China; Institute of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreas and Intestinal
Disease, North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong, China. (2)Department of General
Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong, China;
Institute of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreas and Intestinal Disease, North Sichuan
Medical College, Nanchong, China; Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Chinese
People's Liberation Army General Hospital, Beijing, China. Electronic address:
docwxf@hotmail.com.

Comment in
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Mar;12(3):403-4.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Little is known about outcomes of patients with nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) who receive liver transplants. We performed a systematic
review and meta-analysis to estimate post-transplant outcomes, survival times,
and mortality from cardiovascular complications, sepsis, and graft failure in
these patients.
METHODS: We searched PubMed and EMBASE, and Cochrane library and Web of Science
databases for studies published through September 1, 2012 of patients who
underwent liver transplantation for NASH or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD). All original studies from single institutions that reported outcomes of 
patients with or without NASH after liver transplantation were considered. Odds
ratios (ORs) were calculated for patients with NASH, compared with patients
without NASH; 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated.
RESULTS: Our final analysis included 9 publications, on 717 patients with NASH
and 3520 without, all of whom underwent liver transplantation. Similar
proportions of patients with and without NASH who received liver transplants
survived for 1, 3, and 5 years (OR for survival of patient with NASH 1 year after
liver transplantation, 0.77; 95% CI, 0.59-1.00; P = .05; OR 3 years after
transplantation, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.67-1.40; P = .86; OR 5 years after
transplantation, 1.09; 95% CI, 0.77-1.56; P = .63). Patients with NASH had a
greater risk of death from cardiovascular complications after liver
transplantation (OR, 1.65; 95% CI, 1.01-2.70; P = .05) and from sepsis (OR, 1.71;
95% CI, 1.17-2.50; P = .006). However, patients with NASH were at lower risk of
graft failure compared with patients without NASH (OR, 0.21; 95% CI, 0.05-0.89; P
= .03).
CONCLUSIONS: Similar proportions of patients with and without NASH survive for 1,
3, and 5 years after liver transplantation. However, patients with NASH are more 
likely to die from cardiovascular complications or sepsis. More attention and
careful consideration are therefore required in selecting patients with NASH for 
liver transplantation, along with aggressive management of cardiovascular
complications and sepsis after transplantation.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2013.09.023 
PMID: 24076414  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Atherosclerosis. 2013 Oct;230(2):258-67. doi:
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.07.052. Epub 2013 Aug 9.

A systematic review: burden and severity of subclinical cardiovascular disease
among those with nonalcoholic fatty liver; should we care?

Oni ET(1), Agatston AS, Blaha MJ, Fialkow J, Cury R, Sposito A, Erbel R,
Blankstein R, Feldman T, Al-Mallah MH, Santos RD, Budoff MJ, Nasir K.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Prevention and Wellness Research, Baptist Health Medical Group,
Miami Beach, FL, USA.

Comment in
    Atherosclerosis. 2013 Dec;231(2):187-8.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an emerging disease and 
a leading cause of chronic liver disease. The prevalence in the general
population is approximately 15-30% and it increases to 70-90% in obese or
diabetic populations. NAFLD has been linked to increased cardiovascular disease
(CVD) risk. It is therefore critical to evaluate the relationship between markers
of subclinical CVD and NAFLD.
METHOD: An extensive search of databases; including the National Library of
Medicine and other relevant databases for research articles meeting inclusion
criteria: observational or cohort, studies in adult populations and clearly
defined NAFLD and markers of subclinical CVD.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven studies were included in the review; 16 (59%) presented the
association of NAFLD and carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT), 7 (26%) the
association with coronary calcification and 7 (26%) the effect on endothelial
dysfunction and 6 (22%) influence on arterial stiffness. CIMT studies showed
significant increases among NAFLD patients compared to controls. These were
independent of traditional risk factors and metabolic syndrome. The association
was similar in coronary calcification studies. The presence of NAFLD is
associated with the severity of the calcification. Endothelial dysfunction and
arterial stiffness showed significant independent associations with NAFLD. Two
studies argued the associations were not significant; however, these studies were
limited to diabetic populations.
CONCLUSION: There is evidence to support the association of NAFLD with
subclinical atherosclerosis independent of traditional risk factors and metabolic
syndrome. However, there is need for future longitudinal studies to review this
association to ascertain causality and include other ethnic populations.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.07.052 
PMID: 24075754  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


946. J Autoimmun. 2013 Oct;46:66-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.07.001. Epub 2013 Sep
24.

Role of the intestinal microbiome in liver disease.

Henao-Mejia J(1), Elinav E, Thaiss CA, Licona-Limon P, Flavell RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, CT 06520,
USA.

The liver integrates metabolic outcomes with nutrient intake while preventing
harmful signals derived from the gut to spread throughout the body. Direct blood 
influx from the gastrointestinal tract through the portal vein makes the liver a 
critical firewall equipped with a broad array of immune cells and innate immune
receptors that recognize microbial-derived products, microorganisms, toxins and
food antigens that have breached the intestinal barrier. An overwhelming amount
of evidence obtained in the last decade indicates that the intestinal microbiota 
is a key component of a wide variety of physiological processes, and alterations 
in the delicate balance that represents the intestinal bacterial communities are 
now considered important determinants of metabolic syndrome and
immunopathologies. Moreover, it is now evident that the interaction between the
innate immune system and the intestinal microbiota during obesity or autoimmunity
promotes chronic liver disease progression and therefore it might lead to novel
and individualized therapeutic approaches. In this review, we discuss a growing
body of evidence that highlights the central relationship between the immune
system, the microbiome, and chronic liver disease initiation and progression.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.07.001 
PMID: 24075647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Eur J Pediatr. 2014 Feb;173(2):131-9. doi: 10.1007/s00431-013-2157-6. Epub 2013
Sep 26.

Pediatric non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: an increasing public health issue.

Berardis S(1), Sokal E.

Author information: 
(1)Service de gastroentérologie et hépatologie pédiatrique, Cliniques
Universitaires Saint-Luc, Université catholique de Louvain, Avenue Hippocrate 10,
1200, Brussels, Belgium, silvia.berardis@uclouvain.be.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a multifactorial condition that
encompasses a wide spectrum of liver abnormalities ranging from simple liver
steatosis to steatohepatitis (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis), which may be
associated with fibrosis and progress to cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease.
NAFLD has recently become the most common cause of chronic liver disease in
children and adolescents. NAFLD prevalence, alongside obesity, continues to
increase among pediatric patients. Obesity is believed to represent a major risk 
factor for NAFLD, which is considered to be the liver presentation of the
metabolic syndrome. Although the pathogenesis of NAFLD is not fully understood,
the notion that multiple factors affect disease development and progression is
widely accepted. Both genetic background and environmental factors contribute to 
NAFLD development. A more complete understanding of the pathogenesis may aid in
developing non-invasive diagnostic tools and identifying new therapeutic targets.
Liver biopsy currently remains the gold standard for NAFLD diagnosis and staging.
Although lifestyle and diet modifications are key in NAFLD treatment, the
development of new pharmacological therapies is crucial for patients who are
unresponsive to first-line therapy.CONCLUSION: Pediatric NAFLD is an increasing
public health issue that remains underdiagnosed. A large-scale screening in the
high-risk population, especially among the overweight pediatric patients, should 
be considered, including measurement of serum transaminases and liver ultrasound.
It is crucial to treat this condition as soon as possible in order to avoid the
progression to end-stage liver disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-013-2157-6 
PMCID: PMC3929043
PMID: 24068459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Nov;10(11):645-55. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2013.182. Epub 2013 Sep 24.

The genetics of NAFLD.

Anstee QM(1), Day CP.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Group, Institute of Cellular Medicine, The Medical School,
Newcastle University, 4th Floor, William Leech Building, Framlington Place,
Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.

NAFLD is a disease spectrum ranging from simple steatosis, through
steatohepatitis to fibrosis and, ultimately, cirrhosis. This condition is
characterized by considerable interpatient variability in terms of severity and
rate of progression: although a substantial proportion of the population is at
risk of progressive disease, only a minority experience associated morbidity. As 
such, NAFLD is best considered a complex disease trait resulting from
environmental exposures acting on a susceptible polygenic background and
comprising multiple independent modifiers. Much ongoing research is focused on
identifying the genetic factors that contribute to NAFLD pathogenesis. This
Review describes the current status of the field, discussing specific genetic and
epigenetic modifiers, including the mechanisms through which genes identified by 
genome-wide association studies, including PNPLA3, influence disease progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2013.182 
PMID: 24061205  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Nov;10(11):666-75. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2013.175. Epub 2013 Sep 24.

Noninvasive evaluation of NAFLD.

Castera L(1), Vilgrain V, Angulo P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatology, Hôpital Beaujon, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de
Paris, Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, and INSERM CRB3, Centre de Recherche
Biomédicale Bichat-Beaujon, Unité 773, 100 Boulevard du Général Leclerc, 92110
Clichy, France.

A common clinical concern in patients with NAFLD is whether they have NASH or
simple steatosis and, more importantly, what the stage of fibrosis is and whether
the level of fibrosis has increased over time. Such concern is based on the fact 
that patients with NAFLD with advanced fibrosis are at greatest risk of
developing complications of end-stage liver disease. Although it lacks
sensitivity, ultrasonography is an accepted tool for steatosis screening. The
controlled attenuation parameter or CAP seems a promising screening technique,
but requires further validation. Cytokeratin-18 has been extensively validated,
but it is an imperfect serum marker of NASH. Ultrasonography-based transient
elastography can exclude advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis, but its main limitation
is its reduced applicability in patients with NAFLD, which is not completely
solved by use of the XL probe. Of the noninvasive serum markers, the NAFLD
fibrosis score is the most validated and has appropriate accuracy in
distinguishing patients with and without advanced fibrosis. Although noninvasive 
methods require further validation, they could be useful for selecting those
patients with NAFLD who require a liver biopsy. This Review discusses the
advantages and limitations of noninvasive methods for the management of adults
with NAFLD, including diagnosis and quantification of steatosis, diagnosis of
NASH and staging of hepatic fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2013.175 
PMID: 24061203  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2013 Oct;13(12):1691-9.

Hepatic diseases related to triglyceride metabolism.

Aguilera-Méndez A(1), Álvarez-Delgado C, Hernández-Godinez D, Fernandez-Mejia C.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Genética de la Nutrición, Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas,
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México/ Instituto Nacional de Pediatría, Av. del
Iman # 1, cuarto piso, CP 04530, México D.F. crisfern@biomedicas.unam.mx.

Triglycerides participate in key metabolic functions such as energy storage,
thermal insulation and as deposit for essential and non-essential fatty acids
that can be used as precursors for the synthesis of structural and functional
phospholipids. The liver is a central organ in the regulation of triglyceride
metabolism, and it participates in triglyceride synthesis, export, uptake and
oxidation. The metabolic syndrome and associated diseases are among the main
concerns of public health worldwide. One of the metabolic syndrome components is 
impaired triglyceride metabolism. Diseases associated with the metabolic syndrome
promote the appearance of hepatic alterations e.g., non-alcoholic steatosis,
steatohepatitis, fibrosis, cirrhosis and cancer. In this article, we review the
molecular actions involved in impaired triglyceride metabolism and its
association with hepatic diseases. We discuss mechanisms that reconcile the
chronic inflammation and insulin resistance, and new concepts on the role of
intestinal micro-flora permeability and proliferation in fatty liver etiology. We
also describe the participation of oxidative stress in the progression of events 
leading from steatosis to steatohepatitis and fibrosis. Finally, we provide
information regarding the mechanisms that link fatty acid accumulation during
steatosis with changes in growth factors and cytokines that lead to the
development of neoplastic cells. One of the main medical concerns vis-a-vis
hepatic diseases is the lack of symptoms at the onset of the illness and, as
result, its late diagnosis. The understandings of the molecular mechanisms that
underlie hepatic diseases could help design strategies towards establishing
markers for their accurate and timely diagnosis.


PMID: 24059726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


951. BMC Gastroenterol. 2013 Sep 23;13:140. doi: 10.1186/1471-230X-13-140.

The role of ursodeoxycholic acid in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis: a systematic
review.

Xiang Z(1), Chen YP, Ma KF, Ye YF, Zheng L, Yang YD, Li YM, Jin X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, China. jxfl007@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a condition that occurs
during the progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Effective therapy
for NASH is still lacking. In this study, we investigated the effects of
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) in the treatment of NASH.
METHODS: Western and Chinese databases were searched by independent investigators
using appropriate MESH headings to identify randomized, controlled Western and
Chinese clinical trials, published between January 1990 and October 2012, testing
the effects of UDCA in patients with NASH. Patient characteristics and trial
endpoints were analyzed, with quality assessment according to widely acknowledged
criteria. P < 0.05 was defined as statistically significant in all trials.
RESULTS: Twelve qualified randomized clinical trials, including six from China
and involving 1160 subjects, were selected. Seven of these trials assessed the
effects of UDCA Monotherapy, with the other five testing combinations of UDCA
with vitamin E, polyene phosphatidylcholine, silymarin, glycyrrhizin and
tiopronin. The duration of therapy ranged from 3 to 24 months, with two studies
using high doses of UDCA (23-35 mg/kg/d). The average quality point was 2.69, and
was significantly lower in articles from China than in those from Western
countries (2.2 ± 0.4 vs. 3.8 ± 1.1, respectively, p < 0.05). UDCA Monotherapy
significantly improved liver function in five studies and improved steatosis and 
fibrosis in two studies. All five studies assessing UDCA combination therapy
showed significant improvements liver function, while two studies also improved
steatosis and inflammation. One study of high-dose UDCA showed significant
improvements in ALT, γGT and liver fibrosis, whereas the other study showed no
significant change in ALT and liver pathology.
CONCLUSIONS: UDCA therapy is effective in NASH, especially when combined with
other drugs. However, the low quality of these studies and the heterogeneity of
their results precluded further meta-analysis. Additional carefully designed
clinical trials are needed, especially in China.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-230X-13-140 
PMCID: PMC3848865
PMID: 24053454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Dig Dis Sci. 2014 Feb;59(2):482-8. doi: 10.1007/s10620-013-2871-y. Epub 2013 Sep 
20.

Granulocytapheresis for the treatment of severe alcoholic hepatitis: a case
series and literature review.

Kamimura K(1), Imai M, Sakamaki A, Mori S, Kobayashi M, Mizuno K, Takeuchi M,
Suda T, Nomoto M, Aoyagi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Graduate School of Medical and
Dental Sciences, Niigata University, 1-757 Asahimachido-ri, Chuo-ku, Niigata,
951-8510, Japan, kenya-k@med.niigata-u.ac.jp.

Severe alcoholic hepatitis has a high mortality rate due to limited therapeutic
methods. Although corticosteroids have been used to control the inflammatory
response, the outcomes vary and no standardized therapy has been established.
Novel therapeutic approaches, such as anti-TNF-α, pentoxifilline, and others have
been tested clinically on the basis of their cytokinemic pathophysiology with
limited success. However, treatment of leukocytosis that causes cytokinemia and
hepatic inflammation in patients via granulocytapheresis and leukocytapheresis
showed promising results in a number of reports. Here, we report two cases of
severe alcoholic hepatitis treated with granulocytapheresis. The liver function
and inflammation recovered after the therapy. A review of 35 cases treated with
granulocytapheresis and leukocytapheresis demonstrated their efficacy in treating
alcoholic hepatitis by controlling leukocytosis as well as cytokines such as
IL-8. Multidisciplinary treatment for severe alcoholic hepatitis should be
considered case by case on the basis of the complexity and severity of the
condition.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-013-2871-y 
PMID: 24052196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(22):3665-74.

The role of statins in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus: an update.

Katsiki N, Athyros VG, Karagiannis A, Mikhailidis DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Royal Free Hospital Campus, University
College Medical School, University College London (UCL), Pond Street, London NW3 
2QG, UK. MIKHAILIDIS@aol.com.

Erratum in
    Curr Pharm Des. 2015;21(24):3565.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing worldwide. T2DM
is associated with both microvascular (neuropathy, nephropathy and retinopathy)
and macrovascular complications [coronary artery disease (CAD), stroke, carotid
artery disease and peripheral artery disease (PAD)]. Apart from acting on
diabetic dyslipidemia, statins were shown to exert beneficial effects on several 
diabetic complications as well as other cardiovascular (CVD) risk predictors such
as endothelial dysfunction, inflammation, oxidative stress, chronic kidney
disease (CKD), non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), metabolic syndrome
(MetS), obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) and hyperuricemia. Several
clinical trials involving T2DM patients have reported significant reductions in
coronary and cerebrovascular events following statin treatment. However, a modest
statin-related risk of new-onset diabetes (NOD) has been reported but that did
not [corrected] outweigh the benefit of CVD risk reduction in high-risk
individuals. Overall, statin use is beneficial and should be recommended in
diabetic patients to target their increased CVD risk.


PMID: 24040875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(22):3705-15.

The role of oral antidiabetic agents and incretin mimetics in type 2 diabetic
patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Gouni-Berthold I, Papanas N, Maltezos E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Endocrinology, Diabetes and Preventive Medicine, University of
Cologne, Kerpener St. 62, 50937 Cologne, Germany. ioanna.berthold@uni-koeln.de.

The aim of this review is to examine the evidence on the role of antidiabetic
agents in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD). In particular, metformin does not seem to have significant
effects on liver histology. Glitazones improve steatosis and necro-inflammation, 
delay progression of fibrosis, and ameliorate glucose and lipid metabolism and
subclinical inflammation. However, there is now evidence that prolonged treatment
with these agents may offer no additional histological benefit and that metabolic
improvement does not necessarily parallel histological improvement. Moreover, the
long-term safety and efficacy of glitazones is an issue of continuing concern.
Injectable glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) agonists and dipeptidyl peptidase 4
(DPP-4) inhibitors are more recent antidiabetic agents with some promising
preliminary resulst in NFLD. However, experience with their use is still very
limited. In conclusion, no antidiabetic agent has hitherto been shown to exert a 
beneficial effect on hepatic fibrosis. However, pharmacological treatment could
be considered in patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) not
responding to lifestyle intervention. Finally, larger long-term studies are
needed to shed more light on the effect of antidiabetic treatment on NAFLD.


PMID: 24040873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Biochimie. 2013 Dec;95(12):2326-35. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2013.09.003. Epub 2013 
Sep 13.

Wnt signaling in liver fibrosis: progress, challenges and potential directions.

Miao CG(1), Yang YY, He X, Huang C, Huang Y, Zhang L, Lv XW, Jin Y, Li J.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Institute for Liver Diseases of Anhui Medical University, 
Anhui Key Laboratory of Bioactivity of Natural Products, Anhui Medical
University, Mei Shan Road, Hefei 230032, Anhui Province, China; School of Food
and Drug, Anhui Science and Technology University, Bengbu 233100, China.

Liver fibrosis is a common wound-healing response to chronic liver injuries,
including alcoholic or drug toxicity, persistent viral infection, and genetic
factors. Myofibroblastic transdifferentiation (MTD) is the pivotal event during
liver fibrogenesis, and research in the past few years has identified key
mediators and molecular mechanisms responsible for MTD of hepatic stellate cells 
(HSCs). HSCs are undifferentiated cells which play an important role in liver
regeneration. Recent evidence demonstrates that HSCs derive from mesoderm and at 
least in part via septum transversum and mesothelium, and HSCs express markers
for different cell types which derive from multipotent mesenchymal progenitors.
There is a regulatory commonality between differentiation of adipocytes and that 
of HSC, and the shift from adipogenic to myogenic or neuronal phenotype
characterizes HSC MTD. Central of this shift is a loss of expression of the
master adipogenic regulator peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ (PPARγ).
Restored expression of PPARγ and/or other adipogenic transcription genes can
reverse myofibroblastic HSCs to differentiated cells. Vertebrate Wnt and
Drosophila wingless are homologous genes, and their translated proteins have been
shown to participate in the regulation of cell proliferation, cell polarity, cell
differentiation, and other biological roles. More recently, Wnt signaling is
implicated in human fibrosing diseases, such as pulmonary fibrosis, renal
fibrosis, and liver fibrosis. Blocking the canonical Wnt signal pathway with the 
co-receptor antagonist Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) abrogates these epigenetic repressions
and restores the gene PPARγ expression and HSC differentiation. The identified
morphogen mediated epigenetic regulation of PPARγ and HSC differentiation also
serves as novel therapeutic targets for liver fibrosis and liver regeneration. In
conclusion, the Wnt signaling promotes liver fibrosis by enhancing HSC activation
and survival, and we herein discuss what we currently know and what we expect
will come in this field in the next future.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2013.09.003 
PMID: 24036368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2013 Nov;40(11):824-37. doi: 10.1111/1440-1681.12162.

Fructose, pregnancy and later life impacts.

Regnault TR(1), Gentili S, Sarr O, Toop CR, Sloboda DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Children's Health Research
Institute, Western University, London, ON, Canada.

Fructose is an increasingly common constituent of the Westernized diet due to
cost and production efficiencies. Although an integral component of our
pre-industrial revolution diet, over the past two decades human and animal
studies have highlighted that excessive fructose intake appears to be associated 
with adverse metabolic effects. Excessive intake of fructose is the combined
result of increased total energy consumption and increased portion sizes of
foods, which often incorporate the fructose-containing sugars sucrose and
high-fructose corn-syrup (HFCS). The adverse metabolic effects following
excessive fructose consumption have become a hot topic in mainstream media and
there is now rigorous scientific debate regarding periods of exposure, dosage
levels, interactive effects with other sugars and fats and mechanisms underlying 
the actions of fructose. There is still a degree of controversy regarding the
extent to which sugars such as sucrose and HFCS have contributed to the current
epidemic of obesity and diabetes. Furthermore, an increasing number of infants
are being exposed to sugar-sweetened food and beverages before birth and during
early postnatal life, highlighting the importance of determining the long-term
effects of this perinatal exposure on the developing offspring. There are limited
human observational and controlled studies identifying associations of excessive 
sweetened food and beverage consumption with poor pregnancy outcomes. Animal
research has demonstrated an increased incidence of gestational diabetes as well 
as altered maternal, fetal and offspring metabolic function, although the
long-term effects and the mechanism underlying these perturbations are ill
defined. This review aims to understand the role of early life fructose exposure 
in modifying postnatal risk of disease in the offspring, focusing on fructose
intake during pregnancy and in early postnatal life.

© 2013 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1440-1681.12162 
PMID: 24033459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Eur J Clin Invest. 2013 Nov;43(11):1184-94. doi: 10.1111/eci.12146. Epub 2013 Sep
5.

Exercise as a therapeutic tool to prevent mitochondrial degeneration in
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Gonçalves IO(1), Oliveira PJ, Ascensão A, Magalhães J.

Author information: 
(1)Research Center in Physical Activity, Health and Leisure, Faculty of Sport,
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, encompassing hepatic steatosis, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), fibrosis and cirrhosis, is a significant health problem
associated with modern lifestyle, based on caloric overconsumption and physical
inactivity. Although the mechanisms associated with progression from the 'benign'
steatosis to NASH are still elusive, mitochondrial dysfunction seems to play an
important role in this degenerative process. Degeneration of mitochondrial
function during NASH has been associated with impaired β-oxidation, oxidative
phosphorylation and increased reactive oxygen species production, contributing to
hepatocyte death and inflammatory response. Despite the fact that several
therapeutic approaches can be used in the context of NASH, including
insulin-sensitizing agents, anti-obesity drugs, lipid-lowering drugs or
mitochondrial-targeted drugs, dietary and physical activity are still the most
effective strategies. In fact, active lifestyles decrease insulin resistance and 
body weight and result in decreased histological signs of liver injury. In fatty 
liver, physical activity prevents the disease progression through mitochondrial
adaptations, namely by increasing cytochrome c content, enzyme activities and
fatty acid oxidation, which are lost after some days of physical inactivity.
However, less is known about the effect of physical activity on NASH-associated
mitochondrial dysfunction. After a brief characterization of NASH and its
association with liver mitochondrial (dys)function, the present review addresses 
the impact of physical (in)activity on NASH and, particularly, the possible
contribution of active lifestyles to the modulation of liver mitochondrial
dysfunction.

© 2013 Stichting European Society for Clinical Investigation Journal Foundation. 
Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eci.12146 
PMID: 24033085  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Dig Dis. 2013;31(2):233-8. doi: 10.1159/000353377. Epub 2013 Sep 6.

Liver complications in inflammatory bowel diseases.

Wieser V(1), Gerner R, Moschen AR, Tilg H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Gastroenterology, Endocrinology and
Metabolism, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria.

Diseases of the liver and the biliary tract are commonly observed in patients
with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). Besides primary sclerosing cholangitis
(PSC), drug-induced hepatotoxicity and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) 
are the most frequent liver complications in IBD. PSC is a chronic inflammatory
and commonly progressive disorder of unknown etiology associated with fibrosis
and stricture development in the intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary tree.
Interestingly, this form of liver disease is mainly associated with ulcerative
colitis. Development of PSC is highly relevant for IBD patients as
cholestasis-associated problems increase over time resulting in biliary
strictures, cholangitis, cholangiocarcinoma and importantly these patients also
have a higher risk to develop colon cancer. Another major aspect regarding IBD
and liver disease refers to drug-induced hepatotoxicity. Clinically, most
relevant is liver toxicity caused by immunosuppressants such as azathioprine.
Azathioprine and its derivate 6-mercaptopurine can cause a spectrum of liver
injuries ranging from asymptomatic elevated liver enzymes to cholestasis and
nodular regenerative hyperplasia. The third common IBD-associated liver disease
is NAFLD, and first studies suggest that NAFLD might appear in IBD patients
independent of classical risk factors such as obesity or insulin resistance.
Overall, liver complications are observed in 10-20% of IBD patients, and
therefore physicians have to be familiar with these complications to improve and 
to optimize patient care.

© 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000353377 
PMID: 24030232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Nov;38(9):1038-44. doi: 10.1111/apt.12489. Epub 2013
Sep 11.

Review article: coffee consumption, the metabolic syndrome and non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease.

Yesil A(1), Yilmaz Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Haydarpasa Numune Education and Research
Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.

Comment in
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Jun;39(12):1442.
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Jun;39(12):1441-2.

BACKGROUND: Coffee consumption may modulate the risk of the metabolic syndrome
(MetS) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
AIM: To review the experimental, epidemiological and clinical studies
investigating the association between coffee consumption and the risk of MetS and
NAFLD.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted with the aim of finding original
experimental, epidemiological and clinical articles on the association between
coffee consumption, MetS and NAFLD. The following databases were used: PubMed,
Embase, Scopus and Science Direct. We included articles written in English and
published up to July 2013.
RESULTS: Three experimental animal studies investigated the effects of coffee in 
the MetS, whereas five examined whether experimental coffee intake may modulate
the risk of fatty liver infiltration. All of the animal studies showed a
protective effect of coffee towards the development of MetS and NAFLD. Moreover, 
we identified eleven epidemiological and clinical studies that met the inclusion 
criteria. Of them, six were carried out on the risk of the MetS and five on the
risk of NAFLD. Four of the six studies reported an inverse association between
coffee consumption and the risk of MetS. The two studies showing negative results
were from the same study cohort consisting of young persons with a low prevalence
of the MetS. All of the epidemiological and clinical studies on NAFLD reported a 
protective effect of coffee intake.
CONCLUSIONS: Coffee intake can reduce the risk of NAFLD. Whether this effect may 
be mediated by certain components of the MetS deserves further investigation.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12489 
PMID: 24024834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


960. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Sep 7;19(33):5402-20. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i33.5402.

What does irritable bowel syndrome share with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease?

Scalera A(1), Di Minno MN, Tarantino G.

Author information: 
(1)Antonella Scalera, Matteo Nicola Dario Di Minno, Giovanni Tarantino,
Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, Federico II University Medical
School of Naples, 80131 Naples, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are 
two very common diseases in the general population. To date, there are no studies
that highlight a direct link between NAFLD and IBS, but some recent reports have 
found an interesting correlation between obesity and IBS. A systematic PubMed
database search was conducted highlighting that common mechanisms are involved in
many of the local and systemic manifestations of NAFLD, leading to an increased
cardiovascular risk, and IBS, leading to microbial dysbiosis, impaired intestinal
barrier and altered intestinal motility. It is not known when considering local
and systemic inflammation/immune system activation, which one has greater
importance in NAFLD and IBS pathogenesis. Also, the nervous system is implicated.
In fact, inflammation participates in the development of mood disorders, such as 
anxiety and depression, characteristics of obesity and consequently of NAFLD and,
on the other hand, in intestinal hypersensitivity and dysmotility.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i33.5402 
PMCID: PMC3761093
PMID: 24023483  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


961. Curr Drug Targets. 2013 Oct;14(11):1357-66.

Biomarkers for early detection of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis: implications for
drug development and clinical trials.

Yilmaz Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Marmara Universitesi Gastroenteroloji Enstitusu, Karaciger Arastirmalari
Birimi, P.K. 53, Basibuyuk, Maltepe, 34840, Istanbul, Turkey.
dryusufyilmaz@gmail.com.

The term non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) comprises at least four
pathological entities (definite nonalcoholic steatohepatitis [NASH], borderline
"zone 3" pattern, borderline "zone 1" pattern, not steatohepatitis with
steatosis) with distinct patterns of lipid storage, fibrosis, and hepatocyte
injury. Recent pathophysiological advances hold promise to provide much needed
surrogate non-invasive biomarkers to detect steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and
monitor NASH progression (or resolution, in the setting of clinical trials)
without the cumbersome use of liver biopsy. Herein, we reviewed the current
status of multimodal biomarker candidates derived from biochemical and genetic
studies of NASH, as well as potential markers derived from imaging studies. A
literature search was conducted in March 2013 on PubMed, Ovid Embase, Ovid
Medline and Scopus using the following search terms: steatosis, non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis, biomarker, genetics, imaging, clinical trials. Rather than to
biopsy, the identification of steatohepatitis and fibrosis may originate
primarily from prespecified multimodal biomarker data, including positive
findings on serum or genetic biomarkers, and imaging tests like MR elastography
or Fibroscan. In the setting of clinical trials, it seems recommendable to widen 
and expand the therapeutic vision beyond insulin resistance and focus on trials
in very early NASH stages. The paradigm shift towards an earlier noninvasive
characterization and diagnosis of NASH and fibrosis will be crucial to redefine
and establish successful interventional trials.


PMID: 24020975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Postepy Hig Med Dosw (Online). 2013 Aug 27;67:901-7.

[Alcohol dehydrogenase - physiological and diagnostic Importance].

[Article in Polish]

Łaniewska-Dunaj M(1), Jelski W, Szmitkowski M.

Author information: 
(1)Zakład Diagnostyki Biochemicznej Uniwersytetu Medycznego w Białymstoku.

Alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) is a polymorphic enzyme, existing in multiple
isoenzymes divided into several classes and localized in different organs. ADH
plays a significant role in the metabolism of many biologically important
substances, catalyzing the oxidation or reduction of a wide spectrum of specific 
substrates. The best characterized function of ADH is protection against excess
of ethanol and some other exogenous xenobiotics and products of lipid
peroxidation. The isoenzymes of alcohol dehydrogenase also participate in the
metabolism of retinol and serotonin. The total alcohol dehydrogenase activity is 
significantly higher in cancer tissues than in healthy organs (e.g. liver,
stomach, colorectum). The changes in activity of particular ADH isoenzymes in the
sera of patients with different cancers (especially of the digestive system) seem
to be caused by release of these isoenzymes from cancer cells, and may play a
potential role as markers of this cancer. The particular isoenzymes of ADH
present in the serum may indicate the cancer localization. Alcohol dehydrogenase 
may also be useful for diagnostics of non-cancerous liver diseases (e.g. viral
hepatitis, non-alcoholic cirrhosis).


PMID: 24018456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Semin Cancer Biol. 2013 Dec;23(6 Pt B):471-82. doi:
10.1016/j.semcancer.2013.08.010. Epub 2013 Sep 7.

Epigenetic regulation of hepatocellular carcinoma in non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Tian Y(1), Wong VW, Chan HL, Cheng AS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Digestive Disease and Department of Medicine and Therapeutics,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region,
China; State Key Laboratory of Digestive Disease, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China.

Emerging evidence that epigenetics converts alterations in nutrient and
metabolism into heritable pattern of gene expression has profound implications in
understanding human physiology and diseases. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome including obesity and 
diabetes which elevate the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) especially in
male. This review focuses on the molecular connections between metabolic
dysfunction and aberrant epigenetic alterations in the development of HCC in
NAFLD. The metabolites derived from excessive insulin, glucose and lipid may
perturb epigenetic gene regulation through DNA methylation, histone
modifications, and RNA interference, leading to activation of pro-inflammatory
signaling and deregulation of metabolic pathways. The interplay and crosstalk of 
chromatin-modifying enzymes, microRNAs, signaling pathways and the downstream
transcription factors result in epigenomic reprogramming that drives
hepatocellular transformation. The interactions between sex hormone pathways and 
the epigenetic machineries that influence chromatin states in NAFLD provide
potential molecular mechanisms of gender disparity in HCC. A deeper understanding
of these connections and comprehensive molecular catalog of hepatocarcinogenesis 
may shed light in the identification of druggable epigenetic targets for the
prevention and treatment of HCC in obese or diabetic patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2013.08.010 
PMID: 24018165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Adv Clin Chem. 2013;61:67-125.

Markers in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Armutcu F(1), Akyol S, Ucar F, Erdogan S, Akyol O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Medical Faculty, Turgut Ozal University, Ankara,
Turkey. farmutcu@turgutozal.edu.tr

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most common liver disorder
worldwide, encompasses a spectrum of abnormal liver histology ranging from simple
steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and cirrhosis. Population
studies show that NAFLD is strongly associated with insulin resistance, obesity, 
type 2 diabetes mellitus, and lipid abnormalities. In the context of hepatic
steatosis, factors that promote cell injury, inflammation, and fibrosis include
oxidative stress, early mitochondrial dysfunction, endoplasmic reticulum stress, 
iron accumulation, apoptosis, adipocytokines, and stellate cell activation. The
exact NASH prevalence is unknown because of the absence of simple noninvasive
diagnostic tests. Although liver biopsy is the "gold standard" for the diagnosis 
of NASH, other tests are needed to facilitate the diagnosis and greatly reduce
the requirement for invasive liver biopsy. In addition, the development of new
fibrosis markers in NASH is needed to facilitate the assessment of its
progression and the effectiveness of new therapies. The aim of this chapter,
which is overview of biomarkers in NASH, is to establish a systematic approach to
laboratory findings of the disease.


PMID: 24015600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Nov;36(9):587-96. doi:
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2013.06.005. Epub 2013 Sep 5.

[Alcoholic and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis: who is affected and what can we do 
for them?].

[Article in Spanish]

Gallego-Durán R(1), Ampuero J, Funuyet J, Romero-Gómez M.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad Médico-Quirúrgica de Enfermedades Digestivas y CIBERehd, Hospital
Universitario de Valme, Universidad de Sevilla, Sevilla, España.

The most common causes of steatohepatitis are alcohol intake and metabolic
disorders. Several methods based on biochemical determinations (carbohydrate
deficient transferrin) and questionnaires (AUDIT, CAGE, MALE) are useful for
detecting surreptitious alcohol intake. Although new non-invasive methods are
under development, based both on lipidomics (Owl-Liver(®)) and on biochemical
determinations and anthropometric parameters (NAFLD Fibrosis score) or imaging
methods (DeMILI NASH-MRi(®)), none has been proposed as definitive and the gold
standard continues to be liver biopsy. The pathogenesis of alcoholic and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis shares some elements such as insulin resistance,
cytochrome CYP2E1-mediated oxidative stress, adiponutrin and its PNPLA3 gene, and
the microbiota. The first-line treatment consists of lifestyle changes, including
giving up alcohol, diet and exercise.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier España, S.L. and AEEH y AEG. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2013.06.005 
PMID: 24011648  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Cancer Lett. 2014 Apr 10;345(2):223-9. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.08.036. Epub
2013 Sep 2.

Non-viral causes of liver cancer: does obesity led inflammation play a role?

Alzahrani B(1), Iseli TJ(1), Hebbard LW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Storr Liver Unit, Westmead Millennium Institute and Westmead Hospital,
University of Sydney, Darcy Road, Westmead, NSW 2145, Australia. (2)Storr Liver
Unit, Westmead Millennium Institute and Westmead Hospital, University of Sydney, 
Darcy Road, Westmead, NSW 2145, Australia. Electronic address:
lionel.hebbard@sydney.edu.au.

Liver cancer is the fifth most common cancer worldwide and the third most common 
cause of cancer mortality. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for around 90%
of primary liver cancers. Chronic infection with hepatitis B and hepatitis C
viruses are two of most common causes of liver cancer. However, there are
non-viral factors that are associated with liver cancer development. Numerous
population studies have revealed strong links between obesity and the development
of liver cancer. Obesity can alter hepatic pathology, metabolism and promote
inflammation, leading to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and the
progression to the more severe form, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH
is characterised by prominent steatosis and inflammation, and can lead to HCC.
Here, we discuss the role of obesity in inflammation and the principal signalling
mechanisms involved in HCC formation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.08.036 
PMID: 24007864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Free Radic Res. 2013 Nov;47(11):869-80. doi: 10.3109/10715762.2013.837577. Epub
2013 Oct 4.

Involvement of free radicals and oxidative stress in NAFLD/NASH.

Sumida Y(1), Niki E, Naito Y, Yoshikawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kyoto Prefectural University of
Medicine , Kyoto , Japan.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now the most common liver disease
affecting high proportion of the population worldwide. NAFLD encompasses a large 
spectrum of conditions ranging from fatty liver to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis 
(NASH), which can progress to cirrhosis and cancer. NAFLD is considered as a
multifactorial disease in relation to the pathogenic mechanisms. Oxidative stress
has been implicated in the pathogenesis of NAFLD and NASH and the involvement of 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) has been suggested. Many studies show the
association between the levels of lipid oxidation products and disease state.
However, often neither oxidative stress nor ROS has been characterized, despite
oxidative stress is mediated by multiple active species by different mechanisms
and the same lipid oxidation products are produced by different active species.
Further, the effects of various antioxidants have been assessed in human and
animal studies, but the effects of drugs are determined by the type of active
species, suggesting the importance of characterizing the active species involved.
This review article is focused on the role of free radicals and free
radical-mediated lipid peroxidation in the pathogenesis of NAFLD and NASH, taking
characteristic features of free radical-mediated oxidation into consideration.
The detailed analysis of lipid oxidation products shows the involvement of free
radicals in the pathogenesis of NAFLD and NASH. Potential beneficial effects of
antioxidants such as vitamin E are discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/10715762.2013.837577 
PMID: 24004441  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Hepatology. 2014 Mar;59(3):1174-97. doi: 10.1002/hep.26717. Epub 2014 Jan 16.

Extrahepatic complications of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Armstrong MJ(1), Adams LA, Canbay A, Syn WK.

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Liver Biomedical Research Unit and Centre for Liver Research, University 
of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a leading cause of chronic liver
disease, and is strongly associated with the metabolic syndrome. In the last
decade, it has become apparent that the clinical burden of NAFLD is not
restricted to liver-related morbidity or mortality, and the majority of deaths in
NAFLD patients are related to cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer. These
findings have fuelled concerns that NAFLD may be a new, and added risk factor for
extrahepatic diseases such as CVD, chronic kidney disease (CKD), colorectal
cancer, endocrinopathies (including type 2 diabetes mellitus [T2DM] and thyroid
dysfunction), and osteoporosis. In this review we critically appraise key studies
on NAFLD-associated extrahepatic disease. There was marked heterogeneity between 
studies in study design (cross-sectional versus prospective; sample size;
presence/absence of well-defined controls), population (ethnic diversity;
community-based versus hospital-based cohorts), and method of NAFLD diagnosis
(liver enzymes versus imaging versus biopsy). Taking this into account, the
cumulative evidence to date suggests that individuals with NAFLD (specifically,
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis) harbor an increased and independent risk of
developing CVD, T2DM, CKD, and colorectal neoplasms. We propose future studies
are necessary to better understand these risks, and suggest an example of a
screening strategy.

© 2014 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26717 
PMID: 24002776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Free Radic Res. 2013 Nov;47(11):881-93. doi: 10.3109/10715762.2013.835048. Epub
2013 Oct 4.

Oxysterols and redox signaling in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Serviddio G(1), Blonda M, Bellanti F, Villani R, Iuliano L, Vendemiale G.

Author information: 
(1)C.U.R.E. Centre for Liver Diseases Research and Treatment, Institute of
Internal Medicine, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of
Foggia , Italy.

Oxysterols are oxidized species of cholesterol coming from exogenous (e.g.
dietary) and endogenous (in vivo) sources. They play critical roles in normal
physiologic functions such as regulation of cellular cholesterol homeostasis.
Most of biological effects are mediated by interaction with nuclear receptor
LXRα, highly expressed in the liver as well as in many other tissues. Such
interaction participates in the regulation of whole-body cholesterol metabolism, 
by acting as "lipid sensors". Moreover, it seems that oxysterols are also
suspected to play key roles in several pathologies, including cardiovascular and 
inflammatory disease, cancer, and neurodegeneration. Growing evidence suggests
that oxysterols may contribute to liver injury in non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease. The present review focuses on the current status of knowledge on
oxysterols' biological role, with an emphasis on LXR signaling and oxysterols'
physiopathological relevance in NAFLD, suggesting new pharmacological development
that needs to be addressed in the near future.

DOI: 10.3109/10715762.2013.835048 
PMID: 24000796  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Eur Respir Rev. 2013 Sep 1;22(129):353-64. doi: 10.1183/09059180.00003413.

Sleep apnoea and metabolic dysfunction.

Bonsignore MR(1), Borel AL, Machan E, Grunstein R.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Pneumology, University of Palermo, Palermo, France.
marisa@ibim.cnr.it

Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a highly prevalent condition often associated
with central obesity. In the past few years, several studies have analysed the
potential independent contribution of OSA to the pathogenesis of metabolic
abnormalities, including type 2 diabetes, the metabolic syndrome and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. New perspectives in OSA patient care have been
opened by the promotion of lifestyle interventions, such as diet and exercise
programmes that could improve both OSA and the metabolic profile. The rich
clinical literature on this subject, together with the growing amount of data on 
pathophysiological mechanisms provided by animal studies using the chronic
intermittent hypoxia model, urged the organising Committee of the Sleep and
Breathing meeting to organise a session on sleep apnoea and metabolic
dysfunction, in collaboration with the European Association for the Study of
Diabetes. This review summarises the state-of-the-art lectures presented in the
session, more specifically the relationship between OSA and diabetes, the role of
OSA in the metabolic consequences of obesity, and the effects of lifestyle
interventions on nocturnal respiratory disturbances and the metabolic profile in 
OSA patients.

DOI: 10.1183/09059180.00003413 
PMID: 23997062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Free Radic Biol Med. 2013 Dec;65:952-68. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.08.174. Epub 2013 Aug 29.

Free radical biology for medicine: learning from nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Serviddio G(1), Bellanti F, Vendemiale G.

Author information: 
(1)C.U.R.E. Centre for Liver Disease Research and Treatment, Institute of
Internal Medicine, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of
Foggia, 71122 Foggia, Italy. Electronic address: g.serviddio@unifg.it.

Reactive oxygen species, when released under controlled conditions and limited
amounts, contribute to cellular proliferation, senescence, and survival by acting
as signaling intermediates. In past decades there has been an epidemic diffusion 
of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) that represents the result of the
impairment of lipid metabolism, redox imbalance, and insulin resistance in the
liver. To date, most studies and reviews have been focused on the molecular
mechanisms by which fatty liver progresses to steatohepatitis, but the processes 
leading toward the development of hepatic steatosis in NAFLD are not fully
understood yet. Several nuclear receptors, such as peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) α/γ/δ, PPARγ coactivators 1α and 1β,
sterol-regulatory element-binding proteins, AMP-activated protein kinase,
liver-X-receptors, and farnesoid-X-receptor, play key roles in the regulation of 
lipid homeostasis during the pathogenesis of NAFLD. These nuclear receptors may
act as redox sensors and may modulate various metabolic pathways in response to
specific molecules that act as ligands. It is conceivable that a redox-dependent 
modulation of lipid metabolism, nuclear receptor-mediated, could cause the
development of hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance. Thus, this network may
represent a potential therapeutic target for the treatment and prevention of
hepatic steatosis and its progression to steatohepatitis. This review summarizes 
the redox-dependent factors that contribute to metabolism alterations in fatty
liver with a focus on the redox control of nuclear receptors in normal liver as
well as in NAFLD.

© 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.08.174 
PMID: 23994574  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Biochem Pharmacol. 2013 Dec 1;86(11):1517-24. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.08.015.
Epub 2013 Aug 26.

Bile acid receptors in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Li Y(1), Jadhav K, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Medical Sciences, Northeast Ohio Medical University,
4209 State Route 44, Rootstown, OH 44272, United States.

Accumulating data have shown that bile acids are important cell signaling
molecules, which may activate several signaling pathways to regulate biological
processes. Bile acids are endogenous ligands for the farnesoid X receptor (FXR)
and TGR5, a G-protein coupled receptor. Gain- and loss-of-function studies have
demonstrated that both FXR and TGR5 play important roles in regulating lipid and 
carbohydrate metabolism and inflammatory responses. Importantly, activation of
FXR or TGR5 lowers hepatic triglyceride levels and inhibits inflammation. Such
properties of FXR or TGR5 have indicated that these two bile acid receptors are
ideal targets for treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, one of the
major health concerns worldwide. In this article, we will focus on recent
advances on the role of both FXR and TGR5 in regulating hepatic triglyceride
metabolism and inflammatory responses under normal and disease conditions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.08.015 
PMCID: PMC3925679
PMID: 23988487  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Nutr Hosp. 2013 Mar;28 Suppl 2:104-8. doi: 10.3305/nh.2013.28.sup2.6720.

Other aspects of bariatric surgery: liver steatosis, ferritin and cholesterol
metabolism.

Pontiroli AE(1), Benetti A, Folini L, Merlotti C, Frigè F.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartamento di Medicina, Chirurgia e Odonoiatria, Universitá degli Studi di
Milano, Ospedale San Paolo, Via A di Rudini 8, Milan, Italy.
antonio.pontiroli@unimi.it

Bariatric surgery developed in the late 1970 to treat severe hyperlipidemias in
overweight individuals, not necessarily obese. Several techniques have been
developed, and the concept has come first of a surgery for morbid obesity, then
of a cure for diabetes in morbid obesity. There are other aspects of bariatric
surgery that deserve attention, beyond BMI and diabetes, such as hypertension,
poor life expectancy, increased prevalence of cancer, congestive heart failure,
social inadequacy. The aim of this presentation is to review some recent
development in clinical research, in the fields of liver steatosis, ferritin
metabolism, and cholesterol metabolism. Liver steatosis, also called fatty liver 
encompasses a graduation of diseases with different clinical relevance and
prognosis. NAFLD correlates with atherosclerosis, insulin resistance and diabetes
mellitus. There is now evidence that weight loss, obtained through diet or
restrictive surgery, reduces the prevalence (and the severity) of NAFLD. An other
issue is represented by serum ferritin concentrations, that are strongly
associated with fibrosis, portal and lobular inflammation in NAFLD patients,
especially in the presence of obesity. Body iron contributes to excess oxidative 
stress already at non iron overload concentrations. Moreover, serum ferritin is
an important and independent predictor of the development of diabetes. Weight
loss is accompanied by reduction of ferritin, more after restrictive than
malabsorptive surgery. Metabolic changes are greater after malabsorptive or mixed
surgery than after purely restrictive surgery, and this has been ascribed to a
greater weight loss. Studies comparing the two kinds of surgery indicate that,
for the same amount of weight loss, decrease of cholesterol is greater with the
former than with the latter techniques, and this difference is mainly due to a
greater reduction of intestinal absorption of cholesterol. In the choice of
surgery for the single patient, among other aspects, malabsorptive surgery seems 
to be more indicated in subjects with hyperlipidemia, especially with high
cholesterol levels.

Publisher: La cirugía bariátrica se desarrolló a finales de la década de los 70
para tratar la hiperlipidemia severa en personas con sobrepeso, no necesariamente
obesos. A lo largo de los años se han desarrollado varias técnicas quirúrgicas
que han sido utilizadas en primer lugar en la obesidad mórbida y posteriormente
en el tratamiento de la diabetes. Hay otros aspectos de la cirugía bariátrica que
merecen atención más allá del IMC y la diabetes, como la hipertensión, la pobre
esperanza de vida, una mayor prevalencia de cáncer, insuficiencia cardíaca e
inadaptación social. El objetivo de este artículo es revisar los recientes
avances clínicos en campos de investigación relacionados con la esteatosis
hepática, el metabolismo de ferritina y el metabolismo del colesterol. La
esteatosis hepática, también llamada hígado graso abarca una serie de las
enfermedades con diferente pronóstico y relevancia clínica. El Hígado Graso No
Alcohólico (NAFLD siglas en ingles) se correlaciona con la aterosclerosis,
resistencia a la insulina y diabetes mellitus. Hoy en día existen evidencias de
que la pérdida de peso que se obtiene a través de la dieta o cirugía restrictiva,
reduce la prevalencia (y la gravedad) de la NAFLD. Otro tema de estudio incluye
las concentraciones de ferritina sérica, que están fuertemente asociadas con la
fibrosis e inflamación lobular y portal en pacientes con NAFLD, especialmente en 
presencia de obesidad. El exceso de hierro corporal en obesos contribuye a un
aumento del estrés oxidativo debido a una sobrecarga en su concentración. Por
otra parte, la ferritina sérica es un indicador importante e independiente del
desarrollo de la diabetes. La pérdida de peso se acompaña de una disminución de
la ferritina. Esta disminución es más evidente tras una cirugía restrictiva que
tras una malabsortiva. Los cambios metabólicos son mayores después de una cirugía
malabsortiva o mixta que tras una cirugía puramente restrictiva, y esto se ha
atribuido a una mayor pérdida de peso. Estudios que comparan los dos tipos de
cirugía indican que, para la mismo índice de pérdida de peso, la disminución de
colesterol es mayor con las primeras técnicas que con las últimas, y esta
diferencia se debe principalmente a una mayor reducción de la absorción
intestinal del colesterol. En la elección de la cirugía para un paciente
concreto, entre otros aspectos, la cirugía de malabsorción parece estar más
indicada en sujetos con hiperlipemia, especialmente con altos niveles de
colesterol.
Copyright © AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2013. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.3305/nh.2013.28.sup2.6720 
PMID: 23834053  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol. 2013 Jul;79 Suppl 7:S10-7. doi:
10.4103/0378-6323.115506.

Comorbidities in psoriasis.

Aurangabadkar SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Skin and Laser Clinic, Hyderabad, India.

Moderate to severe psoriasis is associated with concomitant diseases that may
have a significant impact on patients. It is necessary for the treating physician
to recognize these concomitant diseases, known as comorbidities, early as they
influence the management options. Important comorbidities are psoriatic
arthritis, metabolic syndrome, Crohn's disease, depression, and cancer. Patients 
with severe psoriasis may be at an increased risk for myocardial infarction and
this subgroup of patients tends to have a reduced life expectancy. The presence
of co-morbid diseases is associated with an increase in concomitant medication,
some of which may worsen psoriasis; conversely, systemic treatment of psoriasis
with certain drugs may impact the co-morbid conditions. As dermatologists are the
primary health-care providers for psoriasis, adequate knowledge of comorbidities 
helps in choosing the appropriate therapy as well as timely intervention.

DOI: 10.4103/0378-6323.115506 
PMID: 23974690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Chin Med J (Engl). 2013 Aug;126(16):3151-5.

Uncoupling protein and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Jin X(1), Xiang Z, Chen YP, Ma KF, Ye YF, Li YM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang,
China.

OBJECTIVE: To review the current advances on the role of uncoupling protein (UCP)
in the pathogenesis and progress of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
DATA SOURCES: A comprehensive search of the PubMed literature without restriction
on the publication date was carried out using keywords such as UCP and NAFLD.
STUDY SELECTION: Articles containing information related to NAFLD and UCP were
selected and carefully analyzed.
RESULTS: The typical concepts, up-to-date findings, and existing controversies of
UCP2 in NAFLD were summarized. Besides, the effect of a novel subtype of UCP
(hepatocellular down regulated mitochondrial carrier protein, HDMCP) in NAFLD was
also analyzed. Finally, the concept that any mitochondrial inner membrane carrier
protein may have, more or less, the uncoupling ability was reinforced.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the importance of NAFLD in clinics and UCP in energy
metabolism, we believe that this review may raise research enthusiasm on the
effect of UCP in NAFLD and provide a novel mechanism and therapeutic target for
NAFLD.


PMID: 23981628  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Aug 24;(8):CD009059. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD009059.pub2.

Herbal medicines for fatty liver diseases.

Liu ZL(1), Xie LZ, Zhu J, Li GQ, Grant SJ, Liu JP.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Evidence-Based Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, 11 Bei San Huan Dong Lu, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100029.

BACKGROUND: Fatty liver disease is potentially a reversible condition that may
lead to end-stage liver disease. Since herbal medicines such as Crataegus
pinnatifida and Salvia miltiorrhiza have increasingly been used in the management
of fatty liver disease, a systematic review on herbal medicine for fatty liver
disease is needed.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the beneficial and harmful effects of herbal medicines for 
people with alcoholic or non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Controlled Trials
Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (Issue 3, 
2012), MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Science Citation Index Expanded to 1 March 2012. We
also searched the Chinese BioMedical Database, Traditional Chinese Medical
Literature Analysis and Retrieval System, China National Knowledge
Infrastructure, Chinese VIP Information, Chinese Academic Conference Papers
Database and Chinese Dissertation Database, and the Allied and Complementary
Medicine Database to 2 March 2012.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised clinical trials comparing herbal
medicines with placebo, no treatment, a pharmacological intervention, or a
non-pharmacological intervention such as diet or lifestyle, or Western
interventions in participants with fatty liver disease.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors extracted data independently. We
used the 'risk of bias' tool to assess the risk of bias of the included trials.
We assessed the following domains: random sequence generation, allocation
concealment, blinding, incomplete outcome data, selective outcome reporting, and 
other sources of bias. We presented the effects estimates as risk ratios (RR)
with 95% confidence intervals (CI) or as mean differences (MD) with 95% CI,
depending on the variables of the outcome measures.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 77 randomised clinical trials, which included 6753
participants with fatty liver disease. The risks of bias (overestimation of
benefits and underestimation of harms) was high in all trials. The mean sample
size was 88 participants (ranging from 40 to 200 participants) per trial.
Seventy-five different herbal medicine products were tested. Herbal medicines
tested in the randomised trials included single-herb products (Gynostemma
pentaphyllum, Panax notoginseng, and Prunus armeniaca), proprietary herbal
medicines commercially available, and combination formulas prescribed by
practitioners. The most commonly used herbs were Crataegus pinnatifida,Salvia
miltiorrhiza,Alisma orientalis,Bupleurum Chinense,Cassia obtusifolia, Astragalus 
membranaceous, and Rheum palmatum. None of the trials reported death,
hepatic-related morbidity, quality of life, or costs. A large number of trials
reported positive effects on putative surrogate outcomes such as serum aspartate 
aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, glutamyltransferase, alkaline
phosphatases, ultrasound, and computed tomography scan. Twenty-seven trials
reported adverse effects and found no significant difference between herbal
medicines versus control. However, the risk of bias of the included trials was
high.The outcomes were ultrasound findings in 22 trials, liver computed
tomography findings in eight trials, aspartate aminotransferase levels in 64
trials, alanine aminotransferase activity in 77 trials, and glutamyltransferase
activities in 44 trials. Six herbal medicines showed statistically significant
beneficial effects on ultrasound, four on liver computed tomography, 42 on
aspartate aminotransferase activity, 49 on alanine aminotransferase activity,
three on alkaline phosphatases activity, and 32 on glutamyltransferase activity
compared with control interventions.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Some herbal medicines seemed to have positive effects on
aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, ultrasound, and computed
tomography. We found no significant difference on adverse effects between herbal 
medicine and control groups. The findings are not conclusive due to the high risk
of bias of the included trials and the limited number of trials testing
individual herbal medicines. Accordingly, there is also high risk of random
errors.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009059.pub2 
PMID: 23975682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2013 Aug;9(8):727-38. doi: 10.1586/1744666X.2013.816484.

Immunological and molecular basis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Radwan MM(1), Radwan BM, Nandipati KC, Hunter WJ 3rd, Agrawal DK.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Clinical & Translational Science, Creighton University School of
Medicine, Omaha, NE 68178, USA.

The prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) is rising worldwide with the increasing incidence of
obesity, Type 2 diabetes mellitus and metabolic syndrome. NASH is currently one
of the most common indications of liver transplantation in the United States. The
immune system plays a major role in the pathogenesis of NAFLD/NASH. The metabolic
changes, associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome, induce immunological
responses resulting in NAFLD and further aggravation of the metabolic derangement
in a feed-forward loop. Genetic and endocrine factors modulate the immunological 
and metabolic responses and determine the pathophysiological features of NAFLD.
Histologically, NAFLD is a spectrum that ranges from simple hepatic steatosis to 
severe steatohepatitis, liver cirrhosis and/or hepatocellular carcinoma. Liver
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma are responsible for the morbidity and
mortality of the disease. This article is a critical evaluation of our current
knowledge of the immunological and molecular basis of the disease.

DOI: 10.1586/1744666X.2013.816484 
PMID: 23971751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2013;2013:493413. doi: 10.1155/2013/493413. Epub 2013 Jul
21.

Role of mitochondria in HIV infection and associated metabolic disorders: focus
on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and lipodystrophy syndrome.

Pérez-Matute P(1), Pérez-Martínez L, Blanco JR, Oteo JA.

Author information: 
(1)HIV and Associated Metabolic Alterations Unit, Infectious Diseases Department,
Center for Biomedical Research of La Rioja (CIBIR), Piqueras 98, La Rioja, 26006 
Logroño, Spain. cpperez@riojasalud.es

Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has considerably improved the
prognosis of HIV-infected patients. However, prolonged use of HAART has been
related to long-term adverse events that can compromise patient health such as
HIV-associated lipodystrophy syndrome (HALS) and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD). There is consistent evidence for a central role of mitochondrial
dysfunction in these pathologies. Nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors
(NRTIs) have been described to be mainly responsible for mitochondrial
dysfunction in adipose tissue and liver although nonnucleoside transcriptase
inhibitors (NNRTIs) or protease inhibitors (PIs) have also showed mitochondrial
toxicity, which is a major concern for the selection and the long-term adherence 
to a particular therapy. Several mechanisms explain these deleterious effects of 
HAART on mitochondria, and evidence points to other mechanisms beyond the "Pol- γ
hypothesis." HIV infection has also direct effects on mitochondria. In addition
to the negative effects described for HIV itself and/or HAART on mitochondria,
HIV-infected patients are more prone to develop a premature aging and, therefore,
to present an increased oxidative state that could lead to the development of
these metabolic disturbances observed in HIV-infected patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/493413 
PMCID: PMC3736404
PMID: 23970949  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Thromb Haemost. 2013 Nov;110(5):940-58. doi: 10.1160/TH13-06-0499. Epub 2013 Aug 
22.

The liver and the kidney: two critical organs influencing the atherothrombotic
risk in metabolic syndrome.

Carbone F(1), Montecucco F, Mach F, Pontremoli R, Viazzi F.

Author information: 
(1)Dr. Fabrizio Montecucco, MD, PhD, Cardiology Division, Foundation for Medical 
Researches, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Geneva, 64 Avenue
Roseraie, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland, Tel: +41 22 382 72 38, Fax: +41 22 382 72 45,
E-mail: Fabrizio.montecucco@unige.ch.

The increased atherothrombotic risk in patients with metabolic syndrome (MetS)
has been classically explained by the multiplicative effect of systemic
concomitant pro-atherosclerotic factors. In particular, centripetal obesity,
dyslipidaemia, glucose intolerance, hypertension (differently combined in the
diagnosis of the disease) would be expected to act as classical cardiovascular
risk conditions underlying accelerated atherogenesis. In order to better
understand specific atherosclerotic pathophysiology in MetS, emerging evidence
focused on the alterations in different organs that could serve as both
pathophysiological targets and active players in the disease. Abnormalities in
adipose tissue, heart and arteries have been widely investigated in a variety of 
basic research and clinical studies in MetS. In this narrative review, we focus
on pathophysiological activities of the liver and kidney. Considering its key
role in metabolism and production of soluble inflammatory mediators (such as
C-reactive protein [CRP]), the liver in MetS has been shown to be altered both in
its structure and function. In particular, a relevant amount of the fat
accumulated within this organ has been shown to be associated with different
degrees of inflammation and potential insulin resistance. In humans,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been described as the hepatic
manifestation of MetS. In an analogous manner, epidemiological evidence strongly 
suggested a "guilty" association between MetS and chronic kidney disease (CKD).
Some biomarkers of hepatic (such as C-reactive protein, TNF-alpha or other
cytokines) and renal diseases (such as uric acid) associated with MetS might be
particularly useful to better manage and prevent the atherothrombotic risk.

DOI: 10.1160/TH13-06-0499 
PMID: 23966104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Jul;12(7):1077-84; quiz e59-60. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2013.08.014. Epub 2013 Aug 17.

Management of dyslipidemia as a cardiovascular risk factor in individuals with
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Corey KE(1), Chalasani N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Gastrointestinal Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts. (2)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana. Electronic address: nchalasa@iupui.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most frequent cause of liver
disease in the United States and is associated with an increased risk of
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cardiovascular (CV) mortality, independent of
traditional cardiovascular risk factors. CVD is one of the most common causes of 
death among individuals with NAFLD and management of NAFLD must extend beyond
liver disease to include CVD risk modification. Clinicians should assess CVD risk
with the Framingham Risk Score and screen for CVD risk factors including
dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, tobacco use, and the metabolic
syndrome. CVD risk factors, particularly dyslipidemia, require aggressive medical
management to reduce the high risk of CVD events and death in individuals with
NAFLD.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2013.08.014 
PMCID: PMC3933450
PMID: 23962548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Nov;10(11):637-44. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2013.146. Epub 2013 Aug 20.

The Gordian Knot of dysbiosis, obesity and NAFLD.

Mehal WZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Digestive Diseases, Yale University, 300 Cedar Street, TAC S241, PO
Box 208019, New Haven, CT 06520-8019, USA. wajahat.mehal@yale.edu.

The development of obesity and NAFLD is known to be determined by host genetics, 
diet and lack of exercise. In addition, the gut microbiota has been identified to
influence the development of both obesity and NAFLD. Evidence for the role of the
gut microbiota has been shown by preclinical studies of transfer of gut
microbiota from lean and obese individuals, with the recipient developing the
metabolic features of the donor. Many bidirectional interactions of the gut
microbiota, including with food, bile and the intestinal epithelium, have been
identified. These interactions might contribute to the distinct steps in the
progression from lean to obese states, and to steatosis, steatohepatitis and
eventually fibrosis. The predominant steps are efficient caloric extraction from 
the diet, intestinal epithelial damage and greater entry of bacterial components 
into the portal circulation. These steps result in activation of the innate
immune system, liver inflammation and fibrosis. Fortunately, therapeutic
interventions might not require a full understanding of these complex
interactions. Although antibiotics are too unselective in their action,
probiotics have shown efficacy in reversing obesity and NASH in experimental
systems, and are under investigation in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2013.146 
PMID: 23958600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Nov;10(11):627-36. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2013.149. Epub 2013 Aug 20.

From NAFLD to NASH to cirrhosis-new insights into disease mechanisms.

Wree A(1), Broderick L, Canbay A, Hoffman HM, Feldstein AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman
Drive, La Jolla, CA 92037-0715, USA.

NAFLD has evolved as a serious public health problem in the USA and around the
world. In fact, NASH-the most serious form of NAFLD-is predicted to become the
leading cause of liver transplantation in the USA by the year 2020. The
pathogenesis of NAFLD and NASH, in particular the mechanisms responsible for
liver injury and fibrosis, is the result of a complex interplay between host and 
environmental factors, and is at the centre of intense investigation. In this
Review, we focus on recently uncovered aspects of the genetic, biochemical,
immunological and molecular events that are responsible for the development and
progression of this highly prevalent and potentially serious disease. These
studies bring new insight into this complex disorder and have led to the
development of novel therapeutic and diagnostic strategies that might enable a
personalized approach in the management of this disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2013.149 
PMID: 23958599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(17):2799-808.

Clinical aspects of tumor necrosis factor-α signaling in hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Jang MK, Kim HS, Chung YH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan
Medical Center, 86 Asanbyeongwon-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul, 138-736, Republic of
Korea. yhchung@amc.seoul.kr.

Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) is a multi-functional cytokine that regulates
a variety of signaling pathways implicated in inflammation, immunity, cell death 
(apoptosis), cell survival (anti-apoptosis), and even tumorigenesis. TNF-α is
predominantly produced by macrophages (or Kupffer cells within the liver), but
generated by lymphoid cells, astrocytes, endothelial cells, and smooth muscle
cells to some degree. In the liver, TNF-α not only serves as a key mediator of
hepatocyte apoptosis resulting in the liver damage, but also plays an important
role in cellular proliferation leading to liver regeneration or even
hepatocarcinogenesis. TNF-α may indirectly contribute to carcinogenesis via
various inflammatory conditions such as alcoholic and non-alcoholic fatty liver
diseases and chronic viral hepatitis. On the one hand, in inflammation, TNF-α
induces apoptosis repeatedly and subsequently enhances the chance of formation of
anomalous cells during the process of regeneration and dysplasia. On the other
hand, TNF-α exerts as an anti-angiogenic factor depending on its concentration.
It shows an anti-tumorous effect by increasing vascular permeability in the
tumors. When it is perfused in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs using
isolated hepatic infusion, TNF-α may increase the responsiveness of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or metastatic cancers to anti-cancer agents as
isolated limb perfusion methods in an unresectable soft tissue sarcoma or
melanoma. This article reviews the TNF-α signaling pathway in
hepatocarcinogenesis and the new challenge of TNF-α as a new therapeutic strategy
in HCC.


PMID: 23944370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2013 Sep 1;70(17):1496-501. doi: 10.2146/ajhp120645.

Intravenous acetylcysteine for indications other than acetaminophen overdose.

Bass S(1), Zook N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.
basss@ccf.org

PURPOSE: The use of intravenous acetylcysteine for off-label indications,
specifically non-acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure (NAI-ALF), severe
alcoholic hepatitis, and contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), is reviewed.
SUMMARY: I.V. acetylcysteine is most often used as an antidote for acetaminophen 
overdose due to its ability to increase levels of glutathione; however, it is
also used to treat NAI-ALF and severe alcoholic hepatitis and to prevent CIN.
Although the i.v. and oral formulations of acetylcysteine have been evaluated for
these indications, most studies have examined the i.v. form. I.V. acetylcysteine 
is used in the treatment of NAI-ALF to improve oxygenation to the liver. One
large randomized trial of 173 adults with NAI-ALF from any etiology and of any
grade encephalopathy demonstrated overall improvement in transplant-free
survival, particularly for patients with low-grade encephalopathy, though overall
survival was not improved. When used to treat severe alcoholic hepatitis, i.v.
acetylcysteine serves as an antioxidant and glutathione source. A trial of 174
patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis revealed that patients had 28-day
survival benefit when treated with acetylcysteine; improvement in patients with
hepatorenal syndrome was also noted. When used for the prevention of CIN, i.v.
acetylcysteine provides antioxidants and vasodilation. The benefit for this
indication is limited to surrogate markers such as serum creatinine and in
patients with multiple risk factors for the development of CIN.
CONCLUSION: Data regarding the use of i.v. acetylcysteine for the treatment of
NAI-ALF and severe alcoholic hepatitis and in the prevention of CIN are
inconclusive, though some evidence supports its use in certain populations.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp120645 
PMID: 23943180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Cancer Lett. 2014 Apr 10;345(2):230-4. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.07.033. Epub
2013 Aug 11.

NAFLD leads to liver cancer: do we have sufficient evidence?

Duan XY(1), Zhang L(2), Fan JG(3), Qiao L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University
School of Medicine, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Children's Digestion and
Nutrition, Shanghai 200092, China. (2)Department of General Surgery, The First
Hospital of Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, Gansu, China. (3)Department of
Gastroenterology, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of
Medicine, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Children's Digestion and Nutrition, Shanghai
200092, China. Electronic address: fanjiangao@gmail.com. (4)Storr Liver Unit,
University of Sydney at the Westmead Millennium Institute, Westmead, NSW 2145,
Australia. Electronic address: liang.qiao@sydney.edu.au.

Primary liver cancer has several well-recognized risk factors, such as HBV and
HCV infection, alcohol abuse and aflatoxin. Recent studies show that nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD), especially its aggressive form nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) is associated with an increased risk of liver cancer,
mainly hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). On the other hand, clinical and
epidemiological data have showed that HCC has rarely been found in a "pure" fatty
liver in human. Thus, the question we need to ask is do we have sufficient
evidence to support a causative role of NAFLD in liver cancer? Furthermore, if
NAFLD is indeed a causative factor for liver cancer, what is the mechanism?
Perhaps at this stage, fatty liver and NASH can be regarded as a definite risk
factor for liver cancer, but to conclude that NAFLD induces HCC requires more
robust in vitro and in vivo data.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.07.033 
PMID: 23941829  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


986. J Clin Pathol. 2013 Dec;66(12):1033-45. doi: 10.1136/jclinpath-2013-201620. Epub 
2013 Aug 12.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: non-invasive investigation and risk
stratification.

Dyson JK(1), McPherson S, Anstee QM.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Unit, Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Trust, Freeman Hospital, ,
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a histological spectrum of 
liver disease, from simple steatosis through to cirrhosis. As the worldwide rates
of obesity have increased, NAFLD has become the commonest cause of liver disease 
in many developed countries, affecting up to a third of the population. The
majority of patients have simple steatosis that carries a relatively benign
prognosis. However, a significant minority have non-alcoholic steatohepatitis,
and have increased liver related and cardiovascular mortality. Identifying those 
at risk of progressive disease is crucial. Liver biopsy remains the gold standard
investigation for assessing stage of disease but its invasive nature makes it
impractical for widespread use as a prognostic tool. Non-invasive tools for
diagnosis and disease staging are required, reserving liver biopsy for those
patients where it offers clinically relevant additional information. This review 
discusses the non-invasive modalities available for assessing steatosis,
steatohepatitis and fibrosis. We propose a pragmatic approach for the assessment 
of patients with NAFLD to identify those at high risk of progressive disease who 
require referral to specialist services.

DOI: 10.1136/jclinpath-2013-201620 
PMID: 23940130  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


987. J Psychosoc Nurs Ment Health Serv. 2013 Sep;51(9):13-6. doi:
10.3928/02793695-20130805-01. Epub 2013 Aug 16.

A "glucose eater" drug as a therapeutic agent in psychiatry.

Howland RH.

Metformin, currently approved for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, is an
interesting drug that has various cellular and molecular mechanisms. These
mechanisms have justified other off-label clinical and investigational uses for
diabetes prevention in high-risk patients, for polycystic ovary syndrome,
non-diabetic obesity, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and for prevention or
treatment of cancer. A large number of controlled and uncontrolled studies have
generally found metformin to be effective, well tolerated, and safe for
preventing or treating antipsychotic-related weight gain and for improving
metabolic abnormalities in psychiatric patient populations. Metformin has the
potential effect of inducing hippocampal neurogenesis, and additional studies of 
this drug are warranted in patients with mood or cognitive disorders.

Copyright 2013, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/02793695-20130805-01 
PMID: 23938069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Hepatology. 2014 Feb;59(2):713-23. doi: 10.1002/hep.26672.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, hepatic insulin resistance, and type 2
diabetes.

Birkenfeld AL(1), Shulman GI.

Author information: 
(1)Charité-University School of Medicine, Department of Endocrinology Diabetes
and Nutrition, Center for Cardiovascular Research, Berlin, Germany; Howard Hughes
Medical Institute and the Departments of Internal Medicine and Cellular &
Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), hepatic insulin resistance, and type 2 
diabetes are all strongly associated and are all reaching epidemic proportions.
Whether there is a causal link between NAFLD and hepatic insulin resistance is
controversial. This review will discuss recent studies in both humans and animal 
models of NAFLD that have implicated increases in hepatic diacylglycerol (DAG)
content leading to activation of novel protein kinase Cϵ (PKCϵ) resulting in
decreased insulin signaling in the pathogenesis of NAFLD-associated hepatic
insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. The DAG-PKCϵ hypothesis can explain the
occurrence of hepatic insulin resistance observed in most cases of NAFLD
associated with obesity, lipodystrophy, and type 2 diabetes.

© 2013 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26672 
PMCID: PMC3946772
PMID: 23929732  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Eur J Clin Invest. 2013 Oct;43(10):1069-83. doi: 10.1111/eci.12128. Epub 2013 Aug
8.

Intrahepatic cholestasis in common chronic liver diseases.

Jüngst C(1), Berg T, Cheng J, Green RM, Jia J, Mason AL, Lammert F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine II, Saarland University Medical Center, Homburg,
Germany.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Cholestasis represents the consequence of impaired bile
formation and decrease in bile flow, generally classified as extra- and
intrahepatic. Cholestasis is the pivotal hallmark of the so-called primary
cholestatic liver diseases but may also emerge in other forms of chronic liver
injury. The aim now was to summarise the current state of knowledge on
intrahepatic cholestasis related to chronic liver diseases.
METHODS: For this overview on intrahepatic cholestasis in chronic liver disorders
other than the 'classic' cholestatic liver diseases, selected references were
retrieved by literature search in MEDLINE and textbooks were reviewed. All
articles were selected that discussed pathophysiological and clinical aspects of 
intrahepatic cholestasis in the context of alcoholic liver disease, nonalcoholic 
fatty liver disease, chronic hepatitis B and C virus infections as well as
drug-induced and granulomatous liver diseases. Titles referring to primary
biliary cirrhosis and sclerosing cholangitis were excluded.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Dependent on the aetiology, intrahepatic cholestasis is 
present at variable frequencies and in different disease stages in chronic liver 
diseases. Cholestasis secondary to chronic liver injury may denote a severe
disease course and development of end-stage liver disease or specific disease
variants. These findings indicate that 'secondary intrahepatic cholestasis' (SIC)
can occur in the natural course of chronic liver diseases other than the primary 
cholestatic diseases, in particular in the setting of advanced disease
progression.

© 2013 Stichting European Society for Clinical Investigation Journal Foundation. 
Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eci.12128 
PMID: 23927644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Nutr Clin Pract. 2013 Aug;28(4):448-58. doi: 10.1177/0884533613489153.

Pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Bozic MA(1), Subbarao G, Molleston JP.

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, James Whitcomb Riley Hospital for
Children, Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, 705 Riley
Hospital Dr, ROC 4210, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. mbozic@iupui.edu

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in the pediatric population. Increased recognition of this form of 
liver disease parallels the dramatic rise in childhood and adolescent obesity
over the past 2 decades. Like adults, most children with NAFLD are obese, and
comorbidities include insulin resistance, hypertension, and dyslipidemia.
Unfortunately, pediatric NAFLD is not always a benign condition, with some
children progressing to hepatic fibrosis and even cirrhosis in severe cases. The 
etiology of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is not yet fully understood; however,
hepatic steatosis in the context of insulin resistance and increased oxidative
stress may lead to progressive disease. Although physical examination, laboratory
evaluation, and radiographic findings provide clues to the potential presence of 
fatty liver disease, liver biopsy remains the gold standard for diagnosis.
Lifestyle modification, including slow and steady weight loss, improved dietary
habits, and increased daily, aerobic physical activity, remains the first-line
approach in treating pediatric fatty liver disease. Antioxidant pharmacologic
therapy such as use of vitamin E has shown some benefit in patients with
biopsy-proven steatohepatitis. Nutrition plays an essential role not only in the 
development of fatty liver disease but also potentially in the treatment and
prevention of progression to more severe disease.

DOI: 10.1177/0884533613489153 
PMID: 23917437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Thyroid. 2013 Nov;23(11):1333-44. doi: 10.1089/thy.2012.0458. Epub 2013 Oct 16.

Thyroid hormone analogues: where do we stand in 2013?

Meruvu S(1), Ayers SD, Winnier G, Webb P.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genomic Medicine, Houston Methodist Research Institute , Houston,
Texas.

Thyroid hormones (THs) are important in the development and maintenance of lipid 
and energy homeostasis. THs act through two closely related TH receptors (TRs α
and β), which are conditional transcription factors. Recently, TH analogues or
thyromimetics with varying degrees of TR subtype and liver uptake selectivity
have been developed. These compounds exert beneficial effects of TH excess states
without many undesirable TR-dependent side effects. Several selective TR
modulators (STRMs) showed exceptionally promising results in lowering serum
cholesterol in preclinical animal models and human clinical studies. Moreover,
some first generation STRMs elicit other potentially beneficial effects on
obesity, glucose metabolism, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). While 
it was initially thought that STRMs would be an effective long-term therapy to
combat elevated cholesterol, possibly in conjunction with another
cholesterol-lowering therapy, the statins, three major first generation STRMs
failed to progress beyond early phase III human trials. The aim of this review is
to discuss how STRMs work, their actions in preclinical animal models and human
clinical trials, why they did not progress beyond clinical trials as
cholesterol-lowering therapeutics, whether selective TR modulation continues to
hold promise for dyslipidemias, and whether members of this drug class could be
applied to the treatment of other aspects of metabolic syndrome and human genetic
disease.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2012.0458 
PMID: 23915136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Free Radic Res. 2013 Nov;47(11):854-68. doi: 10.3109/10715762.2013.830717. Epub
2013 Oct 4.

Mitochondrial dysfunction in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and insulin
resistance: cause or consequence?

García-Ruiz C(1), Baulies A, Mari M, García-Rovés PM, Fernandez-Checa JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Death and Proliferation, Institute of Biomedical Research
of Barcelona (IIBB), Consejo Superior Investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC) and
Liver Unit-Hospital Clinic and CIBEREHD , Barcelona , Spain.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered the hepatic manifestation
of the metabolic syndrome and refers to a spectrum of disorders ranging from
steatosis to steatohepatitis, a disease stage characterized by inflammation,
fibrosis, cell death and insulin resistance (IR). Due to its association with
obesity and IR the impact of NAFLD is growing worldwide. Consistent with the role
of mitochondria in fatty acid (FA) metabolism, impaired mitochondrial function is
thought to contribute to NAFLD and IR. Indeed, mitochondrial dysfunction and
impaired mitochondrial respiratory chain have been described in patients with
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and skeletal muscle of obese patients. However,
recent data have provided evidence that pharmacological and genetic models of
mitochondrial impairment with reduced electron transport stimulate insulin
sensitivity and protect against diet-induced obesity, hepatosteatosis and IR.
These beneficial metabolic effects of impaired mitochondrial oxidative
phosphorylation may be related not only to the reduction of reactive oxygen
species production that regulate insulin signaling but also to decreased
mitochondrial FA overload that generate specific metabolites derived from
incomplete FA oxidation (FAO) in the TCA cycle. In line with the Randle cycle,
reduced mitochondrial FAO rates may alleviate the repression on glucose
metabolism in obesity. In addition, the redox paradox in insulin signaling and
the delicate mitochondrial antioxidant balance in steatohepatitis add another
level of complexity to the role of mitochondria in NAFLD and IR. Thus, better
understanding the role of mitochondria in FA metabolism and glucose homeostasis
may provide novel strategies for the treatment of NAFLD and IR.

DOI: 10.3109/10715762.2013.830717 
PMID: 23915028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Vnitr Lek. 2013 Jul;59(7):551-8.

[Effects of GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide 1) on liver].

[Article in Czech]

Fontana J(1), Červinková Z, Anděl M.

Author information: 
(1)Centrum pro výzkum diabetu, metabolizmu a výživy 3. lékařské fakulty UK a FN
Královské Vinohrady, Praha. josef.fontana@lf3.cuni.cz

Effects of glucagonlike peptide 1 (GLP1) on liver cells are very intensively
studied. In the metabolism of saccharides GLP1 stimulates synthesis of glycogen
and reduces glucose production -  thus acting like insulin. In the lipid
metabolism it enhances fatty acid oxidation and lipid transport from hepatocytes 
while reducing de novo lipogenesis -  effects more similar to glucagon action.
Some studies suggest beneficial effects of GLP1 on oxidative stress, endoplasmic 
reticulum stress, production of inflammatory mediators and dysfunction of biliary
secretion. Current results suggest that drugs affecting incretin system could be 
used in the treatment of certain liver diseases (e.g. NAFLD and NASH) in the
future. In the following article we mention the known effects of GLP 1 on liver
functions and liver metabolism and we point out its possible future therapeutic
use in the treatment of liver diseases.


PMID: 23909258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Vnitr Lek. 2013 Jul;59(7):546-50.

[Liver disorders in diabetic patients].

[Article in Czech]

Brůha R(1), Dvořák K, Petrtýl J.

Author information: 
(1)IV. interní klinika 1. lékařské fakulty UK a VFVN Praha. bruha@cesnet.cz

There is a mutual relationship between diabetes and liver disorders. Diabetic
patients suffer from liver disorders more frequently and, vice versa, patients
with liver disorders are at a higher risk of developing diabetes. Diabetes is
probably the most common cause of chronic liver disorders in developed countries.
Liver disorders related to diabetes include a wide spectrum of conditions, from a
simple steatosis related to a slight elevation of liver tests through
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis with various degrees of fibrosis up to cirrhosis,
hepatocellular carcinoma and acute liver failure. Non alcoholic liver steatosis
is the most common pathological condition that is, at present, considered to be a
component of or to actually be the liver manifestation of metabolic syndrome,
accompanied with an insulin resistance and other clinical components, such as
central obesity, dyslipidemia, arterial hypertension and the already mentioned
type 2 diabetes mellitus. The steatosis itself is a benign condition and the
unfavourable development of the liver disorder is related to an inflammatory
reaction (steatohepatitis) and subsequent fibrosis. There is no specific
treatment for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. The basic measures include weight
reduction, lifestyle changes and treatment of the concurrent conditions, such as 
diabetes and dyslipidemia. Formerly popular "hepatoprotective" substances do not 
play an important role in the treatment of steatohepatitis.


PMID: 23909257  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2013 Jun;76(2):200-9.

Treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: can we already face the epidemic?

Verbeek J(1), Cassiman D, Lannoo M, Laleman W, van der Merwe S, Verslype C, Van
Steenbergen W, Nevens F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatology, University Hospital Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most prevalent liver disorder in
the Western world. It comprises a disease spectrum ranging from simple steatosis 
to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which may progress to fibrosis,
cirrhosis and its complications like hepatocellular carcinoma and liver failure. 
In addition, evidence is accumulating that NAFLD is an independent risk factor
for cardiovascular diseases. Progress has been made in unraveling the
pathogenesis, which paved the way for several clinical trials for the treatment
of NAFLD. Life style intervention consisting of increased physical activity and
dietary modifications, remain the cornerstone of the treatment. Some
pharmacological agents show promising results, although on the basis of recent
clinical trials no firm conclusions can be drawn. Suggestions for treatment in
some particular groups of patients can be made. Further research is required to
face the burden of NAFLD, which is already present in epidemic proportions.


PMID: 23898557  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Nutrients. 2013 Jul 26;5(8):2901-23. doi: 10.3390/nu5082901.

Dietary omega-3 fatty acid deficiency and high fructose intake in the development
of metabolic syndrome, brain metabolic abnormalities, and non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease.

Simopoulos AP(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Genetics, Nutrition and Health, 2001 S Street, NW, Suite 530,
Washington, DC 20009, USA. cgnh@bellatlantic.net

Western diets are characterized by both dietary omega-3 fatty acid deficiency and
increased fructose intake. The latter found in high amounts in added sugars such 
as sucrose and high fructose corn syrup (HFCS). Both a low intake of omega-3
fatty acids or a high fructose intake contribute to metabolic syndrome, liver
steatosis or non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), promote brain insulin
resistance, and increase the vulnerability to cognitive dysfunction. Insulin
resistance is the core perturbation of metabolic syndrome. Multiple cognitive
domains are affected by metabolic syndrome in adults and in obese adolescents,
with volume losses in the hippocampus and frontal lobe, affecting executive
function. Fish oil supplementation maintains proper insulin signaling in the
brain, ameliorates NAFLD and decreases the risk to metabolic syndrome suggesting 
that adequate levels of omega-3 fatty acids in the diet can cope with the
metabolic challenges imposed by high fructose intake in Western diets which is of
major public health importance. This review presents the current status of the
mechanisms involved in the development of the metabolic syndrome, brain insulin
resistance, and NAFLD a most promising area of research in Nutrition for the
prevention of these conditions, chronic diseases, and improvement of Public
Health.

DOI: 10.3390/nu5082901 
PMCID: PMC3775234
PMID: 23896654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Biochimie. 2013 Nov;95(11):1971-9. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2013.07.017. Epub 2013
Jul 27.

Ectopic lipid accumulation: A potential cause for metabolic disturbances and a
contributor to the alteration of kidney function.

Guebre-Egziabher F(1), Alix PM, Koppe L, Pelletier CC, Kalbacher E, Fouque D,
Soulage CO.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Lyon, INSERM U1060, CarMeN, INSA de Lyon, Univ Lyon-1, F-69621
Villeurbanne, France; Hospices Civils de Lyon, Department of Nephrology, Hôpital 
E Herriot, Lyon F-69003, France. Electronic address:
fitsum.guebre-egziabher@chu-lyon.fr.

Ectopic lipid accumulation is now known to be a mechanism that contributes to
organ injury in the context of metabolic diseases. In muscle and liver,
accumulation of lipids impairs insulin signaling. This hypothesis accounts for
the mechanism of insulin resistance in obesity, type 2 diabetes, aging and
lipodystrophy. Increasing data suggest that lipid accumulation in the kidneys
could also contribute to the alteration of kidney function in the context of
metabolic syndrome and obesity. Furthermore and more unexpectedly, animal models 
of kidney disease exhibit a decreased adiposity and ectopic lipid redistribution 
suggesting that kidney disease may be a state of lipodystrophy. However, whether 
this abnormal lipid partitioning during chronic kidney disease (CKD) may have any
functional impact in these tissues needs to be investigated. Here, we provide a
perspective by defining the problem and analyzing the possible causes and
consequences. Further human studies are required to strengthen these
observations, and provide novel therapeutic approaches.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2013.07.017 
PMID: 23896376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Postgrad Med J. 2013 Oct;89(1056):578-83. doi: 10.1136/postgradmedj-2013-131990. 
Epub 2013 Jul 26.

Pattern and cause of fractures in patients who abuse alcohol: what should we do
about it?

Kelly KN(1), Kelly C.

Author information: 
(1)Liverpool Medical School, , Liverpool, UK.

Alcohol abuse is increasing in the UK and contributes significantly to the rising
number of acute hospital admissions. The effects are increasingly seen among
younger people who binge drink. The effects of excess alcohol on the skeleton
have attracted far less attention than those on other organs, but the risk of
fractures at important sites, such as the hips and vertebrae, is greatly
increased in alcoholics. This is partly owing to reductions in bone mineral
density, but other factors such as an increased rate of falls play an important
part. The contribution of excess alcohol consumption to the risk of fractures is 
recognised in the widely available fracture assessment tool (FRAX). The
mechanisms of fracture in alcohol abusers are complex and involve direct effects 
on bone cells, and indirect effects, mediated by alcohol, on the endocrine
system, pancreas and cytokine system. Poor nutrition, with a reduction in body
mass index and vitamin D levels, often contributes significantly. Prevention and 
treatment of fractures in alcohol abusers has received limited attention, and
there are surprisingly few therapeutic trials to guide clinical intervention.
Abstinence has been shown to improve markers of bone turnover within 2 months.
However, compliance with oral therapeutic agents is often poor, and
bisphosphonates may be contraindicated in patients with alcoholic liver disease
and varices. The emergence of newer therapeutic options may facilitate controlled
prospective studies of the role of parenteral agents in providing protection
against both primary and secondary osteoporotic fractures among patients with
alcohol abuse.

DOI: 10.1136/postgradmedj-2013-131990 
PMID: 23893347  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Mitochondrion. 2013 Nov;13(6):862-70. doi: 10.1016/j.mito.2013.07.002. Epub 2013 
Jul 21.

Modulation of hepatic redox status and mitochondrial metabolism by exercise:
therapeutic strategy for liver diseases.

Ascensão A(1), Martins MJ, Santos-Alves E, Gonçalves IO, Portincasa P, Oliveira
PJ, Magalhães J.

Author information: 
(1)Research Centre in Physical Activity, Health and Leisure, Faculty of Sport,
University of Porto, Portugal. Electronic address: aascensao@fade.up.pt.

Liver steatosis (non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, NAFLD) is deemed as the
hepatic face of the metabolic syndrome, with both physical inactivity and
hypercaloric/unbalanced diet, together with increasing age playing a role as
predisposing factors. Consequently, one of the most effective strategies used to 
counteract this scenario is physical exercise. Given the importance of redox
signaling in cellular remodeling, in which mitochondria are closely implicated
along with important roles on substrate oxidation, here we briefly review the
effects of both acute and chronic forms of physical exercise on the modulation of
hepatic redox state, highlighting the relevance of mitochondrial metabolism and
function in the induction of liver phenotypes that antagonize metabolic
alterations associated with liver metabolic diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mito.2013.07.002 
PMID: 23880173  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Curr Opin Microbiol. 2013 Jun;16(3):246-54. doi: 10.1016/j.mib.2013.07.002. Epub 
2013 Jul 20.

Colonic bacterial metabolites and human health.

Russell WR(1), Hoyles L, Flint HJ, Dumas ME.

Author information: 
(1)Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health, University of Aberdeen, Greenburn
Road, Bucksburn, Aberdeen AB21 9SB, UK.

The influence of the microbial-mammalian metabolic axis is becoming increasingly 
important for human health. Bacterial fermentation of carbohydrates (CHOs) and
proteins produces short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) and a range of other metabolites
including those from aromatic amino acid (AAA) fermentation. SCFA influence host 
health as energy sources and via multiple signalling mechanisms. Bacterial
transformation of fibre-related phytochemicals is associated with a reduced
incidence of several chronic diseases. The 'gut-liver axis' is an emerging area
of study. Microbial deconjugation of xenobiotics and release of aromatic moieties
into the colon can have a wide range of physiological consequences. In addition, 
the role of the gut microbiota in choline deficiency in non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) and insulin resistance is receiving increased attention.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mib.2013.07.002 
PMID: 23880135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1001. Curr Med Res Opin. 2013 Oct;29(10):1263-74. doi: 10.1185/03007995.2013.827566.
Epub 2013 Aug 8.

Effect of tobacco smoking and smoking cessation on plasma lipoproteins and
associated major cardiovascular risk factors: a narrative review.

Athyros VG(1), Katsiki N, Doumas M, Karagiannis A, Mikhailidis DP.

Author information: 
(1)Second Prop. Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, Aristotle
University of Thessaloniki, Hippocration Hospital , Thessaloniki , Greece.

Cigarette smoking, active or passive, kills about 6 million people each year
worldwide. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is responsible for 40% of all
smoking-related deaths, lung cancer accounts for 20% of all smoking-related
deaths, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is related to another 20% of
deaths. In this narrative review we consider the relationship between cigarette
smoking and CVD. We discuss disease states and/or CVD risk factors related to
smoking, such as dyslipidaemia, vascular inflammation, endothelial dysfunction,
arterial stiffness, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), chronic 
kidney disease (CKD), and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) as well as
their complex interrelations. Smoking cessation can correct abnormalities related
to smoking; however, success rates are relatively low. In cases of inability to
quit, measures to minimize the adverse effects of smoking specifically related to
CVD should be taken. Smokers should receive best practice treatment, according to
guidelines, as for non-smokers.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2013.827566 
PMID: 23879722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1002. Crit Rev Oncog. 2013;18(5):391-407.

Iron and hepatic carcinogenesis.

Tirnitz-Parker JE(1), Glanfield A, Olynyk JK, Ramm GA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, Curtin University, Curtin Health Innovation
Research Institute, Perth, School of Medicine and Pharmacology, The University of
Western Australia, Fremantle Australia.

Iron is an essential co-factor for life; however, a physiologically optimal
balance is critical. Too much or too little iron can have detrimental effects on 
human health. In this article, we explore the relationships between iron and
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Iron can act as a modulating co-factor in a range
of chronic liver diseases and can accelerate the development of liver injury,
fibrosis, cirrhosis, and ultimately HCC. Iron can, however, also act as a sole
factor in the causation of liver cirrhosis and HCC in individuals with hereditary
hemochromatosis (HH). We overview the regulation of normal iron metabolism and
the role of iron in wound healing and associated cell types as well as in
pathophysiologies that predispose to HCC. We review how these injury processes
are inextricably linked, providing a mechanistic basis for understanding how iron
and hepatic injury potentially result in HCC.


PMID: 23879586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. Biomed Res Int. 2013;2013:601361. doi: 10.1155/2013/601361. Epub 2013 Jun 26.

Molecular functions of thyroid hormones and their clinical significance in
liver-related diseases.

Chi HC(1), Chen CY, Tsai MM, Tsai CY, Lin KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Chang-Gung University, Taoyuan
333, Taiwan.

Thyroid hormones (THs) are potent mediators of several physiological processes,
including embryonic development, cellular differentiation, metabolism, and cell
growth. Triiodothyronine (T3) is the most biologically active TH form. Thyroid
hormone receptors (TRs) belong to the nuclear receptor superfamily and mediate
the biological functions of T3 via transcriptional regulation. TRs generally form
heterodimers with the retinoid X receptor (RXR) and regulate target genes upon T3
stimulation. Research over the past few decades has revealed that disruption of
cellular TH signaling triggers chronic liver diseases, including alcoholic or
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Animal model
experiments and epidemiologic studies to date imply close associations between
high TH levels and prevention of liver disease. Moreover, several investigations 
spanning four decades have reported the therapeutic potential of T3 analogs in
lowering lipids, preventing chronic liver disease, and as anticancer agents.
Thus, elucidating downstream genes/signaling pathways and molecular mechanisms of
TH actions is critical for the treatment of significant public health issues.
Here, we have reviewed recent studies focusing on the roles of THs and TRs in
several disorders, in particular, liver diseases. We also discuss the potential
therapeutic applications of THs and underlying molecular mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/601361 
PMCID: PMC3708403
PMID: 23878812  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1004. Semin Cancer Biol. 2013 Dec;23(6 Pt B):483-91. doi:
10.1016/j.semcancer.2013.07.003. Epub 2013 Jul 19.

Obesity, insulin resistance, NASH and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Yu J(1), Shen J, Sun TT, Zhang X, Wong N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Digestive Disease, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong, China; Department of Medicine
and Therapeutics, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong, China. Electronic address:
junyu@cuhk.edu.hk.

Epidemiological and clinical data have clearly demonstrated that non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) predisposes risk to the development of hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC). NASH is the liver manifestation of metabolic syndrome, which
constellates obesity, insulin resistance and dyslipidemia. Although the
percentage of patients diagnosed annually with NASH-associated HCC is still
relatively low, this number signifies a large population due to the rapidly
increasing incidence of obesity and diabetes globally. Fundamental studies on
lipid storage, regulation of adipose factors, inflammatory cytokine recruitments 
and oxidative stress have provided insights into NASH as well as metabolic
syndrome. Recent evidence also indicates the significant role of genetic factors 
in contributing to the pathogenesis of NASH and induced hepatic malignancy. In
this review, we attempt to collate current research on NASH biology that lead to 
our understandings on how metabolic disorders may intersect with cancer
development. We also discuss study models that have supported discoveries of
molecular and cellular defects, and offered a perspective on therapeutic
developments. These studies have collectively increased our knowledge on the
complex signaling pathways involved in NASH and cancer, and provided the
foundation for improved clinical management of patients with metabolic diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2013.07.003 
PMID: 23876851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1005. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:105-11. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12033.

Family with sequence similarity 3 gene family and nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Yang J(1), Guan Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, Peking University Diabetes
Center, Beijing, China.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) comprises a disease spectrum ranging
from simple steatosis (fatty liver) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis to fibrosis 
and cirrhosis. NAFLD has become the leading cause of chronic liver diseases as
well as liver-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. NAFLD is also associated
with increased risk of cardiovascular diseases, hyperlipidemia, and type 2
diabetes. Insulin resistance in adipose tissues and the liver plays crucial roles
in the progression of NAFLD. The family with sequence similarity 3 (FAM3) gene
family is a cytokine-like gene family with four members designated FAM3A, FAM3B, 
FAM3C, and FAM3D, respectively. Increasing evidence suggests that the FAM3 gene
family members are involved in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. In particular, FAM3B,
also called pancreatic-derived factor, is an important regulator of glucose and
lipid metabolism. In obesity status, increased expression and secretion of FAM3B 
in pancreatic islets and liver may induce lipid accumulation in the liver via the
induction of hepatic insulin resistance and lipogenesis. FAM3A and FAM3D may also
participate in the regulation of lipid and energy metabolism. In this brief
review, we discussed the latest findings regarding the role of FAM3 gene family
members, in particular FAM3B, in the pathogenesis of NAFLD.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12033 
PMID: 23855304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1006. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:99-104. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12017.

Interaction of hepatic stellate cells with diverse types of immune cells: foe or 
friend?

Yi HS(1), Jeong WI.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Liver Research, Graduate School of Medical Science and
Engineering, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

Activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) have been considered as a major type of
cells in liver fibrosis by producing a huge amount of extracellular matrix,
especially collagen fibers, and profibrotic mediators such as transforming growth
factor-beta, interleukin-6 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. Recently,
accumulated evidence suggests that the liver is an immunologic organ because of
enrichment of diverse types of immune cells and that their interactions with HSCs
are closely related with the progression of liver fibrosis. However, the
underlying mechanisms of interaction between HSCs and immune cells remain largely
unknown. Recently, several studies have demonstrated that natural killer cells,
M2 macrophages, regulatory T cells, and bone marrow derived CD11b(+) Gr1(+)
immature cells ameliorate liver fibrosis, whereas neutrophils, M1 macrophages,
CD8 T cells, natural killer T cells and interleukin-17-producing cells accelerate
liver fibrosis. However, there are still controversial issues about their
functions during liver fibrogenesis. In this review, we summarize the diversity
roles of immune cells (e.g. profibrotic/antifibrotic or both) in regulating the
activation of HSCs during hepatic fibrogenesis, in which several producible
mediators by HSCs play important roles in the interaction with them. Moreover,
the current cell-based therapies using immune cells against liver fibrosis are
discussed.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12017 
PMID: 23855303  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1007. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:93-8. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12020.

Differences in innate immune signaling between alcoholic and non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis.

Petrasek J(1), Csak T, Ganz M, Szabo G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
Massachusetts 01605, USA.

The similar histopathological characteristics of alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH) 
and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and the crucial role of the innate
immune response in both conditions may lead to the assumption that ASH and NASH
represent the same pathophysiological entities caused by different risk factors. 
In this review paper, we elaborate on the pathophysiological differences between 
these two entities and highlight the disease-specific involvement of signaling
molecules downstream of the Toll-like receptor 4, and the differential mechanism 
by which the inflammasome contributes to ASH versus NASH. Our findings emphasize 
that ASH and NASH have disease-specific mechanisms and therefore represent
distinct biological entities. Further studies are needed to dissect the emerging 
differences in pathogenesis of these two conditions.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12020 
PMCID: PMC3721424
PMID: 23855302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1008. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:77-84. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12030.

Alcoholic liver disease: pathogenesis, management, and novel targets for therapy.

Orman ES(1), Odena G, Bataller R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
ramon_bataller@med.unc.edu

Alcohol use is a leading cause of preventable morbidity and mortality worldwide, 
with much of its negative impact as the result of alcoholic liver disease (ALD). 
ALD is a broad term that encompasses a spectrum of phenotypes ranging from simple
steatosis to steatohepatitis, progressive fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular
carcinoma. The mechanisms underlying the development of these different disease
stages are incompletely understood. Standard treatment of ALD, which includes
abstinence, nutritional support, and corticosteroids, has not changed in the last
40 years despite continued poor outcomes. Novel therapies are therefore urgently 
needed. The development of such therapies has been hindered by inadequate
resources for research and unsuitable animal models. However, recent developments
in translational research have allowed for identification of new potential
targets for therapy. These targets include: (i) CXC chemokines, (ii) IL-22/STAT3,
(iii) TNF receptor superfamily, (iv) osteopontin, (v) gut microbiota and
lipopolysaccharide (LPS), (vi) endocannabinoids, and (vii) inflammasomes. We
review the natural history, risk factors, pathogenesis, and current treatments
for ALD. We further discuss the findings of recent translational studies and
potential therapeutic targets.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12030 
PMCID: PMC4405238
PMID: 23855300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:68-76. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12212.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis: pathogenesis and novel therapeutic approaches.

Schuppan D(1), Schattenberg JM.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Translational Medicine, University Medical Center, Johannes
Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany. detlef.schuppan@unimedizin-mainz.de

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) refers to a disease spectrum, ranging
from mere hepatic steatosis to hepatic necroinflammation (NASH, non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis). NASH often leads to fibrosis, which can progress to cirrhosis
with a high risk of liver failure and hepatocellular carcinoma. The course of
NAFLD is highly variable, and only a minority of patients (2-3%) progress to
end-stage liver disease. However, due to a dramatic increase of the risk factors 
for NAFLD, that is obesity and insulin resistance/type 2 diabetes, that affect
15-30% and 7-15% of subjects, in most industrialized countries, respectively,
NAFLD has become the most frequent liver disease and is even considered a pace
setter of the metabolic syndrome. Sedentary lifestyle, modern Western nutrition, 
and genetic predispositions have been identified as major causes of NAFLD. These 
lead to liver injury via insulin resistance and an excess of free fatty acids in 
hepatocytes, resulting in oxidant stress and lipotoxicity that promote the
activation of intracellular stress kinases and apoptosis or necroapoptosis
(NASH). The damaged hepatocytes directly trigger inflammation and fibrogenesis,
but can also lead to the emergence of fibrogenic progenitor cells. Moreover, NASH
is linked to inflammation in peripheral adipose tissues that involves mainly
macrophages and humoral factors, such as adipokines and cytokines. The most
efficient treatment is by weight loss and exercise, but (adjunctive)
pharmacological strategies are urgently needed. Here, we highlight the aspects of
NAFLD epidemiology and pathophysiology that are beginning to lead to novel
pharmacological approaches to address this growing health-care challenge.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12212 
PMID: 23855299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1010. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:61-7. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12018.

Sterile inflammation in the liver and pancreas.

Hoque R(1), Farooq A, Mehal WZ.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Digestive Diseases, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, 
USA.

The ability of tissue injury to result in inflammation is a well-recognized
phenomenon and is central to a number of common liver and pancreatic diseases
including alcoholic steatohepatitis and pancreatitis, as well as drug-induced
liver injury, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, and pancreatitis from other causes. 
The requirements of extracellular damage-associated molecules and a cytosolic
machinery labeled the inflammasome have been established in in vitro culture
systems and in vivo disease models. This has provided a generic insight into the 
pathways involved, and the challenge now is to understand the specifics of these 
mechanisms in relation to the particular insults and organs involved. One reason 
for the excitement in this field is that a number of therapeutic candidates such 
a toll-like receptor antagonists and interleukin-1R antagonists are either
approved or in clinical trials for other indications.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12018 
PMCID: PMC4104307
PMID: 23855298  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1011. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:56-60. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12032.

Hepatoprotective and anti-fibrotic functions of interleukin-22: therapeutic
potential for the treatment of alcoholic liver disease.

Kong X(1), Feng D, Mathews S, Gao B.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Liver Diseases, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
xiaonikong@sjtu.edu.cn

Interleukin-22 (IL-22) plays a key role in promoting antimicrobial immunity and
tissue repair at barrier surfaces by binding to the receptors IL-22R1, which is
generally thought to be expressed exclusively in epithelial cells, and IL-10R2.
Our laboratory previously demonstrated that IL-22 plays an important role in
ameliorating liver injury in many rodent models by targeting hepatocytes that
express high levels of IL-22R1 and IL-10R2. Recently, we have identified high
expression levels of IL-22R1 and IL-10R2 in liver progenitor cells and hepatic
stellate cells (HSCs). Overexpression of IL-22 in vivo or treatment with IL-22 in
vitro promotes proliferation of liver progenitor cells via a signal transducer
and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3)-dependent mechanism. IL-22 treatment
also prevents HSC apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. Surprisingly, overexpression of
IL-22, via either gene targeting or exogenous administration of adenovirus
expressing IL-22, reduces liver fibrosis and accelerates the resolution of liver 
fibrosis during recovery. The anti-fibrotic effects of IL-22 are mediated via the
activation of STAT3 in HSCs and subsequent induction of suppressor of cytokine
signaling 3, which induces HSC senescence. Taken together, the hepatoprotective, 
mitogenic, and anti-fibrotic effects of IL-22 are beneficial in ameliorating
alcoholic liver injury. Importantly, due to the restricted expression of IL-22R1,
IL-22 therapy is expected to have few side effects, thus making IL-22 a potential
candidate for treatment of alcoholic liver disease.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12032 
PMCID: PMC3779467
PMID: 23855297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1012. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:49-55. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12016.

Vitamin D in liver diseases: from mechanisms to clinical trials.

Han YP(1), Kong M, Zheng S, Ren Y, Zhu L, Shi H, Duan Z.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Growth, Metabolism and Aging Research, College of Life
Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China. hanyp@scu.edu.cn

Traditionally regarded as a typical vitamin regulating calcium and phosphorus
homeostasis, vitamin D is now discovered as a highly versatile molecule with
emerging roles in immunity, cancer, infectious diseases, fibrosis, fatty liver
diseases, and alcoholic liver diseases. A large body of clinical evidence has
demonstrated the prevalence and risks of vitamin D deficiency in various chronic 
diseases. Biologically active vitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxylvitamin D3, is
synthesized in two distinct systems. In addition to the classic two-step
hydroxylation in the liver and kidneys, 1,25-dihydroxylvitamin D3 can also be
produced locally by immune cells in response to infection. The bioactive vitamin 
D generated in these two pools apparently functions differently: while the former
facilitates calcium adsorption and homeostasis, the latter confers immune
regulation. The immune regulatory functions of vitamin D are demonstrated by
induction of antimicrobial peptides, suppression of innate immune response,
induction of Th2 cytokines, and stimulation of T-regulatory T cells. Vitamin D
deficiency or insufficiency is overwhelmingly associated with viral hepatitis,
cirrhosis, and fatty liver diseases. Recent clinical trials have shown that
vitamin D supplements significantly enhance the efficacy of interferon plus
ribavirin therapy through sustained virological response. A recent study showed
that 25-dihydroxyvitamin D rather than 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D could directly
suppress hepatitis C virus assembly. Moreover, clinical evidence has shown that
vitamin D deficiency is associated with alcoholic and non-alcoholic fatty liver
diseases. In this review, we highlight some recent advances in vitamin D
researches and clinical trails.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12016 
PMID: 23855296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1013. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:38-42. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12019.

Toll-like receptors in alcoholic liver disease, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and
carcinogenesis.

Roh YS(1), Seki E.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of
California, San Diego, School of Medicine, La Jolla, California 92093-0702, USA.

Activation of innate immune systems including Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling 
is a key in chronic liver disease. Recent studies suggest that gut
microflora-derived bacterial products (i.e. lipopolysaccharide [LPS], bacterial
DNA) and endogenous substances (i.e. high-mobility group protein B1 [HMGB1], free
fatty acids) released from damaged cells activate hepatic TLRs that contribute to
the development of alcoholic (ASH) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and
liver fibrosis. The crucial role of TLR4, a receptor for LPS, has been implicated
in the development of ASH, NASH, liver fibrosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma.
However, the role of other TLRs, such as TLR2 and TLR9 in chronic liver disease
remains less clear. In this review, we will discuss the role of TLR2, 4, and 9 in
Kupffer cells and hepatic stellate cells in the development of ASH, NASH, and
hepatocarcinogenesis.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12019 
PMCID: PMC3721430
PMID: 23855294  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1014. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:33-7. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12031.

Retinoids and their target genes in liver functions and diseases.

Shiota G(1), Kanki K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Genetic Medicine, Department of Genetic Medicine and
Regenerative Therapeutics, Graduate School of Medicine, Tottori University,
Yonago, Japan. gshiota@med.tottori-u.ac.jp

Retinoids have been reported to prevent several kinds of cancers, including
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Retinoic acid (RA) coupled with retinoic acid
receptor/retinoid X receptor heterodimer exerts its functions by regulating its
target genes. We previously reported that transgenic mice, in which RA signaling 
is suppressed in a hepatocyte-specific manner, developed liver cancer at a high
rate, and that disruption of RA functions led to the increased oxidative stress
via aberrant metabolisms of lipid and iron, indicating that retinoids play an
important role in liver pathophysiology. These data suggest that exploring the
metabolism of retinoids in liver diseases and their target genes provides us with
useful information to understand the liver functions and diseases. Consequently, 
the altered metabolism of retinoids was observed in liver diseases, including
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. In this review, we summarize the metabolism of
retinoids in the liver, highlight the functions of retinoids in HCC,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and alcoholic liver disease, and discuss the
target genes of RA. Investigation of retinoids in the liver will likely help us
identify novel therapies and diagnostic modalities for HCC.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12031 
PMID: 23855293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1015. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:26-32. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12022.

Vascular biology of the biliary epithelium.

Morell CM(1), Fabris L, Strazzabosco M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery and Interdisciplinary Medicine, University of
Milano-Bicocca, Milan, Italy.

Cholangiocytes are involved in a variety of processes essential for liver
pathophysiology. To meet their demanding metabolic and functional needs, bile
ducts are nourished by their own arterial supply, the peribiliary plexus. This
capillary network originates from the hepatic artery and is strictly arranged
around the intrahepatic bile ducts. Biliary and vascular structures are linked by
a close anatomic and functional association necessary for liver development,
normal organ physiology, and liver repair. This strong association is finely
regulated by a range of angiogenic signals, enabling the cross talk between
cholangiocytes and the different vascular cell types. This review will briefly
illustrate the "vascular" properties of cholangiocytes, their underlying
molecular mechanisms and the relevant pathophysiological settings.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12022 
PMCID: PMC3721432
PMID: 23855292  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1016. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:18-25. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12207.

Bermuda Triangle for the liver: alcohol, obesity, and viral hepatitis.

Zakhari S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Metabolism and Health Effects, NIAAA, NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA.
szakhari@mail.nih.gov

Despite major progress in understanding and managing liver disease in the past 30
years, it is now among the top 10 most common causes of death globally. Several
risk factors, such as genetics, diabetes, obesity, excessive alcohol consumption,
viral infection, gender, immune dysfunction, and medications, acting individually
or in concert, are known to precipitate liver damage. Viral hepatitis, excessive 
alcohol consumption, and obesity are the major factors causing liver injury.
Estimated numbers of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected
subjects worldwide are staggering (370 and 175 million, respectively), and of the
40 million known human immunodeficiency virus positive subjects, 4 and 5 million 
are coinfected with HBV and HCV, respectively. Alcohol and HCV are the leading
causes of end-stage liver disease worldwide and the most common indication for
liver transplantation in the United States and Europe. In addition, the global
obesity epidemic that affects up to 40 million Americans, and 396 million
worldwide, is accompanied by an alarming incidence of end-stage liver disease, a 
condition exacerbated by alcohol. This article focuses on the interactions
between alcohol, viral hepatitis, and obesity (euphemistically described here as 
the Bermuda Triangle of liver disease), and discusses common mechanisms and
synergy.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12207 
PMID: 23855291  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1017. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:11-7. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12036.

Epidemiology of alcoholic and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in China.

Fan JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Children's
Digestion and Nutrition, Xin-Hua Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao-Tong
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. fanjiangao@gmail.com

The prevalence of patients presenting with fatty liver disease (FLD) in China has
approximately doubled over the past two decades. At present, FLD, which is
typically diagnosed by imaging, is highly prevalent (≈ 27% urban population) in
China and is mainly related to obesity and metabolic syndrome (MetS). However,
the percentage of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) among patients with chronic liver
diseases in clinic is increasing as well, and a synergetic effect exists between 
heavy alcohol drinking and obesity in ALD. Prevalence figures reveal regional
variations, with a median prevalence of ALD and nonalcoholic FLD (NAFLD) of 4.5% 
and 15.0%, respectively. The prevalence of NAFLD in children is 2.1%, although
the prevalence increases to 68.2% among obese children. With the increasing
pandemic of obesity and MetS in the general population, China is likely to harbor
an increasing reservoir of patients with FLD. The risk factors for FLD resemble
to those of Caucasian counterparts, but the ethnic-specific definitions of
obesity and MetS are more useful in assessment of Chinese people. Therefore,
FLD/NAFLD has become a most common chronic liver disease in China. Public health 
interventions are needed to halt the worldwide trend of obesity and alcohol abuse
to ameliorate liver injury and to improve metabolic health.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12036 
PMID: 23855290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1018. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Aug;28 Suppl 1:4-6. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12246.

Alcoholic liver disease and pancreatitis: global health problems being addressed 
by the US National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.

Warren KR(1), Murray MM.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. kwarren@willco.niaaa.nih.gov

The review article summarizes the mission of the National Institute on Alcohol
Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) with focus on the NIAAA's current and future
research version for alcoholic liver disease and alcoholic pancreatitis.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12246 
PMID: 23855288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1019. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2013 Sep;16(5):576-81. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0b013e32836410a4.

The gut-liver axis.

Visschers RG(1), Luyer MD, Schaap FG, Olde Damink SW, Soeters PB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Orbis Medical Centre, Sittard, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The liver adaptively responds to extra-intestinal and
intestinal inflammation. In recent years, the role of the autonomic nervous
system, intestinal failure and gut microbiota has been investigated in the
development of hepatic, intestinal and extra-intestinal disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: The autonomic nervous system can be stimulated via enteral fat
leading to cholecystokinin release, stimulating receptors in the gut and in the
brain. This promotes bowel integrity, dampening the inflammatory response to food
antigens. Consensus exists that intravenously administered long-chain fatty acids
can cause liver damage but randomized-controlled trials are lacking. Disruption
of the enterohepatic circulation of bile salts can give rise to cholestasis and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, which may progress to fibrosis and cirrhosis.
Reduced intestinal availability of bile salts reduces stimulation of the
farnesoid X receptor. This may induce hepatic bile salt overload and associated
hepatotoxicity through reduced action of intestinal fibroblast growth factor 19. 
Evidence is put forward to suggest that the intestinal microbiota is associated
with liver abnormalities.
SUMMARY: Enteral lipids reduce inflammation and liver damage during stress or
systemic inflammation, whereas parenteral lipid is associated with liver damage. 
Maintaining the enterohepatic circulation of bile salts limits hepatic
cholestasis through an farnesoid X receptor feedback pathway. Changes in gut
microbiota composition may induce liver disease.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e32836410a4 
PMID: 23873346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1020. Free Radic Biol Med. 2013 Sep;64:31-9. doi: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.07.014. 
Epub 2013 Jul 17.

MicroRNA modulation of lipid metabolism and oxidative stress in cardiometabolic
diseases.

Aranda JF(1), Madrigal-Matute J, Rotllan N, Fernández-Hernando C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Department of Cell Biology, Leon H. Charney
Division of Cardiology and Marc and Ruti Bell Vascular Biology and Disease
Program, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY 10016, USA.

The regulation of the metabolism of cholesterol has been one of the most studied 
biological processes since its first isolation from gallstones in 1784. High
levels of plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and reduced levels of 
plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol are widely recognized as major 
risk factors of cardiovascular disease. An imbalance in the production of
reactive oxygen species can oxidize LDL particles, increasing the levels of the
highly proatherogenic oxidized LDL. Furthermore, under pathological scenarios,
numerous molecules can function as pro-oxidants, such as iron or (high levels of)
glucose. In addition to the classical mechanisms regulating lipid homeostasis,
recent studies have demonstrated the important role of microRNAs (miRNAs) as
regulators of lipoprotein metabolism, oxidative derivatives of lipoprotein, and
redox balance. Here, we summarize recent findings in the field, highlighting the 
contributions of some miRNAs to lipid- and oxidative-associated pathologies. We
also discuss how therapeutic intervention of miRNAs may be a promising strategy
to decrease LDL, increase HDL, and ameliorate lipid- and oxidative-related
disorders, including atherosclerosis, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and
metabolic syndrome.

© 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.07.014 
PMCID: PMC4145589
PMID: 23871755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1021. J Pak Med Assoc. 2013 Jan;63(1):95-9.

Are we ready for a new epidemic of under recognized liver disease in South Asia
especially in Pakistan? Non alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Parkash O(1), Hamid S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Aga Khan University, Karachi.
om.parkash@aku.edu

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is increasingly recognized as an
important public health problem nowadays. NAFLD encompass a variety of liver
pathologies including simple steatosis, NASH, fibrosis, cirrhosis and finally
cancer. It is associated with obesity, metabolic syndrome, dyslipidaemia, Insulin
resistance (IR) and type 2 diabetes. It is the most common chronic liver disease 
in USA and considered to be increasing in Asia Pacific region including South
Asia however there is no community based study from Pakistan. Customarily NAFLD
had been regarded as a benign disease; however clinical as well as
epidemiological studies had contradicted this belief because approximately 20% of
the patients with NAFLD had NASH which has propensity to develop cirrhosis and
ultimately to HCC. The diagnosis of NAFLD is made most of the times incidentally 
on abdominal imaging which is done for other purposes. Despite its prevalence,
treatment options are very limited. However modification of risk factors such as 
dyslipidemia, diabetes control and weight reduction does help in NAFLD. Fatty
liver results due to lack of physical activity; hence foremost step to manage
such patients would be to develop the healthy life style. We need population
based studies in our country so that we can protect our population from a new
epidemic.


PMID: 23865141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1022. Annu Rev Nutr. 2013;33:231-48. doi: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071812-161230.

Omega-3 fatty acids, hepatic lipid metabolism, and nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Scorletti E(1), Byrne CD.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition and Metabolism, Human Development and Health Academic Unit,
University of Southampton and National Institute for Health Research Southampton 
Biomedical Research Center, Southampton University Hospitals National Health
Service Trust, Southampton General Hospital, Southampton SO16 6YD, United
Kingdom.

Long-chain omega-3 fatty acids belong to a family of polyunsaturated fatty acids 
that are known to have important beneficial effects on metabolism and
inflammation. Such effects may confer a benefit in specific chronic
noncommunicable diseases that are becoming very prevalent in Westernized
societies [e.g., nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)]. Typically, with a
Westernized diet, long-chain omega-6 fatty acid consumption is markedly greater
than omega-3 fatty acid consumption. The potential consequences of an alteration 
in the ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acid consumption are increased
production of proinflammatory arachidonic acid-derived eicosanoids and impaired
regulation of hepatic and adipose function, predisposing to NAFLD. NAFLD
represents a spectrum of liver fat-related conditions that originates with
ectopic fat accumulation in liver (hepatic steatosis) and progresses, with the
development of hepatic inflammation and fibrosis, to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH). If the adipose tissue is inflamed with widespread macrophage
infiltration, the production of adipokines may act to exacerbate liver
inflammation and NASH. Omega-3 fatty acid treatment may have beneficial effects
in regulating hepatic lipid metabolism, adipose tissue function, and
inflammation. Recent studies testing the effects of omega-3 fatty acids in NAFLD 
are showing promise and suggesting that these fatty acids may be useful in the
treatment of NAFLD. To date, further research is needed in NAFLD to (a) establish
the dose of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids as a treatment, (b) determine the
duration of therapy, and (c) test whether there is benefit on the different
component features of NAFLD (hepatic fat, inflammation, and fibrosis).

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071812-161230 
PMID: 23862644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1023. Radiol Technol. 2013 Jul-Aug;84(6):577-92; quiz 593-5.

Alcoholic liver disease.

Penny SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Johnston Community College, Smithfield, North Carolina, USA.

In the United States, approximately 100,000 deaths are attributed to alcohol
abuse each year. In 2009, the World Health Organization listed alcohol use as one
of the leading causes of the global burden of disease and injury. Alcoholic liver
disease, a direct result of chronic alcohol abuse, insidiously destroys the
normal functions of the liver. The end result of the disease, cirrhosis,
culminates in a dysfunctional and diffusely scarred liver. This article discusses
the clinical manifestations, imaging considerations, and treatment of alcoholic
liver disease and cirrhosis. Normal liver function, liver hemodynamics, the
disease of alcoholism, and the deleterious effects of alcohol also are reviewed.


PMID: 23861518  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1024. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2013 Aug;38(8):805-12. doi: 10.1139/apnm-2012-0503. Epub
2013 Apr 29.

Role of physical activity in the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in
children and adolescents.

Deldin AR(1), Lee S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health and Physical Activity, School of Education, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15224, USA.

Currently, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most frequent liver
abnormality observed in obese children and adolescents. A strong body of evidence
suggests that increased liver fat is significantly associated with visceral
adiposity, metabolic syndrome, and insulin resistance in obese children and
adolescents. Diet and exercise are generally recommended to treat obese youth
with NAFLD as they do not carry side effects and confer multiple cardiometabolic 
benefits. Studies in adult populations report a beneficial effect of regular
physical activity on reducing liver fat. In children and adolescents, available
data show that weight loss induced by increasing physical activity and calorie
restriction is beneficial to reduce liver fat and associated health risk factors 
such as insulin resistance and dyslipidemia. Currently, evidence regarding the
independent effects of regular exercise alone (e.g., without calorie restriction)
on NAFLD are unclear. Additionally, there is no data regarding the optimal
exercise regimen (e.g., type, dose, intensity) that should be prescribed for
reducing NAFLD in children and adolescents. The purpose of this review is to
examine the role of physical activity on NAFLD in children and adolescents.

DOI: 10.1139/apnm-2012-0503 
PMID: 23855267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1025. Orv Hetil. 2013 Jul 21;154(29):1124-34. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29626.

[Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and steatohepatitis].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Pár G(1), Horváth G, Pár A.

Author information: 
(1)Pécsi Tudományegyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar Klinikai Központ, I.
Belgyógyászati Klinika Pécs Rákóczi u. pargabriella@gmail.com

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, the hepatic 
manifestations of metabolic syndrome with close association with inzulin
resistance and obesity, are the most common liver diseases, affecting up to a
third of the population worldwide. They confer increased risk for hepatocellular 
carcinoma as well as cardiovascular diseases. The review aims to summarize
advances in epidemiology, pathogenesis and clinical management of non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Besides liver biopsy and
biomarkers, a novel non-invasive diagnostic tool the called "controlled
attenuation parameter" measuring the attenuation of ultrasound generated by the
transient elastography transducer, can quantitatively assess the hepatic fat
content and differentiate between steatosis grades. At the same time, liver
stiffness (fibrosis) can also be evaluated. The authors present their own results
obtained with the latter procedure. In non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, the
lifestyle intervention, weight loss, diet and exercise supported by cognitive
behavioural therapy represent the basis of management. Components of metabolic
syndrome (obesity, dyslipidaemia, diabetes and arterial hypertension) have to be 
treated. Although there is no approved pharmacological therapy for NASH, it seems
that long lasting administration of vitamin E in association with high dose
ursodeoxycholic acid may be beneficial. In addition, omega-3 polyunsaturated
fatty acid substitution can also decrease liver fat, however, the optimal dose is
not known yet. Further controlled clinical studies are warranted to establish the
real value of any suggested treatment modalities for non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, although these are in experimental
phase yet.

Publisher: A nem alkoholos zsírmáj és steatohepatitis a metabolikus szindróma
májmanifesztációi, szoros kapcsolatban az inzulinrezisztenciával és elhízással. A
leggyakoribb májbetegségek világszerte a populáció közel egyharmadát érintik. A
cirrhosis és májrák, valamint a cardiovascularis betegség fokozott kockázatát
jelentik. A dolgozat áttekintést ad e kórképek epidemiológiája, patogenezise és
klinikuma terén elért haladásról. A májbiopszia és biomarkerek mellett ismertet
egy új noninvazív diagnosztikai eljárást. Az úgynevezett „controlled attenuation 
parameter” a máj zsírtartalmának ultrahanggyengítő hatásán alapul, alkalmas a
steatosis kvantitatív meghatározására, a steatosis súlyossági fokozatainak
elkülönítésére. Ezzel egyidejűleg a fibrosist tükröző májtömöttség (liver
stiffness) vizsgálata is megtörténik az elasztográfiás módszerrel. (A szerzőknek 
az eljárásra javasolt elnevezése ezért: „tranziens elasztoszteatográfia”). A két 
kórkép kezelésének alapja az életmód-változtatás, testsúlycsökkentés, diéta,
fizikai aktivás, támogatva kognitív viselkedésterápiával. Mindenekelőtt a
metabolikus szindróma tényezői, az elhízás, diabetes, hypertonia és dyslipidaemia
kezelendők. A nem alkoholos steatohepatitisnek nincs specifikus, elfogadott
gyógyszeres terápiája, úgy látszik, hogy a tartós E-vitamin-adás nagy dózis
urzodeoxikólsavval kombinálva hasznos lehet. Ezenkívül az ómega-3 többszörösen
telítetlen zsírsav is csökkentheti a steatosist, de ennek optimális dózisát még
nem határozták meg. További kontrollált klinikai vizsgálatok szükségesek a
jelenleg még experimentálisnak tekinthető kezelésmódok valódi értékének
megállapítására. Orv. Hetil., 2013, 154, 1124–1134.
DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29626 
PMID: 23853345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1026. Eur Heart J. 2013 Sep;34(36):2804-11. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/eht246. Epub 2013
Jul 12.

Interactions of the heart and the liver.

Møller S(1), Bernardi M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Functional and Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Department of
Clinical Physiology and Nuclear Medicine, Hvidovre Hospital, The Faculty of
Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

There is a mutual interaction between the function of the heart and the liver and
a broad spectrum of acute and chronic entities that affect both the heart and the
liver. These can be classified into heart diseases affecting the liver, liver
diseases affecting the heart, and conditions affecting the heart and the liver at
the same time. In chronic and acute cardiac hepatopathy, owing to cardiac
failure, a combination of reduced arterial perfusion and passive congestion leads
to cardiac cirrhosis and cardiogenic hypoxic hepatitis. These conditions may
impair the liver function and treatment should be directed towards the primary
heart disease and seek to secure perfusion of vital organs. In patients with
advanced cirrhosis, physical and/or pharmacological stress may reveal a reduced
cardiac performance with systolic and diastolic dysfunction and electrophysical
abnormalities termed cirrhotic cardiomyopathy. Electrophysiological abnormalities
include prolonged QT interval, chronotropic incompetance, and electromechanical
uncoupling. No specific therapy can be recommended, but it should be supportive
and directed against the heart failure. Numerous conditions affect both the heart
and the liver such as infections, inflammatory and systemic diseases, and chronic
alcoholism. The risk and prevalence of coronary artery disease are increasing in 
cirrhotic patients and since the perioperative mortality is high, a careful
cardiac evaluation of such patients is required prior to orthotopic liver
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/eht246 
PMID: 23853073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1027. Expert Opin Emerg Drugs. 2013 Sep;18(3):279-90. doi:
10.1517/14728214.2013.811232. Epub 2013 Jul 13.

Emerging drugs for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Tomeno W(1), Yoneda M, Imajo K, Ogawa Y, Kessoku T, Saito S, Eguchi Y, Nakajima
A.

Author information: 
(1)Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine, Division of
Gastroenterology, 3-9 Fuku-ura, Yokohama, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is increasing along with the worldwide
epidemic of obesity and their strong association with metabolic syndrome.
Currently existing pharmacological therapies include anti-oxidants,
insulin-sensitizing agents, lipid-lowering drugs and cytoprotective agents, but
there is a lack of consensus regarding the most effective and appropriate
pharmacologic therapies for NASH. Clinical trials examining new therapeutic drugs
for NASH that act via various mechanisms are being performed in several
countries, and these drugs may strongly influence current NASH treatment.
AREAS COVERED: This article provides a review of recent data on the safety and
efficacy of existing and emerging agents for the treatment of NASH.
EXPERT OPINION: Ideally, treatment for NASH should not only improve liver
disease, but also reduce the risks of adverse cardiovascular outcomes and the
development of diabetes and cancers. However, this goal is likely to be too high 
in the context of clinical trials designed to obtain approval for the treatment
of liver disease. The only way to achieve the goal is to accumulate the results
of these relatively short-term clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1517/14728214.2013.811232 
PMID: 23848366  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1028. Curr Diabetes Rev. 2013 Sep;9(5):382-6.

The influence of diabetes in the pathogenesis and the clinical course of
hepatocellular carcinoma: recent findings and new perspectives.

Facciorusso A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Gastroenterology, Department of Medical Sciences, University of
Foggia, AOU Ospedali Riuniti, Viale Pintom, 71100 Foggia, Italy.
antonio.facciorusso@virgilio.it

Up to 50% of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have the so-called
"cryptogenic cirrhosis." Most of them are affected by at least one of the
condition characterizing the metabolic syndrome, as obesity or diabetes. Recent
observations found that type-2 diabetes mellitus (DM) confers a three-fold risk
of HCC. Main molecular feature of the conditions of metabolic syndrome is insulin
resistance, i.e. the reduced sensitivity to insulin action and, as consequence,
increased secretion of this hormone. Insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia
influence hepatocarcinogenesis via several molecular pathways, such as
phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN)/P13K/Akt and MAPK kinase (MAPKK). Diabetes 
also seems to influence negatively the prognosis and the clinical course of HCC
patients, independently from the cause of the underlying cirrhosis. It's well
known that insulin-sensitizing drugs may reduce the incidence of HCC. Metformin
activates 5-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), that has
growth inhibition effects on human cancer cell lines via inhibition of its
downstream target mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), and decreases the
expression of Livin, a protein involved in both cell proliferation and
survivalexpressed at high level in neoplastic cell. Also thiazolidinediones seem 
to prevent tumor formation in the liver via the inhibition of peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor gamma-independent regulation of nucleophosmin.
More debated is the role of sulfonylureas in decreasing HCC incidence in diabetic
patients. Further investigations are needed to define reliable indications to
therapy and surveillance in patients with diabetes or insulin resistance.


PMID: 23845075  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1029. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(14):2377-86.

Pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF) and cardiometabolic disorders.

Yamagishi S, Matsui T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathophysiology and Therapeutics of Diabetic Vascular
Complications, Kurume University School of Medicine, Kurume 830-0011, Japan.
shoichi@med.kurume-u.ac.jp.

The metabolic syndrome is strongly associated with insulin resistance and
visceral obesity and consists of a constellation of factors such as diabetes,
hypertension, dyslipidemia and non-alcoholic steatohepatits, which could in
concert increase the risk for cardiovascular diseases (CVD). CVD, including
myocardial infarction and stroke, is one of the leading causes of morbidity and
mortality in the developed countries. Atherothrombosis, characterized by
atherosclerotic plaque disruption and subsequent thrombus formation, contributes 
to the pathogenesis of CVD. Although therapeutic strategy for CVD has been
progressed with anti-platelet and anti-thrombotic therapy, statins, and
inhibitors of renin-angiotensin system, current therapeutic options may have
therapeutic limitations because a substantial number of patients still experience
CVD. Therefore, to develop novel therapeutic strategies that specifically target 
CVD is intensely desired. We and the others, have recently found that pigment
epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), one of the serpins with neuronal
differentiative activity, has insulin-sensitizing actions in the liver and
adipose tissues, and exerts anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombogenic and
vasculoprotective properties in vivo, thereby playing a protective role against
the development and progression of the metabolic syndrome and CVD. In addition,
serum levels of PEDF have been shown to increase in patients with visceral
obesity, insulin resistance, diabetes, chronic kidney disease and CVD, thus being
a novel biomarker of various cardiometabolic disorders. This paper discusses not 
only the role of PEDF, but also the clinical utility of measuring its levels in
patients with various cardiometabolic disorders.


PMID: 23844817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1030. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(14):2403-11.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiovascular disease.

Hyogo H, Chayama K, Yamagishi S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Molecular Science, Graduate School of Biomedical
Sciences, Hiroshima University, 1-2-3, Kasumi, Minami-ku, Hiroshima 734-8551,
Japan. hidehyogo@ae.auone-net.jp.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is among the most common causes of
chronic liver disease in the westernized world and now represents a worldwide
public health problem. NAFLD encompasses a broad spectrum of conditions, ranging 
from simple steatosis (nonalcoholic fatty liver) to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis 
(NASH). The latter is recognized as a potentially progressive disease that could 
lead to cirrhosis, liver failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma. The recent rise
in obesity likely explains the NAFLD epidemic worldwide. Recognition of the
importance of NAFLD and its strong association with metabolic syndrome has
stimulated interest in its putative role in the development of cardiovascular
disease (CVD). Recently, accumulating evidence suggests that NAFLD is associated 
with a significant greater overall mortality, as well as with increased
prevalence of CVD, both of which are independent of classical atherosclerotic
risk factors. Furthermore, observation studies of natural history of NAFLD have
shown that increased age-related mortality of NAFLD patients is attributable to
CVD and liver-related diseases such as liver failure and hepatocellular
carcinoma. In this paper, we review clinical data to support a strong association
between NAFLD and CVD, and discuss possible underlying mechanisms for accelerated
atherosclerosis in NAFLD.


PMID: 23844815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1031. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2013 Aug;45(1):143-8. doi: 10.1007/s12016-013-8383-x.

Autoimmune features in metabolic liver disease: a single-center experience and
review of the literature.

Tsuneyama K(1), Baba H, Kikuchi K, Nishida T, Nomoto K, Hayashi S, Miwa S,
Nakajima T, Nakanishi Y, Masuda S, Terada M, Imura J, Selmi C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Graduate School of Medical and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Toyama, Toyama, 930-0194, Japan.
ktsune@med.u-toyama.ac.jp

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is the progressive phenotype of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease associated with the metabolic syndrome. The
existence of autoimmune features in NASH has been reported, but its significance 
remains unclear. We herein report the autoantibody profile of 54 patients with
histologically proven NASH and further determined the development of autoimmunity
in three different murine NASH models (monosodium glutamate, CDAA
(choline-deficient L-amino acid-defined), and TSOD (Tsumura Suzuki, Obese
Diabetes)) at 48 weeks of age. Forty-eight percent (26/54) of NASH cases were
positive for antinuclear (ANA) or antimitochondrial antibody and manifested
histological signs of overlap with autoimmune hepatitis and primary biliary
cirrhosis, respectively. These patients were significantly older (60 ± 10 versus 
50 ± 16 years), more frequently women (81 % versus 43 %), and with more severe
portal inflammatory infiltrate compared with patients without autoimmunity. In
one third of mice, regardless of the model, we observed a marked lymphoid
infiltrate with non-suppurative cholangitis, and several cases were ANA-positive,
but none AMA-positive. Our data suggest that autoimmunity may share some
pathogenetic traits with the chronic inflammation of NASH, possibly related to
advanced age.

DOI: 10.1007/s12016-013-8383-x 
PMID: 23842720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2014 Jan;164(1-2):3-8. doi: 10.1007/s10354-013-0221-5. Epub 
2013 Jul 11.

[Management of severe alcoholic hepatitis].

[Article in German]

Wieser V(1), Tilg H.

Author information: 
(1)Univ.-Klinik für Innere Medizin I, Endokrinologie, Gastroenterologie &
Stoffwechsel, Medizinische Universität, Anichstrasse 35, 6020, Innsbruck,
Austria, Verena.Wieser@i-med.ac.at.

Severe alcoholic hepatitis is still associated with high mortality and presence
of liver failure manifested by jaundice, coagulopathy and encephalopathy is a
poor prognostic indicator. The management of these patients includes at first
hand several supportive measures as treatment of alcohol withdrawal,
administration of fluid and vitamins and admission to an intensive care unit in
the unstable patient. Glucocorticoids have been since decades the most
intensively studied therapy in alcoholic hepatitis and are effective in certain
subgroups. Indication for such a therapy is usually defined on a Maddrey
Discriminant Function > 32. The Lille score at day 7 is used to decide whether
corticosteroid therapy should be stopped or continued for a 1 month course.
Nutritional supplementation is also likely to be beneficial. The main progress in
better understanding its pathophysiology has come from cytokine studies. Various 
proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) or
interleukin-1 (IL-1) have been proposed to play a role in this disease. This
advancement has recently led to pilot studies investigating anti-TNF drugs such
as pentoxifylline, infliximab (anti-TNF antibody) or etanercept in the treatment 
of this disease. These studies revealed besides for pentoxifylline rather
negative results. Despite this fact, targeting of certain cytokines such as IL-1 
remains an attractive treatment concept for this devastating disorder in the
future.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-013-0221-5 
PMID: 23842647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Jul 7;19(25):3951-6. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i25.3951.

Exposure to ambient air particulate matter and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Tarantino G(1), Capone D, Finelli C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, Federico II University Medical
School of Naples, 80131 Naples, Italy. tarantin@unina.it

The present study was designed to alert the public opinion and policy makers on
the supposed enhancing effects of exposure to ambient air particulate matter with
aerodynamic diameters < 2.5 mm (PM2.5) on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD), the most common chronic liver disease in Western countries. For far too 
long literature data have been fixated on pulmonary diseases and/or
cardiovascular disease, as consequence of particulate exposure, ignoring the link
between the explosion of obesity with related syndromes such as NAFLD and air
pollution, the worst characteristics of nowadays civilization. In order to
delineate a clear picture of this major health problem, further studies should
investigate whether and at what extent cigarette smoking and exposure to ambient 
air PM2.5 impact the natural history of patients with obesity-related NAFLD,
i.e., development of non alcoholic steatohepatitis, disease characterized by a
worse prognosis due its progression towards fibrosis and hepatocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i25.3951 
PMCID: PMC3703181
PMID: 23840139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1034. Clin Obstet Gynecol. 2013 Sep;56(3):577-90. doi: 10.1097/GRF.0b013e3182a09760.

Developmental programming of pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease:
redefining the"first hit".

Stewart MS(1), Heerwagen MJ, Friedman JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, University of Colorado
School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, USA.

The incidence of pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease has increased
dramatically, and growing evidence indicates that the pathophysiology may be
unique from the adult form, suggesting a role for early-life events. Recent
radiologic techniques have now demonstrated that maternal obesity contributes to 
hepatic fat storage in newborn infants. In this review, we will explore how
maternal obesity and a hyperlipidemic environment can initiate liver
histopathogenesis in utero, including steatosis, mitochondrial dysfunction,
oxidative stress, and inflammatory priming. Thus, early exposure to excess lipids
may represent the "first hit" for the fetal liver, placing it on a trajectory
toward future metabolic disease.

DOI: 10.1097/GRF.0b013e3182a09760 
PMCID: PMC3763993
PMID: 23835912  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1035. J Endocrinol. 2013 Aug 28;218(3):R25-36. doi: 10.1530/JOE-13-0201. Print 2013
Sep.

Inflammation as a potential link between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and
insulin resistance.

Asrih M(1), Jornayvaz FR.

Author information: 
(1)Service of Endocrinology, Diabetes, Hypertension and Nutrition, Geneva
University Hospital, Rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, 1211 Genève 14, Switzerland.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become a major health problem in
developed countries. It has affected more than 30% of the general population and 
is commonly associated with insulin resistance, which is a major risk factor for 
the development of type 2 diabetes and a central feature of the metabolic
syndrome. Furthermore, accumulating evidences reveal that NAFLD as well as
insulin resistance is strongly related to inflammation. Cytokines and adipokines 
play a pivotal role in inflammatory processes. In addition, these inflammatory
mediators regulate various functions including metabolic energy balance,
inflammation, and immune response. However, their role in modulating ectopic
lipids involved in the development of insulin resistance, such as diacylglycerols
and ceramides, remains unknown. The aim of this review is first to describe the
pathophysiology of insulin resistance in NAFLD. In particular, we discuss the
role of ectopic lipid accumulation in the liver. Secondly, we also summarize
recent findings emphasizing the role of main inflammatory markers in both NAFLD
and insulin resistance and their potential role in modulating hepatic fat content
in NAFLD and associated hepatic insulin resistance.

DOI: 10.1530/JOE-13-0201 
PMID: 23833274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1036. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol. 2013 Jun;59(2):117-31.

Liver transplantation in 2013: challenges and controversies.

Jones PD(1), Hayashi PH, Barritt AS 4th.

Author information: 
(1)UNC Liver Center, Department of Medicine University of North CarolinaChapel
Hill, NC, USA - barritt@med.unc.edu.

Liver transplantation has changed over the past 50 years from an experimental
surgery to a life saving intervention that is the treatment of choice for
selected patients with end stage liver disease. Since Starzl attempted the first 
liver transplant in 1963, the procedure has evolved into one that occurs over
12000 times a year worldwide and has one year survival rates approaching 90% and 
five year survival rates above 70%. With the success of liver transplantation,
challenges and controversies have arisen as well. The aim of this review is to
discuss the epidemiology of liver transplantation and highlight those challenges 
and controversies that exist. Current controversies include appropriate selection
of recipients and equitable prioritization for allograft distribution. Future
challenges include a decrement in donor quality and availability and an ageing
medically complex patient and donor population. Addressing these challenges and
controversies will dominate transplantation research for the foreseeable future.


PMID: 23831904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1037. Saudi J Gastroenterol. 2013 Jul-Aug;19(4):144-51. doi: 10.4103/1319-3767.114505.

The role of endocannabinoids system in fatty liver disease and therapeutic
potentials.

Alswat KA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Liver Disease Research Center, College of Medicine,
King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. kalswat@ksu.edu.sa

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a major cause of liver morbidity and
mortality with no proven effective therapy as of yet. Its prevalence is
increasing globally in parallel with obesity and metabolic syndrome pandemic. The
endocannabinoid (EC) system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several
diseases, including fatty liver diseases. This system refers to the cannabinoid
receptors type 1 (CB1) and type 2 (CB2), with both their endogenous ligands and
machinery dedicated to EC synthesis and degradation. There is accumulating
evidence on the role CB1 as a key mediator of insulin resistance and liver
lipogenesis in both animals and humans. On the other hand, CB2 receptors have
been shown to promote inflammation with anti-fibrogenic properties. The
pharmacological modulation of the EC system activity for the treatment of
metabolic syndrome and NAFLD are promising yet premature. The initial limited
success due to deleterious central nervous system side-effects are likely to be
bypassed with the use of peripherally restricted drugs.

DOI: 10.4103/1319-3767.114505 
PMCID: PMC3745655
PMID: 23828743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1038. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Nov;24(11):537-45. doi: 10.1016/j.tem.2013.05.009. 
Epub 2013 Jul 1.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis: a microbiota-driven disease.

Moschen AR(1), Kaser S, Tilg H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, and
Metabolism, Medical University Innsbruck, Austria.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as a major health problem
worldwide. Whereas overnutrition and obesity are crucially involved in the
development of a simple fatty liver, it remains unclear why approximately 10% of 
all affected individuals develop the 'inflammatory' phenotype so-called
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). A link between the intestinal microbiota
and the development of obesity and its metabolic consequences including NAFLD is 
becoming clearer. First clinical, but especially experimental, studies are
suggesting that microbiotal factors are driving forces of hepatic steatosis and
inflammation that involve Toll-like receptors and proinflammatory cytokines such 
as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα). Future studies focused on deciphering how
manipulation of the gut microbiota might prove beneficial for patients with NAFLD
are warranted.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tem.2013.05.009 
PMID: 23827477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. Trends Mol Med. 2013 Sep;19(9):522-35. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2013.05.006. Epub
2013 Jun 28.

Interactions among bone, liver, and adipose tissue predisposing to diabesity and 
fatty liver.

Musso G(1), Paschetta E, Gambino R, Cassader M, Molinaro F.

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, University of Turin, Turin, Italy. Electronic address:
giovanni_musso@yahoo.it.

Growing epidemiological evidence connects obesity and its complications,
including metabolic syndrome, diabetes, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) to reduced bone health and osteoporosis. Parallel to human studies,
experimental data disclosed a complex network of interaction among adipose
tissue, the liver, and the bone, which reciprocally modulate the function of each
other. The main mediators of such crosstalk include hormonal/cytokine signals
from the bone (osteopontin, osteocalcin, and osteoprotegerin), the liver
(fetuin-A), and adipose tissue [leptin, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and
adiponectin]. Dysregulation of this network promotes the development of
diabesity, NAFLD, and osteoporosis. We will review recent advances in
understanding the mechanisms of bone-liver-adipose tissue interaction
predisposing to obesity, diabetes, NAFLD, and osteoporosis and their potential
clinical implications.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmed.2013.05.006 
PMID: 23816817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1040. Nutr Rev. 2013 Jul;71(7):483-99. doi: 10.1111/nure.12027. Epub 2013 May 6.

Ethanol metabolism and its effects on the intestinal epithelial barrier.

Elamin EE(1), Masclee AA, Dekker J, Jonkers DM.

Author information: 
(1)Top Institute Food and Nutrition (TIFN), Wageningen, The Netherlands.

Ethanol is widely consumed and is associated with an increasing global health
burden. Several reviews have addressed the effects of ethanol and its oxidative
metabolite, acetaldehyde, on the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, focusing on
carcinogenic effects or alcoholic liver disease. However, both the oxidative and 
the nonoxidative metabolites of ethanol can affect the epithelial barrier of the 
small and large intestines, thereby contributing to GI and liver diseases. This
review outlines the possible mechanisms of ethanol metabolism as well as the
effects of ethanol and its metabolites on the intestinal barrier. Limited studies
in humans and supporting in vitro data have indicated that ethanol as well as
mainly acetaldehyde can increase small intestinal permeability. Limited evidence 
also points to increased colon permeability following exposure to ethanol or
acetaldehyde. In vitro studies have provided several mechanisms for disruption of
the epithelial barrier, including activation of different cell-signaling
pathways, oxidative stress, and remodeling of the cytoskeleton. Modulation via
intestinal microbiota, however, should also be considered. In conclusion, ethanol
and its metabolites may act additively or even synergistically in vivo.
Therefore, in vivo studies investigating the effects of ethanol and its
byproducts on permeability of the small and large intestines are warranted.

© 2013 International Life Sciences Institute.

DOI: 10.1111/nure.12027 
PMID: 23815146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Apr;12(4):555-64; quiz e31-2. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2013.06.013. Epub 2013 Jun 28.

Alcoholic hepatitis: current challenges and future directions.

Singal AK(1), Kamath PS(1), Gores GJ(1), Shah VH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota. (2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minnesota. Electronic address: shah.vijay@mayo.edu.

Alcoholic hepatitis is a distinct clinical syndrome among people with chronic and
active alcohol abuse, with a potential for 30%-40% mortality at 1 month among
those with severe disease. Corticosteroids or pentoxifylline are the current
pharmacologic treatment options, but they provide only about 50% survival
benefit. These agents are recommended for patients with modified discriminant
function (mDF) ≥ 32 or Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score ≥ 18. The Lille
score is used to determine response to steroids. Currently, a minimum of 6 months
of abstinence from alcohol use is required for patients to receive a liver
transplant, a requirement that cannot be met by patients with severe alcoholic
hepatitis nonresponsive to steroids (Lille score ≥ 0.45). Data are emerging on
the benefit of liver transplantation in select patients with first episode of
severe alcoholic hepatitis. This review also focuses on recent treatment trials
in alcoholic hepatitis including liver transplantation and its associated
controversies, as well as possible future targets and pharmacologic treatment
options for patients with alcoholic hepatitis that are being pursued through
upcoming consortium studies.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2013.06.013 
PMCID: PMC3883924
PMID: 23811249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1042. Biochem J. 2013 Jul 15;453(2):167-78. doi: 10.1042/BJ20130457.

Brown adipose tissue: development, metabolism and beyond.

Schulz TJ(1), Tseng YH.

Author information: 
(1)Research Group Adipocyte Development, German Institute of Human Nutrition,
Nuthetal 14558, Germany.

Obesity represents a major risk factor for the development of several of our most
common medical conditions, including Type 2 diabetes, dyslipidaemia,
non-alcoholic fatty liver, cardiovascular disease and even some cancers. Although
increased fat mass is the main feature of obesity, not all fat depots are created
equal. Adipocytes found in white adipose tissue contain a single large lipid
droplet and play well-known roles in energy storage. By contrast, brown adipose
tissue is specialized for thermogenic energy expenditure. Owing to its
significant capacity to dissipate energy and regulate triacylglycerol
(triglyceride) and glucose metabolism, and its demonstrated presence in adult
humans, brown fat could be a potential target for the treatment of obesity and
metabolic syndrome. Undoubtedly, fundamental knowledge about the formation of
brown fat and regulation of its activity is imperatively needed to make such
therapeutics possible. In the present review, we integrate the recent
advancements on the regulation of brown fat formation and activity by
developmental and hormonal signals in relation to its metabolic function.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20130457 
PMCID: PMC3887508
PMID: 23805974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1043. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Jun 21;19(23):3534-42. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i23.3534.

Liver-spleen axis: intersection between immunity, infections and metabolism.

Tarantino G(1), Scalera A, Finelli C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, Federico II University Medical
School of Naples, 80131 Naples, Italy. tarantin@unina.it

Spleen has been considered a neglected organ so far, even though is strictly
linked to liver. The spleen plays an important role in the modulation of the
immune system and in the maintenance of peripheral tolerance via the clearance of
circulating apoptotic cells, the differentiation and activation of T and B cells 
and production of antibodies in the white pulp. Moreover, splenic macrophages are
able to remove bacteria from the blood and protect from sepsis during systemic
infections. We review the spleen function and its assessment in humans starting
from the description of spleen diseases, ranging from the congenital asplenia to 
secondary hyposplenism. From the literature data it is clear that obesity in
humans affects different compartments of immune system, even thought there are
still few data available on the implicated mechamisms. The intent is to enable
clinicians to evaluate the newly recognized role of metabolic and endocrine
functions of the spleen with special emphasis to obesity and nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease in the context of the available literature. Moreover, understanding
the spleen function could be important to develop appropriate prevention
strategies in order to counteract the pandemia of obesity. In this direction, we 
suggest spleen longitudinal diameter at ultrasonography, as simple, cheap and
largely available tool, be used as new marker for assessing splenic function, in 
the context of the so-called liver-spleen axis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i23.3534 
PMCID: PMC3691032
PMID: 23801854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1044. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Jun 14;19(22):3375-84. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i22.3375.

What about non-alcoholic fatty liver disease as a new criterion to define
metabolic syndrome?

Tarantino G(1), Finelli C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, Federico II University Medical
School of Naples, 80131 Naples, Italy. tarantin@unina.it

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is currently not a component of the
diagnostic criteria for metabolic syndrome (MetS); however, the development of
NAFLD has some common mechanisms with the development of MetS, as they share the 
pathophysiologic basis of insulin resistance. It is also recognized that NAFLD is
the hepatic manifestation of MetS. To define MetS, the presence of at least three
of the proposed criteria is required, and sometimes it is sufficient to have only
one laboratory value, modified by diet or drugs, for the classification of MetS. 
Ultrasonographically-detected NAFLD (US-NAFLD) is more stable, only changing
during the middle- to long-term. Although controversies over MetS continue, and
considering that abdominal ultrasonography for diagnosing NAFLD has high
specificity and guidelines to modify the natural course of NAFLD by diet
composition or lifestyle have not yet been established, why should we not
introduce US-NAFLD as a new criterion to define MetS?

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i22.3375 
PMCID: PMC3683675
PMID: 23801829  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. Free Radic Res. 2013 Nov;47(11):894-904. doi: 10.3109/10715762.2013.819428. Epub 
2013 Oct 4.

Role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of alcohol-induced liver disease.

Sid B(1), Verrax J, Calderon PB.

Author information: 
(1)Université Catholique de Louvain, Louvain Drug Research Institute, Toxicology 
and Cancer Biology Research Group (GTOX) , Brussels , Belgium.

Chronic alcohol consumption is a well-known risk factor for liver disease, which 
represents a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. The pathological
process of alcohol-induced liver disease is characterized by a broad spectrum of 
morphological changes ranging from steatosis with minimal injury to more advanced
liver damage, including steato-hepatitis and fibrosis/cirrhosis. Experimental and
clinical studies increasingly show that the oxidative damage induced by ethanol
contribute in many ways to the pathogenesis of alcohol hepatotoxicity. This
article describes the contribution of oxidative mechanisms to liver damage by
alcohol.

DOI: 10.3109/10715762.2013.819428 
PMID: 23800214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1046. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2013 Jun;22(2):189-97.

Update on the management of alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Stickel F(1), Seitz HK.

Author information: 
(1)Hepatology Unit, Klinik Beau-Site, Department of Visceral Surgery and Medicine
Inselspital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland. felix.stickel@ikp.unibe.ch

Among heavy drinkers with liver disease, the development of severe alcoholic
hepatitis (AH) is a serious complication. Prognosis is grave and associated with 
a high mortality due to liver failure, hepatorenal syndrome or intractable
sepsis. Clinically, AH presents as a syndrome of progressive inflammatory liver
injury in patients with recent or ongoing heavy alcohol consumption. Although
approximately 20% of alcoholics undergoing liver biopsy reveal histological
features of AH, only a minority progress to severe AH with markedly elevated
serum liver enzymes, jaundice and impaired liver function. To establish the
diagnosis of AH, histology is recommended but not mandatory. Prognostic scores
include the Maddrey's discriminant function, the model of end-stage liver
disease, the Glasgow Alcoholic Hepatitis score, and the ABIC score. While the
former scores identify patients at risk of death or the need for corticosteroids,
the response to corticosteroid therapy can be assessed using the Lille model.
Treatments include abstinence and enteral nutrition, while pharmacotherapy using 
corticosteroids either with or without N-acetylcysteine may be indicated for
patients with severe AH. Pentoxifylline was found to reduce the risk of
hepatorenal syndrome, but data on mortality are limited. Although considered a
contraindication in most transplant centers, recent evidence indicates that
carefully selected patients with AH could be good candidates for liver
transplantation with a prognosis comparable to other indications.


PMID: 23799218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1047. Liver Transpl. 2013 Sep;19(9):1001-10. doi: 10.1002/lt.23694. Epub 2013 Aug 18.

Liver transplantation with a strongly positive crossmatch: case study and
literature review.

Leonard GR(1), Shike H, Uemura T, Gaspari JL, Ruggiero FM, Shah RA, Riley TR,
Kadry Z.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Transplantation, Department of Surgery, Penn State University
College of Medicine, Hershey, PA.

A positive crossmatch has been associated with increased risk in liver
transplantation. To study the clinical significance of preformed donor-specific
human leukocyte antigen antibodies (DSAs) in liver transplantation, we reviewed
patients who underwent liver transplantation with a strongly positive flow
cytometry crossmatch. DSAs were evaluated with a Luminex solid phase assay. The
complement-fixing ability of DSAs was tested with a complement component 1q (C1q)
assay. Using an assay correlation between complement-dependent cytotoxicity
crossmatch, flow cytometry crossmatch, and DSA results, we reviewed the effects
of DSAs on the outcomes of our patients as well as reported cases in the
literature. Five of 69 liver recipients had a strongly positive crossmatch: 4 had
a positive T cell crossmatch [median channel shift (MCS) = 383.5 ± 38.9], and 5
had a positive B cell crossmatch (MCS = 408.8 ± 52.3). The DSAs were class I only
in 1 patient, class I and II in 3 patients, and class II only in 1 patient.
Cholestasis, acute rejection, or both were observed in 3 of the 4 patients with a
positive T cell crossmatch with an MCS approximately greater than 300. The C1q
assay was positive for 3 patients. Two had either persistent cholestasis or early
acute rejection. One patient who was treated with preemptive intravenous
immunoglobulin had an unremarkable outcome despite a positive C1q result. One of 
the 2 patients with a negative C1q assay experienced persistent cholestasis and
early and recurrent acute rejection; the other had an unremarkable outcome. None 
of the patients died or lost a graft within the first year of transplantation.
Our study suggests that human leukocyte antigen antibody screening, flow
cytometry crossmatch MCS levels, DSA mean fluorescent intensity levels, and C1q
assays may be useful in assessing the risk of antibody-mediated rejection and
timely interventions in liver transplantation.

© 2013 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.23694 
PMID: 23798324  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1048. Antivir Ther. 2013;18(3 Pt B):475-84. doi: 10.3851/IMP2605. Epub 2013 Jun 21.

Distribution of HBV genotypes F and H in Mexico and Central America.

Panduro A(1), Maldonado-Gonzalez M, Fierro NA, Roman S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology in Medicine, Hospital Civil de Guadalajara
'Fray Antonio Alcalde' and University of Guadalajara, Guadalajara, Mexico.
apanduro@prodigy.net.mx

The distribution of HBV genotypes is associated with populations of specific
geographical regions of the world. We show data from the GenBank sequence
database and medical reports, which indicate that HBV genotype H (HBV/H) is
mainly distributed in Mexico, whereas HBV genotype F (HBV/F) is distributed in
countries from Central America. The phylogenetic analysis and historical records 
suggest that HBV/H has been present in Mexico even before the arrival of the
Spaniards. Interestingly, occult hepatitis B is a common finding in both natives 
and patients with chronic liver disease in Mexico. This suggests that an
immunogenic background could be important during the natural history of liver
diseases. The estimated large number of HBV/H-infected patients in Mexico does
not correlate with the total number of patients with chronic liver disease and
cirrhosis reported in the country. This may be because of the fact that HBV
infection is often masked by alcoholic liver disease, HCV coinfection and/or
obesity. Here, we analyse the data concerning the distribution of HBV/F and HBV/H
genotypes in Central America and Mexico. Specifically, we focus on the effect of 
molecular epidemiology and pathogenesis of HBV/H. These recent findings reveal
new areas of study with therapeutic potential in viral liver diseases.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP2605 
PMID: 23792777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1049. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2013 Aug;15(4):281-97. doi: 10.1007/s11906-013-0364-1.

Fructose-containing sugars, blood pressure, and cardiometabolic risk: a critical 
review.

Ha V(1), Jayalath VH, Cozma AI, Mirrahimi A, de Souza RJ, Sievenpiper JL.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto 3D Knowledge Synthesis and Clinical Trials Unit, Clinical Nutrition
and Risk Factor Modification Centre, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada.

Excessive fructose intake from high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) and sucrose has
been implicated as a driving force behind the increasing prevalence of obesity
and its downstream cardiometabolic complications including hypertension, gout,
dyslidpidemia, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, and non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD). Most of the evidence to support these relationships draws
heavily on ecological studies, animal models, and select human trials of fructose
overfeeding. There are a number of biological mechanisms derived from animal
models to explain these relationships, including increases in de novo lipogenesis
and uric acid-mediated hypertension. Differences between animal and human
physiology, along with the supraphysiologic level at which fructose is fed in
these models, limit their translation to humans. Although higher level evidence
from large prospective cohorts studies has shown significant positive
associations comparing the highest with the lowest levels of intake of
sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs), these associations do not hold true at moderate
levels of intake or when modeling total sugars and are subject to collinearity
effects from related dietary and lifestyle factors. The highest level of evidence
from controlled feeding trials has shown a lack of cardiometabolic harm of
fructose and SSBs under energy-matched conditions at moderate levels of intake.
It is only when fructose-containing sugars or SSBs are consumed at high doses or 
supplement diets with excess energy that a consistent signal for harm is seen.
The available evidence suggests that confounding by excess energy is an important
consideration in assessing the role of fructose-containing sugars and SSBs in the
epidemics of hypertension and other cardiometabolic diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s11906-013-0364-1 
PMID: 23793849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. Biochimie. 2014 Jan;96:121-9. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2013.06.007. Epub 2013 Jun
20.

Zonation of glucose and fatty acid metabolism in the liver: mechanism and
metabolic consequences.

Hijmans BS(1), Grefhorst A, Oosterveer MH, Groen AK.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pediatrics and Laboratory Medicine, University of Groningen,
University Medical Center Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
b.s.hijmans@umcg.nl.

The liver is generally considered as a relatively homogeneous organ containing
four different cell types. It is however well-known that the liver is not
homogeneous and consists of clearly demarcated metabolic zones. Hepatocytes from 
different zones show phenotypical heterogeneity in metabolic features, leading to
zonation of metabolic processes across the liver acinus. Zonation of processes
involved in glucose and fatty acid metabolism is rather flexible and therefore
prone to change under (patho)physiological conditions. Hepatic zonation appears
to play an important role in the segregation of the different metabolic pathways 
in the liver. As a consequence, perturbations in metabolic zonation may be a part
of metabolic liver diseases. The metabolic syndrome is characterized by the
inability of insulin to adequately suppress hepatic gluconeogenesis, leading to
hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia and eventually to type II diabetes. As insulin
promotes lipogenesis through the transcription factor sterol regulatory element
binding protein (SREBP)-1c, one would expect that lipogenesis should also be
impaired in insulin-resistant states. However, in the metabolic syndrome hepatic 
de novo lipogenesis is increased, leading to hyperlipidemia and hepatosteatosis, 
primarily in the pericentral zone. These observations suggest the co-existence of
insulin resistant glucose metabolism and insulin sensitive lipid metabolism in
the metabolic syndrome. Here we provide a theoretical framework to explain this
so-called 'insulin signaling paradox' in the context of metabolic zonation of the
liver.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2013.06.007 
PMID: 23792151  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1051. Cancer Lett. 2013 Oct 10;339(2):159-66. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.06.013. Epub
2013 Jun 18.

Long non-coding RNAs: a new frontier in the study of human diseases.

Shi X(1), Sun M, Liu H, Yao Y, Song Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Jinling Hospital, Nanjing University
School of Medicine, Nanjing, China. Electronic address: shixuefei1223@yahoo.cn.

With the development of whole genome and transcriptome sequencing technologies,
long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have received increased attention. Multiple studies
indicate that lncRNAs act not only as the intermediary between DNA and protein
but also as important protagonists of cellular functions. LncRNAs can regulate
gene expression in many ways, including chromosome remodeling, transcription and 
post-transcriptional processing. Moreover, the dysregulation of lncRNAs has
increasingly been linked to many human diseases, especially in cancers. Here, we 
reviewed the rapidly advancing field of lncRNAs and described the relationship
between the dysregulation of lncRNAs and human diseases, highlighting the
specific roles of lncRNAs in human diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.06.013 
PMID: 23791884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1052. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2013 Oct 15;379(1-2):35-42. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2013.06.002. 
Epub 2013 Jun 12.

Hepatic energy metabolism in human diabetes mellitus, obesity and non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease.

Koliaki C(1), Roden M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Clinical Diabetology, German Diabetes Center, Leibniz Center for
Diabetes Research, Heinrich Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany. Electronic
address: Chryssi.Koliaki@ddz.uni-duesseldorf.de.

Alterations of hepatic mitochondrial function have been observed in states of
insulin resistance and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Patients with
overt type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) can exhibit reduction in hepatic adenosine 
triphosphate (ATP) synthesis and impaired repletion of their hepatic ATP stores
upon ATP depletion by fructose. Obesity and NAFLD may also associate with
impaired ATP recovery after ATP-depleting challenges and augmented oxidative
stress in the liver. On the other hand, patients with obesity or NAFLD can
present with upregulated hepatic anaplerotic and oxidative fluxes, including
β-oxidation and tricarboxylic cycle activity. The present review focuses on the
methods and data on hepatic energy metabolism in various states of human insulin 
resistance. We propose that the liver can adapt to increased lipid exposition by 
greater lipid storing and oxidative capacity, resulting in increased oxidative
stress, which in turn could deteriorate hepatic mitochondrial function in chronic
insulin resistance and NAFLD.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2013.06.002 
PMID: 23770462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1053. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2013;2013:763257. doi: 10.1155/2013/763257. Epub 2013 May
9.

Role of the Nrf2-ARE pathway in liver diseases.

Shin SM(1), Yang JH, Ki SH.

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Chosun University, Dong-gu, Gwangju, Republic of Korea.

The liver is a central organ that performs a wide range of functions such as
detoxification and metabolic homeostasis. Since it is a metabolically active
organ, liver is particularly susceptible to oxidative stress. It is well
documented that liver diseases including hepatitis, fibrosis, cirrhosis, and
hepatocellular carcinoma are highly associated with antioxidant capacity.
NF-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) is an essential transcription factor that regulates
an array of detoxifying and antioxidant defense genes expression in the liver. It
is activated in response to electrophiles and induces its target genes by binding
to the antioxidant response element (ARE). Therefore, the roles of the Nrf2-ARE
pathway in liver diseases have been extensively investigated. Studies from
several animal models suggest that the Nrf2-ARE pathway collectively exhibits
diverse biological functions against viral hepatitis, alcoholic and nonalcoholic 
liver disease, fibrosis, and cancer via target gene expression. In this review,
we will discuss the role of the Nrf2-ARE pathway in liver pathophysiology and the
potential application of Nrf2 as a therapeutic target to prevent and treat liver 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/763257 
PMCID: PMC3665261
PMID: 23766860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1054. Korean J Gastroenterol. 2013 May;61(5):243-51.

[The role of diet in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease].

[Article in Korean]

Jun DW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hanyang University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea. noshin@hanyang.ac.kr

Prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is about 20-25% in Korean
adults population. Obesity is strongly associated with NAFLD and the prevention
of obesity is a major public issue. Unfortunately, pharmacological treatment of
obesity and NAFLD remains uncertain. Only weight loss by dietary changes been
shown to lead to histological improvement in fatty liver. So the nutrition
therapy is a cornerstone of treatment for NAFLD. Epidemiologic studies show that 
saturated fat, trans-fatty acid, carbohydrate, and simple sugar have strong
correlation with intrahepatic fat accumulation. But, true associations with
specific nutrients still remain unclear. Recently, fructose consumption has been 
rising in many countries and several epidemiologic studies show that fructose
consumption has strong correlation with metabolic diseases. The consumption of
excessively added sugar in the pathogenesis of steatohepatitis has received
attention. Most clinicians agree with lifestyle modification are effective in
histologic improvement. Total energy intake restriction is the most important
action to reduce intrahepatic fat accumulation. Macronutrient composition may
also have correlation with the development of NAFLD. To reduce the incidence of
NAFLD, public statements on optimal dietary education program have been issused. 
Various specific dietary programs are suggested. Among them low fat diet and low 
carbohydrate diet are suggested in patients with NAFLD. However, there is no
ideal diet to obtain the histological improvement in NAFLD. Further randomised
controlled studies about specific diet are needed to determine the long-term
benefit and histological improvement by ideal diet. Tailoring diet therapy to a
patient's lifestyle is more important than universal specific dietary program.


PMID: 23756665  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. J Hepatol. 2013 Oct;59(4):859-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.05.044. Epub 2013 Jun 
7.

From NAFLD in clinical practice to answers from guidelines.

Nascimbeni F(1), Pais R, Bellentani S, Day CP, Ratziu V, Loria P, Lonardo A.

Author information: 
(1)University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.

This review of the literature consists of three sections. First, papers
concerning non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) awareness among the general 
population, general practitioners, and liver and non-liver specialists were
retrieved and analyzed to highlight the perception of disease, verify knowledge
of current recommendations, and identify the main difficulties experienced in
clinical practice. Next, position papers and clinical practice guidelines issued 
by International and National Hepatological Scientific Societies were identified 
and critically assessed in order to pinpoint the areas of convergence/difference.
Finally, practical suggestions on NAFLD diagnosis and management in daily
practice are provided and the open questions highlighted.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.05.044 
PMID: 23751754  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1056. Cell Metab. 2013 Jun 4;17(6):873-82. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2013.05.011.

Innate immune receptors: key regulators of metabolic disease progression.

Jin C(1), Henao-Mejia J, Flavell RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06520, USA.

The study of the intersection of immunology and metabolism is a growing field
fueled by the increased prevalence of obesity-associated pathologies.
Importantly, the capacity of the innate immune system to sense metabolic stress
induced by nutritional surplus has been linked with the progression of obesity,
insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes mellitus, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease,
and atherosclerosis. Moreover, it is clear that the innate immune system
regulates the composition of the intestinal microbiota, which impacts multiple
host metabolic processes. Here we review recent studies in this emerging field
with an emphasis on how innate immune receptors determine metabolic disease
progression.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2013.05.011 
PMID: 23747246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1057. Metab Syndr Relat Disord. 2013 Aug;11(4):217-28. doi: 10.1089/met.2013.0044. Epub
2013 Jun 7.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and reduced serum vitamin D(3) levels.

Targher G(1), Scorletti E, Mantovani A, Byrne CD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, University and Azienda
Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Verona, Italy.
giovanni.targher@univr.it

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and vitamin D3 deficiency are two highly
prevalent pathologic conditions worldwide that share several cardiometabolic risk
factors. In addition to its traditional calcium-related effects on the skeleton, 
vitamin D3 deficiency has now been recognized to exert nonskeletal adverse
effects on several other organ systems. Accumulating epidemiological evidence
suggests that low levels of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 are associated with the
presence and severity of NAFLD, independently of several potential confounders,
including features of the metabolic syndrome. The molecular mechanisms of this
association remain incompletely understood. A variety of biologically plausible
mechanisms may mediate a hepato-protective role for the active metabolite of
vitamin D3. 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 modulates the insulin signaling
pathway/insulin resistance, suppresses fibroblast proliferation and collagen
production, exerts anticoagulant and profibrinolytic effects, and modulates
macrophage activity and inflammatory cytokine generation. Overall, the high
prevalence of vitamin D3 deficiency and the plausible biological mechanisms
linking this to NAFLD suggest that treatment of vitamin D3 deficiency to prevent 
and/or treat NAFLD is a promising field to explore. Large placebo-controlled
randomized clinical trials are urgently needed to determine whether vitamin D3
supplementation could have any potential benefit in reducing the development and 
progression of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1089/met.2013.0044 
PMID: 23745619  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1058. Redox Rep. 2013;18(4):127-33. doi: 10.1179/1351000213Y.0000000050. Epub 2013 Jun 
5.

The relationship between oxidative stress and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease:
Its effects on the development of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Ucar F(1), Sezer S, Erdogan S, Akyol S, Armutcu F, Akyol O.

Author information: 
(1)Diskapi Yildirim Beyazit Training and Research Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.
drfucar@gmail.com

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) 
are the most common underlying causes of chronic liver injury. They are
associated with a wide spectrum of hepatic disorders including basic steatosis,
steatohepatitis, and cirrhosis. The molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying 
hepatic injury in NAFLD and NASH are still unknown. This review describes the
roles of oxidative stress and inflammatory responses in the pathogenesis of NAFLD
and its progression to NASH.

DOI: 10.1179/1351000213Y.0000000050 
PMID: 23743495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1059. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Jun 5;14(6):11963-80. doi: 10.3390/ijms140611963.

In vitro and in vivo models of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).

Kanuri G(1), Bergheim I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, SD Model Systems of Molecular Nutrition,
Friedrich-Schiller-University, Dornburger Str. 25-29, D-07743 Jena, Germany.
ina.bergheim@uni-jena.de.

By now, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered to be among the
most common liver diseases world-wide. NAFLD encompasses a broad spectrum of
pathological conditions ranging from simple steatosis to steatohepatitis,
fibrosis and finally even cirrhosis; however, only a minority of patients
progress to end-stages of the disease, and the course of the disease progression 
to the later stages seems to be slow, developing progressively over several
years. Key risk factors including overweight, insulin resistance, a sedentary
life-style and an altered dietary pattern, as well as genetic factors and
disturbances of the intestinal barrier function have been identified in recent
years. Despite intense research efforts that lead to the identification of these 
risk factors, knowledge about disease initiation and molecular mechanisms
involved in progression is still limited. This review summarizes diet-induced and
genetic animal models, as well as cell culture models commonly used in recent
years to add to the understanding of the mechanisms involved in NAFLD, also
referring to their advantages and disadvantages.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms140611963 
PMCID: PMC3709766
PMID: 23739675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1060. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Apr;27(2):195-208. doi:
10.1016/j.beem.2013.02.002. Epub 2013 Mar 1.

Gastrointestinal complications of obesity: non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) and its sequelae.

Karlas T(1), Wiegand J, Berg T.

Author information: 
(1)Leipzig University Medical Centre, IFB Adiposity Diseases, Leipzig, Germany.
thomas.karlas@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

Obesity is a major risk factor for malign and non-malign diseases of the
gastrointestinal tract. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an
outstanding example for the complex pathophysiology of the metabolic system and
represents both source and consequence of the metabolic syndrome. NAFLD has a
growing prevalence and will become the leading cause of advanced liver disease
and cirrhosis. Obesity has a negative impact on NAFLD at all aspects and stages
of the disease. The growing epidemic will strain health care resources and
demands new concepts for prevention, screening and therapeutic approaches. A
better understanding of the interplay of liver, gut and hormonal system is
necessary for new insights in the underlying mechanisms of NAFLD and the
metabolic syndrome including obesity. Identification of patients at risk for
progressive liver disease will allow a better adaption of treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2013.02.002 
PMID: 23731881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1061. Compr Physiol. 2013 Apr;3(2):785-97. doi: 10.1002/cphy.c120026.

Kupffer cells in the liver.

Dixon LJ(1), Barnes M, Tang H, Pritchard MT, Nagy LE.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Disease Research Center, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
Ohio, USA.

Kupffer cells are a critical component of the mononuclear phagocytic system and
are central to both the hepatic and systemic response to pathogens. Kupffer cells
are reemerging as critical mediators of both liver injury and repair. Kupffer
cells exhibit a tremendous plasticity; depending on the local metabolic and
immune environment, then can express a range of polarized phenotypes, from the
proinflammatory M1 phenotype to the alternative/M2 phenotype. Multiple M2
phenotypes can be distinguished, each involved in the resolution of inflammation 
and wound healing. Here, we have provided an update on recent research that has
contributed to the developing delineation of the contribution of Kupffer cells to
different types of liver injury, with an emphasis on alcoholic and nonalcoholic
liver diseases. These recent advances in our understanding of Kupffer cell
function and regulation will likely provide new insights into the potential for
therapeutic manipulation of Kupffer cells to promote the resolution of
inflammation and enhance wound healing in liver disease.

DOI: 10.1002/cphy.c120026 
PMCID: PMC4748178
PMID: 23720329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1062. Dis Model Mech. 2013 Jul;6(4):905-14. doi: 10.1242/dmm.011981. Epub 2013 May 29.

The expanding role of fish models in understanding non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Asaoka Y(1), Terai S, Sakaida I, Nishina H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental and Regenerative Biology, Medical Research
Institute, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-8510, Japan.

Erratum in
    Dis Model Mech. 2014 Mar;7(3):409.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a condition in which excessive fat
accumulates in the liver of an individual who has not consumed excessive alcohol.
Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a severe form of NAFLD, can progress to
hepatic cirrhosis and/or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). NAFLD is considered to
be a hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome, and its incidence has risen
worldwide in lockstep with the increased global prevalence of obesity. Over the
last decade, rodent studies have yielded an impressive list of molecules
associated with NAFLD and NASH pathogenesis. However, the identification of
currently unknown metabolic factors using mammalian model organisms is
inefficient and expensive compared with studies using fish models such as
zebrafish (Danio rerio) and medaka (Oryzias latipes). Substantial advances in
unraveling the molecular pathogenesis of NAFLD have recently been achieved
through unbiased forward genetic screens using small fish models. Furthermore,
these easily manipulated organisms have been used to great advantage to evaluate 
the therapeutic effectiveness of various chemical compounds for the treatment of 
NAFLD. In this Review, we summarize aspects of NAFLD (specifically focusing on
NASH) pathogenesis that have been previously revealed by rodent models, and
discuss how small fish are increasingly being used to uncover factors that
contribute to normal hepatic lipid metabolism. We describe the various types of
fish models in use for this purpose, including those generated by mutation,
transgenesis, or dietary or chemical treatment, and contrast them with rodent
models. The use of small fish in identifying novel potential therapeutic agents
for the treatment of NAFLD and NASH is also addressed.

DOI: 10.1242/dmm.011981 
PMCID: PMC3701210
PMID: 23720231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1063. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2013. doi: 10.1200/EdBook_AM.2013.33.e132.

How do mechanisms of hepatocarcinogenesis (HBV, HCV, and NASH) affect our
understanding and approach to HCC?

Johnson PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Molecular and Clinical Cancer Medicine, Institute of
Translational Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom.

The major etiologic factors for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), including chronic
hepatitis B and C virus infections and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, are now 
well established by epidemiologic investigations. The mechanisms by which these
factors result in HCC have been extensively investigated but have not, to date,
resulted in the development of specific therapeutic interventions. Other
frequently occurring dysregulated pathways, including the Wnt/β-catenin signaling
pathway, are proving difficult to target, but there are early suggestions that
patients with "MET-high" HCC may benefit from the c-MET inhibitor tivantinib.
Chronic inflammation and consequent cell damage and regenerative proliferation
are common to all etiologic factors, and emerging evidence suggests that
anti-inflammatory agents such as aspirin deserve further investigation as
preventive agents.

DOI: 10.1200/EdBook_AM.2013.33.e132 
PMID: 23714479  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1064. J Hepatol. 2013 Oct;59(4):842-58. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.05.030. Epub 2013 May 
25.

The metabolomic window into hepatobiliary disease.

Beyoğlu D(1), Idle JR.

Author information: 
(1)Hepatology Research Group, Department of Clinical Research, University of
Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

The emergent discipline of metabolomics has attracted considerable research
effort in hepatology. Here we review the metabolomic data for non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), cirrhosis,
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), alcoholic liver disease
(ALD), hepatitis B and C, cholecystitis, cholestasis, liver transplantation, and 
acute hepatotoxicity in animal models. A metabolomic window has permitted a view 
into the changing biochemistry occurring in the transitional phases between a
healthy liver and hepatocellular carcinoma or cholangiocarcinoma. Whether
provoked by obesity and diabetes, alcohol use or oncogenic viruses, the liver
develops a core metabolomic phenotype (CMP) that involves dysregulation of bile
acid and phospholipid homeostasis. The CMP commences at the transition between
the healthy liver (Phase 0) and NAFLD/NASH, ALD or viral hepatitis (Phase 1).
This CMP is maintained in the presence or absence of cirrhosis (Phase 2) and
whether or not either HCC or CCA (Phase 3) develops. Inflammatory signalling in
the liver triggers the appearance of the CMP. Many other metabolomic markers
distinguish between Phases 0, 1, 2 and 3. A metabolic remodelling in HCC has been
described but metabolomic data from all four Phases demonstrate that the Warburg 
shift from mitochondrial respiration to cytosolic glycolysis foreshadows HCC and 
may occur as early as Phase 1. The metabolic remodelling also involves an
upregulation of fatty acid β-oxidation, also beginning in Phase 1. The storage of
triglycerides in fatty liver provides high energy-yielding substrates for Phases 
2 and 3 of liver pathology. The metabolomic window into hepatobiliary disease
sheds new light on the systems pathology of the liver.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.05.030 
PMCID: PMC4095886
PMID: 23714158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1065. Orv Hetil. 2013 Jun 2;154(22):858-62. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29636.

[Progress of the liver transplantation programme in Hungary].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Kóbori L(1), Görög D, Fehérvári I, Nemes B, Fazakas J, Sárváry E, Varga M, Gerlei
Z, Doros A, Monostory K, Perner F.

Author information: 
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar, Transzplantációs és
Sebészeti Klinika, Budapest, Baross u. 23. 1082. laszlo.kobori@transzplant.hu

The history of organ transplantation in Hungary dates back to 50 years, and the
first succesful liver transplantation was performed in the United States in that 
time as well. The number of patients with end stage liver disease increased
worldwide, and over 7000 patients die in each year due to liver disease in
Hungary. The most effective treatment of end-stage liver disease is liver
transplantation. The indications of liver transplantation represent a wide
spectrum including viral, alcoholic or other parenchymal liver cirrhosis, but
cholestatic liver disease and acute fulminant cases are also present in the daily
routine. In pediatric patients biliary atresia and different forms of metabolic
liver disorders represent the main indication for liver transplantation. The
results of liver transplantation in Hungary are optimal with over 80% long-term
survival. For better survival individual drug therapy and monitoring are
introduced in liver transplant candidates.

Publisher: Ötvenéves a magyar szervtranszplantáció, és ezzel egyidejűleg ötven
évvel ezelőtt történt az első sikeres májátültetés az Egyesült Államokban,
amelyet Thomas Starzl végzett. A világon évente több százezer, Magyarországon
több mint 7000 ember hal meg májbetegségben. Az esetek nagy részében krónikus
elégtelenségről van szó, de 10–15%-ban akut májelégtelenségről beszélhetünk,
amelynek mortalitása műtét nélkül 80% feletti. A végstádiumú és akut májbetegek
esetében a különféle konzervatív kezelési módszerek csak átmeneti megoldást
jelentenek. Az egyetlen, hosszú távú túlélést jelentő gyógymód a transzplantáció.
Napjainkban a májátültetést követő átlagos ötéves, úgynevezett kumulatív túlélés 
80% feletti. Az indikációs terület egyre szélesebb, leggyakoribb a vírus és
alkohol okozta cirrhosis és a cholestaticus májbetegségek miatt végzett
májátültetés. Gyermekeknél főként fejlődési rendellenességek, congenitalis
betegségek és metabolikus májbetegségek akut manifesztációi emelendők ki az
indikációs körből. A májtranszplantációs túlélési eredményeink a jó nemzetközi
statisztikáknak megfelelőek, de a graft- és betegtúlélés további javításában a
testre szabott immunszuppressziós kezelés bevezetésének nagy jelentősége lehet.
Orv. Hetil., 2013, 154, 858–862.
DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29636 
PMID: 23708986  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1066. Adolesc Med State Art Rev. 2013 Apr;24(1):264-72, xiv-xv.

Update in adolescent gastroenterology.

Atay O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Children's Hospital of the King's
Daughters, 601 Children's Lane, Norfolk, VA 23507, USA. oatay@sbcglobal.net

Pediatric gastroenterology, just as all fields within pediatrics, focuses on the 
unique needs of children ranging from infancy to adolescence. Although there is
some overlap between adult gastroenterology and pediatric gastroenterology, these
are 2 distinct fields of medicine that address the specific health care needs of 
the demographics they serve. The purpose of this article is to address several
medical issues that have a particular importance to the pediatric population. The
5 main topics of discussion are magnet ingestion, cannabinoid hyperemesis
syndrome, obesity and how it pertains to fatty liver disease, hepatitis B
immunization status in the inflammatory bowel disease population, and irritable
bowel syndrome. There is also a brief discussion regarding the transitioning
process of our patients to adult medicine.


PMID: 23705529  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 May 21;14(5):10497-538. doi: 10.3390/ijms140510497.

Obesity-associated oxidative stress: strategies finalized to improve redox state.

Savini I(1), Catani MV, Evangelista D, Gasperi V, Avigliano L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine and Surgery, University of Rome Tor
Vergata, Via Montpellier 1, 00133 Rome, Italy. savini@uniroma2.it.

Obesity represents a major risk factor for a plethora of severe diseases,
including diabetes, cardiovascular disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,
and cancer. It is often accompanied by an increased risk of mortality and, in the
case of non-fatal health problems, the quality of life is impaired because of
associated conditions, including sleep apnea, respiratory problems,
osteoarthritis, and infertility. Recent evidence suggests that oxidative stress
may be the mechanistic link between obesity and related complications. In obese
patients, antioxidant defenses are lower than normal weight counterparts and
their levels inversely correlate with central adiposity; obesity is also
characterized by enhanced levels of reactive oxygen or nitrogen species.
Inadequacy of antioxidant defenses probably relies on different factors: obese
individuals may have a lower intake of antioxidant- and phytochemical-rich foods,
such as fruits, vegetables, and legumes; otherwise, consumption of antioxidant
nutrients is normal, but obese individuals may have an increased utilization of
these molecules, likewise to that reported in diabetic patients and smokers. Also
inadequate physical activity may account for a decreased antioxidant state. In
this review, we describe current concepts in the meaning of obesity as a state of
chronic oxidative stress and the potential interventions to improve redox
balance.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms140510497 
PMCID: PMC3676851
PMID: 23698776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1068. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2013;2013:781050. doi: 10.1155/2013/781050. Epub 2013 Apr
3.

Increased nitroxidative stress promotes mitochondrial dysfunction in alcoholic
and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Song BJ(1), Abdelmegeed MA, Henderson LE, Yoo SH, Wan J, Purohit V, Hardwick JP, 
Moon KH.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, Laboratory of Membrane
Biochemistry and Biophysics, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, 
9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. bj.song@nih.gov

Increased nitroxidative stress causes mitochondrial dysfunctions through
oxidative modifications of mitochondrial DNA, lipids, and proteins. Persistent
mitochondrial dysfunction sensitizes the target cells/organs to other
pathological risk factors and thus ultimately contributes to the development of
more severe disease states in alcoholic and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. The
incidences of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease continuously increase due to high 
prevalence of metabolic syndrome including hyperlipidemia, hypercholesterolemia, 
obesity, insulin resistance, and diabetes. Many mitochondrial proteins including 
the enzymes involved in fat oxidation and energy supply could be oxidatively
modified (including S-nitrosylation/nitration) under increased nitroxidative
stress and thus inactivated, leading to increased fat accumulation and ATP
depletion. To demonstrate the underlying mechanism(s) of mitochondrial
dysfunction, we employed a redox proteomics approach using biotin-N-maleimide
(biotin-NM) as a sensitive biotin-switch probe to identify oxidized Cys residues 
of mitochondrial proteins in the experimental models of alcoholic and acute liver
disease. The aims of this paper are to briefly describe the mechanisms,
functional consequences, and detection methods of mitochondrial dysfunction. We
also describe advantages and limitations of the Cys-targeted redox proteomics
method with alternative approaches. Finally, we discuss various applications of
this method in studying oxidatively modified mitochondrial proteins in
extrahepatic tissues or different subcellular organelles and translational
research.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/781050 
PMCID: PMC3649774
PMID: 23691267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1069. Alcohol Alcohol. 2013 Sep-Oct;48(5):564-9. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agt044. Epub 2013 
May 19.

Prevalence of hepatitis C virus infection in alcoholic patients: cohort study and
systematic review.

Novo-Veleiro I(1), Calle Cde L, Domínguez-Quibén S, Pastor I, Marcos M, Laso FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Alcoholism Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of
Salamanca, P° San Vicente, 58-156, Salamanca 37007, Spain.

AIMS: Prevalence of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection among alcoholics is
thought to be higher than in the general population, although prevalence rates
reported are quite variable. Our study is aimed to analyze HCV prevalence in a
cohort of alcoholics and to perform a systematic review on this topic.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 396 alcoholic patients consecutively referred to
our Alcoholism Unit were included. HCV infection status and other clinical
variables were recorded for each patient. Variables associated with HCV infection
were analyzed by means of logistic regression. Additionally, we performed a
systematic review focused on previous studies on this topic.
RESULTS: Among our alcoholic patients, 14 of them (3.53%) had chronic HCV
infection. Variables independently associated with HCV infection were female
gender, injection drug use (IDU) and the presence of alcoholic liver disease
(ALD). Twenty-four studies analyzing HCV prevalence in alcoholic patients were
included in our systematic review, showing prevalence rates of HCV infection
ranging from 2.1 to 51% and an average weighted prevalence of 16.32%.
CONCLUSION: In our series, the prevalence rate of chronic HCV infection among
alcoholic patients is lower than previously reported, which is probably explained
by the relatively low number of patients with ALD or IDU in our sample.
Prevalence rates previously published are quite different and the presence of ALD
and/or IDU can act as confounding factors for HCV prevalence among alcoholics.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agt044 
PMID: 23690232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1070. Biochem Pharmacol. 2013 Jul 15;86(2):200-9. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.05.007. Epub 
2013 May 17.

Role of AMPK activation in oxidative cell damage: Implications for
alcohol-induced liver disease.

Sid B(1), Verrax J, Calderon PB.

Author information: 
(1)Université Catholique de Louvain, Louvain Drug Research Institute, Toxicology 
and Cancer Biology Research Group GTOX, Brussels, Belgium.

Chronic alcohol consumption is a well-known risk factor for liver disease.
Progression of alcohol-induced liver disease (ALD) is a multifactorial process
that involves a number of genetic, nutritional and environmental factors.
Experimental and clinical studies increasingly show that oxidative damage induced
by ethanol contributes in many ways to the pathogenesis of alcohol hepatoxicity. 
Oxidative stress appears to activate AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)
signaling system, which has emerged in recent years as a kinase that controls the
redox-state and mitochondrial function. This review focuses on the most recent
insights concerning the activation of AMPK by reactive oxygen species (ROS), and 
describes recent evidences supporting the hypothesis that AMPK signaling pathways
play an important role in promoting cell viability under conditions of oxidative 
stress, such as during alcohol exposure. We suggest that AMPK activation by ROS
can promote cell survival by inducing autophagy, mitochondrial biogenesis and
expression of genes involved in antioxidant defense. Hence, increased
intracellular concentrations of ROS may represent a general mechanism for
enhancement of AMPK-mediated cellular adaptation, including maintenance of redox 
homeostasis. On the other hand, AMPK inhibition in the liver by ethanol appears
to play a key role in the development of steatosis induced by chronic alcohol
consumption. Although more studies are needed to assess the functions of AMPK
during oxidative stress, AMPK may be a possible therapeutic target in the
particular case of alcohol-induced liver disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.05.007 
PMID: 23688501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1071. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2013 May-Jun;59(3):290-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ramb.2012.11.006. Epub 2013 May 16.

Association between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and coronary artery disease.

Vilar CP(1), Cotrim HP, Florentino GS, Barreto CP, Florentino AV, Bragagnoli G,
Schwingel PA.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Program in Medicine and Health, Faculdade de Medicina da Bahia
FMB, Universidade Federal da Bahia UFBA, Salvador, BA, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: Although some investigations have shown a relationship between
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and cardiovascular diseases, there are
few studies analyzing the relationship between NAFLD and coronary artery disease 
(CAD). The aim of this article was to review the relationship between NAFLD and
CAD and the methods of diagnosis used to assess such relationship.
METHODS: A review was performed using search engines of indexed scientific
material, including MEDLINE (by PubMed), Web of Science, IBECS, and LILACS, to
identify articles published in Portuguese, English, and Spanish until August,
2012. The studies were eligible if they included the following data: place and
year of publication, prevalence and methods used to diagnose NAFLD (ultrasound,
computed tomography, nuclear magnetic resonance, or biopsy) and CAD (coronary
angiography, or computed tomography), and the exclusion of patients due to
alcohol consumption greater than 20g/day.
RESULTS: Ten articles were selected, most of which were cross-sectional studies. 
The studies mostly observed the association between NAFLD and the presence and
severity of CAD.
CONCLUSION: The analysis of the review showed that evaluating the existence of
NAFLD in patients with CAD from its subclinical form up to the symptomatic
clinical form is important due to the higher risk of acute myocardial infarction 
and consequent increase of mortality.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ramb.2012.11.006 
PMID: 23684211  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Apr 28;19(16):2449-55. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i16.2449.

Genetic association of interleukin-6 polymorphism (-174 G/C) with chronic liver
diseases and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Giannitrapani L(1), Soresi M, Balasus D, Licata A, Montalto G.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Internal Medicine, Biomedical Department of Internal Medicine and
Specialties DiBiMIS, University of Palermo, 90127 Palermo, Italy.
lydia.giannitrapani@unipa.it

Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a pleiotropic cytokine which is expressed in many
inflammatory cells in response to different types of stimuli, regulating a number
of biological processes. The IL-6 gene is polymorphic in both the 5' and 3'
flanking regions and more than 150 single nucleotide polymorphisms have been
identified so far. Genetic polymorphisms of IL-6 may affect the outcomes of
several diseases, where the presence of high levels of circulating IL-6 have been
correlated to the stage and/or the progression of the disease itself. The -174
G/C polymorphism is a frequent polymorphism, that is located in the upstream
regulatory region of the IL-6 gene and affects IL-6 production. However, the data
in the literature on the genetic association between the -174 G/C polymorphism
and some specific liver diseases characterized by different etiologies are still 
controversial. In particular, most of the studies are quite unanimous in
describing a correlation between the presence of the high-producer genotype and a
worse evolution of the chronic liver disease. This is valid for patients with
hepatitis C virus (HCV)-related chronic hepatitis and liver cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) whatever the etiology. Studies in hepatitis B
virus-related chronic liver diseases are not conclusive, while specific
populations like non alcoholic fatty liver disease/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis,
autoimmune and human immunodeficiency virus/HCV co-infected patients show a
higher prevalence of the low-producer genotype, probably due to the complexity of
these clinical pictures. In this direction, a systematic revision of these data
should shed more light on the role of this polymorphism in chronic liver diseases
and HCC.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i16.2449 
PMCID: PMC3646134
PMID: 23674845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1073. Proc Nutr Soc. 2013 Nov;72(4):412-9. doi: 10.1017/S0029665113001249. Epub 2013
May 14.

Ectopic fat, insulin resistance and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Byrne CD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology and Metabolism, Nutrition and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Southampton, and Southampton National Institute for Health Research
Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital of Southampton, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now recognised as the hepatic
component of metabolic syndrome (MetS). NAFLD is an example of ectopic fat
accumulation in a visceral organ that causes organ-specific disease, and affects 
risk of other related diseases such as type 2 diabetes and CVD. NAFLD is a
spectrum of fat-associated liver conditions that can culminate in end stage liver
disease, hepatocellular carcinoma and the need for liver transplantation. Simple 
steatosis, or fatty liver, occurs early in NAFLD and may progress to
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, fibrosis and cirrhosis with increased risk of
hepatocellular carcinoma. Prevalence estimates for NAFLD range from 2 to 44% in
the general population and it has been estimated that NAFLD exists in up to 70%
of people with type 2 diabetes. Although many obese people have NAFLD, there are 
many obese people who do not develop ectopic liver fat. The aim of this review
which is based on a presentation at the Royal Society of Medicine, UK in December
2012 is to discuss development of NAFLD, ectopic fat accumulation and insulin
resistance. The review will also describe the relationships between NAFLD, type 2
diabetes and CVD.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665113001249 
PMID: 23668723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. Nutrients. 2013 May 10;5(5):1544-60. doi: 10.3390/nu5051544.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its connection with insulin
resistance, dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease.

Gaggini M(1), Morelli M, Buzzigoli E, DeFronzo RA, Bugianesi E, Gastaldelli A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Physiology National Research Council, Pisa 56100, Italy.
m.gaggini@ifc.cnr.it

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is marked by hepatic fat accumulation not due
to alcohol abuse. Several studies have demonstrated that NAFLD is associated with
insulin resistance leading to a resistance in the antilipolytic effect of insulin
in the adipose tissue with an increase of free fatty acids (FFAs). The increase
of FFAs induces mitochondrial dysfunction and development of lipotoxicity.
Moreover, in subjects with NAFLD, ectopic fat also accumulates as cardiac and
pancreatic fat. In this review we analyzed the mechanisms that relate NAFLD with 
metabolic syndrome and dyslipidemia and its association with the development and 
progression of cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.3390/nu5051544 
PMCID: PMC3708335
PMID: 23666091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. J Hepatol. 2013 Oct;59(4):830-41. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.04.031. Epub 2013 May 
7.

Pleiotropic effects of methionine adenosyltransferases deregulation as
determinants of liver cancer progression and prognosis.

Frau M(1), Feo F, Pascale RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Laboratory of Experimental
Pathology and Oncology, University of Sassari, Sassari, Italy.

Downregulation of liver-specific MAT1A gene, encoding S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) 
synthesizing isozymes MATI/III, and upregulation of widely expressed MAT2A,
encoding MATII isozyme, known as MAT1A:MAT2A switch, occurs in hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC). Being inhibited by its reaction product, MATII isoform
upregulation cannot compensate for MATI/III decrease. Therefore, MAT1A:MAT2A
switch contributes to decrease in SAM level in rodent and human
hepatocarcinogenesis. SAM administration to carcinogen-treated rats prevents
hepatocarcinogenesis, whereas MAT1A-KO mice, characterized by chronic SAM
deficiency, exhibit macrovesicular steatosis, mononuclear cell infiltration in
periportal areas, and HCC development. This review focuses upon the pleiotropic
changes, induced by MAT1A/MAT2A switch, associated with HCC development.
Epigenetic control of MATs expression occurs at transcriptional and
post-transcriptional levels. In HCC cells, MAT1A/MAT2A switch is associated with 
global DNA hypomethylation, decrease in DNA repair, genomic instability, and
signaling deregulation including c-MYC overexpression, rise in polyamine
synthesis, upregulation of RAS/ERK, IKK/NF-kB, PI3K/AKT, and LKB1/AMPK axis.
Furthermore, decrease in MAT1A expression and SAM levels results in increased HCC
cell proliferation, cell survival, and microvascularization. All of these changes
are reversed by SAM treatment in vivo or forced MAT1A overexpression or MAT2A
inhibition in cultured HCC cells. In human HCC, MAT1A:MAT2A and MATI/III:MATII
ratios correlate negatively with cell proliferation and genomic instability, and 
positively with apoptosis and global DNA methylation. This suggests that SAM
decrease and MATs deregulation represent potential therapeutic targets for HCC.
Finally, MATI/III:MATII ratio strongly predicts patients' survival length
suggesting that MAT1A:MAT2A expression ratio is a putative prognostic marker for 
human HCC.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.04.031 
PMID: 23665184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. Klin Med (Mosk). 2013;91(1):20-7.

[Low and very low density lipoproteins: pathogenetic and clinical significance].

[Article in Russian]

Titov VN, Vostrov IA, Kaba SI, Ameliushkina VA, Shiriaeva IuK.

LDLP and VLDLP have different biological functions: phylogenetically older LDLP
transfer FA that serve as substrates for intracellular production of energy and
ATP while VLDLP transfer FA--precursors of cell membranes and eicosanoids. The
cells absorb LDLP via apoB-100 endocytosis and VLDLP through apoE/B-100
receptors. VLDLP consist of palmitic and oleic VLDLP and LDLP of linoleic and
linolenic LDLP. The contribution of LDLP to the development of HLP
atherosclerosis and atheromatosis is negligible. LDLP form palmitic and oleic
VLDLP with hydrated LDLP density. Blockade of LDLP absorption by apoB endocytosis
and deficit of poly-FA constitute the etiological basis of atherosclerosis. Its
pathogenetic basis is the excess of palmitic VLDLP with LDPL density in the
intercellular space that block absorption of linoleic LDLP with all transferred
SC poly-FA. Atheromatosis is clinically and prognostically most significant
symptom of atherosclerosis associated with accumulation of ligand-free VLDLP and 
LDLP in arterial intima of the elastic type as the local pool of interstitial
tissue for intravascular pool of intercellular medium. Type 2 diabetes mellitus
in aged patients is a symptom of atherosclerosis resulting from SC poly-FA
deficit and GLUT4 incompetence. Insulin-dependent cells differ in the degree of
insulin resistance. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, synthesis of a
physiological palmitic TG by hepatocytes and excessive formation of palmitic
VLDLP in liver integrate pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and hepatic steatosis.
The main pathogenetic factor is the excess of palmitic s-FA and palmitic TG.


PMID: 23659066  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1077. Intern Emerg Med. 2013 Dec;8(8):655-66. doi: 10.1007/s11739-013-0953-7. Epub 2013
May 9.

Physical activity for the prevention and treatment of metabolic disorders.

Montesi L(1), Moscatiello S, Malavolti M, Marzocchi R, Marchesini G.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Metabolic Diseases and Clinical Dietetics, "Alma Mater Studiorum"
University, Bologna, Italy.

Metabolic syndrome and its various features (obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia,
diabetes, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease) are increasing worldwide and
constitute a severe risk for the sustainability of the present universal Italian 
health care system. Lifestyle interventions should be the first therapeutic
strategy to prevent/treat metabolic diseases, far before pharmacologic treatment.
The role of diet and weight loss has been fully ascertained, whereas the role of 
physical activity is frequently overlooked both by physicians and by patients.
Physical activity has favorable effects on all components of the metabolic
syndrome and on the resulting cardiovascular risk, the cornerstone in the
development of cardiometabolic diseases. The quantity and the frequency of
physical activity necessary to produce beneficial effects has not been defined as
yet, but brisk walking is considered particularly appropriate, as it can be
practiced by a large number of individuals, without any additional cost, and has 
a low rate of injury. The effects of exercise and leisure time physical activity 
extend from prevention to treatment of the various components of the metabolic
syndrome, as well as to mood and quality of life. Any effort should be done to
favor adherence to protocols of physical activity in the community.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-013-0953-7 
PMID: 23657989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1078. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2013 Jul;16(4):446-52. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0b013e328361c4d1.

Carbohydrate intake and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Neuschwander-Tetri BA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Saint Louis University, St Louis,
Missouri 63105, USA. tetriba@slu.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Carbohydrate consumption has been implicated in the metabolic 
syndrome and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Reviewed here is basis for
this relationship and the recent additional evidence that excessive dietary
carbohydrate consumption, especially excessive fructose or sucrose consumption,
is playing a role in the epidemic of NAFLD.
RECENT FINDINGS: A recent cross-sectional epidemiological study has linked
fructose consumption to the severity of fibrosis in patients with NAFLD. Clinical
trials have shown that consumption of fructose-containing beverages, either has
fructose or sucrose, contribute to the development of NAFLD compared to
isocaloric alternatives, and that genetic polymorphisms that increase the entry
of glucose into lipogenic pathways are associated with fatty liver disease. New
animal studies provide additional evidence on the role of carbohydrate-induced
de-novo lipogenesis and the gut microbiome in fructose-induced NAFLD. Data also
suggest that fructose-induced uric acid production in the liver also plays a role
in NAFLD independent of the role of fructose as a substrate for lipogenesis.
SUMMARY: Epidemiological studies, clinical trials, and animal studies continue to
point to excess dietary carbohydrate, and especially fructose, in contributing to
the risk factors for NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e328361c4d1 
PMID: 23657151  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1079. Eur J Endocrinol. 2013 Jun 29;169(2):R27-37. doi: 10.1530/EJE-13-0296. Print 2013
Aug.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in common endocrine disorders.

Hazlehurst JM(1), Tomlinson JW.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism, School of Clinical and
Experimental Medicine, Institute of Biomedical Research, University of
Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2YY, UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a spectrum of disease spanning from 
simple benign steatosis to steatohepatitis with fibrosis and scarring that can
eventually lead to cirrhosis. Its prevalence is rising rapidly and is developing 
into the leading indication for liver transplantation worldwide. Abnormalities in
endocrine axes have been associated with NALFD, including hypogonadism,
hypothyroidism, GH deficiency and hypercortisolaemia. In some instances,
correction of the endocrine defects has been shown to have a beneficial impact.
While in patients with type 2 diabetes the association with NAFLD is well
established and recognised, there is a more limited appreciation of the condition
among common endocrine diseases presenting with hormonal excess or deficiency. In
this review, we examine the published data that have suggested a mechanistic link
between endocrine abnormalities and NAFLD and summarise the clinical data
endorsing these observations.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-13-0296 
PMID: 23653455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Curr Opin Organ Transplant. 2013 Jun;18(3):251-8. doi:
10.1097/MOT.0b013e3283615d30.

Evolving aspects of liver transplantation for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Charlton M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic and Foundation,
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. charlton.michael@mayo.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), obesity, and the
metabolic syndrome are highly prevalent. NASH, a rare indication for liver
transplantation in the early 1990s, is now the third most common indication. This
review considers key aspects of the liver transplantation for NASH.
RECENT FINDINGS: NASH is one consequence of obesity, almost always occurring in
the context of metabolic syndrome and oxidative stress. Recurrence of NASH can be
severe. The components of metabolic syndrome are often exacerbated following
liver transplantation by factors such as immunosuppression, and are important
predictors of patient morbidity and mortality. Many aspects of the metabolic
syndrome are modifiable. The roles bariatric surgery, nutritional and
pharmacotherapy of NASH, and the impact of established and new immunosuppressive 
agents have recently evolved.
SUMMARY: A nuanced approach is needed in management of obesity, metabolic
syndrome, and immunosuppression in liver transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.1097/MOT.0b013e3283615d30 
PMID: 23652610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1081. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2013 Mar;76(1):3-9.

Liver progenitor cells and therapeutic potential of stem cells in human chronic
liver diseases.

Lanthier N(1), Rubbia-Brandt L, Spahr L.

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Specialities Department, University Hospitals
of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. nicolas.lanthier@uclouvain.be

Liver progenitor cells, thought to reside in the terminal bile ductules (canals
of Hering) at the interface between portal tracts and liver lobule, proliferate
during severe hepatic injury. They may contribute to hepatocyte regeneration, or 
even take over this role if the liver injury is severe and associated with an
impairment of hepatocyte proliferation. They represent promising targets in an
attempt to stimulate liver regeneration in chronic diseases. Recent studies on
liver progenitor cell recruitment in response to injury in chronic viral
hepatitis B, hepatitis C, alcoholic and non-alcoholic liver diseases are
presented in this review, as well as clinical trials in which stem cells are
administered as a therapeutic intervention to promote liver regeneration. Liver
progenitor cell expansion is part of the disease process itself and may
contribute to disease severity, mainly related to fibrosis. As the majority of
these progenitor cells tend to acquire a biliary phenotype, their role in liver
repair and improvement in liver function remains to be addressed. Present data on
stem cell therapy are heterogeneous in terms of methods and endpoints; thus,
results need to be carefully examined prior to drawing a conclusion on possible
benefits.


PMID: 23650775  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1082. Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis. 2013 Jun;23(6):487-504. doi:
10.1016/j.numecd.2013.02.007. Epub 2013 May 1.

Moderate alcohol use and health: a consensus document.

Poli A(1), Marangoni F, Avogaro A, Barba G, Bellentani S, Bucci M, Cambieri R,
Catapano AL, Costanzo S, Cricelli C, de Gaetano G, Di Castelnuovo A, Faggiano P, 
Fattirolli F, Fontana L, Forlani G, Frattini S, Giacco R, La Vecchia C,
Lazzaretto L, Loffredo L, Lucchin L, Marelli G, Marrocco W, Minisola S, Musicco
M, Novo S, Nozzoli C, Pelucchi C, Perri L, Pieralli F, Rizzoni D, Sterzi R,
Vettor R, Violi F, Visioli F.

Author information: 
(1)NFI (Nutrition Foundation of Italy), Viale Tunisia 38, 20124 Milan, Italy.
poli@nutrition-foundation.it

Comment in
    Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis. 2014 Jan;24(1):e4-5.
    Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis. 2014 Jul;24(7):e25-6.

AIMS: The aim of this consensus paper is to review the available evidence on the 
association between moderate alcohol use, health and disease and to provide a
working document to the scientific and health professional communities.
DATA SYNTHESIS: In healthy adults and in the elderly, spontaneous consumption of 
alcoholic beverages within 30 g ethanol/d for men and 15 g/d for women is to be
considered acceptable and do not deserve intervention by the primary care
physician or the health professional in charge. Patients with increased risk for 
specific diseases, for example, women with familiar history of breast cancer, or 
subjects with familiar history of early cardiovascular disease, or cardiovascular
patients should discuss with their physician their drinking habits. No abstainer 
should be advised to drink for health reasons. Alcohol use must be discouraged in
specific physiological or personal situations or in selected age classes
(children and adolescents, pregnant and lactating women and recovering
alcoholics). Moreover, the possible interactions between alcohol and acute or
chronic drug use must be discussed with the primary care physician.
CONCLUSIONS: The choice to consume alcohol should be based on individual
considerations, taking into account the influence on health and diet, the risk of
alcoholism and abuse, the effect on behaviour and other factors that may vary
with age and lifestyle. Moderation in drinking and development of an associated
lifestyle culture should be fostered.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.numecd.2013.02.007 
PMID: 23642930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1083. Diabetes Technol Ther. 2013 May;15(5):351-61. doi: 10.1089/dia.2013.0039. Epub
2013 Apr 15.

Obesity and diabetes: newer concepts in imaging.

Garg K(1), Chang S, Scherzinger A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine,
Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA. Kavita.garg@ucdenver.edu

Comment in
    Diabetes Technol Ther. 2013 May;15(5):349-50.

Quantifying body fat is currently an area of active research. Recent studies have
shown that the quantity and location of fat in different compartments have
varying clinical significance. This information can now be obtained from computed
tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR), and it can inform clinical decision
making for patient management. Diabetes patients with insulin resistance and
hyperinsulinemia have nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) ranging from
steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and cirrhosis, typically
diagnosed by liver biopsy or serum markers. There is now an emerging role of
noninvasive imaging tests such as MR imaging or MR spectroscopy or elastography, 
which can provide quantitative information and have potential to avoid biopsy.
Obese patients with diabetes are also at risk for cardiovascular disease and
cancer. There is an emerging role for imaging in early detection of not only
structural but also functional abnormalities of myocardium at a subclinical
stage. Screening for cancer is currently recommended only for breast, colon,
prostate, and cervix. Given wider availability and advances in imaging techniques
such as positron emission tomography/CT (faster scans with higher resolution and 
less ionizing radiation) and better understanding of molecular biology and
risk-stratification, more and more cancers are being detected in early stages
with better clinical outcomes. Concerns related to cost, overdiagnosis, and
unnecessary interventions must be addressed before population-based screening for
other cancers is recommended. Based on ongoing imaging research, it is expected
that it will be possible to provide more precise measurement of body fat and
detect cardiovascular disease and cancers earlier in their course.

DOI: 10.1089/dia.2013.0039 
PMID: 23634670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1084. Curr Med Chem. 2013;20(21):2609-25.

Pharmacological inhibition of protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B: a promising
strategy for the treatment of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Panzhinskiy E(1), Ren J, Nair S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Health Sciences & the Center
for Cardiovascular Research and Alternative Medicine, University of Wyoming
College of Health Sciences, Laramie, WY 82071, USA.

Obesity and metabolic syndrome represent major public health problems, and are
the biggest preventable causes of death worldwide. Obesity is the leading risk
factor for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), cardiovascular diseases and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Obesity-associated insulin resistance, which
is characterized by reduced uptake and utilization of glucose in muscle, adipose 
and liver tissues, is a key predictor of metabolic syndrome and T2DM. With
increasing prevalence of obesity in adults and children, the need to identify and
characterize potential targets for treating metabolic syndrome is imminent.
Emerging evidence from animal models, clinical studies and cell lines studies
suggest that protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B), an enzyme that negatively
regulates insulin signaling, is likely to be involved in the pathways leading to 
insulin resistance. PTP1B is tethered to the cytosolic surface of endoplasmic
reticulum (ER), an organelle that is responsible for folding, modification, and
trafficking of proteins. Recent evidence links the disruption of ER homeostasis, 
referred to as ER stress, to the pathogenesis of obesity and T2DM. PTP1B has been
recognized as an important player linking ER stress and insulin resistance in
obese subjects. This review highlights recent advances in the research related to
the role of PTP1B in signal transduction processes implicated in pathophysiology 
of obesity and type 2 diabetes, and focuses on the potential therapeutic
exploitation of PTP1B inhibitors for the management of these conditions.


PMID: 23627940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1085. Crit Rev Immunol. 2013;33(1):57-96.

Role of scavenger receptors in the pathophysiology of chronic liver diseases.

Armengol C(1), Bartolí R, Sanjurjo L, Serra I, Amézaga N, Sala M, Sarrias MR.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Oncology Group, Health Sciences Research Institute Germans Trias i
Pujol, Badalona, Spain.

Scavenger receptors comprise a large family of structurally diverse proteins that
are involved in many homeostatic functions. They recognize a wide range of
ligands, from pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) to endogenous, as
well as modified host-derived molecules (DAMPs). The liver deals with blood
micro-organisms and DAMPs released from injured organs, thus performing vital
metabolic and clearance functions that require the uptake of nutrients and
toxins. Many liver cell types, including hepatocytes and Kupffer cells, express
scavenger receptors that play key roles in hepatitis C virus entry, lipid uptake,
and macrophage activation, among others. Chronic liver disease causes high
morbidity and mortality worldwide. Hepatitis virus infection, alcohol abuse, and 
non-alcoholic fatty liver are the main etiologies associated with this disease.
In this context, continuous inflammation as a result of liver damage leads to
hepatic fibrosis, which frequently brings about cirrhosis and ultimately
hepatocellular carcinoma. In this review, we will summarize the role of scavenger
receptors in the pathophysiology of chronic liver diseases. We will also
emphasize their potential as biomarkers of advanced liver disease, including
cirrhosis and cancer.


PMID: 23627007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1086. Pediatr Obes. 2013 Aug;8(4):242-8. doi: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2013.00171.x. Epub
2013 Apr 29.

Calorie-sweetened beverages and fructose: what have we learned 10 years later.

Bray GA(1), Popkin BM.

Author information: 
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, LA, USA. brayga@pbrc.edu

Comment in
    Pediatr Obes. 2014 Oct;9(5):e77.
    Pediatr Obes. 2014 Oct;9(5):e78-9.

BACKGROUND: Sugar-sweetened drinks and the fructose they provide are associated
with several health problems.
METHODS: Data from the Nielsen Homescan and product content were analysed for
sweetener type using the Gladson Nutrition Database. Meta-analyses and randomized
clinical trials were used to evaluate outcomes of beverage and fructose intake.
RESULTS: Over 70% of all foods contain some amounts of added sugar, and
consumption of soft drinks has increased fivefold since 1950. Meta-analyses
suggest that consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is related to the risk of
diabetes, the metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease in adults and in
children. Drinking two sugar-sweetened beverages per day for 6 months induced
features of the metabolic syndrome and fatty liver. Randomized, controlled trials
in children and adults lasting from 6 months to 2 years have shown that lowering 
the intake of soft drinks reduced weight gain. Genetic factors influence the
weight gain when drinking soft drinks.
CONCLUSION: Consumption of calorie-sweetened beverages and the fructose they
contain has continued to increase and may play a role in the epidemic of obesity,
the metabolic syndrome and fatty liver disease. Reducing intake of soft drinks is
associated with less weight gain and metabolic improvement as well.

© 2013 The Authors. Pediatric Obesity © 2013 International Association for the
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2013.00171.x 
PMID: 23625798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1087. Rev Med Interne. 2013 Aug;34(8):472-8. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2013.02.043. Epub
2013 Apr 25.

[Unexplained, subclinical chronically elevated transaminases].

[Article in French]

Vital Durand D(1), Lega JC, Fassier T, Zenone T, Durieu I.

Author information: 
(1)Service de médecine interne, centre hospitalier Lyon-Sud, université de Lyon, 
Pierre Bénite cedex, France. denis.vital-durand@chu-lyon.fr

Unexplained, subclinical chronically elevated transaminases is mainly a marker of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, metabolic syndrome, alcoholism and diabetes,
which are very common situations but viral hepatitis and iatrogenic origin must
also be considered. Before looking for hepatic or genetic rare diseases, it is
worth considering hypertransaminasemia as a clue for muscular disease,
particularly in paediatric settings, and creatine phosphokinase is a specific
marker. Then, patient history, examination and appropriate biologic requests can 
permit the identification of less frequent disorders where isolated
hypertransaminasemia is possibly the unique marker of the disease for a long
while: hemochromatosis, celiac disease, autoimmune hepatitis, Wilson's disease,
α1-anti-trypsine deficiency, thyroid dysfunctions, Addison's disease. Liver
biopsy should be performed only in patients with aspartate aminotransferases
upper the normal range or alanine aminotransferases higher than twice the normal 
range after 6 months delay with dietetic corrections.

Copyright © 2013 Société nationale française de médecine interne (SNFMI).
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2013.02.043 
PMID: 23623710  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1088. Transplant Proc. 2013 Apr;45(3):1178-81. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2012.10.009.

Recurrence of disease after liver transplantation.

Friman S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Transplant Institute, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
styrbjorn.friman@surgery.gu.se

Over the past decade, we have seen an increased number of patients living more
than 20 years with their liver grafts. In turn, we are gaining more experience
with recurrence of the original disease. Disease recurrence can be divided into 4
main groups: (1) malignant disease, (2) viral disease, (3) autoimmune diseases
like primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) and primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSO),
and finally (4) researched lifestyle that caused the original disease, eg,
obesity causing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), or alcoholic liver disease (ALD). This overview reports
follow up, diagnosis, and treatment of recurrences.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2012.10.009 
PMID: 23622654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol. 2013 May-Jun;79(3):310-21. doi:
10.4103/0378-6323.110759.

Polycystic ovarian syndrome.

Madnani N(1), Khan K, Chauhan P, Parmar G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, P D Hinduja National Hospital, Mahim, Mumbai,
India.

Comment in
    Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol. 2014 Mar-Apr;80(2):153-4.

Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is a "multispeciality" disorder suspected in
patients with irregular menses and clinical signs of hyperandrogenism such as
acne, seborrhoea, hirsutism, irregular menses, infertility, and alopecia.
Recently, PCOS has been associated with the metabolic syndrome. Patients may
develop obesity, insulin resistance, acanthosis nigricans, Type 2 diabetes,
dyslipidemias, hypertension, non-alcoholic liver disease, and obstructive sleep
apnoea. Good clinical examination with hematological and radiological
investigations is required for clinical evaluation. Management is a combined
effort involving a dermatologist, endocrinologist, gynecologist, and
nutritionist. Morbidity in addition includes a low "self image" and poor quality 
of life. Long term medications and lifestyle changes are essential for a
successful outcome. This article focuses on understanding the normal and abnormal
endocrine functions involved in the pathogenesis of PCOS. Proper diagnosis and
management of the patient is discussed.

DOI: 10.4103/0378-6323.110759 
PMID: 23619436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1090. Ann Hepatol. 2013 May-Jun;12(3):357-63.

Probiotics in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: which and when.

Abenavoli L(1), Scarpellini E, Rouabhia S, Balsano C, Luzza F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University Magna Græcia, Catanzaro-Italy.
l.abenavoli@unicz.it

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common and serious disease.
Literature reports the central role of the gut-liver axis in the pathogenesis of 
NAFLD, and recently suggests that the microbiota is a casual factor of the
disease, involved in the interactions between intestinal lumen and liver.
Probiotic are commensal bacteria, able to modulate the microbiota with benefits
for the health of humans. Several data suggest a range of potentially beneficial 
medicinal uses for probiotics, in particular in NAFLD patients. However, the
species with higher efficacy in this disease are not identified. The present
review focuses on the role of gut-liver axis in the pathogenesis, and on the
potential therapeutic role of probiotics in the managing of NAFLD.


PMID: 23619251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1091. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Apr 21;19(15):2298-306. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v19.i15.2298.

Dipeptidyl peptidase-4: a key player in chronic liver disease.

Itou M(1), Kawaguchi T, Taniguchi E, Sata M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Kurume University School
of Medicine, Kurume 830-0011, Japan.

Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) is a membrane-associated peptidase, also known as 
CD26. DPP-4 has widespread organ distribution throughout the body and exerts
pleiotropic effects via its peptidase activity. A representative target peptide
is glucagon-like peptide-1, and inactivation of glucagon-like peptide-1 results
in the development of glucose intolerance/diabetes mellitus and hepatic
steatosis. In addition to its peptidase activity, DPP-4 is known to be associated
with immune stimulation, binding to and degradation of extracellular matrix,
resistance to anti-cancer agents, and lipid accumulation. The liver expresses
DPP-4 to a high degree, and recent accumulating data suggest that DPP-4 is
involved in the development of various chronic liver diseases such as hepatitis C
virus infection, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and hepatocellular carcinoma.
Furthermore, DPP-4 occurs in hepatic stem cells and plays a crucial role in
hepatic regeneration. In this review, we described the tissue distribution and
various biological effects of DPP-4. Then, we discussed the impact of DPP-4 in
chronic liver disease and the possible therapeutic effects of a DPP-4 inhibitor.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i15.2298 
PMCID: PMC3631980
PMID: 23613622  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1092. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2013 Jul;67(7):688-96. doi: 10.1038/ejcn.2013.70. Epub 2013 Apr 
24.

Overweight, obesity and related non-communicable diseases in Asian Indian girls
and women.

Chopra SM(1), Misra A, Gulati S, Gupta R.

Author information: 
(1)National Diabetes Obesity and Cholesterol Foundation, New Delhi, India.

The prevalence of obesity is rising globally and in India. Overweight, obesity
and related diseases need to be delineated in Asian Indian women. A literature
search was done using key words like 'obesity', 'Asian Indian women', 'body fat
distribution', 'type 2 diabetes', 'fertility', 'polycystic ovarian disease',
metabolic syndrome', 'cardiovascular disease', 'non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease', 'gender', 'sex' and 'prevalence' up to September 2012 in Pubmed and
Google Scholar search engines. This review highlights the Asian Indian body
composition with regards to obesity and provides a collated perspective of
gender-specific prevalence of the co-morbidities. Recent data show that women
(range of prevalence of overweight and obesity from different studies 15-61%)
have higher prevalence of overweight and obesity as compared with men (range of
prevalence of overweight and obesity from different studies 12-54%) in India and 
that obesity is increasing in the youth. The prevalence of overweight and obesity
in both men and women steeply rose in a Punjabi community from Jaipur.
Importantly, prevalence of abdominal obesity has been consistently higher in
women than in men. The lowest prevalence (6.0%) of type 2 diabetes mellitus in
women is reported from South India (rural Andhra Pradesh; 2006) and the highest
(14.0%) by the National Urban Diabetes Survey (2001). Although the clustering of 
cardiovascular disease risk factors was generally high, it increased further in
post-menopausal women. There are a number of factors that predispose Indian women
to obesity; sedentary behaviour, imbalanced diets, sequential and additive
postpartum weight gain and further decrease in physical activity during this
period and cultural issues. In view of these data, preventive measures should be 
specifically targeted to Indian women.

DOI: 10.1038/ejcn.2013.70 
PMID: 23612512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1093. Adv Immunol. 2013;117:73-97. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-12-410524-9.00003-7.

The intestinal microbiota in chronic liver disease.

Henao-Mejia J(1), Elinav E, Thaiss CA, Flavell RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
CT, USA.

Recent evidence indicates that the intestinal microflora plays a critical role in
physiological and pathological processes; in particular, it is now considered a
key determinant of immune pathologies and metabolic syndrome. Receiving the
majority of its blood supply from the portal vein, the liver represents the first
line of defense against food antigens, toxins, microbial-derived products, and
microorganisms. Moreover, the liver is critically positioned to integrate
metabolic outcomes with nutrient intake. To accomplish this function, the liver
is equipped with a broad array of immune networks. It is now evident that, during
pathological processes associated with obesity, alcohol-intake, or autoimmunity, 
the interaction between these immune cell populations and the intestinal
microbiota promotes chronic liver disease progression and therefore they
represent a novel therapeutic target. Herein, we highlight recent studies that
have shed new light on the relationship between the microbiome, the innate immune
system, and chronic liver disease progression.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-410524-9.00003-7 
PMID: 23611286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1094. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2013 Jul;17(7):773-9. doi:
10.1517/14728222.2013.789502. Epub 2013 Apr 22.

Novel therapeutic targets for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Eguchi A(1), Povero D, Alkhouri N, Feldstein AE.

Author information: 
(1)Rady Children's Hospital, Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, University
of California-San Diego, CA 92123, USA. afeldstein@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2013 Jul;17(7):861-2.

INTRODUCTION: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a serious public health
problem. It is now estimated to affect 30% of adults and about 10% of children in
the U.S. Hispanics are disproportionably affected with not only higher rates of
NAFLD but also more severe disease. Treatment options are currently limited.
AREAS COVERED: In this review, we will focus on a series of novel findings
related to the pathobiology of liver damage in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) that are attractive targets for development of novel therapeutic
strategies for human NASH. In particular, we will discuss four different areas
due to their novelty and growing importance including microparticles, the
inflammasomes, gut-liver axis and dietary lipids.
EXPERT OPINION: There is an urgent need to develop novel safe and effective
therapies for the growing NAFLD epidemic. The data discussed in this article
provide strong rational to think out of the box when considering novel
therapeutic targets for patients with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2013.789502 
PMID: 23600493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1095. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 2013 May;74(2):115-20. doi: 10.1016/j.ando.2013.02.008.
Epub 2013 Apr 15.

Relationship between hepatocellular carcinoma, metabolic syndrome and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: which clinical arguments?

Rosmorduc O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Inserm UMR_S938, service d'hépatologie, hôpital Saint-Antoine, université
Pierre- et Marie-Curie (Paris 6), 184, rue du Faubourg Saint-Antoine, 75012
Paris, France. Olivier.rosmorduc@sat.aphp.fr

Obesity and the metabolic syndrome are growing epidemics associated with an
increased risk for many types of cancer. In the liver, inflammatory and
angiogenic changes due to insulin resistance and fatty liver disease are
associated with an increased incidence of liver cancer. Regardless of underlying 
liver disease, cirrhosis remains the most important risk factor for
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) although are cases of HCC arising without
cirrhosis raise the possibility of a direct carcinogenesis secondary to
Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD). Moreover, metabolic syndrome and its
different features may also increase the risk of HCC in the setting of chronic
liver diseases of other causes such as viral hepatitis or alcohol abuse. Taking
into account all these data, it is necessary to better determine the risk of
developing HCC in patients with metabolic syndrome to improve the screening
guidelines and develop prophylactic treatments in this setting.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ando.2013.02.008 
PMID: 23597944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1096. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Apr 17;14(4):8437-55. doi: 10.3390/ijms14048437.

Dual role of microRNAs in NAFLD.

Ceccarelli S(1), Panera N, Gnani D, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Hepato-Metabolic Disease Unit and Liver Research Unit, Bambino Gesù Children's
Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza S. Onofrio, 4, 00165 Rome, Italy.
sara.ceccarelli@opbg.net.

MicroRNAs are important post-transcriptional regulators in different
pathophysiological processes. They typically affect the mRNA stability or
translation finally leading to the repression of target gene expression. Notably,
it is thought that microRNAs are crucial for regulating gene expression during
metabolic-related disorders, such as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
Several studies identify specific microRNA expression profiles associated to
different histological features of NAFLD, both in animal models and in patients. 
Therefore, specific assortments of certain microRNAs could have enormous
diagnostic potentiality. In addition, microRNAs have also emerged as possible
therapeutic targets for the treatment of NAFLD-related liver damage. In this
review, we discuss the experimental evidence about microRNAs both as potential
non-invasive early diagnostic markers and as novel therapeutic targets in NAFLD
and its more severe liver complications.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms14048437 
PMCID: PMC3645753
PMID: 23594995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. Tunis Med. 2013 Mar;91(3):171-4.

[Non alcoholic fatty liver disease: a new risk factor for cardiovascular
disease?].

[Article in French]

Sdiri W, Romdhane H, Mbarek D, Ben Abdallah H, Longo S, Abdelli MN, Boujnah MR.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is frequently diagnosed in 
daily practice. This condition is represented by a large spectrum of chronic
liver diseases going from pure hepatic steatosis to cirrhosis and its
complications, including hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD is usually associated to
glucose and lipoproteins metabolism increasing the cardiovascular risk.
AIM: To review new advances in the knowledge of the pathophysiological links
between NAFLD and cardiovascular risk, evaluation of cardiovascular risk in this 
special situation and the different therapeutics proposed.
METHODS: Systematic review of the literature using medical data bases (Medline)
with the following key words: non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, hepatic
steatosis, cardiovascular risk, metabolic syndrome.
RESULTS: We'll report pathophysiological links between NAFLD and cardiovascular
risk, propose an evaluation of cardiovascular risk in this special situation and 
expose a therapeutic strategy.
CONCLUSION: The discovery of a non alcoholic fatty liver disease should lead to a
cardiovascular risk evaluation.


PMID: 23588628  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1098. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013;2013:481893. doi: 10.1155/2013/481893. Epub 2013 Mar
20.

Current concepts and management approaches in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Attar BM(1), Van Thiel DH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Cook County Health and Hospitals 
System, John H. Stroger Hospital of Cook County, Rush University Medical Center, 
1901 West Harrison Street, Administration Building, Suite 1450, Chicago, IL
60612, USA. bashar attar@rush.edu

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of liver
dysfunction worldwide. NAFLD may progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) 
and in turn cirrhosis. Importantly, hepatic cancer can occur in NASH in the
absence of cirrhosis. The cardinal histologic feature of NAFLD is the presence of
an excessive accumulation of triacylglycerols and diacylglycerols in hepatocytes.
The presence of obesity and insulin resistance lead to an increased hepatic-free 
fatty acid (FFA) flux creating an environment appropriate for the development of 
NAFLD. The generation of toxic reactive oxygen species with the production of
hepatic injury and inflammation as a consequence of FFA oxidation will ultimately
lead to the initiation and progression of fibrosis. Lifestyle modifications
specifically weight loss, physical exercise, and cognitive behavior therapy have 
been recommended as treatments for NASH. Dietary fructose is an independent risk 
factor for the development of NAFLD. Pioglitazone can be used to treat
biopsy-proven NASH; however, its safety risks should be considered carefully.
Greater consumption for coffee, independent of its caffeine component, has been
associated with a significant reduced risk of advanced fibrosis in NASH.
Additional data are needed before recommending bariatric surgery as an
established option for the specific treatment of NASH.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/481893 
PMCID: PMC3616346
PMID: 23576902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1099. J Physiol Pharmacol. 2013 Feb;64(1):3-9.

Is fatty liver always benign and should not consequently be treated?

Fierbinteanu-Braticevici C(1), Negreanu L, Tarantino G.

Author information: 
(1)Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Medical Clinic II and
Gastroenterology, University Hospital Bucharest, Romania. cfierbinteanu@yahoo.com

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) consists of a broad spectrum of liver
lesions ranging from fatty liver (FL), through nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), up to cirrhosis. The incidence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease has
increased in recent years due to the high rate of obesity in developed countries.
Although the dogma "simple steatosis - benign prognosis, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis - severe evolution" still stands for many hepatologists, plenty
of data underline the unsuspected evolution, i.e., that some patients may
progress from fatty liver towards cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
NAFLD is the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. In certain
metabolic circumstances, isolated hepatic steatosis is not necessarily a benign
disorder associating cardiovascular risk and evolution towards severe liver
diseases including HCC. We tried to shed some light on this problem, taking into 
account its major health impact and the variegate and sometimes unpredictable
evolution of NAFLD.


PMID: 23568965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1100. J Hepatol. 2013 Sep;59(3):583-94. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.033. Epub 2013 Apr 
6.

Decoding cell death signals in liver inflammation.

Brenner C(1), Galluzzi L, Kepp O, Kroemer G.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, UMRS 769, LabEx LERMIT, F-92290 Châtenay Malabry, France.

Inflammation can be either beneficial or detrimental to the liver, depending on
multiple factors. Mild (i.e., limited in intensity and destined to resolve)
inflammatory responses have indeed been shown to exert consistent
hepatoprotective effects, contributing to tissue repair and promoting the
re-establishment of homeostasis. Conversely, excessive (i.e., disproportionate in
intensity and permanent) inflammation may induce a massive loss of hepatocytes
and hence exacerbate the severity of various hepatic conditions, including
ischemia-reperfusion injury, systemic metabolic alterations (e.g., obesity,
diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disorders), alcoholic hepatitis, intoxication
by xenobiotics and infection, de facto being associated with irreversible liver
damage, fibrosis, and carcinogenesis. Both liver-resident cells (e.g., Kupffer
cells, hepatic stellate cells, sinusoidal endothelial cells) and cells that are
recruited in response to injury (e.g., monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells,
natural killer cells) emit pro-inflammatory signals including - but not limited
to - cytokines, chemokines, lipid messengers, and reactive oxygen species that
contribute to the apoptotic or necrotic demise of hepatocytes. In turn, dying
hepatocytes release damage-associated molecular patterns that-upon binding to
evolutionary conserved pattern recognition receptors-activate cells of the innate
immune system to further stimulate inflammatory responses, hence establishing a
highly hepatotoxic feedforward cycle of inflammation and cell death. In this
review, we discuss the cellular and molecular mechanisms that account for the
most deleterious effect of hepatic inflammation at the cellular level, that is,
the initiation of a massive cell death response among hepatocytes.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.033 
PMID: 23567086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1101. J Hepatol. 2013 Oct;59(4):891-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.032. Epub 2013 Apr
6.

Cannabinoid signaling and liver therapeutics.

Mallat A(1), Teixeira-Clerc F, Lotersztajn S.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, U955, Créteil 94000, France; Université Paris-Est, UMR-S955, UPEC,
Créteil 94000, France; AP-HP, Hôpital H. Mondor-A. Chenevier, Dept d'Hépatologie 
et de Gastroentérologie, Créteil 94000, France.

Over the last decade, the endocannabinoid system has emerged as a pivotal
mediator of acute and chronic liver injury, with the description of the role of
CB1 and CB2 receptors and their endogenous lipidic ligands in various aspects of 
liver pathophysiology. A large number of studies have demonstrated that CB1
receptor antagonists represent an important therapeutic target, owing to
beneficial effects on lipid metabolism and in light of its antifibrogenic
properties. Unfortunately, the brain-penetrant CB1 antagonist rimonabant,
initially approved for the management of overweight and related cardiometabolic
risks, was withdrawn because of an alarming rate of mood adverse effects.
However, the efficacy of peripherally-restricted CB1 antagonists with limited
brain penetrance has now been validated in preclinical models of NAFLD, and
beneficial effects on fibrosis and its complications are anticipated. CB2
receptor is currently considered as a promising anti-inflammatory and
antifibrogenic target, although clinical development of CB2 agonists is still
awaited. In this review, we highlight the latest advances on the impact of the
endocannabinoid system on the key steps of chronic liver disease progression and 
discuss the therapeutic potential of molecules targeting cannabinoid receptors.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.032 
PMID: 23567085  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1102. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2013 Jun;9(6):713-24. doi:
10.1517/17425255.2013.783817. Epub 2013 Apr 9.

Role of microRNAs in the regulation of drug metabolism and disposition genes in
diabetes and liver disease.

Pogribny IP(1), Beland FA.

Author information: 
(1)NCTR, Division of Biochemical Toxicology, Jefferson, AR 72079, USA.
igor.pogribny@fda.hhs.gov

INTRODUCTION: The pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus and nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease (NAFLD) is complex, and the underlying molecular mechanisms are only
partially understood.
AREAS COVERED: This review summarizes current knowledge of the role of microRNAs 
(miRNAs) in the regulation of drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, and
excretion genes in the pathogenesis of diabetes and NAFLD. The literature search 
was performed using the PubMed database (up to February 2013).
EXPERT OPINION: miRNAs play a fundamental role in diabetes and NAFLD. This review
focuses on the dysregulation of miRNAs involved in the regulation of drug
metabolism and disposition in the pathogenesis of these metabolic syndromes. The 
evidence presented indicates that better understanding of the underlying
molecular mechanisms associated with dysregulation of miRNAs controlling the
cellular drug metabolizing system is of great importance not only from a
scientific, but also from a clinical perspective. More importantly, an
association between these metabolic disorders and miRNA dysregulation suggests
that correcting miRNA expression by either their up-regulation or inhibition
holds a promise for treating these metabolic syndrome and alleviating disease
progression.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.2013.783817 
PMID: 23565851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1103. J Diabetes. 2013 Dec;5(4):406-15. doi: 10.1111/1753-0407.12056. Epub 2013 Jun 4.

Diagnosis and management of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and related
metabolic disorders: consensus statement from the Study Group of Liver and
Metabolism, Chinese Society of Endocrinology.

Gao X(1), Fan JG; Study Group of Liver and Metabolism, Chinese Society of
Endocrinology.

Collaborators: Ning G, Li YM, Ji LN, Bao YQ, Xu ZR, Zhu DL, Liu J, Bi YF, He LJ, 
Li Q, Fan JG, Chen LL, Miao ZM, Zhao JJ, Jia WP, Gao X, Gao YY, Xu YQ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan
University, Shanghai, China.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in
Western countries, affecting 20%-33% of the general population. Large
population-based surveys in China indicate a prevalence of approximately 15%-30%.
Worldwide, including in China, the prevalence of NAFLD has increased rapidly in
parallel with regional trends of obesity, type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome.
In addition, NAFLD has contributed significantly to increased overall, as well as
cardiovascular and liver-related, mortality in the general population. In view of
rapid advances in research into NAFLD in recent years, this consensus statement
provides a brief update on the progress in the field and suggests preferred
approaches for the comprehensive management of NAFLD and its related metabolic
diseases.

© 2013 Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine and Wiley
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-0407.12056 
PMCID: PMC3933762
PMID: 23560695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1104. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2013 Apr;12(2):125-35.

Therapeutic approaches to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: past achievements
and future challenges.

Xiao J(1), Guo R, Fung ML, Liong EC, Tipoe GL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a leading cause of
chronic liver injury and mortality in Western countries and China. However, as to
date, there is no direct and effective therapy for this disease. The aim of this 
review is to analyze the key progress and challenges of main current therapeutic 
approaches in NAFLD.
DATA SOURCE: We carried out a PubMed search of English-language articles relevant
to NAFLD therapy.
RESULTS: There are two major therapeutic strategies for NAFLD treatment: (1)
lifestyle interventions (including weight reduction, dietary modification and
physical exercise) and (2) pharmaceutical therapies. Lifestyle interventions,
particularly chronic and moderate intensity exercise, are the most effective and 
recognized clinical therapies for NAFLD. For pharmaceutical therapies, although
their effects and mechanisms have been extensively investigated in laboratory
studies, they still need further tests and investigations in clinical human
trials.
CONCLUSION: Future advancement of NAFLD therapy should focus on the mechanistic
studies on cell based and animal models and human clinical trials of exercise, as
well as the combination of lifestyle intervention and pharmaceutical therapy
specifically targeting main signaling pathways related to lipid metabolism,
oxidative stress and inflammation.


PMID: 23558065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1105. Tumori. 2013 Jan-Feb;99(1):10-6. doi: 10.1700/1248.13781.

Linking nonalcoholic fatty liver disease to hepatocellular carcinoma: from
bedside to bench and back.

Yilmaz Y(1), Colak Y, Kurt R, Senates E, Eren F.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Gastroenterology, of Medicine, Marmara University, Istanbul,
Turkey. dryusufyilmaz@gmail.com

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) are two major causes of liver disease worldwide. Epidemiological 
and clinical data have clearly demonstrated that NAFLD and its associated
metabolic abnormalities are a risk factor for HCC. Traditionally, the mechanisms 
whereby NAFLD acts as a risk for HCC are believed to include replicative
senescence of steatotic hepatocytes and compensatory hyperplasia of progenitor
cells as a reaction to chronic hepatic injury. Recent years have witnessed
significant advances in our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the link
between NAFLD and HCC.
METHODS: In the present review, we provide an update on the pathophysiological
pathways linking NAFLD and its associated metabolic derangements to malignant
hepatic transformation, with a special focus on insulin resistance, adipokines,
inflammation, and angiogenesis. We will also discuss the potential therapeutic
implications that such molecular links carry.
RESULTS: Although treating NAFLD could reduce the risk of malignant hepatic
transformation, no long-term studies focusing on this issue have been conducted
thus far. Insulin resistance, inflammation as well as derangements in adipokines 
and angiogenic factors associated with NAFLD are closely intertwined with the
risk of developing HCC.
CONCLUSIONS: Traditional therapeutic approaches in NAFLD including metformin and 
statins may theoretically reduce the risk of HCC by acting on common
pathophysiological pathways shared by NAFLD and HCC.

DOI: 10.1700/1248.13781 
PMID: 23548993  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. J Hepatol. 2013 Aug;59(2):358-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.027. Epub 2013 Mar 
30.

Established and new-generation antithrombotic drugs in patients with cirrhosis - 
possibilities and caveats.

Lisman T(1), Kamphuisen PW, Northup PG, Porte RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Hepatobiliairy Surgery and Liver
Transplantation, University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen,
Groningen, The Netherlands. j.a.lisman@umcg.nl

Until recently, it was widely accepted that patients with cirrhosis have a
bleeding tendency related to the changes in the hemostatic system that occur as a
consequence of the disease. However, it has now been well established that
patients with cirrhosis are at risk for both bleeding and thrombotic
complications. These thrombotic complications include portal vein thrombosis,
deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and coronary or cerebrovascular
infarctions. Antithrombotic drugs to prevent or treat thrombotic complications in
patients with cirrhosis have been used only minimally in the past due to the
perceived bleeding risk. As the thrombotic complications and the necessity of
antithrombotic treatment in these patients are increasingly recognized, the use
of antithrombotic drugs in this population is likely increasing. Moreover, given 
the rising incidence of fatty liver disease and generally longer survival times
of patients with chronic liver diseases, it would be reasonable to presume that
some of these thrombotic complications may be increasing in incidence over time. 
In this review, we will outline the indications for antithrombotic treatment in
patients with cirrhosis. Furthermore, we will discuss the available
antithrombotic drugs and indicate possible applications, advantages, and caveats.
Since for many of these drugs very little experience in patients with cirrhosis
exists, these data are essential in the design of future clinical and laboratory 
studies on mechanisms, efficacy, and safety of the various antithrombotic
strategies in these patients.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.027 
PMID: 23548197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1107. Genomics. 2013 Aug;102(2):84-95. doi: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2013.03.007. Epub 2013 Mar 
29.

Genomic aspects of NAFLD pathogenesis.

Naik A(1), Košir R, Rozman D.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Computer Sciences and Informatics, Tržaška Cesta 25, Ljubljana
1000, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most predominant liver disease
worldwide and hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. Its histology
spectrum ranges from steatosis, to steatohepatitis (NASH) that can further
progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The increasing
incidence of NAFLD has contributed to rising numbers of HCC occurrences. NAFLD
progression is governed by genetic susceptibility, environmental factors,
lifestyle and features of the metabolic syndrome, many of which overlap with HCC.
Gene expression profiling and genome wide association studies have identified
novel disease pathways and polymorphisms in genes that may be potential
biomarkers of NAFLD progression. However, the multifactorial nature of NAFLD and 
the limited number of sufficiently powered studies are among the current
limitations for validated biomarkers of clinical utility. Further studies
incorporating the links between circadian regulation and hepatic metabolism might
represent an additional direction in the search for predictive biomarkers of
liver disease progression and treatment outcomes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2013.03.007 
PMID: 23545492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1108. Biochem Pharmacol. 2013 Jul 1;86(1):96-105. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.03.016. Epub 
2013 Mar 28.

The liver X receptor: a master regulator of the gut-liver axis and a target for
non alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Ducheix S(1), Montagner A, Theodorou V, Ferrier L, Guillou H.

Author information: 
(1)INRA, ToxAlim UMR1331 (Research Centre in Food Toxicology), Toulouse, France.

Since it is associated to the obesity epidemic, non alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) has become a major public health issue. NAFLD ranges from benign hepatic 
steatosis, i.e. abnormally elevated triglyceride accumulation, to non alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) that can lead to irreversible liver damages. The search
for pharmacological and dietary approaches to treat or prevent NAFLD has pointed 
at nuclear receptors as sensible targets. Indeed, nuclear receptors are
ligand-sensitive transcription factors that play a central role in hepatic lipid 
metabolism. Among nuclear receptors, the liver X receptor has been identified as 
an oxysterol receptor. It is involved in the control of various aspects of lipid 
metabolism that are reviewed in this manuscript. We highlight the role of LXR in 
the gut-liver axis and the studies that have provided a rationale for strategies 
specifically targeting the hepatic activity of LXR in NAFLD.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.03.016 
PMID: 23542537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1109. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr. 2013 Nov;37(6):787-93. doi:
10.1177/0148607113481623. Epub 2013 Mar 28.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: for better or worse, blame the gut microbiota?

Li DY(1), Yang M, Edwards S, Ye SQ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Children's Mercy Hospital, University of
Missouri School of Medicine, Kansas City, Missouri.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a major clinical consequence for
people with obesity and metabolic syndrome and is also associated with enteral
and parenteral nutrition. Early studies suggested that altered gut microbiota
might contribute to obesity by affecting energy harvest from the diet and energy 
storage in the host. Recent evidence in humans as well as in animal models has
linked gut microbiota to the development of NAFLD through the gut-liver axis.
With bacterial overgrowth and increased intestinal permeability observed in
patients with NAFLD and in animal models, gut-derived bacterial products such as 
endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide) and bacterial DNA are being delivered to the liver
through the portal vein and then activate Toll-like receptors (TLRs), mainly TLR4
and TLR9, and their downstream cytokines and chemokines, leading to the
development and progression of NAFLD. Given the limited data in humans, the role 
of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of NAFLD is still open to discussion.
Prebiotics and probiotics have been attempted to modify the microbiota as
preventive or therapeutic strategies on this pathological condition. Their
beneficial effects on NALFD have been demonstrated in animal models and limited
human studies. However, prospective, appropriately powered, randomized,
controlled clinical trials are needed to determine whether prebiotics and
probiotics and other integrated strategies to modify intestinal microbiota are
efficacious therapeutic modalities to treat NALFD.

DOI: 10.1177/0148607113481623 
PMID: 23538296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1110. BMC Pediatr. 2013 Mar 25;13:40. doi: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-40.

Pediatric non alcoholic fatty liver disease: old and new concepts on development,
progression, metabolic insight and potential treatment targets.

Giorgio V(1), Prono F, Graziano F, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Hepato-metabolic Unit, Bambino Gesù Children Hospital, Rome, Italy.
valentagio@yahoo.it

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the leading cause of chronic liver
disease in children. NAFLD has emerged to be extremely prevalent, and predicted
by obesity and male gender. It is defined by hepatic fat infiltration >5%
hepatocytes, in the absence of other causes of liver pathology. It includes a
spectrum of disease ranging from intrahepatic fat accumulation (steatosis) to
various degrees of necrotic inflammation and fibrosis (non-alcoholic
steatohepatatis [NASH]). NAFLD is associated, in children as in adults, with
severe metabolic impairments, determining an increased risk of developing the
metabolic syndrome. It can evolve to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, with
the consequent need for liver transplantation. Both genetic and environmental
factors seem to be involved in the development and progression of the disease,
but its physiopathology is not yet entirely clear. In view of this mounting
epidemic phenomenon involving the youth, the study of NAFLD should be a priority 
for all health care systems. This review provides an overview of current and new 
clinical-histological concepts of pediatric NAFLD, going through possible
implications into patho-physiolocical and therapeutic perspectives.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-40 
PMCID: PMC3620555
PMID: 23530957  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1111. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2013
Apr;56(4):517-27. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1639-4.

[Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in obese children and adolescents].

[Article in German]

Denzer C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sektion Pädiatrische Endokrinologie und Diabetologie, Universitätsklinik für
Kinder und Jugendmedizin, Eythstr. 24, 89075, Ulm, Deutschland.
Christian.Denzer@uniklinik-ulm.de

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in
children and adolescents in industrialized countries. Recent studies have
demonstrated a prevalence rate of NAFLD in overweight and obese children and
adolescents in Germany of up to 30%. The spectrum of NAFLD ranges from pure fatty
infiltration (simple steatosis) to inflammation (steatohepatitis, synonymous
NASH) to fibrosis and cirrhosis. Age, gender, ethnicity, insulin resistance, and 
sex steroids are implicated in the pathogenesis of NAFLD in childhood and
adolescence. Moreover, NAFLD in the pediatric age group is associated with marked
cardiovascular comorbidities. This review focuses on current data regarding
epidemiology, pathophysiology, comorbidities, and treatment of NAFLD in children 
and adolescents.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1639-4 
PMID: 23529597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1112. Annu Rev Nutr. 2013;33:249-69. doi: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071812-161139. Epub 2013
Mar 22.

Fatty acid-regulated transcription factors in the liver.

Jump DB(1), Tripathy S, Depner CM.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Program, School of Biological and Population Health Science, Linus
Pauling Institute, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA.
Donald.Jump@oregonstate.edu

Fatty acid regulation of hepatic gene transcription was first reported in the
early 1990s. Several transcription factors have been identified as targets of
fatty acid regulation. This regulation is achieved by direct fatty acid binding
to the transcription factor or by indirect mechanisms where fatty acids regulate 
signaling pathways controlling the expression of transcription factors or the
phosphorylation, ubiquitination, or proteolytic cleavage of the transcription
factor. Although dietary fatty acids are well-established regulators of hepatic
transcription factors, emerging evidence indicates that endogenously generated
fatty acids are equally important in controlling transcription factors in the
context of glucose and lipid homeostasis. Our first goal in this review is to
provide an up-to-date examination of the molecular and metabolic bases of fatty
acid regulation of key transcription factors controlling hepatic metabolism. Our 
second goal is to link these mechanisms to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD), a growing health concern in the obese population.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071812-161139 
PMCID: PMC3940310
PMID: 23528177  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1113. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2013 Aug;37(8):1253-60. doi: 10.1111/acer.12109. Epub 2013 
Mar 25.

The good, the bad, and the ugly with alcohol use and abuse on the heart.

Walker RK(1), Cousins VM, Umoh NA, Jeffress MA, Taghipour D, Al-Rubaiee M, Haddad
GE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology & Biophysics, College of Medicine, Howard University,
Washington, DC 20059, USA.

Comment in
    Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2013 Aug;37(8):1261-3.

Since its advent, alcohol has been utilized throughout history socially, for
rituals, worship, and for its therapeutic, antibacterial, and analgesic
properties. In moderation, alcohol consumption and its use are generally viewed
as clinically beneficial. Excessive alcohol consumption on the other hand has
been recognized as having several adverse implications. Excessive use increases
the risk of liver and heart disease, metabolic disturbances, nutritional
deficiencies, certain cancers, brain damage, dementia, neuropathy, as well as
other facets of morbidity and mortality. This review targets the sequelae of
alcohol consumption on the heart, specifically on myocardial contractility,
calcium channel signaling, and intracellular signaling pathways. With the
incidence of alcohol-induced cardiac abnormalities being higher than previously
thought, it is of increasing importance to elucidate the mechanisms behind them. 
Here, the cardiac effects of alcohol were not discussed in isolation but in
conjunction with other important factors, such as high- and low-density
lipoprotein levels and vascular dilatory influences. We explore these mechanisms,
in particular, the oxidative stress as the major contributor, as well as pathways
that may prove to be cardioprotective. As such, we demonstrate the involvement of
nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (NFE2L2/NRF2) as well as AKT that act
as regulators of oxidative balance during oxidative stress responses. Thus,
alcohol consumption may confer a cardioprotective effect when used in moderation 
through an AKT/NRF2-dependent mechanism.

Copyright © 2013 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12109 
PMCID: PMC3695044
PMID: 23527963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. Can J Gastroenterol. 2013 Mar;27(3):149-58.

A health technology assessment of transient elastography in adult liver disease.

Steadman R, Myers RP, Leggett L, Lorenzetti D, Noseworthy T, Rose S, Sutherland
L, Clement F.

BACKGROUND: An estimated one in 10 Canadians have some form of liver disease. The
reference standard for staging and monitoring liver fibrosis is percutaneous
liver biopsy--an invasive procedure associated with risks and complications.
Transient elastography (TE) represents a noninvasive, ultrasound-based
alternative.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of TE compared with liver biopsy for fibrosis
staging in adults with five common types of liver disease: hepatitis B, hepatitis
C, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, cholestatic liver disease and complications 
post-liver transplantation.
METHODS: A systematic review of published and grey literature from 2001 to June
2011 was conducted. Included were observational studies evaluating the accuracy
of TE using liver biopsy as the comparator. An economic model was developed to
estimate the cost per correct diagnosis gained with liver biopsy compared with
TE. Identification of moderate fibrosis (stages 2 to 4) and cirrhosis (stage 4)
were considered.
RESULTS: Fifty-seven studies were included in the review. The diagnostic accuracy
of TE for the five clinical subgroups had sensitivities ranging from 0.67 to 0.92
and specificities ranging from 0.72 to 0.95. Liver biopsy was associated with an 
additional $1,427 to $7,030 per correct diagnosis gained compared with TE. The
model was sensitive to the sensitivity and specificity of TE and the prevalence
of fibrosis.
CONCLUSIONS: TE is an accurate diagnostic method in patients with moderate
fibrosis or cirrhosis. TE is less effective but less expensive than liver biopsy.
Systemic implementation of TE should be considered for the noninvasive assessment
of liver fibrosis.


PMCID: PMC3732152
PMID: 23516679  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1115. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2013 Apr;51(4):713-27. doi: 10.1515/cclm-2012-0849.

Gender medicine: a task for the third millennium.

Baggio G(1), Corsini A, Floreani A, Giannini S, Zagonel V.

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine Unit, Azienda Ospedaliera di Padova, Via Giustiniani 2,
Padua 35125, Italy. giovannella.baggio@sanita.padova.it

Comment in
    Clin Chem Lab Med. 2013 Apr;51(4):703-6.

Gender-specific medicine is the study of how diseases differ between men and
women in terms of prevention, clinical signs, therapeutic approach, prognosis,
psychological and social impact. It is a neglected dimension of medicine. In this
review we like to point out some major issues in five enormous fields of
medicine: cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), pharmacology, oncology, liver diseases 
and osteoporosis. CVDs have been studied in the last decades mainly in men, but
they are the first cause of mortality and disability in women. Risk factors for
CVD have different impacts in men and women; clinical manifestations of CVD and
the influence of drugs on CVD have lot of gender differences. Sex-related
differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics are also emerging. These
differences have obvious relevance to the efficacy and side effect profiles of
various medications in the two sexes. This evidence should be considered for drug
development as well as before starting any therapy. Gender disparity in cancer
incidence, aggressiveness and prognosis has been observed for a variety of
cancers and, even if partially known, is underestimated in clinical practice for 
the treatment of the major types of cancer. It is necessary to systematize and
encode all the known data for each type of tumor on gender differences, to
identify where this variable has to be considered for the purposes of the
prognosis, the choice of treatment and possible toxicity. Clinical data suggest
that men and women exhibit differences regarding the epidemiology and the
progression of certain liver diseases, i.e., autoimmune conditions, genetic
hemochromatosis, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and chronic hepatitis C. Numerous 
hypotheses have been formulated to justify this sex imbalance including sex
hormones, reproductive and genetic factors. Nevertheless, none of these
hypothesis has thus far gathered enough convincing evidence and in most cases the
evidence is conflicting. Osteoporosis is an important public health problem both 
in women and men. On the whole, far more epidemiologic, diagnostic and
therapeutic studies have been carried out in women than in men. In clinical
practice, if this disease remains underestimated in women, patients' and
physicians' awareness is even lower for male osteoporosis, for which diagnostic
and therapeutic strategies are at present less defined. In conclusion this review
emphasizes the urgency of basic science and clinical research to increase our
understanding of the gender differences of diseases.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2012-0849 
PMID: 23515103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. Minerva Med. 2013 Apr;104(2):225-32.

Recurrent hepatitis C and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in transplanted
patients: a review.

Testino G(1), Sumberaz A, Leone S, Borro P.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Alcohology, Department of Internal Medicine, San Martino University
Hospital, National Cancer Research Institute, Genoa, Italy.
gianni.testino@hsanmartino.it

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common occurrence after orthotopic
liver transplantation (OLT). The association steatosis/HCV determines important
implications for clinical practice: steatosis accelerates the progression of
fibrosis and reduces the likelihood of obtaining a sustained virological response
(SVR) with antiviral therapy. In post-transplant HCV patients we have evidenced a
strong correlation between body mass index (BMI), cholesterol, triglycerides
(TGC) and hepatic percentage of steatosis. In subjects with BMI <25 and TGC <160 
ng/mL, the chance of SVR was 48 times higher than that of non response. The
chances of SVR and sustained biochemical response for patients with percentage of
steatosis <15 were 12 times higher than that with higher percentage of steatosis.
We can conclude how the amount of steatosis be noted specifically in biopsy
examination reports of patients with relapse chronic hepatitis C and how the
management of dismetabolism, diet and exercise therapy can improve BMI, liver
histology and the response to antiviral therapy.


PMID: 23514999  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1117. Rev Prat. 2013 Feb;63(2):216-7, 220-2.

[Epidemiology, natural history, and risk factors of hepatocellular carcinoma].

[Article in French]

Fares N(1), Péron JM.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'hépato-gastroentérologie, Pôle digestif, Hôpital Purpan, CHU de
Toulouse, 31059 Toulouse, France. faresnadim@yahoo.fr

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary malignancy of the
liver. It is the sixth most common malignancy worldwide and the third cause of
cancer-related mortality. Approximately 90% of HCCs are associated with a known
risk factor, mainly hepatitis B and cirrhosis which is a true precancerous state,
whatever its cause. The incidence of HCC in a patient with cirrhosis is 3-5% per 
year. In eastern Asia and sub-saharan Africa the dominant risk factor is chronic 
hepatitis B infection (together with exposure to aflatoxin B1 in Africa). In
developped countries, hepatitis C and alcohol use are the main risk factors, and 
the incidence of HCC is growing, owing probably to the hepatitis C epidemic, the 
increasing incidence of non alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and the better
prevention and treatment of other complications of cirrhosis. In France, NASH is 
currently the second cause of cirrhosis with HCC after alcohol. The high
mortality of HCC is due to a late diagnosis at an advanced stage. This is why
screening of high risk patients is a major issue. The current recommendation is a
biannual liver ultrasonography for cirrhotic patients, but only 20% of all HCCs
are today diagnosed during a surveillance program. Surgical resection, liver
transplantation and radiofrequency ablation are the 3 validated curative
treatments. In France, only one fourth of all HCC patients are treated with a
curative intent. Most patients are therefore treated with palliative treatments
that include chemoembolization, multi-kinase inhibitors (sorafenib) and in almost
one third of cases only best supportive care. Much effort is needed to target at 
risk populations and implement strict surveillance protocols.


PMID: 23513788  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. J Hepatol. 2013 Jul;59(1):160-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.007. Epub 2013 Mar
16.

Global burden of alcoholic liver diseases.

Rehm J(1), Samokhvalov AV, Shield KD.

Author information: 
(1)Social and Epidemiological Research Department, Centre for Addiction and
Mental Health, Toronto, Canada. jtrehm@gmail.com

Liver diseases contribute markedly to the global burden of mortality and disease.
This paper provides an overview from a global perspective of the contribution of 
alcohol to liver diseases. The Global Burden of Disease study methodology was
used to estimate the burden of alcohol-attributable liver cirrhosis and
alcohol-attributable liver cancer in 2010 as measured by deaths and disability
adjusted life years (DALYs). This methodology estimates attributable fractions
based on alcohol exposure distribution and relative risks associated with
different levels of drinking. Globally, in 2010, alcohol-attributable liver
cirrhosis was responsible for 493,300 deaths (156,900 female deaths and 336,400
male deaths) and 14,544,000 DALYs (4,112,000 DALYs for women and 10,432,000 DALYs
for men), representing 0.9% (0.7% for women and 1.2% for men) of all global
deaths and 0.6% (0.4% for women and 0.8% for men) of all global DALYs, and 47.9% 
of all liver cirrhosis deaths (46.5% for women and 48.5% for men) and 46.9% of
all liver cirrhosis DALYs (44.5% for women and 47.9% for men).
Alcohol-attributable liver cancer was responsible for 80,600 deaths (14,800
female deaths and 65,900 male deaths) and 2,142,000 DALYs (335,000 DALYs for
women and 1,807,000 DALYs for men). The burden of alcohol-attributable liver
cirrhosis and liver cancer is high and entirely preventable. Interventions to
reduce alcohol consumption are recommended as a population health priority and
may range from taxation increases for alcoholic beverages to increases in
screening and treatment rates for alcohol use disorders.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.007 
PMID: 23511777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1119. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2013 Aug;24(4):321-6. doi: 10.1097/MOL.0b013e3283606845.

Alcohol and plasma triglycerides.

Klop B(1), do Rego AT, Cabezas MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Sint Franciscus Gasthuis Rotterdam, the
Netherlands.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This study reviews recent developments concerning the effects 
of alcohol on plasma triglycerides. The focus will be on population, intervention
and metabolic studies with respect to alcohol and plasma triglycerides.
RECENT FINDINGS: Alcohol consumption and fat ingestion are closely associated and
stimulated by each other via hypothalamic signals and by an elevated cephalic
response. A J-shaped relationship between alcohol intake and plasma triglycerides
has been described. A normal body weight, polyphenols in red wine and specific
polymorphisms of the apolipoprotein A-V and apolipoprotein C-III genes may
protect against alcohol-associated hypertriglyceridemia. In contrast, obesity
exaggerates alcohol-associated hypertriglyceridemia and therefore the risk of
pancreatitis.
SUMMARY: High alcohol intake remains harmful since it is associated with elevated
plasma triglycerides, but also with cardiovascular disease, alcoholic fatty liver
disease and the development of pancreatitis. Alcohol-induced hypertriglyceridemia
is due to increased very-low-density lipoprotein secretion, impaired lipolysis
and increased free fatty acid fluxes from adipose tissue to the liver. However,
light to moderate alcohol consumption may be associated with decreased plasma
triglycerides, probably determined by the type of alcoholic beverage consumed,
genetic polymorphisms and lifestyle factors. Nevertheless, patients should be
advised to reduce or stop alcohol consumption in case of hypertriglyceridemia.

DOI: 10.1097/MOL.0b013e3283606845 
PMID: 23511381  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1120. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Sep;25(9):1093-8. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0b013e3283603e89.

Herbal hepatotoxicity: suspected cases assessed for alternative causes.

Teschke R(1), Schulze J, Schwarzenboeck A, Eickhoff A, Frenzel C.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Internal Medicine II, Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Klinikum Hanau, Academic Teaching Hospital of the Medical Faculty
bInstitute of Industrial, Environmental and Social Medicine, Medical Faculty,
Goethe University, Frankfurt/Main cDepartment of Medicine I, University Medical
Center, Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Alternative explanations are common in suspected
drug-induced liver injury (DILI) and account for up to 47.1% of analyzed cases.
This raised the question of whether a similar frequency may prevail in cases of
assumed herb-induced liver injury (HILI).
METHODS: We searched the Medline database for the following terms: herbs, herbal 
drugs, herbal dietary supplements, hepatotoxic herbs, herbal hepatotoxicity, and 
herb-induced liver injury. Additional terms specifically addressed single herbs
and herbal products: black cohosh, Greater Celandine, green tea, Herbalife
products, Hydroxycut, kava, and Pelargonium sidoides. We retrieved 23 published
case series and regulatory assessments related to hepatotoxicity by herbs and
herbal dietary supplements with alternative causes.
RESULTS: The 23 publications comprised 573 cases of initially suspected HILI;
alternative causes were evident in 278/573 cases (48.5%). Among them were
hepatitis by various viruses (9.7%), autoimmune diseases (10.4%), nonalcoholic
and alcoholic liver diseases (5.4%), liver injury by comedication (DILI and other
HILI) (43.9%), and liver involvement in infectious diseases (4.7%). Biliary and
pancreatic diseases were frequent alternative diagnoses (11.5%), raising
therapeutic problems if specific treatment is withheld; pre-existing liver
diseases including cirrhosis (9.7%) were additional confounding variables. Other 
diagnoses were rare, but possibly relevant for the individual patient.
CONCLUSION: In 573 cases of initially assumed HILI, 48.5% showed alternative
causes unrelated to the initially incriminated herb, herbal drug, or herbal
dietary supplement, calling for thorough clinical evaluations and appropriate
causality assessments in future cases of suspected HILI.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0b013e3283603e89 
PMID: 23510966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1121. Biomed Res Int. 2013;2013:470217. doi: 10.1155/2013/470217. Epub 2012 Dec 30.

Chronic alcohol ingestion changes the landscape of the alveolar epithelium.

Downs CA(1), Trac D, Brewer EM, Brown LA, Helms MN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Emory-Children Center for Developmental Lung
Biology, 2015 Uppergate Drive, Suite 316K, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

Similar to effects of alcohol on the heart, liver, and brain, the effects of
ethanol (EtOH) on lung injury are preventable. Unlike other vital organ systems, 
however, the lethal effects of alcohol on the lung are underappreciated, perhaps 
because there are no signs of overt pulmonary disorder until a secondary insult, 
such as a bacterial infection or injury, occurs in the lung. This paper provides 
overview of the complex changes in the alveolar environment known to occur
following both chronic and acute alcohol exposures. Contemporary animal and cell 
culture models for alcohol-induced lung dysfunction are discussed, with emphasis 
on the effect of alcohol on transepithelial transport processes, namely,
epithelial sodium channel activity (ENaC). The cascading effect of tissue and
phagocytic Nadph oxidase (Nox) may be triggered by ethanol exposure, and as such,
alcohol ingestion and exposure lead to a prooxidative environment; thus impacting
alveolar macrophage (AM) function and oxidative stress. A better understanding of
how alcohol changes the landscape of the alveolar epithelium can lead to
improvements in treating acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) for which
hospitalized alcoholics are at an increased risk.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/470217 
PMCID: PMC3591140
PMID: 23509726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1122. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Jun;10(6):330-44. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2013.41. Epub 2013 Mar 19.

Progression of NAFLD to diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease or cirrhosis.

Anstee QM(1), Targher G, Day CP.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Group, Institute of Cellular Medicine, The Medical School,
Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.

NAFLD is a spectrum of progressive liver disease that encompasses simple
steatosis, NASH, fibrosis and, ultimately, cirrhosis. NAFLD is recognized as the 
hepatic component of the metabolic syndrome, as these conditions have insulin
resistance as a common pathophysiological mechanism. Therefore, NAFLD is strongly
associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus and abdominal obesity. As lifestyles
have become increasingly sedentary and dietary patterns have changed, the
worldwide prevalence of NAFLD has increased dramatically and is projected to be
the principal aetiology for liver transplantation within the next decade.
Importantly, a growing body of clinical and epidemiological evidence suggests
that NAFLD is associated not only with liver-related morbidity and mortality, but
also with an increased risk of developing both cardiovascular disease and type 2 
diabetes mellitus. This article reviews the evidence that suggests NAFLD is a
multisystem disease and the factors that might determine interindividual
variation in the development and progression of its major hepatic and
extrahepatic manifestations (principally type 2 diabetes mellitus and
cardiovascular disease).

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2013.41 
PMID: 23507799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1123. Hepatology. 2013 Sep;58(3):1166-74. doi: 10.1002/hep.26390. Epub 2013 Jul 29.

Vitamin D and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD): is it more than just an
association?

Kwok RM(1), Torres DM, Harrison SA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Walter Reed National
Military Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.

Vitamin D is a secosteroid with known effects on calcium homeostasis that has
recently been shown to have other significant functions regarding immune
modulation, cell differentiation and proliferation, and the inflammatory
response. As our understanding of the many functions of vitamin D has grown, the 
presence of vitamin D deficiency (VDD) has become more evident in Western
populations. Concomitantly, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become
the most common cause of chronic liver disease. NAFLD and VDD are often found
together, and while this is not unexpected, given their similar associations with
obesity and sedentary lifestyle, a growing body of evidence points to a closely
linked and potentially causative relationship between VDD and NAFLD. The
epidemiologic association between VDD and NAFLD as well as the role of VDD in the
pathogenesis of NAFLD and the available evidence on the clinical utility of
vitamin D replacement in NAFLD populations are discussed.

© 2013 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26390 
PMID: 23504808  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. Pediatr Transplant. 2013 May;17(3):216-23. doi: 10.1111/petr.12065. Epub 2013 Mar
17.

Pediatric post-transplant metabolic syndrome: new clouds on the horizon.

Nobili V(1), de Ville de Goyet J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery and Transplantation Center, Bambino Gesù
Children's Hospital, Roma, Italy. nobili66@yahoo.it

Liver transplantation (LT) is a standard treatment for children with end-stage
liver disease, standing at more than 90% survival rate after one yr, and at over 
a 70% survival rate after five yr. The majority of transplanted children enjoy an
excellent quality of life but complications can occur in the long term, and can
develop subclinically in otherwise well children; there are various
underestimated nutritional and metabolic aspects, including the so-called
post-transplant metabolic syndrome (PTMS). During the post-transplant period, the
use of immunosuppressants, corticosteroids, calcineurin inhibitors, and the
presence of risk factors, including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD),
and kidney and bone complications have been largely implicated in PTMS
development. Strategies to reduce the progression of PMTS should include careful 
screening of patients for diabetes, dyslipidemia, and obesity, and to support
weight reduction with a carefully constructed program, particularly based on diet
modification and exercise. With early identification and appropriate and
aggressive management, excellent long-term health outcomes and acceptable graft
survival can be achieved.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/petr.12065 
PMID: 23496113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1125. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2013 May;29(3):279-84. doi:
10.1097/MOG.0b013e32835ff95e.

Paediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Alisi A(1), Carpino G, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Unit, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, and Department
of Health Sciences, University of Rome Foro Italico, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a multicluster
disease ranging from intrahepatic simple steatosis to nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). During the last decade, NAFLD has reached epidemic
proportions in overweight/obese children. In this manuscript, we review all
recent advances in paediatric NAFLD.
RECENT FINDINGS: Paediatric NAFLD displays some common aspects with the adult
form of disease. However, recent findings have demonstrated that regarding
development of NAFLD in children, due to the absence of long-time confounding
factors, it may be more appropriate to investigate genetic and pathogenetic
origins of the disease. Furthermore, as the histological pattern of paediatric
NAFLD is different from those observed in adults, specific diagnostic/management 
programmes and diagnostic scores have been recently developed. Accordingly,
several studies demonstrated that both lifestyle intervention and pharmacological
treatments should be adequate to the specific pattern of NAFLD in children.
SUMMARY: Results of this year's investigations further elucidated the
histological features and genetic background that characterize paediatric NAFLD; 
the closed association of disease development with the cross-talk between
different cells and organs; limitations of diagnostic tools borrowed from adult
studies and the need of further clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0b013e32835ff95e 
PMID: 23493072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1126. Curr Opin Organ Transplant. 2013 Jun;18(3):259-64. doi:
10.1097/MOT.0b013e32835fb94b.

Should length of sobriety be a major determinant in liver transplant selection?

Rice JP(1), Lucey MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics, Madison, Wisconsin 53705-2281, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: For patients with alcoholic liver disease, most liver
transplant programs enforce a mandatory period of sustained abstinence prior to
considering transplant. The '6-month' rule may eliminate potentially acceptable
transplant candidates from a lifesaving procedure. This review focuses on the use
of sobriety length as a determinant of transplant candidacy and as a predictor of
future alcohol use. We will also review the use of liver transplant in patients
with severe alcoholic hepatitis, and the impact of alcohol use on posttransplant 
outcomes.
RECENT FINDINGS: Patients with alcoholic hepatitis that underwent transplantation
had an increased survival when compared with controls. Alcohol relapse after
transplantation was infrequent. Similarly, a United Network for Organ Sharing
database review revealed similar survival in patients transplanted for alcoholic 
hepatitis versus alcoholic cirrhosis. Allograft loss due to alcohol use was not
seen. However, alcohol usage after transplantation has been associated with a
lower long-term survival in both alcoholic and nonalcoholic recipients.
SUMMARY: The 6-month rule is insufficient in predicting relapse risk. Liver
transplantation may be lifesaving in cases of alcoholic hepatitis and inflexible 
sobriety rules may eliminate patients from transplant consideration at a low risk
of relapse. An ongoing alcohol use assessment, both pre- and posttransplant, are 
critical to achieving good long-term outcomes.

DOI: 10.1097/MOT.0b013e32835fb94b 
PMID: 23492643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1127. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2013 May;37(9):845-54. doi: 10.1111/apt.12279. Epub 2013 
Mar 13.

Systematic review: pentoxifylline for the treatment of severe alcoholic
hepatitis.

Parker R(1), Armstrong MJ, Corbett C, Rowe IA, Houlihan DD.

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Centre for Liver Research and Biomedical Research Unit, University of
Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. richardparker@nhs.net

BACKGROUND: Acute alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is a severe manifestation of alcoholic
liver disease with a grave prognosis. Pentoxifylline, an oral antitumour necrosis
factor agent, has been reported to reduce mortality and incidence of hepatorenal 
syndrome (HRS) in severe alcoholic hepatitis (SAH).
AIM: To summarise evidence for the use of pentoxifylline in SAH.
METHODS: A literature search was undertaken using MeSH terms 'hepatitis,
alcoholic' and 'pentoxifylline' using the set operator AND. We included
randomised controlled trials examining pentoxifylline in SAH, published as
abstracts or full manuscripts. Risk ratios (RRs) were calculated for pooled data 
using random effects modelling. Risk of bias was assessed using Cochrane group
criteria and quality of trials assessed using 'Consolidated Standards of
Reporting Trials' CONSORT guidelines.
RESULTS: Ten trials including 884 participants were included, from six papers and
four abstracts. There was significant heterogeneity between trials regarding
control groups and trial end-points. Treatment was given for 28 days in all
trials except one. Pooling of data showed a reduced incidence of fatal HRS with
pentoxifylline compared with placebo (RR: 0.47, 0.26-0.86, P = 0.01), but no
survival benefit at 1 month (RR: 0.58, 0.31-1.07, P = 0.06). There were no
significant differences between treatment groups in trials of pentoxifylline vs. 
corticosteroid, or vs. combination therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Pentoxifylline appears superior to placebo in prevention of fatal
HRS and thus may be effective treatment of SAH when corticosteroids are
contraindicated. However, multiple trials have failed to show conclusive
superiority of either pentoxifylline or corticosteroids.

© 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12279 
PMID: 23489011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1128. Biomed Res Int. 2013;2013:290575. doi: 10.1155/2013/290575. Epub 2013 Jan 16.

Progesterone and related compounds in hepatocellular carcinoma: basic and
clinical aspects.

Yeh YT(1), Chang CW, Wei RJ, Wang SN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences and Biotechnology, Fooyin
University, Kaohsiung 83102, Taiwan.

Primary liver cancer is the fifth most common cancer worldwide and the third most
common cause of cancer mortality. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 85%
to 90% of primary liver cancers. Major risk factors for HCC include infection
with HBV or HCV, alcoholic liver disease, and most probably nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease. In general, men are two to four times more often associated with
HCC than women. It can be suggested that sex hormones including progesterone may 
play some roles in HCC. Rather, very limited information discusses its potential 
involvement in HCC. This paper thus collects some recent studies of the potential
involvement of progesterone and related compounds in HCC from basic and clinical 
aspects. In addition, two synthetic progestins, megestrol acetate (MA) and
medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), will be discussed thoroughly. It is noted that
progesterone can also serve as the precursor for androgens and estrogens produced
by the gonadal and adrenal cortical tissues, while men have a higher incidence of
HCC than women might be due to the stimulatory effects of androgen and the
protective effects of estrogen. Eventually, this paper suggests a new insight on 
the associations of progesterone and related compounds with HCC development and
treatment.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/290575 
PMCID: PMC3581253
PMID: 23484104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1129. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Feb 28;19(8):1158-65. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i8.1158.

From fatty liver to fibrosis: a tale of "second hit".

Basaranoglu M(1), Basaranoglu G, Sentürk H.

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Bezmialem Vakif University, Istanbul 34400,
Turkey. metin_basaranoglu@yahoo.com

Although much is known about how fat accumulates in the liver, much remains
unknown about how this causes sustained hepatocellular injury. The consequences
of injury are recognized as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and progressive
fibrosis. The accumulation of fat within the hepatocytes sensitizes the liver to 
injury from a variety of causes and the regenerative capacity of a fatty liver is
impaired. An additional stressor is sometimes referred to as a "second hit" in a 
paradigm that identifies the accumulation of fat as the "first hit". Possible
candidates for the second hit include increased oxidative stress, lipid
peroxidation and release of toxic products such as malondialdehyde and
4-hydroxynonenal, decreased antioxidants, adipocytokines, transforming growth
factor (TGF)-β, Fas ligand, mitochondrial dysfunction, fatty acid oxidation by
CYPs (CYP 2E1, 4A10 and 4A14), and peroxisomes, excess iron, small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth, and the generation of gut-derived toxins such as
lipopolysaccharide and ethanol. Oxidative stress is one of the most popular
proposed mechanisms of hepatocellular injury. Previous studies have specifically 
observed increased plasma and tissue levels of oxidative stress markers and lipid
peroxidation products, with reduced hepatic and plasma levels of antioxidants.
There is also some indirect evidence of the benefit of antioxidants such as
vitamin E, S-adenosylmethionine, betaine, phlebotomy to remove iron, and
N-acetylcysteine in NASH. However, a causal relationship or a pathogenic link
between NASH and oxidative stress has not been established so far. A number of
sources of increased reactive oxygen species production have been established in 
NASH that include proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor
(TNF)-α, iron overload, overburdened and dysfunctional mitochondria, CYPs, and
peroxisomes. Briefly, the pathogenesis of NASH is multifactorial and excess
intracellular fatty acids, oxidant stress, ATP depletion, and mitochondrial
dysfunction are important causes of hepatocellular injury in the steatotic liver.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i8.1158 
PMCID: PMC3587471
PMID: 23483818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Feb 28;19(8):1166-72. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i8.1166.

Fructose as a key player in the development of fatty liver disease.

Basaranoglu M(1), Basaranoglu G, Sabuncu T, Sentürk H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Bezmialem Vakif University,
Istanbul 34400, Turkey. metin_basaranoglu@yahoo.com

We aimed to investigate whether increased consumption of fructose is linked to
the increased prevalence of fatty liver. The prevalence of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) is 3% and 20% in nonobese and obese subjects,
respectively. Obesity is a low-grade chronic inflammatory condition and
obesity-related cytokines such as interleukin-6, adiponectin, leptin, and tumor
necrosis factor-α may play important roles in the development of nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Additionally, the prevalence of NASH associated with
both cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma was reported to be high among
patients with type 2 diabetes with or without obesity. Our research group
previously showed that consumption of fructose is associated with adverse
alterations of plasma lipid profiles and metabolic changes in mice, the American 
Lifestyle-Induced Obesity Syndrome model, which included consumption of a
high-fructose corn syrup in amounts relevant to that consumed by some Americans. 
The observation reinforces the concerns about the role of fructose in the obesity
epidemic. Increased availability of fructose (e.g., high-fructose corn syrup)
increases not only abnormal glucose flux but also fructose metabolism in the
hepatocyte. Thus, the anatomic position of the liver places it in a strategic
buffering position for absorbed carbohydrates and amino acids. Fructose was
previously accepted as a beneficial dietary component because it does not
stimulate insulin secretion. However, since insulin signaling plays an important 
role in central mechanisms of NAFLD, this property of fructose may be
undesirable. Fructose has a selective hepatic metabolism, and provokes a hepatic 
stress response involving activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinases and subsequent
reduced hepatic insulin signaling. As high fat diet alone produces obesity,
insulin resistance, and some degree of fatty liver with minimal inflammation and 
no fibrosis, the fast food diet which includes fructose and fats produces a gene 
expression signature of increased hepatic fibrosis, inflammation, endoplasmic
reticulum stress and lipoapoptosis. Hepatic de novo lipogenesis (fatty acid and
triglyceride synthesis) is increased in patients with NAFLD. Stable-isotope
studies showed that increased de novo lipogenesis (DNL) in patients with NAFLD
contributed to fat accumulation in the liver and the development of NAFLD.
Specifically, DNL was responsible for 26% of accumulated hepatic triglycerides
and 15%-23% of secreted very low-density lipoprotein triglycerides in patients
with NAFLD compared to an estimated less than 5% DNL in healthy subjects and 10% 
DNL in obese people with hyperinsulinemia. In conclusion, understanding the
underlying causes of NAFLD forms the basis for rational preventive and treatment 
strategies of this major form of chronic liver disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i8.1166 
PMCID: PMC3587472
PMID: 23482247  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol. 2013 Mar;59(1):89-95.

Liver steatosis in celiac disease: the open door.

Abenavoli L(1), Luigiano C, Larussa T, Milic N, De Lorenzo A, Stelitano L, Morace
C, Consolo P, Miraglia S, Fagoonee S, Virgilio C, Luzza F, Pellicano R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, "Magna Græcia" University, Catanzaro, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common disease of unknown origin
characterized by histological features similar to alcoholic-like liver injury but
in the absence of significant alcohol intake. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
refers to a spectrum of diseases of the liver ranging from simple steatosis
(i.e., fatty infiltration of the liver) to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (i.e.,
steatosis with inflammation and hepatocyte necrosis) to cirrhosis. Non-alcoholic 
fatty liver disease is frequently associated with disorders such as insulin
resistance, obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia and protein-calorie
malnutrition. However, in a subgroup of NAFLD patients, the true relevant cause
remains undetermined. Celiac disease (CD) is a common immune-mediated disorder
and develops in genetically susceptible subjects after the ingestion of gluten
proteins. Celiac disease has been found in about 10% of patients with unexplained
abnormal liver tests, and in about 3.5% of patients with NAFLD as the only
manifestation of the disease. The frequency of subclinical or silent
presentations in older children and adults highlights the importance of CD
screening in patients with unexplained chronic abnormal liver function tests and 
NAFLD without any specific etiology. The pathogenesis of liver steatosis in CD is
uncertain. The aims of this review are to describe the possible mechanisms
involved in the occurrence and progression of liver steatosis in CD patients.


PMID: 23478246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol. 2013 Mar;59(1):69-87.

Management of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Sourianarayanane A(1), Pagadala MR, Kirwan JP.

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as the most prevalent
chronic liver disease in the United States. Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
the most severe form of NAFLD, has an increased risk for progression to cirrhosis
and associated comorbidities such as cardiovascular disease. Metabolic syndrome
(MS) including insulin resistance and obesity is central to the development of
NASH. Currently there is no definitive treatment for NASH and most of the
available treatment options are targeted towards improving various parameters of 
MS. Treatment of NAFLD includes diet and lifestyle modification, pharmacological 
interventions and surgical therapies, or a combination of these interventions.
This review focuses on the available current and potential future therapies for
treating NASH.


PMID: 23478245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1133. Curr Diab Rep. 2013 Jun;13(3):362-71. doi: 10.1007/s11892-013-0372-1.

Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like-2 factor (Nrf2), a key regulator of the
antioxidant response to protect against atherosclerosis and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis.

Gupte AA(1), Lyon CJ, Hsueh WA.

Author information: 
(1)The Methodist Diabetes and Metabolism Institute, Center for Diabetes Research 
in The Methodist Hospital Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medical College,
R8-111, 6670 Bertner Ave, Houston, 77030 TX, USA.

Tissue oxidative stress is a common hallmark of atherosclerosis and non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), 2 conditions linked epidemiologically and
pathophysiologically. Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) is the
master regulator of inducible antioxidant responses, that can attenuate cellular 
injury from oxidative stress induced by obesity and other redox insults. Nrf2
expression and activation is reduced in mouse and human vessels that harbor
accelerated atherosclerosis and in livers with histologic criteria of NASH.
Systemic antioxidants have thus been attractive therapeutic targets, but clinical
trials have been largely unsuccessful in improving cardiovascular health.
Macrophage-selective Nrf2 activation may, however, provide an approach to reduce 
vascular and hepatocyte injury without the complications of systemic
antioxidants, since macrophages play key roles in the development and progression
of both atherosclerosis and NASH. In this article, we review the common
mechanisms of oxidative stress and inflammation in atherosclerosis and NASH, and 
discuss the role of Nrf2 in vascular and hepatocyte protection.

DOI: 10.1007/s11892-013-0372-1 
PMID: 23475581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1134. Adv Clin Chem. 2013;59:155-201.

Toll-like receptors in liver disease.

Petrasek J(1), Csak T, Szabo G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
Massachusetts, USA.

Activation of inflammatory signaling pathways is of central importance in the
pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH). Recent studies demonstrated that Toll-like receptors, the sensors of
microbial and endogenous danger signals, are expressed and activated in innate
immune cells as well as in parenchymal cells in the liver and thereby contribute 
to ALD and NASH. In this review, we emphasize the importance of gut-derived
endotoxin and its recognition by TLR4 in the liver. The significance of
TLR-induced intracellular signaling pathways and cytokine production as well as
the contribution of individual cell types to the inflammation is evaluated. The
contribution of TLR signaling to the induction of liver fibrosis and to the
progression of liver pathology mediated by viral pathogens is reviewed in the
context of ALD and NASH.


PMID: 23461136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1135. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 May;10(5):307-18. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2013.34. Epub 2013 Mar 5.

NAFLD in Asia--as common and important as in the West.

Farrell GC(1), Wong VW, Chitturi S.

Author information: 
(1)ANU Medical School, Australian National University and Gastroenterology and
Hepatology Unit, The Canberra Hospital, Yamba Drive, Garran, ACT 2605, Australia.
geoff.farrell@anu.edu.au

NAFLD--regarded as a consequence of the modern sedentary, food-abundant lifestyle
prevalent in the West--was recorded in Japan nearly 50 years ago and its changing
epidemiology during the past three decades is well-documented. NAFLD, and its
pathologically more severe form NASH, occur in genetically susceptible people who
are over-nourished. Asian people are particularly susceptible, partly owing to
body composition differences in fat and muscle. Community prevalence ranges
between 20% (China), 27% (Hong Kong), and 15-45% (South Asia, South-East Asia,
Korea, Japan and Taiwan). This Review presents emerging data on genetic
polymorphisms that predispose Asian people to NAFLD, NASH and cirrhosis, and
discusses the clinical and pathological outcomes of these disorders. NAFLD is
unlikely to be less severe in Asians than in other populations, but the
associated obesity and diabetes pandemics have occurred more recently in Asia
than in Europe and the USA, and occur with reduced degrees of adiposity. Cases of
cryptogenic cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma have also been attributed to
NAFLD. Public health efforts to curb over-nutrition and insulin resistance are
needed to prevent and/or reverse NAFLD, as well as its adverse health outcomes of
type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular events, cirrhosis and liver cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2013.34 
PMID: 23458891  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1136. CNS Drugs. 2013 Apr;27(4):287-99. doi: 10.1007/s40263-013-0043-4.

Management of alcohol dependence in patients with liver disease.

Addolorato G(1), Mirijello A, Leggio L, Ferrulli A, Landolfi R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Institute of Internal Medicine, Catholic
University of Rome, Gemelli Hospital, Largo Gemelli 8, 00168 Rome, Italy.
g.addolorato@rm.unicatt.it

Comment in
    CNS Drugs. 2013 Oct;27(10):863-4.
    CNS Drugs. 2013 Oct;27(10):865-6.

Alcohol dependence represents a chronic and relapsing disease affecting nearly 10
% of the general population both in the USA and in Europe, with a widespread
burden of morbidity and mortality. Alcohol dependence represents the most common 
cause of liver damage in the Western world. Although alcoholic liver disease is
associated primarily with heavy drinking, continued alcohol consumption, even in 
low doses after the onset of liver disease, increases the risk of severe
consequences, including mortality. Consequently, the ideal treatment of patients 
affected by alcohol dependence and alcoholic liver disease should aim at
achieving long-term total alcohol abstinence and preventing relapse. The aim of
the present review is to provide an update on the management of alcohol
dependence in patients with alcoholic liver disease. Increasing evidence suggests
the usefulness of psychosocial interventions and medications combined in order to
reduce alcohol intake, promote abstinence and prevent relapse in
alcohol-dependent patients. Disulfiram, naltrexone and acamprosate have been
approved for this indication; gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) is approved in
Italy and Austria. However, these drugs have not been tested in patients with
advanced liver disease. Amongst other emerging pharmacotherapies for alcoholism, 
topiramate, ondansetron, and baclofen seem the most promising ones. Both
topiramate and ondansetron have a safe profile in alcoholic patients; however,
none of them has been tested in alcoholic patients with advanced liver disease.
To date, baclofen represents the only anti-craving medication formally tested in 
a randomized clinical trial in alcoholic patients affected by liver cirrhosis,
although additional confirmatory studies are warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s40263-013-0043-4 
PMCID: PMC4979989
PMID: 23456576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1137. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2014 Jan;77(1):21-30. doi: 10.1111/bcp.12102.

The hepatic cannabinoid 1 receptor as a modulator of hepatic energy state and
food intake.

Cooper ME(1), Regnell SE.

Author information: 
(1)AstraZeneca R&D Mölndal, Mölndal, SE-431 83, Sweden.

The cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1R) has a well-established role in appetite
regulation. Central CB1R antagonists, notably rimonabant, induced weight loss and
improved the metabolic profile in obese individuals, but were discontinued due to
psychiatric side-effects. The CB1R is also expressed peripherally, where its
effects include promotion of liver fat accumulation, which consumes ATP. Type 2
diabetes in obese subjects is linked to excess liver fat, whilst there is a
negative correlation between hepatic ATP content and insulin resistance. A
decreased hepatic ATP/AMP ratio increases food intake by signals via the vagus
nerve to the brain. The hepatic cannabinoid system is highly upregulated in
obesity, and the effects of hepatic CB1R activation include increased activity of
lipogenic and gluconeogenic transcription factors. Thus, blockade of hepatic
CB1Rs could contribute significantly to the weight-reducing and
insulin-sensitizing effects of CB1R antagonists. Additionally, upregulation of
the hepatic CB1R may contribute to chronic liver inflammation, fibrosis and
cirrhosis from causes including obesity, alcoholism and viral hepatitis.
Peripheral CB1R antagonists induce weight loss and metabolic improvements in
obese rodents; however, as there is evidence that hepatic CB1Rs are predominately
intracellular, due to high intrinsic clearance, many drugs may not effectively
block these receptors and therefore have limited efficacy. Hepatoselective CB1R
antagonists may be effective at reducing hepatic steatosis, insulin resistance
and bodyweight in obese, diabetic patients, with far fewer side-effects than
first-generation CB1R antagonists. Additionally, such compounds may be effective 
in treating inflammatory liver disease, such as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis,
reducing the likelihood of disease progression to cirrhosis or cancer.

© 2013 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bcp.12102 
PMCID: PMC3895344
PMID: 23452341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2013 Apr;19(4):331-7. doi: 10.1111/1469-0691.12170. Epub
2013 Mar 2.

Obesity, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and atherothrombosis: a role for the 
intestinal microbiota?

Knaapen M(1), Kootte RS, Zoetendal EG, de Vos WM, Dallinga-Thie GM, Levi M,
Stroes ES, Nieuwdorp M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Centre, University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Whereas the association between intestinal microorganisms and health has been
widely accepted in the area of infectious disease, recent advances have now
implied a role for the intestinal microbiota in human energy balance. In fact,
numerous studies support an intricate relationship between the intestinal
microbiota and obesity, as well as subsequent insulin resistance and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Intestinal microorganisms also seem to be
involved in haemostatic tone and atherogenesis. However, as most of the findings 
stem from observational data, intervention studies in humans using interventions 
selectively aimed at altering the composition and activity of the intestinal
microbiota are crucial to prove causality. If substantiated, this could open the 
arena for modulation of the intestinal microbiota as a future target in
obesity-associated disease, both as a diagnostic test for personalized algorithms
and for selective therapeutic strategies.

© 2013 The Authors Clinical Microbiology and Infection © 2013 European Society of
Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/1469-0691.12170 
PMID: 23452186  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1139. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2013 Apr;19(4):338-48. doi: 10.1111/1469-0691.12140. Epub 
2013 Mar 2.

Gut microbiota and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: new insights.

Aron-Wisnewsky J(1), Gaborit B, Dutour A, Clement K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cardio-metabolism and Nutrition APHP, Pitié-Salpétrière Hospital 
and Centre de Recherche en Nutrition Humaine - Ile de France, Université Pierre
et Marie Curie, Paris, France.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a severe liver disease that is
increasing in prevalence with the worldwide epidemic of obesity and its related
insulin-resistance state. A 'two-hit' mechanism has been proposed; however, the
complete physiopathogenesis remains incompletely understood. Evidence for the
role of the gut microbiota in energy storage and the subsequent development of
obesity and some of its related diseases is now well established. More recently, 
a new role of gut microbiota has emerged in NAFLD. The gut microbiota is involved
in gut permeability, low-grade inflammation and immune balance, it modulates
dietary choline metabolism, regulates bile acid metabolism and produces
endogenous ethanol. All of these factors are molecular mechanisms by which the
microbiota can induce NAFLD or its progression toward overt non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis.

© 2013 The Authors Clinical Microbiology and Infection © 2013 European Society of
Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/1469-0691.12140 
PMID: 23452163  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1140. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2013 Feb;110(6):85-91. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2013.0085. Epub
2013 Feb 8.

The etiology, diagnosis and prevention of liver cirrhosis: part 1 of a series on 
liver cirrhosis.

Wiegand J(1), Berg T.

Author information: 
(1)Clinic of Gastroenterology and Rheumatology, Division of Hepatology, Leipzig
University Hospital, Leipzig, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Cirrhosis of the liver is the end stage of chronic liver disease.
Among the many liver disorders that can lead to cirrhosis, some progress rapidly 
(years) and others more slowly (decades). In Germany, cirrhosis is often a
consequence of fatty liver disease due to alcoholism or other causes, but can
also be caused by hepatitis B and hepatitis C. Cirrhosis is more common in
overweight persons and smokers. The underlying causes of cirrhosis determine its 
rate of progression and are the focus of preventive efforts and treatment. The
prevalence of cirrhosis in Germany is rising; it now ranks among the top 20
causes of death in the country.
METHODS: This article is based on a selective review of pertinent literature,
including reviews and current guidelines.
RESULTS: Strictly speaking, cirrhosis is a pathological diagnosis; it is,
nevertheless, usually diagnosed clinically, by history, physical examination
(e.g., cutaneous signs of liver disease), ancillary testing (e.g.,
ultrasonography, transient elastography) and laboratory analyses (e,g., APRI,
which is the quotient of the GOT concentration and the platelet count). There are
no laboratory cutoff values for the diagnosis of cirrhosis. Early detection of
chronic liver disease, followed by individually tailored, risk-adapted treatment,
is the best way to prevent it. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy can be performed early 
on to assess the risk of variceal bleeding. In most patients, the progression of 
fibrosis can be averted by early detection and appropriate treatment.
CONCLUSION: Screening for chronic liver disease should include history and
physical examination, serum transaminase measurement, upper abdominal
ultrasonography, and, in some cases, transient elastography.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2013.0085 
PMCID: PMC3583179
PMID: 23451000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1141. AIDS Rev. 2013 Jan-Mar;15(1):25-31.

The changing epidemiology of liver disease in HIV patients.

Soriano V(1), Barreiro P, Sherman KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Hospital Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
vsoriano@dragonet.es

Liver disease continues to be one of the leading causes of hospitalization and
death in HIV-infected individuals. Important etiologies include both alcoholic
and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, and coinfection with hepatitis viruses B and
C. While non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is increasingly diagnosed in this
population, most cases of chronic hepatitis B can be well controlled with
tenofovir-based regimens, and hepatitis C has entered a revolutionary era in
which most patients may be cured with direct-acting antivirals. However,
important gaps remain unaddressed. Hepatitis delta is a neglected disease,
despite 15 million people being infected worldwide, and represents the most
severe form of viral hepatitis. Hepatitis E is largely unrecognized, despite
being the major cause of acute viral hepatitis worldwide and occasionally leading
to chronicity in immunosuppressed individuals.


PMID: 23449226  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1142. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2013 Apr;47(4):298-307. doi: 10.1097/MCG.0b013e31827873dc.

Immune therapy for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: are we there yet?

Ilan Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Department of Medicine, Hadassah-Hebrew University
Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel. ilan@hadassah.org.il

Metabolic syndrome, obesity, and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis are associated with
a state of chronic inflammation. The immune system and the inflammatory cascade
can be involved in the development of any of the above common conditions. This
association raises the question of whether immune therapy can be used for the
treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Although immune therapy is not yet
feasible for clinical use, here, we review some of the recent data on the
potential role of the various arms of the immune system in the development of
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and several potential therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0b013e31827873dc 
PMID: 23442833  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1143. Adv Pharmacol. 2013;66:157-266. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-12-404717-4.00005-6.

Eicosanoids in metabolic syndrome.

Hardwick JP(1), Eckman K, Lee YK, Abdelmegeed MA, Esterle A, Chilian WM, Chiang
JY, Song BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry and Molecular Pathology, Department of Integrative Medical
Sciences, Northeast Ohio Medical University, Rootstown, Ohio, USA. jph@neomed.edu

Chronic persistent inflammation plays a significant role in disease pathology of 
cancer, cardiovascular disease, and metabolic syndrome (MetS). MetS is a
constellation of diseases that include obesity, diabetes, hypertension,
dyslipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and hypercholesterolemia. Nonalcoholic fatty 
liver disease (NAFLD) is associated with many of the MetS diseases. These
metabolic derangements trigger a persistent inflammatory cascade, which includes 
production of lipid autacoids (eicosanoids) that recruit immune cells to the site
of injury and subsequent expression of cytokines and chemokines that amplify the 
inflammatory response. In acute inflammation, the transcellular synthesis of
antiinflammatory eicosanoids resolve inflammation, while persistent activation of
the autacoid-cytokine-chemokine cascade in metabolic disease leads to chronic
inflammation and accompanying tissue pathology. Many drugs targeting the
eicosanoid pathways have been shown to be effective in the treatment of MetS,
suggesting a common linkage between inflammation, MetS and drug metabolism. The
cross-talk between inflammation and MetS seems apparent because of the growing
evidence linking immune cell activation and metabolic disorders such as insulin
resistance, dyslipidemia, and hypertriglyceridemia. Thus modulation of lipid
metabolism through either dietary adjustment or selective drugs may become a new 
paradigm in the treatment of metabolic disorders. This review focuses on the
mechanisms linking eicosanoid metabolism to persistent inflammation and altered
lipid and carbohydrate metabolism in MetS.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-404717-4.00005-6 
PMCID: PMC3675900
PMID: 23433458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1144. Arab J Gastroenterol. 2012 Dec;13(4):161-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ajg.2012.06.010. Epub 
2012 Sep 10.

Relationship between non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and kidney function: a
communication between two organs that needs further exploration.

Hamad AA(1), Khalil AA, Connolly V, Ahmed MH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Acute Medicine, The James Cook University Hospital, Middlesbourgh,
UK.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now regarded as hepatic component of
the metabolic syndrome. In addition, NAFLD has emerged as a growing public health
problem worldwide and an important challenge for health authorities. NAFLD is
associated with insulin resistance and hyperlipidaemia and this appears as the
potential pathogenic role of NAFLD in the development and progression of chronic 
kidney disease (CKD). Interestingly, NAFLD and CKD may share common pathogenic
mechanisms like obesity, abdominal obesity, insulin resistance, hyperlipidaemia, 
hypertension and inflammation. Importantly, the association between NAFLD and CKD
is also being shown to be independent of obesity, hypertension, and other
potentially confounding features of the metabolic syndrome, and it occurs both in
patients without diabetes and in those with diabetes. How the liver communicates 
with kidney in individuals with NAFLD is not well known and indeed an urgent
research is needed to further elucidate the complex and intertwined mechanisms
that link NAFLD and CKD. One potential pathway for future exploration may be
inflammatory mediators in NAFLD that may lead to deterioration in renal function.
In addition, large clinical studies are needed to study the impact of NAFLD on
the progression of CKD and in particular during dialysis and transplant and
importantly how treatment of NAFLD and weight loss will have reversible potential
benefit in improving renal function.

Copyright © 2012 Arab Journal of Gastroenterology. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajg.2012.06.010 
PMID: 23432982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1145. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(29):5314-24.

Gut-liver axis and microbiota in NAFLD: insight pathophysiology for novel
therapeutic target.

Miele L(1), Marrone G, Lauritano C, Cefalo C, Gasbarrini A, Day C, Grieco A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Catholic University of the
Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy. luca.miele@rm.unicatt.it

There is increasing evidence for a correlation between intestinal microbiota,
bacterial translocation and hepatic steatosis. Intestinal microbiota affects
nutrient absorption and energy homeostasis. Altered intestinal permeability may
favor the passage of bacteriaderived compounds into systemic circulation, causing
a systemic inflammatory state, characteristic of the metabolic syndrome. The
interaction between intestinal permeability and luminal bacteria is involved in
the pathogenesis and evolution of non-alcoholic liver disease. Microbiota
pharmacological modulation could be a promising tool for a new therapeutical
approach to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.


PMID: 23432669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1146. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(29):5177-92.

Cardiovascular and systemic risk in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease -
atherosclerosis as a major player in the natural course of NAFLD.

Lonardo A(1), Sookoian S, Chonchol M, Loria P, Targher G.

Author information: 
(1)University of Modena and Reggio Emilia and Azienda USL of Modena – Department 
of Internal Medicine, Endocrinology, Metabolism and Geriatrics, NOCSAE,
Baggiovara, Modena, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses pure steatosis through
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and is the most common cause of chronic liver
disease in Western countries. NASH is a progressive liver disease that increases 
the risk of cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease. Interestingly, the global
health risk of NAFLD is not confined to the liver. Compared with those without
NAFLD, patients with NAFLD exhibit not only increased liver-related complications
and liver-related mortality but also increased risk of developing type 2
diabetes, cardiovascular disease (CVD) and chronic kidney disease, increased risk
of post-operative complications after major liver surgery, and increased risk of 
developing certain malignancies, including primary liver cancer and colorectal
cancer. In this review, we discuss the current evidence linking NAFLD with the
risk of CVD in the setting of the more complex scenario of other hepatic and
extra-hepatic complications that may occur during the natural course of NAFLD.
Moreover, we provide a brief description of the putative biological mechanisms
underlying such complications, particular emphasis being given to CVD. We
conclude that NAFLD is a complex health problem with implications far beyond the 
liver. Hence, it may cause a significant global health burden and the assistance 
of patients with NAFLD impacts on the work of physicians from many different
medical specialties.


PMID: 23432668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1147. J Obes. 2013;2013:839275. doi: 10.1155/2013/839275. Epub 2013 Jan 29.

Bariatric surgery as potential treatment for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a 
future treatment by choice or by chance?

Hafeez S(1), Ahmed MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, The James Cook University Hospital,
Middlesbrough TS4 3BW, UK.

Morbid obesity is strongly associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) which is one of the most common causes of chronic liver disease
worldwide. The current best treatment of NAFLD and NASH is weight reduction
through life style modifications, antiobesity medication, and bariatric surgery. 
Importantly, bariatric surgery is the best alternative option for weight
reduction if lifestyle modifications and pharmacological therapy have not yielded
long-term success. Bariatric surgery is an effective treatment option for
individuals who are grossly obese and associated with marked decrease in
obesity-related morbidity and mortality. The most common performed bariatric
surgery is Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB). The current evidence suggests that
bariatric surgery in these patients will decrease the grade of steatosis, hepatic
inflammation, and fibrosis. NAFLD per se is not an indication for bariatric
surgery. Further research is urgently needed to determine (i) the benefit of
bariatric surgery in NAFLD patients at high risk of developing liver cirrhosis
(ii) the role of bariatric surgery in modulation of complications of NAFLD like
diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The outcomes of the future research will
determine whether bariatric surgery will be one of the recommended choice for
treatment of the most progressive type of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/839275 
PMCID: PMC3569911
PMID: 23431426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1148. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Feb 14;19(6):802-12. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i6.802.

What is the role of adiponectin in obesity related non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease?

Finelli C(1), Tarantino G.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Obesity and Eating Disorder, Stella Maris Mediterraneum Foundation, 
80035 Potenza, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is recognized as the most common type
of chronic liver disease in Western countries. Insulin resistance is a key factor
in the pathogenesis of NAFLD, the latter being considered as the hepatic
component of insulin resistance or obesity. Adiponectin is the most abundant
adipose-specific adipokine. There is evidence that adiponectin decreases hepatic 
and systematic insulin resistance, and attenuates liver inflammation and
fibrosis. Adiponectin generally predicts steatosis grade and the severity of
NAFLD; however, to what extent this is a direct effect or related to the presence
of more severe insulin resistance or obesity remains to be addressed. Although
there is no proven pharmacotherapy for the treatment of NAFLD, recent therapeutic
strategies have focused on the indirect upregulation of adiponectin through the
administration of various therapeutic agents and/or lifestyle modifications. In
this adiponectin-focused review, the pathogenetic role and the potential
therapeutic benefits of adiponectin in NAFLD are analyzed systematically.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i6.802 
PMCID: PMC3574877
PMID: 23430039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. Rev Prat. 2012 Dec;62(10):1425-7.

[Treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis].

[Article in French]

Bürgi AC(1), Dufour JF.

Author information: 
(1)Département de chirurgie et de médecine viscérale, Inselspital, université de 
Berne.

NASH associates steatosis with parenchymal inflammation and signs of
hepatocellular injuy and even apoptosis. This leads in a minority of patients to 
fibrosis and in the long term to cirrhosis. NASH regularly occurs in a metabolic 
context characterized by insulin resistance. Several drugs have been tested in
randomized controlled studies. Glitazones improve insulin resistance and also
NASH, but are associated with side effects particularly unwelcome in NASH
patients. Ursodesoxycholic acid, an hydrophilic biliary acid with
hepatoprotective properties, does not improve the histological lesions of NASH.
Vitamin E is the only compound which showed so far a positive effect without
relevant side effects. However, it is too early to recommend its long-term use in
this indication. Finally, the best treatment is not with drugs, but relies on
behavioural changes: NASH patients should regularly exercise!


PMID: 23424927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1150. Rev Prat. 2012 Dec;62(10):1421-5.

[Management of non alcoholic fatty liver diseases in adults].

[Article in French]

Pariente A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre hospitalier de Pau, 64046 Pau Cedex, France.
alexandre.pariente@ch-pau.fr

Nonalcoholic fatty liver diseases (NAFLD) are the commonest liver diseases.
Usually asymptomatic, NAFLD are diagnosed because of abnormal liver function
tests or hepatic imaging studies, or only in an advanced stage (cirrhosis,
hepatocellular carcinoma). Fatty liver is diagnosed by imaging studies
(ultrasound, even MRI), causal context (mainly metabolic syndrome, type 2
diabetes), and the elimination of the other causes of chronic liver disease and
steatosis (alcohol firstly). The liver severity of the disease depends on the
presence of inflammatory lesions (steatohepatitis) generating fibrosis.
Steatohepatitis and severe fibrosis can often be adequately predicted by
noninvasive methods (scores, Fibroscan). Liver biopsy remains necessary when
multiple causes of liver disease coexist, or when noninvasive methods give
discordant results. The diagnosis of NAFLD requires triple evaluation, hepatic,
metabolic, and cardiovascular. Clinical follow-up of patients with NAFLD may be
annual, or semiannual in case of cirrhosis. Hepatocellular carcinoma screening is
indicated in the presence of cirrhosis, and perhaps in the absence of cirrhosis
when other cofactors are present (age, male sex, type 2 diabetes).


PMID: 23424926  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1151. Rev Prat. 2012 Dec;62(10):1416-8, 1420-1.

[Epidemiology and natural history of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease].

[Article in French]

Pais R(1), Ratziu V.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'hépatologie, groupe hospitalier de La Pitié-Salpêtrière, AP-HP,
université Pierre-et-Marie-Curie, 75013 Paris, France.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a spectrum of diseases that 
ranges from simple steatosis to steatohepatitis (NASH), two entities with
strikingly different outcomes. NAFLD is becoming one of the leading causes of
chronic liver disease worldwide, but the real prevalence of the disease is still 
underestimated. NAFLD is strongly linked to insulin resistance and should be
suspected in all patients with overweight, obesity, diabetes or other features of
metabolic syndrome seeking medical care inside or outside Hepatology clinics.
NASH is a slowly progressive fibrotic disease. Patients with NASH may develop
cirrhosis, endstage liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma. The overall and
liver-related mortality are increased in patients with NASH compared to general
population.


PMID: 23424924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1152. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2013 Mar;37(3):544-55. doi: 10.1002/jmri.23731.

Magnetic resonance elastography of liver: technique, analysis, and clinical
applications.

Venkatesh SK(1), Yin M, Ehman RL.

Author information: 
(1)Diagnostic Radiology, National University of Singapore, Singapore.

Many pathological processes cause marked changes in the mechanical properties of 
tissue. MR elastography (MRE) is a noninvasive MRI based technique for
quantitatively assessing the mechanical properties of tissues in vivo. MRE is
performed by using a vibration source to generate low frequency mechanical waves 
in tissue, imaging the propagating waves using a phase contrast MRI technique,
and then processing the wave information to generate quantitative images showing 
mechanical properties such as tissue stiffness. Since its first description in
1995, published studies have explored many potential clinical applications
including brain, thyroid, lung, heart, breast, and skeletal muscle imaging.
However, the best-documented application to emerge has been the use of MRE to
assess liver disease. Multiple studies have demonstrated that there is a strong
correlation between MRE-measured hepatic stiffness and the stage of fibrosis at
histology. The emerging literature indicates that MRE can serve as a safer, less 
expensive, and potentially more accurate alternative to invasive liver biopsy
which is currently the gold standard for diagnosis and staging of liver fibrosis.
This review describes the basic principles, technique of performing a liver MRE, 
analysis and calculation of stiffness, clinical applications, limitations, and
potential future applications.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.23731 
PMCID: PMC3579218
PMID: 23423795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1153. J Hepatol. 2013 Mar;58(3):593-608. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.12.005.

The burden of liver disease in Europe: a review of available epidemiological
data.

Blachier M(1), Leleu H, Peck-Radosavljevic M, Valla DC, Roudot-Thoraval F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Université Paris-Est
Créteil, France.

To survey the burden of liver disease in Europe and its causes 260
epidemiological studies published in the last five years were reviewed. The
incidence and prevalence of cirrhosis and primary liver cancer are key to
understand the burden of liver disease. They represent the end-stage of liver
pathology and thus are indicative of the associated mortality. About 0.1% of
Hungarian males will die of cirrhosis every year compared with 0.001% of Greek
females. WHO estimate that liver cancer is responsible for around 47,000 deaths
per year in the EU. Harmful alcohol consumption, viral hepatitis B and C and
metabolic syndromes related to overweight and obesity are the leading causes of
cirrhosis and primary liver cancer in Europe. Chronic hepatitis B affects
0.5-0.7% of the European population. In the last decade the prevalence of chronic
hepatitis C was 0.13-3.26%. It is of great concern that about 90% of people in
Europe infected by viral hepatitis are unaware of their status. Available data
suggest the prevalence rate of NAFLD is 2-44% in the general European population 
(including obese children) and 42.6-69.5% in people with type 2 diabetes. Each of
these four major causes of liver disease is amenable to prevention and treatment,
reducing the burden of liver disease in Europe and saving lives. Further surveys 
are urgently needed to implement cost-effective prevention programmes and novel
treatments to tackle this problem.

Copyright © 2012 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.12.005 
PMID: 23419824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1154. Drug Discov Today. 2013 Aug;18(15-16):785-92. doi: 10.1016/j.drudis.2013.02.003. 
Epub 2013 Feb 14.

Cysteamine: an old drug with new potential.

Besouw M(1), Masereeuw R, van den Heuvel L, Levtchenko E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Nephrology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven,
Belgium. martine.besouw@uzleuven.be

Cysteamine is an amino thiol with the chemical formula HSCH2CH2NH2. Endogenously,
cysteamine is derived from coenzyme A degradation, although its plasma
concentrations are low. Most experience with cysteamine as a drug originates from
the field of the orphan disease cystinosis, in which cysteamine is prescribed to 
decrease intralysosomal cystine accumulation. However, over the years, the drug
has been used for several other applications both in vitro and in vivo. In this
article, we review the different applications of cysteamine, ending with an
overview of ongoing clinical trials for new indications, such as
neurodegenerative disorders and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The
recent development of an enteric-coated cysteamine formulation makes cysteamine
more patient friendly and will extend its applicability for both old and new
indications.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2013.02.003 
PMID: 23416144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2013 Jun;56(6):682-5. doi:
10.1097/MPG.0b013e31828b36ac.

Cholesteryl ester storage disease: protean presentations of lysosomal acid lipase
deficiency.

Zhang B(1), Porto AF.

Author information: 
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.

OBJECTIVE: LIPA gene mutations result in deficiency of lysosomal acid lipase and 
present phenotypically as Wolman disease or cholesteryl ester storage disease
(CESD) depending on the level of deficiency. Patients with CESD may often be
misdiagnosed because symptoms may be nonspecific. Symptoms may present in infancy
if there is complete loss of lysosomal acid lipase or in early childhood or
adulthood when there is partial loss. The purpose of the present study is to
review the literature for pediatric cases of CESD to better understand the
phenotype of CESD.
METHODS: A PubMed search of all English-language publications from 1966 through
June 2012 for pediatric CESD case reports using the following key words CESD,
fatty liver, and NAFLD was performed. All of the cases were reviewed and
information regarding age, sex, presenting symptoms, and pertinent laboratory
tests were recorded.
RESULTS: Seventy-one cases were culled from 39 published case reports. Nearly
two-thirds of these patients presented with their first symptoms when they were
younger than 5 years. Hepatomegaly and splenomegaly were common features. Serum
transaminases and lipids were often elevated. Gastrointestinal symptoms were
noted in approximately one-third of cases. Two-thirds of patients had liver
fibrosis.
CONCLUSIONS: CESD has an estimated incidence as high as 1 in 40,000, which means 
that it is presently underdiagnosed. Education about common symptoms of CESD as
well as a higher level of suspicion for screening for CESD will lead to earlier
diagnosis. New treatments for CESD including possible enzyme replacement therapy 
make early diagnosis especially important.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0b013e31828b36ac 
PMID: 23403440  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1156. J Med Food. 2013 Feb;16(2):103-11. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2012.2468.

Health benefits of blue-green algae: prevention of cardiovascular disease and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Ku CS(1), Yang Y, Park Y, Lee J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Connecticut, Storrs,
Connecticut, USA.

Blue-green algae (BGA) are among the most primitive life forms on earth and have 
been consumed as food or medicine by humans for centuries. BGA contain various
bioactive components, such as phycocyanin, carotenoids, γ-linolenic acid, fibers,
and plant sterols, which can promote optimal health in humans. Studies have
demonstrated that several BGA species or their active components have plasma
total cholesterol and triglyceride-lowering properties due to their modulation of
intestinal cholesterol absorption and hepatic lipogenic gene expression. BGA can 
also reduce inflammation by inhibiting the nuclear factor κ B activity,
consequently reducing the production of proinflammatory cytokines. Furthermore,
BGA inhibit lipid peroxidation and have free radical scavenging activity, which
can be beneficial for the protection against oxidative stress. The aforementioned
effects of BGA can contribute to the prevention of metabolic and inflammatory
diseases. This review provides an overview of the current knowledge of the
health-promoting functions of BGA against cardiovascular disease and nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease, which are major health threats in the developed countries.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2012.2468 
PMCID: PMC3576896
PMID: 23402636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2012 Dec;75(4):389-98.

Pleiotropic functions of bile acids mediated by the farnesoid X receptor.

Stanimirov B(1), Stankov K, Mikov M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical
Faculty Novi Sad, University of Novi Sad, Hajduk Veljkova 3, Serbia.
bojanstanimirov@yahoo.com

In addition to their well-established role in the digestion and absorption of
dietary lipids, bile acids (BAs) are recognized as signalling molecules in a wide
range of metabolic processes. Bile acids regulate their own metabolism and
enterohepatic circulation by activating the farnesoid X receptor (FXR). BAs have 
been shown to affect lipid metabolism, to decrease levels of circulating
triglycerides, improve hyperglycemia and insulin signalling, directly act on the 
arterial wall and protect hepatocytes against cholestatic liver injury. Given
that BAs are an integrated part of the complex metabolic network regulated by
FXR, acting as a major underlying pathway, specific therapeutic targeting of this
nuclear receptor represents an attractive therapeutic approach for a wide range
of disorders. During a phase II clinical trial, the administration of a
semisynthetic BA derivative 6-ethyl-chenodeoxycholic acid (6-ECDCA) to patients
with diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and primary biliary
cirrhosis (PBC), led to encouraging results, despite side effects being observed 
in pre-clinical studies. Chemical manipulations of the side chain and the steroid
nucleus of BAs could lead to the discovery of novel semisynthetic BA derivatives 
that are more specific and selective FXR activators.


PMID: 23402081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. Subcell Biochem. 2013;67:199-233. doi: 10.1007/978-94-007-5881-0_7.

CYP2E1, oxidative stress, post-translational modifications and lipid metabolism.

Lakshman MR(1), Garige M, Gong MA, Leckey L, Varatharajalu R, Redman RS, Seth D, 
Haber PS, Hirsch K, Amdur R, Shah R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The George Washington
University, Washington, DC, USA, Raj.Lakshman@va.gov.

Chronic alcohol-mediated down-regulation of hepatic ST6Gal1 gene leads to
defective glycosylation of lipid-carrying apolipoproteins such as apo E and apo
J, resulting in defective VLDL assembly and intracellular lipid and lipoprotein
transport, which in turn is responsible for alcoholic hepatosteatosis and ALD.
The mechanism of ethanol action involves thedepletion of a unique RNA binding
protein that specifically interacts with its 3'-UTR region of ST6Gal1 mRNA
resulting in its destabilization and consequent appearance of asialoconjugates as
alcohol biomarkers. With respect to ETOH effects on Cardio-Vascular Diseases, we 
conclude that CYP2E1 and ETOH mediated oxidative stress significantly down
regulates not only the hepatic PON1 gene expression, but also serum PON1 and
HCTLase activities accompanied by depletion of hepatic GSH, the endogenous
antioxidant. These results strongly implicate the susceptibility of PON1 to
increased ROS production. In contrast, betaine seems to be both hepatoprotective 
and atheroprotective by reducing hepatosteatosis and restoring not only liver GSH
that quenches free radicals, but also the antiatherogenic PON1 gene expression
and activity.

DOI: 10.1007/978-94-007-5881-0_7 
PMID: 23400923  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1159. Subcell Biochem. 2013;67:165-75. doi: 10.1007/978-94-007-5881-0_5.

Relevance of CYP2E1 to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Daly AK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University Medical School,
Framlington Place, NE2 4HH, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, a.k.daly@ncl.ac.uk.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its progression to steatohepatitis 
(NASH) and cirrhosis is a growing problem in most developed countries. Increased 
hepatic expression of CYP2E1, which carries out omega hydroxylation of fatty
acids, was first shown in a mouse model of NASH and this was later also reported 
for human NASH, though not all studies agree with this finding and further larger
studies are still needed. In view of its role in fatty acid metabolism which
leads to increased levels of toxic lipid peroxides and its possible increased
expression in NASH, CYP2E1 is an attractive candidate for a role as a genetic
risk factor for both NAFLD generally including progression to NASH. Two studies
have focused on the variant allele CYP2E1*5, which may be associated with
increased CYP2E1 expression. Both reported increased frequencies of this allele
in NASH patients, though statistical significance was not achieved because of
small sample sizes. Some more indirect data also suggests a relationship between 
high CYP2E1 activity and progression to NASH. However, three recent genome-wide
association studies on NAFLD have failed to find any evidence that single
nucleotide polymorphisms in or adjacent to the CYP2E1 gene contribute to
susceptibility. Further studies are needed to investigate a possible role in
disease progression in addition to susceptibility and the possibility that
statistical power in the existing studies was insufficient to detect a relatively
small contribution to disease susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1007/978-94-007-5881-0_5 
PMID: 23400921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1160. Subcell Biochem. 2013;67:145-64. doi: 10.1007/978-94-007-5881-0_4.

The importance of CYP2E1 in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease and drug 
toxicity and the role of the proteasome.

French SW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, 1000 W. Carson St.,
Torrance, CA, 90502, USA, sfrench@labiomed.org.

The chapter discusses about the critical role of CYP2E1 in ethanol mediated liver
injury and its association with NASH. Ethanol metabolism by CYP2E1 generates
hydroxyethyl radicals which promote ethanol hepatotoxicity. Greater induction of 
CYP2E1 and hence greater liver injury occurs with co-administration of ethanol
and drugs. Induction of CYP2E1 leads to prominent epigenetic effects and CYP2E1
polymorphism may be associated with alcoholic liver disease. These are some
aspects of CYP2E1, amongst many others which account for its importance in the
context of drug metabolism and disease development and have been reviewed in the 
chapter.

DOI: 10.1007/978-94-007-5881-0_4 
PMID: 23400920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. Br J Nutr. 2013 Jan;109 Suppl 2:S81-5. doi: 10.1017/S0007114512004047.

Gut microbiota and metabolic disorders: How prebiotic can work?

Delzenne NM(1), Neyrinck AM, Cani PD.

Author information: 
(1)Université catholique de Louvain, Louvain Drug Research Institute, Metabolism 
and Nutrition Research Group, Avenue Mounier 73, Box B1.73.11, B-1200 Brussels,
Belgium. nathalie.delzenne@uclouvain.be

Experimental data in animals, but also observational studies in obese patients,
suggest that the composition of the gut microbiota differs in obese v. lean
individuals, in diabetic v. non-diabetic patients or in patients presenting other
diseases associated with obesity or nutritional dysbalance, such as non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis. In the present review, we will describe how changes in the gut
microbiota composition and/or activity by dietary fibres with prebiotic
properties, can modulate host gene expression and metabolism. We will evaluate
their potential relevance in the management of obesity and related metabolic
disturbances, in view of the experimental data and intervention studies published
up to date.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114512004047 
PMID: 23360884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1162. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2013 Mar;39(2):214-28. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1334866. Epub
2013 Feb 8.

Diagnosis and management of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and its
hemostatic/thrombotic and vascular complications.

Targher G(1), Byrne CD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
University of Verona, Verona, Italy. giovanni.targher@univr.it

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a spectrum of progressive
liver disease encompassing simple steatosis, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
fibrosis, and, ultimately, cirrhosis. NAFLD is strongly associated with features 
of the metabolic syndrome including abdominal overweight/obesity, hypertension,
atherogenic dyslipidemia, glucose intolerance, or type 2 diabetes. With the
advent of increasingly sedentary lifestyles and changing dietary patterns, the
prevalence of obesity and insulin resistance has increased and, with this, NAFLD 
has rapidly become the most common cause of chronic liver disease in many
developed countries. Importantly, accumulating evidence indicates that NAFLD is
strongly associated with a prothrombotic tendency, which may, at least in part,
contribute to the increased risk of atherothrombotic events observed in these
patients. NAFLD, especially in its necroinflammatory form (NASH), releases a
variety of proinflammatory and prothrombotic mediators that play important roles 
in the development and progression of acute atherothrombotic complications. NAFLD
also exacerbates systemic and hepatic insulin resistance and causes atherogenic
dyslipidemia. The purpose of this review is to briefly discuss the epidemiology
and diagnosis of NAFLD, to summarize the rapidly expanding body of evidence that 
supports a strong association between NAFLD and various disorders of coagulation 
and fibrinolysis and their implications for the development of atherothrombotic
complications, and to discuss some of the treatment options that may influence
both NAFLD and its related vascular complications.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1334866 
PMID: 23397556  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Semin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;32(4):317-24. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1329905. Epub 2013
Feb 8.

A critical appraisal of advances in pediatric nonalcoholic Fatty liver disease.

Ovchinsky N(1), Lavine JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. no2021@columbia.edu

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of liver
disease in children; its rise has been related to the increasing prevalence of
obesity. Significant advancements have been made in the investigation of the
etiopathogenesis and genetic risk factors for the disease. Pediatric fatty liver 
disease often displays a histologic pattern distinct from that found in adults,
and liver biopsy remains the gold standard for diagnosis of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). Lifestyle modifications that result in weight loss remain
the first-line treatment of NAFLD in children. Recent adult and pediatric
clinical trials on the use of antioxidants combined with lifestyle intervention
for NAFLD have demonstrated encouraging results, and additional trials are
underway. In this review, the authors provide an overview of current concepts in 
epidemiology, histologic features, diagnosis, pathophysiology, genetic risk
factors, and treatment of NAFLD in children.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1329905 
PMID: 23397532  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1164. J Gastroenterol. 2013 Apr;48(4):434-41. doi: 10.1007/s00535-013-0758-5. Epub 2013
Feb 9.

Mechanisms of hepatic triglyceride accumulation in non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Kawano Y(1), Cohen DE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by hepatic lipid
accumulation in the absence of excess alcohol intake. NAFLD is the most common
chronic liver disease, and ongoing research efforts are focused on understanding 
the underlying pathobiology of hepatic steatosis with the anticipation that these
efforts will identify novel therapeutic targets. Under physiological conditions, 
the low steady-state triglyceride concentrations in the liver are attributable to
a precise balance between acquisition by uptake of non-esterified fatty acids
from the plasma and by de novo lipogenesis, versus triglyceride disposal by fatty
acid oxidation and by the secretion of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. In NAFLD
patients, insulin resistance leads to hepatic steatosis by multiple mechanisms.
Greater uptake rates of plasma non-esterified fatty acids are attributable to
increased release from an expanded mass of adipose tissue as a consequence of
diminished insulin responsiveness. Hyperinsulinemia promotes the transcriptional 
upregulation of genes that promote de novo lipogenesis in the liver. Increased
hepatic lipid accumulation is not offset by fatty acid oxidation or by increased 
secretion rates of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. This review discusses the
molecular mechanisms by which hepatic triglyceride homeostasis is achieved under 
normal conditions, as well as the metabolic alterations that occur in the setting
of insulin resistance and contribute to the pathogenesis of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00535-013-0758-5 
PMCID: PMC3633701
PMID: 23397118  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1165. Ann Hepatol. 2013 Mar-Apr;12(2):183-9.

S-adenosylmethionine metabolism and liver disease.

Mato JM(1), Martínez-Chantar ML, Lu SC.

Author information: 
(1)CIC bioGUNE, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades
Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBERehd), Parque Tecnológico de Bizkaia, 48160 Derio,
Bizkaia, Spain. director@cicbiogune.com

Methionine is an essential amino acid that is metabolized mainly by the liver
where it is converted to S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe) by the enzyme methionine
adenosyltransferase. Although all mammalian cells synthesize SAMe, the liver is
where the bulk of SAMe is generated as it is the organ where about 50% of all
dietary methionine is metabolized. SAMe is mainly needed for methylation of a
large variety of substrates (DNA, proteins, lipids and many other small
molecules) and polyamine synthesis, so if the concentration of SAMe falls below a
certain level or rises too much the normal function of the liver will be also
affected. There are physiological conditions that can affect the hepatic content 
of SAMe. Consequently, to control these fluctuations, the rate at which the liver
both synthesizes and catabolizes SAMe is tightly regulated. In mice, failure to
do this can lead to fatty liver disease and to the development of hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC). Therefore, maintaining SAMe homeostasis may be a therapeutic
target in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, alcoholic- and non-alcoholic liver
cirrhosis, and for the chemoprevention of HCC formation.


PMCID: PMC4027041
PMID: 23396728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1166. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(29):5280-96.

Classical and innovative insulin sensitizing drugs for the prevention and
treatment of NAFLD.

Carulli L(1), Maurantonio M, Hebbard L, Baldelli E, Loria P, George J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Endocrinology, Metabolism and Geriatrics,
Nuovo Ospedale Civile Sant’Agostino-Estense of Modena, University of Modena and
Reggio Emilia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most common chronic
liver disorder worldwide, comprises a spectrum of conditions ranging from simple 
steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and cirrhosis. NASH is
associated with an increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and
cardiometabolic disease. Insulin resistance (IR) is the underlying pathogenic
mechanism for NAFLD, the presence of which in turn, is a strong predictor for the
development of metabolic disorders. Hence, therapy of NAFLD with
insulin-sensitizing drugs (ISDs) should ideally improve the key hepatic
histological changes (steatosis, inflammation and fibrosis), but should also
reduce cardiometabolic and cancer risk.
OBJECTIVES: In this review, the rationale for the use of ISDs and the evidence
for their efficacy are detailed. In particular, the mechanism of action,
potential for use, limitations and untoward effects of metformin and
thiazolidinediones are systematically reviewed. Further, we discuss novel ISDs
that may have potential clinical utility in NAFLD.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Despite the theoretical prediction that ISDs might have
beneficial effects on disease outcomes, evidence that ISDs are able to alter the 
natural history of NAFLD are presently not available. The exploration of novel
strategies exploiting "nonconventional" ISDs is encouraged.


PMID: 23394096  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1167. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(29):5270-9.

The role of lifestyle change in the prevention and treatment of NAFLD.

Centis E(1), Marzocchi R, Suppini A, Dalle Grave R, Villanova N, Hickman IJ,
Marchesini G.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Metabolic Diseases and Clinical Dietetics, Alma Mater Studiorum
University, Bologna, Italy.

Healthy habits in terms of food intake and physical activity are first-line
approach to prevention and treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, but
difficulties arise in turning attempts into practice. Independently of the
specific role of individual nutrients, not universally proven, overweight,
obesity and diabetes are the specific conditions most frequently associated with 
hepatic fat accumulation. Accordingly, weight loss is mandatory in the majority
of patients; this can be achieved by dietary restriction, but is rarely
maintained in the long-term. Physical activity programs, both aerobic and
resistance exercise may improve cardiorespiratory fitness, reduce the multiple
conditions associated with the metabolic syndrome and help weight loss
maintenance. However, motivating sedentary individuals to move is difficult and
is favored by structured programs carried out along the lines of
cognitive-behavior therapy. The role of behavior therapy is now supported by
pilot studies, observational studies and finally by a randomized controlled study
with histological outcomes. In the future, behavior interventions might be
supported by important technological advances, such as smart phone technology and
webbased platforms to facilitate interactive engagement amongst patients and with
their health care providers. Lifestyle programs must also incorporate methods of 
overcoming barriers to accessing health service, engaging with workplace health
programs and linking with community attempts to improve public health.


PMID: 23394095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(29):5297-313.

Antioxidant therapy and drugs interfering with lipid metabolism: could they be
effective in NAFLD patients?

Musso G(1), Anty R, Petta S.

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, Turin, Italy. giovanni_musso@yahoo.it

This review is part of a special issue dealing with various aspects of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH). We will focus on promising treatments of NASH with antioxidants and drugs
that interfere with lipid metabolism.The other therapies of interest, such as
diet, behavioral changes, and insulin sensitizers are presented elsewhere.
Oxidative stress is believed to play a key role in the pathogenesis of NASH and
other liver diseases. Antioxidants aimed at improving chronic alcoholic or viral 
liver diseases have been an object of study for some time. However, only a few
high quality, randomized, versus placebo-controlled, double-blinded trials have
been carried out to assess these drugs. Vitamin E is currently the most widely
assessed antioxidant. Several questions need to be answered, including long-term 
tolerance and efficacy of vitamin E in particular subsets, such as diabetes and
NASH-related cirrhosis. Other antioxidants are promising, and should be assessed 
using the standards of evidence-based medicine. NAFLD frequently coexists with
hyperlipidemia and carries an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD).
Furthermore, altered lipid metabolism is thought to be central to the
pathogenesis of liver injury in NASH. Therefore, lipid-lowering drugs are
attractive therapeutic tools in the treatment of NAFLD. Statins have ameliorated 
surrogate markers of steatosis in several randomized controlled trials, but their
impact on liver histology is unknown. They have, however, been found to be the
only class of lipid-lowering drugs that reduces cardiovascular risk in NAFLD.
Preliminary evidence suggests that ezetimibe, an inhibitor of intestinal and
hepatic cholesterol absorption, may improve liver histology, but its impact on
the risk of CVD and on clinical outcome remains to be determined. Despite strong 
experimental evidence supporting the use of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
in NAFLD, the studies published on humans have consisted of small sample sizes
and had a number of methodological flaws, including the absence of post-treatment
histology. Association of antioxidants and/or lipid-lowering drugs plus other
drugs of interest in NASH, such as insulin sensitizers, warrant investigation.
However, as promising as these drug treatments may continue to be, they should be
associated with diet and modifications in lifestyle.


PMID: 23394094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1169. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(29):5239-49.

From NAFLD to NASH and HCC: pathogenetic mechanisms and therapeutic insights.

De Minicis S(1), Day C, Svegliati-Baroni G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Universita Politecnica delle Marche, Italy.

NAFLD is the most common liver disease worldwide but it is the potential
evolution to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that makes NAFLD of
such clinical importance. The current work provides an overview of the main
mechanims and potential therapeutical insights involved in NAFLD, NASH, fibrosis 
and HCC progression.


PMID: 23394093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(29):5169-76.

Epidemiology and natural history of patients with NAFLD.

Bhala N(1), Jouness RI, Bugianesi E.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Trial Service Unit & Epidemiological Studies Unit, Richard Doll
Building, Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Oxford, United 
Kingdom.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) currently represents the most common
liver disease in Western countries, being found in 25-30% of the general
population. NAFLD embraces a wide range of metabolic hepatic damage characterised
by steatosis and, in some cases, associated non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
The long-term hepatic prognosis of NAFLD patients depends on the histological
stage at diagnosis: simple steatosis has a favourable outcome, whereas patients
with NASH can develop cirrhosis and other liver-related complications, including 
hepatocellular carcinoma. Progression of fibrosis is thought to develop in up to 
one third of NASH patients, including the development of cirrhosis, but
regression is also possible in pre-cirrhotic stages. Independent predictors of
fibrosis are older age, diabetes, obesity, hypertension, and the degree of
insulin resistance. Patients with NAFLD, particularly those with NASH, have a
higher prevalence and incidence of clinically manifested cardiovascular disease, 
independently of classical cardiometabolic risk factors. Hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC) is usually diagnosed at a late stage, but it may also occur in
non-cirrhotic NASH, as obesity and diabetes both independently increases the risk
of developing HCC. Liver-related mortality is increased up to ten-fold in
patients with NASH.


PMID: 23394091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1171. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(29):5193-218.

Non invasive indexes for the assessment of patients with non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease.

Petta S(1), Handberg A, Craxì A.

Author information: 
(1)Sezione di Gastroenterologia, DiBiMIS, University of Palermo, Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects about 20%-30% of the general
population, and its clinical relevance arises from the fact that 20%-30% of these
subjects develop non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a condition at risk of
cirrhosis progression. In addition NAFLD, and in particular NASH patients, are
also at high risk of cardiovascular alterations, suffering overall from an
increased liver and no liver-related events of risk and death. At the moment
liver biopsy is the gold standard for a correct evaluation of NASH and fibrosis
among NAFLD patients. However, the high and increasing prevalence of NAFLD has
triggered an intensive search for alternative and non-invasive methods for
evaluating disease severity. Specifically we can distinguish two main groups of
non-invasive methodologies, namely 'serum markers' that use clinical and/or
biochemical variables, and methodologies derived from elaboration of parameters
arising from liver imaging techniques. All these tools showed encouraging
results, even though their utility in clinical practice in the individual
patients is still under debate. Therefore further efforts are needed in order to 
generate non-invasive algorithms that correctly assess liver damage in NAFLD
patients. In particular, it should be interesting to perform gender-specific
analysis, by combining old and new tools, with the aim to generate more accurate 
scores. Finally we think that non-invasive scores should not only be able to
correctly classify the severity of liver disease in NAFLD patients, but also
predict liver and non-liver related morbidity and mortality, further acting as
time-dependent markers of liver and systemic disease activity. This review
summarizes the present knowledge on noninvasive diagnosis in NAFLD patients, and 
suggest future directions for this complex research area.


PMID: 23394090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1172. Nihon Arukoru Yakubutsu Igakkai Zasshi. 2012 Oct;47(5):185-93.

[Psychosocial indication of liver transplantation for alcohol-related liver
failure: current controversies and imminent issues in Japanese society].

[Article in Japanese]

Kiuchi T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Transplant Surgery, Department of Surgery, Nagoya University
Hospital , Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho,
Showa-ku, Nagoya 466-8560, Japan. kiuchi@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp

Organ transplant therapy is becoming a usual practice also in Japan, which
dramatically improves the length and quality of life in patients with end-stage
organ disease. Liver transplantation was resumed in Japan much later than that in
the West and is continued now under unique circumstances where more than 90% of
grafts come from living donors. Nevertheless the number of liver transplantation 
for alcohol-related liver failure shows a sharp rise to the level comparable to
the West, and not a few physical and/or psychosocial problems caused by
recidivism after transplantation are coming up. To find appropriate solutions to 
how to predict recidivism and define psychosocial indication of liver
transplantation in our society, and to how to monitor and support sobriety after 
transplantation, there is an urgent need for multidisciplinary management by
hepatologist, transplant surgeon, psychiatrist, and dependence specialist.
Life-saving therapy and dependence management are expected to work closely
together from the viewpoints of transparency, equity, utility, and autonomy
requested in transplant therapy, protection of living donors, and consideration
for donor family and public emotion.


PMID: 23393996  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Obes Rev. 2013 May;14(5):417-31. doi: 10.1111/obr.12020. Epub 2013 Feb 6.

Association of obstructive sleep apnoea with the presence and severity of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Musso G(1), Cassader M, Olivetti C, Rosina F, Carbone G, Gambino R.

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, Turin, Italy. giovanni_musso@yahoo.it

Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) are common in clinical practice. NAFLD encompasses simple steatosis and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH): both confer an increased risk of
cardiovascular disease and diabetes; NASH increases also liver-related risk.
Growing experimental evidence connects chronic intermittent hypoxia of OSAS to
NAFLD. We reviewed English and non-English articles and international meeting
abstracts through December 2012. Observational studies were included if they
assessed OSAS by polysomnography and NAFLD by histological, radiological or
biochemical criteria. Two reviewers evaluated retrieved articles by appropriate
quality scores. Main outcomes were pooled using random- or fixed-effects models. 
The effect of age, sex and body mass index (BMI) on effect estimates was assessed
by meta-regression. Eighteen cross-sectional studies (2,183 participants) were
included. Pooled odds ratios (ORs) of OSAS for the presence of NAFLD, as defined 
by histology, radiology, and AST or ALT elevation, were 2.01(95% CI: 1.36-2.97), 
2.99(1.79-4.99), 2.36(1.46-3.82) and 2.60(1.88-3.61), respectively. Pooled ORs of
OSAS for NASH, fibrosis-any stage, or advanced fibrosis in biopsy-proven NAFLD
patients were 2.37(1.59-3.51), 2.16(1.45-3.20) and 2.30(1.21-4.38). The magnitude
and direction of effects were unaffected by age, sex and BMI. In conclusion, OSAS
is associated with an increased risk of NAFLD, NASH and fibrosis. OSAS patients
should be screened for the presence and severity of NAFLD.

© 2013 The Authors. obesity reviews © 2013 International Association for the
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/obr.12020 
PMID: 23387384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Feb;7(2):157-70. doi: 10.1586/egh.12.71.

Hepatic disease biomarkers and liver transplantation: what is the potential
utility of microRNAs?

Gehrau RC(1), Mas VR, Maluf DG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Virginia, Transplant Division, PO Box
800625, 409 Lane Rd, Charlottesville, VA 22908-0625, USA.

Liver transplantation represents the treatment of choice for acute hepatic
failure or chronically induced end stage of liver disease. Molecular
characterization of hepatic injury and recovery processes encloses the key for
biomarker discovery in the liver transplantation field. Several pathological
hepatic processes were demonstrated to be associated with deregulated miRNA
profiles. Moreover, abnormal concentration levels of circulating cell-free miRNAs
correlate with specific hepatic injury. The high molecular stability and emerging
rapid assessment techniques invite further consideration of miRNAs as feasible
monitoring and outcome predictive biomarkers for liver disease and liver
transplantation. The present review aims to provide an overview of recent
achievements in research on the potential applicability of miRNAs as biomarkers
in liver disease and liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1586/egh.12.71 
PMID: 23363264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2013 Apr;1281:106-22. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12016. Epub 2013 Jan
30.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: an emerging threat to obese and diabetic
individuals.

Masuoka HC(1), Chalasani N.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Indiana
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in the 
Western world and its incidence is increasing rapidly. NAFLD is a spectrum
ranging from simple steatosis, which is relatively benign hepatically, to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which can progress to cirrhosis. Obesity,
insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia are the most
important risk factors for NAFLD. Due to heavy enrichment with metabolic risk
factors, individuals with NAFLD are at significantly higher risk for
cardiovascular disease. Individuals with NAFLD have higher incidence of type 2
diabetes. The diagnosis of NAFLD requires imaging evidence of hepatic steatosis
in the absence of competing etiologies including significant alcohol consumption.
Liver biopsy remains the gold standard for diagnosing NASH and for determining
prognosis. Weight loss remains a cornerstone of treatment. Weight loss of ~5% is 
believed to improve steatosis, whereas ~10% weight loss is necessary to improve
steatohepatitis. A number of pharmacologic therapies have been investigated to
treat NASH, and agents such as vitamin E and thiazolidinediones have shown
promise in select patient subgroups.

© 2013 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.12016 
PMCID: PMC3646408
PMID: 23363012  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1176. Pharmacotherapy. 2013 Feb;33(2):223-42. doi: 10.1002/phar.1190. Epub 2013 Jan 28.

Pharmacologic therapy for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in adults.

Malinowski SS(1), Byrd JS, Bell AM, Wofford MR, Riche DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, School of Pharmacy, University of
Mississippi, Jackson, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by the accumulation of 
triglycerides in hepatocytes in the absence of excessive alcohol intake, ranging 
in severity from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis can ultimately progress to cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD is associated with cardiometabolic risk factors
and is the most common chronic liver disease among adults in the Western
Hemisphere. Although simple steatosis is generally considered a self-limiting
disease, evidence suggests an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, and, less
conclusively, mortality, among individuals with NAFLD and/or NASH. The current
standard of care for the treatment of patients with NAFLD focuses on lifestyle
interventions, particularly diet and exercise. There is a lack of consensus
regarding the most effective and appropriate pharmacologic therapy. A PubMed
search was conducted using the medical subject heading terms "fatty liver" and
"steatohepatitis." This review focuses on the current pharmacologic options
available for treating adults with NAFLD and/or NASH. Continued investigation of 
drugs or combinations that improve NAFLD progression is crucial. Clinicians,
particularly pharmacists, must take an active role in identification and
appropriate selection of pharmacotherapy for NAFLD.

© 2013 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/phar.1190 
PMID: 23359475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1177. J Genet Genomics. 2013 Jan 20;40(1):15-22. doi: 10.1016/j.jgg.2012.12.001. Epub
2012 Dec 26.

Genetics of nonalcoholic Fatty liver disease: an overview.

Puppala J(1), Siddapuram SP, Akka J, Munshi A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Genetics and Hospital for Genetic Diseases, Osmania University,
Begumpet, Hyderabad, India.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in the 
world today. Its incidence in adults and children is rising rapidly due to the
ongoing epidemics of obesity and type 2 diabetes. Hence, it has become a global
public health issue. Environmental factors have been found to play a major role
in the etiology of NAFLD, especially for genetically susceptible populations.
Among these, one of the most important factors is junk food, especially the
typical "Western-style" diet rich in simple carbohydrates, saturated fat, and
highly processed food materials. Genetic predisposition to NAFLD does occur;
however, a precise definition of genetic factors responsible for NAFLD is still
lacking. Specific variants of different genes have been shown to present a risk
for NAFLD. Genetic studies might be helpful in the management of the disease by
developing novel treatment strategies based on individual's genotype.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgg.2012.12.001 
PMID: 23357341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1178. Biochem Soc Trans. 2013 Feb 1;41(1):127-33. doi: 10.1042/BST20120231.

Convergent mechanisms for dysregulation of mitochondrial quality control in
metabolic disease: implications for mitochondrial therapeutics.

Mitchell T(1), Chacko B, Ballinger SW, Bailey SM, Zhang J, Darley-Usmar V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL
35294, USA.

Mitochondrial dysfunction is associated with a broad range of pathologies
including diabetes, ethanol toxicity, metabolic syndrome and cardiac failure. It 
is now becoming clear that maintaining mitochondrial quality through a balance
between biogenesis, reserve capacity and mitophagy is critical in determining the
response to metabolic or xenobiotic stress. In diseases associated with metabolic
stress, such as Type II diabetes and non-alcoholic and alcoholic steatosis, the
mitochondria are subjected to multiple 'hits' such as hypoxia and oxidative and
nitrative stress, which can overwhelm the mitochondrial quality control pathways.
In addition, the underlying mitochondrial genetics that evolved to accommodate
high-energy demand, low-calorie supply environments may now be maladapted to
modern lifestyles (low-energy demand, high-calorie environments). The pro-oxidant
and pro-inflammatory environment of a sedentary western lifestyle has been
associated with modified redox cell signalling pathways such as steatosis,
hypoxic signalling, inflammation and fibrosis. These data suggest that loss of
mitochondrial quality control is intimately associated with the aberrant
activation of redox cell signalling pathways under pathological conditions. In
the present short review, we discuss evidence from alcoholic liver disease
supporting this concept, the insights obtained from experimental models and the
application of bioenergetic-based therapeutics in the context of maintaining
mitochondrial quality.

DOI: 10.1042/BST20120231 
PMCID: PMC3582193
PMID: 23356271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1179. J Diabetes Complications. 2013 Jul-Aug;27(4):401-6. doi:
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2012.12.005. Epub 2013 Jan 24.

Potential of incretin-based therapies for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Samson SL(1), Bajaj M.

Author information: 
(1)Baylor College of Medicine, St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital, Houston, TX 77030, 
USA. ssamson@bcm.edu

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is becoming an epidemic, paralleling
the increased prevalence of obesity and diabetes, which are risk factors. In this
review, we present the current pre-clinical evidence showing that GLP-1 analogues
and DPP4 inhibitors can improve hepatic steatosis. Although some of the effects
could be due to overall improvement in metabolic parameters, there are data to
support improvements independent of weight loss, as well as direct effects on the
hepatocyte in vitro. Multiple hepatocyte signal transduction pathways appear to
be activated by GLP-1 and its analogues, with both AMP-activated protein kinase
and Akt proposed to be key players in improving hepatic steatosis. However, it is
controversial as to whether the pancreatic-type GLP-1 receptor is present or
responsible for conferring the GLP-1 signal in the hepatocyte. In total, the data
support the need for more rigorous prospective clinical trials to further
investigate the potential of incretin therapies for treatment of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2012.12.005 
PMID: 23352496  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1180. J Clin Lipidol. 2013 Jan-Feb;7(1):65-81. doi: 10.1016/j.jacl.2012.04.079. Epub
2012 Apr 22.

Genetic determinants of cardiometabolic risk: a proposed model for phenotype
association and interaction.

Blackett PR(1), Sanghera DK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center,
Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.

This review provides a translational and unifying summary of metabolic syndrome
genetics and highlights evidence that genetic studies are starting to unravel and
untangle origins of the complex and challenging cluster of disease phenotypes.
The associated genes effectively express in the brain, liver, kidney, arterial
endothelium, adipocytes, myocytes, and β cells. Progression of syndrome traits
has been associated with ectopic lipid accumulation in the arterial wall,
visceral adipocytes, myocytes, and liver. Thus, it follows that the genetics of
dyslipidemia, obesity, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease are central in
triggering progression of the syndrome to overt expression of disease traits and 
have become a key focus of interest for early detection and for designing
prevention and treatments. To support the "birds' eye view" approach, we provide 
a road-map depicting commonality and interrelationships between the traits and
their genetic and environmental determinants based on known risk factors,
metabolic pathways, pharmacologic targets, treatment responses, gene networks,
pleiotropy, and association with circadian rhythm. Although only a small portion 
of the known heritability is accounted for and there is insufficient support for 
clinical application of gene-based prediction models, there is direction and
encouraging progress in a rapidly moving field that is beginning to show clinical
relevance.

Copyright © 2013 National Lipid Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacl.2012.04.079 
PMCID: PMC3559023
PMID: 23351585  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1181. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2013 Feb;37(1):17-29. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2012.07.005. Epub 2013 Jan 21.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis in morbidly obese patients.

Tran A(1), Gual P.

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, U1065, Équipe 8 Complications hépatiques de l'obésité, Nice, France.

The hepatic complications of morbid obesity range from steatosis to
steatohepatitis (Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis [NASH]), fibrosis, cirrhosis and
finally hepatocellular carcinoma. The pathophysiological mechanisms of the
progression of a normal liver to a liver showing steatosis and then
steatohepatitis are complex, including, per se, insulin-resistance, iron
accumulation, oxidative stress and hepatocyte death. An imbalance in anti- and
pro-inflammatory factors may be the trigger. These factors can originate from
intra- or extrahepatic sites, particularly the adipose tissue and the gut. This
review will provide insight into the current diagnosis and understanding of
hepatic inflammation including non-invasive markers of NASH (markers of
hepatocyte death), intrahepatic mechanisms (regulation of the immune and
inflammatory response, hepatocellular iron deposition, hepatocyte death) and
extrahepatic factors (from adipose tissue and gut) in morbidly obese patients.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2012.07.005 
PMID: 23347840  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1182. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2013 Apr;37(4):550-7. doi: 10.1111/acer.12011. Epub 2013
Jan 24.

Binge ethanol and liver: new molecular developments.

Shukla SD(1), Pruett SB, Szabo G, Arteel GE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Pharmacology and Physiology, University of Missouri
School of Medicine, Columbia, MO 65202, USA. ShuklaSD@health.missouri.edu

Binge consumption of alcohol is an alarming global health problem. Binge (acute) 
ethanol (EtOH) is implicated in the pathophysiology of alcoholic liver disease
(ALD). New studies from experimental animals and from humans indicate that binge 
EtOH has profound effects on immunological, signaling, and epigenetic parameters 
of the liver. This is in addition to the known metabolic effects of acute EtOH.
Binge EtOH alters the levels of several cellular components and dramatically
amplifies liver injury in chronically EtOH exposed liver. These studies highlight
the importance of molecular investigations into binge effects of EtOH for a
better understanding of ALD and also to develop therapeutic strategies to control
it. This review summarizes these recent developments.

Copyright © 2013 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12011 
PMCID: PMC4831914
PMID: 23347137  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1183. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2013 Mar;9(3):144-52. doi: 10.1038/nrendo.2012.258. Epub 2013
Jan 22.

The role of hepatokines in metabolism.

Stefan N(1), Häring HU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetology,
Vascular Medicine, Nephrology and Clinical Chemistry, University Hospital of
Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Straße 10, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. norbert.stefan@
med.uni-tuebingen.de

The liver is known to be involved in the natural history of the ongoing epidemics
of type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease. In particular, the liver 
has a role in increased glucose production and dysregulated lipoprotein
metabolism, conditions that are often found in patients with nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease. Additionally, several proteins that are exclusively or
predominantly secreted from the liver are now known to directly affect glucose
and lipid metabolism. In analogy to the functional proteins released from adipose
tissue and skeletal muscle-adipokines and myokines-these liver-derived proteins
are known as hepatokines. The first hepatokine that has been proven to have a
major pathogenetic role in metabolic diseases is α2-HS-glycoprotein (fetuin-A).
Production of this glycoprotein is increased in steatotic and inflamed liver, but
not in expanded and dysregulated adipose tissue. Thus, research into this
molecule and other hepatokines is expected to aid in differentiating between the 
contribution of liver and those of skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, to the
pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nrendo.2012.258 
PMID: 23337953  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1184. Drugs. 2013 Jan;73(1):1-14. doi: 10.1007/s40265-012-0004-0.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: current issues and novel treatment approaches.

Lomonaco R(1), Sunny NE, Bril F, Cusi K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, University of Florida,
Gainesville, 32610-0226, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered the most common liver
disorder in the Western world. It is commonly associated with insulin resistance,
obesity, dyslipidaemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and cardiovascular
disease. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is characterized by steatosis with
necroinflammation and eventual fibrosis, which can lead to end-stage liver
disease and hepatocellular carcinoma. Its pathogenesis is complex, and involves a
state of 'lipotoxicity' in which insulin resistance, with increased free fatty
acid release from adipose tissue to the liver, play a key role in the onset of a 
'lipotoxic liver disease' and its progression to NASH. The diagnosis of NASH is
challenging, as most affected patients are symptom free and the role of routine
screening is not clearly established. A complete medical history is important to 
rule out other causes of fatty liver disease (alcohol abuse, medications, other).
Plasma aminotransferase levels and liver ultrasound are helpful in the diagnosis 
of NAFLD/NASH, but a liver biopsy is often required for a definitive diagnosis.
However, there is an active search for plasma biomarkers and imaging techniques
that may non-invasively aid in the diagnosis. The treatment of NASH requires a
multifaceted approach. The goal is to reverse obesity-associated lipotoxicity and
insulin resistance via lifestyle intervention. Although there is no
pharmacological agent approved for the treatment of NAFLD, vitamin E (in patients
without T2DM) and the thiazolidinedione pioglitazone (in patients with and
without T2DM) have shown the most consistent results in randomized controlled
trials. This review concentrates on our current understanding of the disease,
with a focus on the existing therapeutic approaches and potential future
pharmacological developments for NAFLD and NASH.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-012-0004-0 
PMID: 23329465  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1185. Curr Atheroscler Rep. 2013 Mar;15(3):305. doi: 10.1007/s11883-012-0305-5.

Statins in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and steatohepatitis: updated review.

Nseir W(1), Mahamid M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Holy Family Hospital, Faculty of Medicine in 
the Galilee, Bar-Ilan University, Safed Israel, POB 8, Nazareth, 16100, Israel.
w.nseir@yahoo.com

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver disease that refers 
to the presence of hepatic steatosis without significant intake of alcohol. NAFLD
is an asymptomatic disease that can progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. The most common cause 
of mortality in patients with NAFLD or NASH is cardiovascular disease (CVD).
Currently, the treatment of NAFLD focuses on gradual weight loss and life style
modifications. However, multifactorial treatment of NAFLD or NASH risk factors
may be needed to reduce the likelihood of these patients developing CVD. This
review discusses the mechanisms that link hyperlipidemia and NAFLD. In addition, 
the review focuses on the safety and efficacy of statins in patients with NAFLD
or NASH, and their effect on the extent of hepatic steatosis and fibrosis based
on human studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11883-012-0305-5 
PMID: 23328905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1186. J Obes. 2012;2012:483135. doi: 10.1155/2012/483135. Epub 2012 Dec 23.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiovascular disease: has the time come
for cardiologists to be hepatologists?

Ahmed MH(1), Barakat S, Almobarak AO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Wexham Park Hospital, Berkshire, Slough, UK.
elziber@yahoo.com

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is prevalent in people with the
metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes and is present in up to one-third of the
general population. Evidence is now accumulating that NAFLD is associated with
obesity and diabetes and may serve as a predictor of cardiovascular disease
(CVD). The possible mechanisms linking NAFLD and CVD include inflammation and
oxidative stress, hyperlipidaemia, insulin resistance, and direct impact of NAFLD
on coronary arteries and left ventricular dysfunction. In addition, several
studies suggest that NAFLD is associated with high risk of CVD and
atherosclerosis such as carotid artery wall thickness and lower endothelial
flow-mediated vasodilation independently of classical risk factors and components
of the metabolic syndrome. It is not yet clear how treatment of NAFLD will
modulate the risk of CVD. Furthermore, studies are urgently needed to establish
(i) the pathophysiology of CVD with NAFLD and (ii) the benefit of early diagnosis
and treatment of CVD in patients with NAFLD. In the absence of biochemical
markers, it is crucial that screening and surveillance strategies are adopted in 
clinical practice in the growing number of patients with NAFLD and at risk of
developing CVD. Importantly, the current evidence suggest that statins are safe
and effective treatment for CVD in individuals with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/483135 
PMCID: PMC3540795
PMID: 23320150  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1187. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(17):3107-14.

Ezetimibe therapy for dyslipidemia: an update.

Katsiki N(1), Theocharidou E, Karagiannis A, Athyros VG, Mikhailidis DP.

Author information: 
(1)Second Propedeutic Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, Aristotle 
University of Thessaloniki, Hippocration Hospital,Thessaloniki, Greece.

Ezetimibe, an inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol absorption, can decrease total 
cholesterol (TC), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), triglycerides
(TGs) and apolipoprotein (apo) B levels and increase high-density lipoprotein
cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. Apart from lipid-lowering, ezetimibe may exert
certain off-target actions (e.g. anti-inflammatory, anti-atherogenic and
antioxidant) thus contributing to a further decrease of cardiovascular disease
(CVD) risk.Ezetimibe trials resulted in controversial outcomes with some studies 
reporting atherosclerosis regression and reductions in CVD events following
ezetimibe therapy in combination with a statin while others reported negative
results. The results of the ongoing IMProved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin
Efficacy International Trial (IMPROVE-IT) which compares ezetimibe plus
simvastatin with simvastatin monotherapy with regard to CVD outcomes after acute 
coronary syndromes should further elucidate the effect of ezetimibe on CVD
events.This review presents the results of up-to-date clinical trials with
ezetimibe and summarizes its potential pleiotropic effects. Furthermore, we
comment on the administration of ezetimibe in treating high-risk patients [i.e.
with diabetes mellitus (DM), metabolic syndrome (MetS), non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD), chronic kidney disease (CKD), peripheral artery disease (PAD) or
carotid disease]. The use of ezetimibe either as monotherapy or as add-on therapy
in daily clinical practice is also discussed.


PMID: 23317398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1188. J Diabetes Complications. 2013 May-Jun;27(3):293-300. doi:
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2012.10.008. Epub 2013 Jan 9.

Prognostic implication of liver histology in patients with nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease in diabetes.

Doycheva I(1), Patel N, Peterson M, Loomba R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)
frequently coexist due to shared risk factors. Their rising prevalence parallels 
the growing epidemic of obesity and insulin resistance (IR). In patients with
T2DM and biopsy-proven NAFLD, a significantly higher prevalence of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) (63-87%), any fibrosis (22-60%), and advanced fibrosis
(4-9%) is noted. Possible risk factors for more advanced liver disease include
concomitant metabolic syndrome with three or more components, visceral obesity,
older age, increased duration of diabetes, and family history of diabetes. Liver 
biopsy is strongly suggested in these patients. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 
malignancy are the leading causes of death in this population, but a growing body
of evidence shows liver-related mortality as an important cause of death,
including an increased rate of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in diabetes. The
presence of NAFLD in T2DM is also associated with increased overall mortality. We
aim with this review to summarize the results from studies investigating NAFLD in
T2DM and to outline the factors that predict more advanced liver histology as
well as the impact of these hepatic changes on CVD, overall and liver-related
mortality.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2012.10.008 
PMCID: PMC4167586
PMID: 23312215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1189. J Obes. 2012;2012:637538. doi: 10.1155/2012/637538. Epub 2012 Dec 10.

The relationship between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and colorectal cancer: 
the future challenges and outcomes of the metabolic syndrome.

Muhidin SO(1), Magan AA, Osman KA, Syed S, Ahmed MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Southampton University Hospitals, Southampton
SO16 6YD, UK.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is closely related to insulin
resistance, metabolic syndrome, obesity, type 2 diabetes, and dyslipidaemia.
Obesity and metabolic syndrome are associated with an increased cancer risk, and 
recent evidence demonstrated an association between NAFLD and colorectal cancer
(CRC). The mechanism of how NAFLD can be associated with increased risk of CRC is
not fully understood; however, NAFLD represents a condition of profound insulin
resistance and a proinflammatory state. Insulin and insulin-like growth factors
may promote the development of CRC through their proliferative and antiapoptotic 
effects. Patients with NAFLD have reduced expression of adiponectin, an adipokine
with anti-inflammatory effects. Importantly, hypoadiponectinemia is associated
with an increased risk of CRC. Decreased levels of adiponectin lead to increased 
insulin levels due to marked insulin resistance and in turn increased insulin
growth factor-1 (IGF-1). Insulin binds to IGF-1 receptors and plays an important 
role in cell proliferation, apoptosis, and increased production of vascular
endothelial growth factor, an angiogenic factor that supports cancer growth.
Further studies are needed to establish (i) the pathophysiology of NAFLD with
colorectal cancer, (ii) the benefit of early screening of CRC in NAFLD patients, 
and (iii) the impact of treatment of NAFLD in the modulation of the risk of
colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/637538 
PMCID: PMC3523590
PMID: 23304464  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1190. Biofactors. 2013 Jan-Feb;39(1):88-100. doi: 10.1002/biof.1057. Epub 2013 Jan 10.

Curcumin and liver disease.

Vera-Ramirez L(1), Pérez-Lopez P, Varela-Lopez A, Ramirez-Tortosa M, Battino M,
Quiles JL.

Author information: 
(1)GENyO Center Pfizer-University of Granada & Andalusian Government Centre for
Genomics & Oncology, Granada, Spain.

Liver diseases pose a major medical problem worldwide and a wide variety of herbs
have been studied for the management of liver-related diseases. In this respect, 
curcumin has long been used in traditional medicine, and in recent years it has
been the object of increasing research interest. In combating liver diseases, it 
seems clear that curcumin exerts a hypolipidic effect, which prevents the fatty
acid accumulation in the hepatocytes that may result from metabolic imbalances,
and which may cause nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Another crucial protective
activity of curcumin, not only in the context of chronic liver diseases but also 
regarding carcinogenesis and other age-related processes, is its potent
antioxidant activity, which affects multiple processes and signaling pathways.
The effects of curcumin on NF-κβ are crucial to our understanding of the potent
hepatoprotective role of this herb-derived micronutrient. Because curcumin is a
micronutrient that is closely related to cellular redox balance, its properties
and activity give rise to a series of molecular reactions that in every case and 
biological situation affect the mitochondria.

Copyright © 2013 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/biof.1057 
PMID: 23303639  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1191. Hepatology. 2013 Oct;58(4):1497-507. doi: 10.1002/hep.26226. Epub 2013 Aug 7.

Mitochondrial adaptations and dysfunctions in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Begriche K(1), Massart J, Robin MA, Bonnet F, Fromenty B.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, U991, Université de Rennes 1, Rennes, France.

The worldwide epidemic of obesity and insulin resistance favors nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Insulin resistance (IR) in the adipose tissue
increases lipolysis and the entry of nonesterified fatty acids (NEFAs) in the
liver, whereas IR-associated hyperinsulinemia promotes hepatic de novo
lipogenesis. However, several hormonal and metabolic adaptations are set up in
order to restrain hepatic fat accumulation, such as increased mitochondrial fatty
acid oxidation (mtFAO). Unfortunately, these adaptations are usually not
sufficient to reduce fat accumulation in liver. Furthermore, enhanced mtFAO
without concomitant up-regulation of the mitochondrial respiratory chain (MRC)
activity induces reactive oxygen species (ROS) overproduction within different
MRC components upstream of cytochrome c oxidase. This event seems to play a
significant role in the initiation of oxidative stress and subsequent development
of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in some individuals. Experimental
investigations also pointed to a progressive reduction of MRC activity during
NAFLD, which could impair energy output and aggravate ROS overproduction by the
damaged MRC. Hence, developing drugs that further increase mtFAO and restore MRC 
activity in a coordinated manner could ameliorate steatosis, but also
necroinflammation and fibrosis by reducing oxidative stress. In contrast,
physicians should be aware that numerous drugs in the current pharmacopoeia are
able to induce mitochondrial dysfunction, which could aggravate NAFLD in some
patients.

Copyright © 2013 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26226 
PMID: 23299992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1192. Clin Exp Med. 2014 May;14(2):121-31. doi: 10.1007/s10238-012-0227-0. Epub 2013
Jan 5.

Adiponectin: a key playmaker adipocytokine in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Gatselis NK(1), Ntaios G, Makaritsis K, Dalekos GN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Research Laboratory of Internal Medicine, Thessaly 
University Medical School, Biopolis, 41110, Larissa, Thessaly, Greece.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of
metabolic syndrome and can progress to cirrhosis, liver failure, and
hepatocellular carcinoma. In the last two decades, the prevalence of NAFLD has
been growing in most developed countries, mainly as a consequence of its close
association with obesity and diabetes mellitus. The exact pathogenesis of NAFLD
and especially the mechanisms leading to disease progression have not been
completely understood. Adipocytes produce and secrete several bioactive
substances known as adipocytokines which are implicated in the pathogenesis of
the disease. Among them, adiponectin is an insulin-sensitizing adipocytokine
possessing multiple beneficial effects on obesity-related medical complication.
This review focuses on the role of adiponectin in NAFLD pathogenesis and its
potential use as a diagnostic tool but also as therapeutic target for NAFLD
management.

DOI: 10.1007/s10238-012-0227-0 
PMID: 23292294  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1193. Eur J Clin Invest. 2013 Feb;43(2):215-24. doi: 10.1111/eci.12032. Epub 2013 Jan
7.

Iron homeostasis in the metabolic syndrome.

Datz C(1), Felder TK, Niederseer D, Aigner E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, General Hospital Oberndorf, 5110 Oberndorf,
Austria. c.datz@kh-obdf.salzburg.at

The metabolic syndrome (MetS) affects iron homeostasis in a many-faceted fashion.
On the one side, hyperferritinaemia with normal or mildly elevated transferrin
saturation is observed in approximately one-third of patients with non-alcoholic 
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) or the MetS. This constellation has been named the
'dysmetabolic iron overload syndrome (DIOS)'. Current evidence suggests that
elevated body iron stores exert a detrimental effect on the clinical course of
obesity-related conditions and that iron removal improves insulin sensitivity and
delays the onset of T2DM. On the other side, iron deficiency is a frequent
finding in more progressed stages of obesity. The mechanisms underlying the DIOS 
and obesity-related iron deficiency appear strikingly similar as elevated
hepcidin concentrations, low expression of duodenal ferroportin (FPN) and
impaired iron absorption are found in both conditions. This review summarizes the
current knowledge about the dysregulation of iron homeostasis in the MetS and
particularly in its hepatic manifestation NAFLD.

© 2012 The Authors. European Journal of Clinical Investigation © 2012 Stichting
European Society for Clinical Investigation Journal Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/eci.12032 
PMID: 23289518  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1194. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2013 May;56(5):461-8. doi:
10.1097/MPG.0b013e318284abb5.

Microbiota and gut-liver axis: their influences on obesity and obesity-related
liver disease.

Vajro P(1), Paolella G, Fasano A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Salerno Medical School,
Salerno, Italy. pvajro@unisa.it

A specific bacterial gut microbiota profile with increased extraction of energy
has recently been associated with obesity, which has been shown to be a
transmissible phenotype by microbiota transplantation. At the same time, there is
now increasing evidence that gut microbiota plays a role in the development of
hepatic steatosis and its progression to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. This
review summarizes well known and unexpected interacting factors leading to
obesity and its related hepatic diseases, including intestinal mucosal
permeability and its regulation, gut microbiota and translocation of its
biological products, and gut-associated lymphoid tissue. These intestinal factors
dictate also the balance between tolerance and immune response, which are
critical for most of the complications in near and far organs or systems. We
review novel mechanisms involving the development of gut permeability and adipose
tissue plasticity, for example, the cross-talk between the gut microbiota,
lipopolysaccharide, high-fat diet, and the endocannabinoid system tone, which
have not been fully explored. Interactions between gut microbiota and other
factors (eg, inflammasome deficiency) also are reviewed as emerging but far from 
being completely elucidated mechanisms influencing the onset of obesity and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0b013e318284abb5 
PMCID: PMC3637398
PMID: 23287807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1195. Nutr Clin Pract. 2013 Feb;28(1):40-51. doi: 10.1177/0884533612470464. Epub 2013
Jan 3.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and the metabolic syndrome: clinical
implications and treatment.

Rahimi RS(1), Landaverde C.

Author information: 
(1)Annette C. and Harold C. Simmons Transplant Institute, Baylor University
Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75246, USA.

The prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is expected to rise
along with the global obesity epidemic. As NAFLD is the most common cause of
chronic liver disease in the United States, it has become a major health concern.
It affects all ethnicities, with the highest prevalence among the Hispanic
population. Individuals with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the more
serious form of NAFLD, are at increased risk of developing cirrhosis, hepatic
decompensation, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Since NAFLD is intricately
associated with the metabolic syndrome and insulin resistance, increased risk of 
cardiovascular disease and mortality become a real concern. It has recently been 
shown that current nutrition trends, such as increased consumption of
high-fructose corn syrup and certain types of fats, may have an important role in
the increased NAFLD prevalence. As there are no ideal treatment options available
for NAFLD, a multifaceted treatment approach should be tailored to each
individual patient.

DOI: 10.1177/0884533612470464 
PMID: 23286927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1196. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2013 Mar;29(2):170-6. doi: 10.1097/MOG.0b013e32835ca11d.

Dietary treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Perito ER(1), Rodriguez LA, Lustig RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Francisco, California,
USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is increasing in
prevalence, in tandem with the U.S. obesity epidemic, in both children and
adults. Identifying specific dietary components that drive NASH is important for 
successful management of this disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: Weight loss of 5-10% improves NASH. In addition, fructose and
trans-fats, two components of the Western 'fast-food' diet, have unique metabolic
effects that suggest they may be key contributors to NASH. However, further
research is needed to clarify the utility of restricting these nutrients in
treating NASH.
SUMMARY: Overall reductions in body weight, through reduced calorie intake and
increased physical activity, are the current mainstays of NASH treatment.
Reducing fructose and trans-fat intake, independent of weight loss, may be
critical to improving or preventing progression of NASH.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0b013e32835ca11d 
PMID: 23283181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1197. Liver Transpl. 2013 Apr;19(4):369-76. doi: 10.1002/lt.23596. Epub 2013 Mar 17.

Assessing the drinking status of liver transplant patients with alcoholic liver
disease.

Allen JP(1), Wurst FM, Thon N, Litten RZ.

Author information: 
(1)Mid-Atlantic Mental Illness Research, Education, and Clinical Center (Veterans
Integrated Service Network 6), Durham Veterans Administration Medical Center,
Durham, NC, USA. john.paul.allen@us.army.mil

The accurate assessment of drinking by patients with alcoholic liver disease is
important both before and after liver transplantation. Unfortunately,
self-reports by these individuals often underestimate their actual alcohol
consumption. Several recently developed biochemical measures can provide
additional information on a patient's use of alcohol. This article describes
ethyl glucuronide, ethyl sulfate, phosphatidyl ethanol, and
carbohydrate-deficient transferrin as biomarkers of drinking and summarizes
research dealing with their application in patients with alcohol use disorders
who are candidates for or recipients of liver transplantation. The article also
offers suggestions for enhancing the reliability of self-report measures of
drinking status.

Copyright © 2013 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.23596 
PMID: 23281299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1198. Dig Liver Dis. 2013 Jul;45(7):543-51. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2012.11.010. Epub 2012
Dec 29.

Gut-liver axis and fibrosis in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: an input for
novel therapies.

Frasinariu OE(1), Ceccarelli S, Alisi A, Moraru E, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Pediatrics, Department of Mother and Child Medicine, University 
of Medicine and Pharmacy, Grigore T. Popa, Iasi, Iasi, Romania.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a multifactorial condition, ranging from
simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with or without fibrosis. In
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, alteration of gut microbiota and increased
intestinal permeability increase exposure of the liver to gut-derived bacterial
products: lipopolysaccharides and unmethylated CpG DNA. These products stimulate 
innate immune receptors, namely Toll-like receptors, which activate signalling
pathways involved in liver inflammation and fibrogenesis. Currently, there are
several studies on the involvement of lipopolysaccharide-activated Toll-like
receptor 4 signalling in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease pathogenesis. There
has been widespread interest in the study of the involvement of resident hepatic 
stellate cells and Kupffer cells activation in liver fibrogenesis upon TLR4
stimulation. Although the best evidence to support a role for gut microbiota in
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease-induced fibrosis comes largely from animal
models, data from human studies are accumulating and could lead to new
therapeutic approaches. Therapeutic modulation of gut microflora may be an
alternative strategy to develop an anti-fibrotic therapy. In this review, we
discuss the relevant role of gut-liver axis in non-alcoholic liver
disease-associated liver fibrosis and discuss the evidence on novel anti-fibrotic
therapeutic approaches.

Copyright © 2012 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2012.11.010 
PMID: 23280158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1199. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Feb;37(4):392-400. doi: 10.1111/apt.12186. Epub 2012
Dec 20.

Review article: the diagnosis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease --
availability and accuracy of non-invasive methods.

Festi D(1), Schiumerini R, Marzi L, Di Biase AR, Mandolesi D, Montrone L, Scaioli
E, Bonato G, Marchesini-Reggiani G, Colecchia A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Science, University of Bologna, Department 
of Pediatrics, University of Modena, Italy. davide.festi@unibo.it

Comment in
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Mar;37(6):655-6.
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Mar;37(6):656-7.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a wide spectrum
of clinical conditions, actually representing an emerging disease of great
clinical interest. Currently, its diagnosis requires liver biopsy, an invasive
procedure not free from potential complications. However, several non-invasive
diagnostic strategies have been proposed as potential diagnostic alternatives,
each with different sensitivities and accuracies.
AIM: To review non-invasive diagnostic parameters and tools for NAFLD diagnosis
and to formulate a diagnostic and prognostic algorithm for a better
classification of patients.
METHODS: A literature search was carried out on MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science
and Scopus for articles and abstracts in English. The search terms used included 
'NAFLD', 'non invasive method and NAFLD', 'transient elastography' and 'liver
fibrosis'. The articles cited were selected based on their relevancy to the
objective of the review.
RESULTS: Ultrasonography still represents the first-line diagnostic tool for
simple liver steatosis; its sensitivity could be enhanced by the complex
biochemical score SteatoTest. Serum cytokeratin-18 is a promising and accurate
non-invasive parameter (AUROCs: 0.83; 0.91) for the diagnosis of non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). The staging of liver fibrosis still represents the most
important prognostic problem: the most accurate estimating methods are
FibroMeter, FIB-4, NAFLD fibrosis score (AUROCs: 0.94; 0.86; 0.82) and transient 
elastography (AUROC: 0.84-1.00).
CONCLUSIONS: Different non-invasive parameters are available for the accurate
diagnosis and prognostic stratification of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
which, if employed in a sequential algorithm, may lead to a reduced use of
invasive methods, i.e. liver biopsy.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12186 
PMID: 23278163  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1200. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2013 Jan 1;18:199-223.

Potential applications of miRNAs as diagnostic and prognostic markers in liver
cancer.

Gailhouste L(1), Gomez-Santos L, Ochiya T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Cellular Medicine, National Cancer Center Research
Institute, 5-1-1 Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0045, Japan.

Primary liver tumors are mainly represented by hepatocellular hepatocarcinoma
(HCC), one of the most aggressive and resistant forms of cancer. Numerous studies
have reported the key role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in development, cell
proliferation, apoptosis, and tumor biology. The alteration of cancer-related
miRNA expression can be associated with tumorigenesis. In HCC, deregulated miRNAs
frequently act as oncogenes or altered tumor suppressors. Distinct subtypes of
hepatic cancer can also be related to an aberrant expression of particular
miRNAs, arguing for the significance of using miRNAs as tumor biomarkers in order
to refine the HCC grading assessment. In this article, we review the latest
reports regarding miRNA profiling and the potential of small RNAs in HCC
diagnosis. The relevance of cancer-related miRNA signatures for the prognosis and
better understanding of liver cancer outcome is then considered.


PMID: 23276918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1201. Alcohol Res. 2013;35(2):174-83.

Global alcohol-attributable deaths from cancer, liver cirrhosis, and injury in
2010.

Rehm J, Shield KD.

Alcohol consumption has long been recognized as a risk factor for mortality. By
combining data on alcohol per capita consumption, alcohol-drinking status and
alcohol-drinking patterns, risk relationships, and mortality, the Comparative
Risk Assessment Study estimated alcohol-attributable mortality for 1990 and 2010.
Alcohol-attributable cancer, liver cirrhosis, and injury were responsible for the
majority of the burden of alcohol-attributable mortality in 1990 and 2010. In
2010, alcohol-attributable cancer, liver cirrhosis, and injury caused 1,500,000
deaths (319,500 deaths among women and 1,180,500 deaths among men) and 51,898,400
potential years of life lost (PYLL) (9,214,300 PYLL among women and 42,684,100
PYLL among men). This represents 2.8 percent (1.3 percent for women and 4.1
percent for men) of all deaths and 3.0 percent (1.3 percent for women and 4.3
percent for men) of all PYLL in 2010. The absolute mortality burden of
alcohol-attributable cancer, liver cirrhosis, and injury increased from 1990 to
2010 for both genders. In addition, the rates of deaths and PYLL per 100,000
people from alcohol-attributable cancer, liver cirrhosis, and injury increased
from 1990 to 2010 (with the exception of liver cirrhosis rates for women).
Results of this paper indicate that alcohol is a significant and increasing risk 
factor for the global burden of mortality.


PMCID: PMC3908708
PMID: 24881325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1202. Diabetes Metab. 2013 Feb;39(1):16-26. doi: 10.1016/j.diabet.2012.11.002. Epub
2012 Dec 23.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and insulin resistance: from bench to bedside.

Gariani K(1), Philippe J, Jornayvaz FR.

Author information: 
(1)Service of Endocrinology, Diabetes, Hypertension and Nutrition, Geneva
University Hospitals, rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, 1211 Geneva 14, Switzerland.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now the most frequent chronic liver 
disease in the developed countries. There is also growing evidence from basic and
clinical research that NAFLD has a strong relationship to insulin resistance,
which is a key factor in the development of type 2 diabetes. The aim of this
review is to summarize the recent important findings linking NAFLD and insulin
resistance. Lipid accumulation, particularly of diacylglycerol, appears to be of 
major importance in this process. Mitochondrial dysfunction, through decreased
mitochondrial biogenesis, increases oxidative stress, and ageing also plays an
important role. Finally, endoplasmic reticulum stress and inflammation also
probably contribute to the development of insulin resistance via mechanisms that 
are still not well understood. Clinical aspects of NAFLD, such as its diagnosis
and management, are also investigated in this review.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabet.2012.11.002 
PMID: 23266468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1203. Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Feb;41(2):343-60. doi: 10.1177/0192623312468517. Epub 2012
Dec 21.

Toxicant-associated steatohepatitis.

Wahlang B(1), Beier JI, Clair HB, Bellis-Jones HJ, Falkner KC, McClain CJ, Cave
MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, University of Louisville School of
Medicine, Louisville, Kentucky 40202, USA.

Hepatotoxicity is the most common organ injury due to occupational and
environmental exposures to industrial chemicals. A wide range of liver
pathologies ranging from necrosis to cancer have been observed following chemical
exposures both in humans and in animal models. Toxicant-associated fatty liver
disease (TAFLD) is a recently named form of liver injury pathologically similar
to alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
Toxicant-associated steatohepatitis (TASH) is a more severe form of TAFLD
characterized by hepatic steatosis, inflammatory infiltrate, and in some cases,
fibrosis. While subjects with TASH have exposures to industrial chemicals, such
as vinyl chloride, they do not have traditional risk factors for fatty liver such
as significant alcohol consumption or obesity. Conventional biomarkers of
hepatotoxicity including serum alanine aminotransferase activity may be normal in
TASH, making screening problematic. This article examines selected chemical
exposures associated with TAFLD in human subjects or animal models and concisely 
reviews the closely related NAFLD and ALD.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623312468517 
PMCID: PMC5114851
PMID: 23262638  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1204. J Chin Med Assoc. 2012 Dec;75(12):619-23. doi: 10.1016/j.jcma.2012.08.015. Epub
2012 Nov 7.

The heart: pathophysiology and clinical implications of cirrhotic cardiomyopathy.

Yang YY(1), Lin HC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Medicine, Department of Medicine, Taipei Veterans General 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC. yangyy@vghtpe.gov.tw

Cirrhosis is associated with hyperdynamic circulation, which consists of
peripheral vasodilatation and increased cardiac output. Peripheral vasodilatation
is central to hyperdynamic circulation and portal hypertension in cirrhosis.
However, those mechanisms underlying hyperdynamic circulation remain elusive, and
are not fully understood. Most of the earlier research and attention have been
focused on humoral factor abnormalities. Various gut-derived or locally produced 
humoral factors such as nitric oxide, endotoxin, endocannabinoids, and others
have been implicated as possible mediators of hyperdynamic circulation
development in cirrhosis. The associated cardiac dysfunction had been termed
"cirrhotic cardiomyopathy (CCM)," which is an entity different from that seen in 
alcoholic heart muscle disease. Clinically, these patients present with sodium
fluid retention, and strain often unmasks the presence of latent heart failure.
No specific treatment can yet be recommended, but caution should be used with
respect to procedures that may stress the heart such as shunt implantation and
liver transplantation. Ultimately, additional research will be necessary to more 
accurately describe the prevalence, impact, and morbidity and survival rates for 
CCM, and to identify potential treatments.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcma.2012.08.015 
PMID: 23245476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1205. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2013 Jan;37 Suppl 1:E209-15. doi:
10.1111/j.1530-0277.2012.01902.x. Epub 2012 Dec 14.

Is vitamin D deficiency a confounder in alcoholic skeletal muscle myopathy?

Wijnia JW(1), Wielders JP, Lips P, van de Wiel A, Mulder CL, Nieuwenhuis KG.

Author information: 
(1)Rijnmond Care Group, Location Slingedael, Center for Korsakoff and
Psychogeriatrics, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. j.wijnia@zorggroeprijnmond.nl

BACKGROUND: Excessive intake of alcohol is often associated with low or subnormal
levels of vitamin D even in the absence of active liver disease. As vitamin D
deficiency is a well-recognized cause of myopathy, alcoholic myopathy might be
related to vitamin D deficiency. Chronic alcoholic myopathy affects approximately
half of chronic alcoholics and is characterized by the insidious development of
muscular weakness and wasting. Although alcohol or its metabolites may have a
direct toxic effect on muscles, the relationship between alcoholic myopathy and
vitamin D deficiency has not been examined extensively.
METHODS: We reviewed the literature on alcoholic myopathy and hypovitaminosis D
myopathy and compared the pathophysiological findings to designate possible
mechanisms of vitamin D action in alcohol-related myopathy.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Given the strong interdependency of suboptimal levels of
vitamin D, phosphate, and magnesium in chronic alcohol abuse, we hypothesize that
combined deficiencies interfere with membrane and intracellular metabolic
processes in chronic alcohol-related myopathy; however, it is not yet possible to
define exact mechanisms of interaction.

Copyright © 2012 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.2012.01902.x 
PMID: 23240627  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1206. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Dec 14;18(46):6790-800. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v18.i46.6790.

Have guidelines addressing physical activity been established in nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease?

Finelli C(1), Tarantino G.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Obesity and Eating Disorder, Stella Maris Mediterraneum Foundation, 
Chiaromonte, 80035 Potenza, Italy.

The purpose of this review was to highlight, in relation to the currently
accepted pathophysiology of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the known 
exercise habits of patients with NAFLD and to detail the benefits of lifestyle
modification with exercise (and/or physical activity) on parameters of metabolic 
syndrome. More rigorous, controlled studies of longer duration and defined
histopathological end-points comparing exercise alone and other treatment are
needed before better, evidence-based physical activity modification guidelines
can be established, since several questions remain unanswered.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i46.6790 
PMCID: PMC3520168
PMID: 23239917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1207. Endocr Rev. 2013 Feb;34(1):84-129. doi: 10.1210/er.2012-1009. Epub 2012 Dec 13.

Diabetes and nonalcoholic Fatty liver disease: a pathogenic duo.

Williams KH(1), Shackel NA, Gorrell MD, McLennan SV, Twigg SM.

Author information: 
(1)Sydney Medical School and the Bosch Institute, The University of Sydney,
Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Recent data increasingly support a complex interplay between the metabolic
condition diabetes mellitus and the pathologically defined nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD predicts the development of type 2 diabetes and vice
versa, and each condition may serve as a progression factor for the other.
Although the association of diabetes and NAFLD is likely to be partly the result 
of a "common soil," it is also probable that diabetes interacts with NAFLD
through specific pathogenic mechanisms. In particular, through interrelated
metabolic pathways currently only partly understood, diabetes appears to
accelerate the progression of NAFLD to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, defined by
the presence of necroinflammation, with varying degrees of liver fibrosis. In the
research setting, obstacles that have made the identification of clinically
significant NAFLD, and particularly nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, difficult are
being addressed with the use of new imaging techniques combined with risk
algorithms derived from peripheral blood profiling. These techniques are likely
to be used in the diabetes population in the near future. This review examines
the pathogenic links between NAFLD and diabetes by exploring the epidemiological 
evidence in humans and also through newer animal models. Emerging technology to
help screen noninvasively for differing pathological forms of NAFLD and the
potential role of preventive and therapeutic approaches for NAFLD in the setting 
of diabetes are also examined.

DOI: 10.1210/er.2012-1009 
PMID: 23238855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1208. J Hepatol. 2013 Jun;58(6):1218-29. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.12.003. Epub 2012 Dec
10.

A 360-degree overview of paediatric NAFLD: recent insights.

Nobili V(1), Svegliati-Baroni G, Alisi A, Miele L, Valenti L, Vajro P.

Author information: 
(1)Hepato-metabolic Disease Unit and Liver Research Unit, "Bambino Gesù"
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, P.le S. Onofrio 4, 00165 Rome, Italy.
nobili66@yahoo.it

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a multi-faceted disorder, which
ranges from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with/without
fibrosis. The effects of specific risk factors, such as obesity and sedentary
lifestyle, on predisposing genetic settings eventually lead to the development of
NAFLD in children. The complex interplay between genes and environment in NAFLD
pathogenesis is sustained by multiple mechanisms that involve liver crosstalk
with other organs and tissues, especially gut and adipose tissue. Unfortunately, 
natural history of paediatric NAFLD is lacking, and the etiopathogenesis is still
in the process of being defined. Potential early predictors and suitable
non-invasive diagnostic tools can be discovered based on the pathogenetic
mechanisms and histological patterns. This will also help design novel treatments
and a comprehensive and successful management strategy for patients. In this
review, we discuss the recent advances made in genetics, etiopathogenesis,
diagnosis, and therapeutic management of NAFLD, focusing especially on the
obesity-related steatotic liver condition.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.12.003 
PMID: 23238106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1209. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Dec;6(6):695-710. doi: 10.1586/egh.12.57.

Alcoholic hepatitis: diagnosis and management in 2012.

Potts JR(1), Verma S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brighton and Sussex Medical School, Brighton, UK.
jonathan.potts@nhs.net

Alcoholic hepatitis is a severe form of alcohol-related liver injury and one of
the most frequent liver presentations seen by acute medical services. The
condition typically affects young and middle-aged adults who present with
jaundice and coagulopathy. Many patients fulfil the criteria for acute-on-chronic
liver failure, though often the diagnosis of cirrhosis is only made after
hospitalization. Despite over four decades of study, controversy surrounds many
aspects of diagnosis and management, and short-term mortality in severe disease
remains high. This review summarizes recent and important literature of relevance
to clinicians, including aids to diagnosis, clinical prognostic scores and
evidence for current medical therapies. Contentious issues such as the need for
liver biopsy in diagnosis and the role for liver transplantation in those who
fail to respond to medical treatment are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1586/egh.12.57 
PMID: 23237255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1210. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Dec 7;18(45):6552-9. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i45.6552.

Way back for fructose and liver metabolism: bench side to molecular insights.

Rebollo A(1), Roglans N, Alegret M, Laguna JC.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacology Unit, School of Pharmacy, Institute of Biomedicine, University of
Barcelona, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.

The World Health Organization recommends that the daily intake of added sugars
should make up no more than 10% of total energy. The consumption of
sugar-sweetened beverages is the main source of added sugars. Fructose, together 
with glucose, as a component of high fructose corn syrups or as a component of
the sucrose molecule, is one of the main sweeteners present in this kind of
beverages. Data from prospective and intervention studies clearly point to high
fructose consumption, mainly in the form of sweetened beverages, as a risk factor
for several metabolic diseases in humans. The incidence of hypertension,
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), dyslipidemia (mainly
hypertriglyceridemia), insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes mellitus, obesity, and
the cluster of many of these pathologies in the form of metabolic syndrome is
higher in human population segments that show high intake of fructose. Adolescent
and young adults from low-income families are especially at risk. We recently
reviewed evidence from experimental animals and human data that confirms the
deleterious effect of fructose on lipid and glucose metabolism. In this present
review we update the information generated in the past 2 years about high
consumption of fructose-enriched beverages and the occurrence of metabolic
disturbances, especially NAFLD, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome.
We have explored recent data from observational and experimental human studies,
as well as experimental data from animal and cell models. Finally, using
information generated in our laboratory and others, we provide a view of the
molecular mechanisms that may be specifically involved in the development of
liver lipid and glucose metabolic alterations after fructose consumption in
liquid form.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i45.6552 
PMCID: PMC3516224
PMID: 23236229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1211. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Dec 7;18(45):6546-51. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i45.6546.

Genetic and epigenetic variants influencing the development of nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease.

Li YY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Guangzhou Institute of Clinical
Research, Guangzhou First Municipal People's Hospital, Guangzhou Medical College,
Guangzhou 510180, Guangdong Province, China. liyyliyy@tom.com

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is common worldwide. The importance of
genetic and epigenetic changes in etiology and pathogenesis of NAFLD has been
increasingly recognized. However, the exact mechanism is largely unknown. A large
number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) related to NAFLD has been
documented by candidate gene studies (CGSs). Among these genes, peroxisome
proliferatoractivated receptor-γ, adiponectin, leptin and tumor necrosis factor-α
were frequently reported. Since the introduction of genome-wide association
studies (GWASs), there have been significant advances in our understanding of
genomic variations of NAFLD. Patatin-like phospholipase domain containing family 
member A3 (PNPLA3, SNP rs738409, encoding I148M), also termed adiponutrin, has
caught most attention. The evidence that PNPLA3 is associated with increased
hepatic fat levels and hepatic inflammation has been validated by a series of
studies. Epigenetic modification refers to phenotypic changes caused by an
adaptive mechanism unrelated to alteration of primary DNA sequences. Epigenetic
regulation mainly includes microRNAs (miRs), DNA methylation, histone
modifications and ubiquitination, among which miRs are studied most extensively. 
miRs are small natural single stranded RNA molecules regulating mRNA degradation 
or translation inhibition, subsequently altering protein expression of target
genes. The miR-122, a highly abundant miR accounting for nearly 70% of all miRs
in the liver, is significantly under-expressed in NAFLD subjects. Inhibition of
miR-122 with an antisense oligonucleotide results in decreased mRNA expression of
lipogenic genes and improvement of liver steatosis. The investigation into
epigenetic involvement in NAFLD pathogenesis is just at the beginning and needs
to be refined. This review summarizes the roles of genetics and epigenetics in
the development of NAFLD. The progress made in this field may provide novel
diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for NAFLD management.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i45.6546 
PMCID: PMC3516206
PMID: 23236228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1212. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2013 Jan;16(1):89-95. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0b013e32835a892a.

Methionine metabolic pathway in alcoholic liver injury.

Kharbanda KK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Service, Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa Healthcare System,
Omaha, Nebraska 68105, USA. kkharbanda@unmc.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To outline recent advances in the understanding of the
consequences of the alterations in the methionine metabolic pathway and to
present new treatment options for alcoholic liver disease (ALD).
RECENT FINDINGS: ALD is a major healthcare problem worldwide. Findings in many
laboratories, including ours, have demonstrated that ethanol consumption impairs 
several of the multiple steps in methionine metabolism that ultimately impairs
the activity of many methyltransferases critical for normal functioning of the
liver. Recent studies buttress the important role genetics may play in the
development and progression of alcoholic liver injury. Treatment modalities using
two important metabolites of the pathway, S-adenosylmethionine and betaine, have 
been shown to attenuate ethanol-induced liver injury in a variety of experimental
models of liver disease. S-adenosylmethionine has been used in several clinical
studies; however, the outcomes have been unclear and its efficacy in liver
diseases continues to be debated. To date, no clinical trials have been conducted
for treatment of ALD with betaine.
SUMMARY: Future treatment modalities for ALD should consider loss-of-function
polymorphisms in the enzymes of the methionine metabolic and related pathways.
Further new treatment modalities for ALD should consider supplementation with
betaine that may prove to be a promising therapeutic agent.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e32835a892a 
PMID: 23232418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1213. Nervenarzt. 2013 Sep;84(9):1075-80. doi: 10.1007/s00115-012-3665-8.

[Psychiatric assessment of alcoholic patients on a waiting list for liver
transplantation: which prognostic criteria are empirically proven?].

[Article in German]

Soyka M(1), Stickel F.

Author information: 
(1)michael.soyka@privatklinik-meiringen.ch

Liver disorders are the most frequent somatic complications of alcoholism. As
10‑20% of alcoholic patients will develop liver cirrhosis, this is the most
frequent reason for premature death in alcoholic patients. Liver transplantation 
is now an accepted therapy for alcoholic liver cirrhosis but psychiatric
assessment is usually required for patients entering a waiting list for
transplantation. Prognostic criteria are controversially discussed, especially
the so-called 6-month rule. Numerous studies and recent meta-analyses have
indicated that duration of alcoholism, family history, age, sex, comorbid
substance use and psychiatric disorders, noncompliance and social instability are
outcome predictors. The 6-month criterion is not well proven but some studies are
indicative. Possible therapeutic interventions for alcoholic patients on a
waiting list are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-012-3665-8 
PMID: 23228959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1214. Biomark Med. 2012 Dec;6(6):743-57. doi: 10.2217/bmm.12.87.

Serum biomarkers in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: value for assessing drug
effects?

Heeringa M(1), Hastings A, Yamazaki S, de Koning P.

Author information: 
(1)Global Clinical Pharmacology & Exploratory Development, Astellas Pharma Global
Development-Europe, Elisabethhof 1, 2353 EW Leiderdorp, The Netherlands.
marten.heeringa@astellas.com

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a common chronic liver disease throughout 
the world. In the USA, approximately 3-5% of the population are affected, and the
prevalence of this condition is increasing. NASH is associated with an increased 
risk of liver-related morbidity, such as cirrhosis and fibrosis, as well as
cardiovascular disease, and in spite of several clinical studies investigating
putative new drugs, no approved treatment is currently available. This is partly 
due to the nature of the disease. NASH is a complex, slowly progressing disease, 
and confirmatory clinical trials have long treatment durations and require
invasive end points (a liver biopsy). Such invasive assessments are only accepted
in confirmatory trials; clinical studies in the exploratory clinical development 
phase must rely on noninvasive biomarkers as the primary end point. Experimental 
and clinical research continues to achieve validation and qualification of
biomarkers in NASH, which will hopefully assist the development of new treatments
for NASH patients.

DOI: 10.2217/bmm.12.87 
PMID: 23227839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1215. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Feb;36(2):76-80. doi:
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2012.06.004. Epub 2012 Dec 6.

[Acute liver failure after bariatric surgery. A case report and literature
review].

[Article in Spanish]

Sagredo S(1), Brahm J, Uribe M, Codoceo V, Smok G.

Author information: 
(1)Sección de Gastroenterología, Departamento de Medicina, Hospital Clínico
Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile. ssagredoj@yahoo.com

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is common among morbidly obese people.
Bariatric surgery is increasingly used in this population to control weight but
is not free of risks. We present the case of a 28-year-old morbidly obese woman
who underwent gastroplasty with intestinal resection and a gastro-jejunal
anastomosis. Eleven months later, and with a weight reduction of 35%, the patient
developed acute liver failure. A biopsy showed severe steatohepatitis and
fibrosis. After prolonged hospital stay and management that consisted of support 
measures, nutritional assistance, N-acetyl cysteine, zinc and vitamin E, liver
function was restored. A follow-up biopsy showed marked regression of the initial
findings. Bariatric surgery has many beneficial effects. However, even with the
most up-to-date techniques, complications can occur. Familiarity with these
complications is important for their prevention and treatment.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. and AEEH y AEG. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2012.06.004 
PMID: 23218652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1216. Prog Lipid Res. 2013 Jan;52(1):175-91. doi: 10.1016/j.plipres.2012.11.002. Epub
2012 Dec 1.

Cholesterol metabolism and the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Musso G(1), Gambino R, Cassader M.

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, Turin, Italy. giovanni_musso@yahoo.it

Emerging experimental and human evidence has linked altered hepatic cholesterol
homeostasis and free cholesterol (FC) accumulation to the pathogenesis of
non-alcoholic steatohepatits (NASH). This review focuses on cellular mechanisms
of cholesterol toxicity involved in liver injury and on alterations in
cholesterol homeostasis promoting hepatic cholesterol overload in NASH. FC
accumulation injures hepatocytes directly, by disrupting mitochondrial and
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane integrity, triggering mitochondrial oxidative
injury and ER stress, and by promoting generation of toxic oxysterols, and
indirectly, by inducing adipose tissue dysfunction. Accumulation of oxidized LDL 
particles may also activate Kupffer and hepatic stellate cells, promoting liver
inflammation and fibrogenesis. Hepatic cholesterol accumulation is driven by a
deeply deranged cellular cholesterol homeostasis, characterized by elevated
cholesterol synthesis and uptake from circulating lipoproteins and by a reduced
cholesterol excretion. Extensive dysregulation of cellular cholesterol
homeostasis by nuclear transcription factors sterol regulatory binding protein
(SREBP)-2, liver X-receptor (LXR)-α and farnesoid X receptor (FXR) plays a key
role in hepatic cholesterol accumulation in NASH. The therapeutic implications
and opportunities for normalizing cellular cholesterol homeostasis in these
patients are also discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plipres.2012.11.002 
PMID: 23206728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1217. Nihon Rinsho. 2012 Oct;70(10):1827-34.

[Pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi Y(1), Fukusato T, Inui A, Fujisawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Teikyo University School of Medicine.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a
hepatic disease associated with metabolic syndrome. In recent years, pediatric
NAFLD has increased in line with the increased prevalence of pediatric obesity.
The estimated prevalence of pediatric NAFLD is 2.6-9.6%. With regard to the
pathogenesis of NAFLD/ NASH, the "two-hit" or "multiple-hit" hypothesis is widely
accepted, and many genetic and environmental factors are associated with the
development of NAFLD/NASH. Liver biopsy is regarded as the gold standard for the 
diagnosis of NAFLD/NASH. Pediatric NAFLD has different histopathological
characteristics from those of adult NAFLD. Although pharmacotherapy has been
studied in clinical trials, lifestyle modification by diet and exercise remains
the mainstay of treatment for NAFLD/NASH.


PMID: 23198569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1218. J Hepatol. 2013 May;58(5):1007-19. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.11.021. Epub 2012 Nov
23.

Non-invasive diagnosis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. A critical
appraisal.

Machado MV(1), Cortez-Pinto H.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gastrenterologia, Hospital Santa Maria, CHLN, Unidade de
Nutrição e Metabolismo, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, IMM, Lisbon, Portugal.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects one in every three subjects in 
the occidental world. The vast majority will not progress, but a relevant
minority will develop liver cirrhosis and its complications. The classical gold
standard for diagnosing and staging NAFLD and assessing fibrosis is liver biopsy 
(LB). However, it has important sample error issues and subjectivity in the
interpretation, apart from a small but real risk of complications. The decision
to perform an LB is even harder in a condition so prevalent such as NAFLD, in
which the probability of finding severe liver injury is low. In an attempt to
overcome LB and to subcategorize patients with NAFLD in different prognoses
allowing better management decisions, several non-invasive methods have been
studied in the last decade. The literature is vast and confusing. This review
will summarize which methods have been tested and how they perform, which tests
are adequate for clinical practice and how they can change the management of
these patients.

Copyright © 2012 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.11.021 
PMID: 23183525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1219. J Hepatol. 2013 Apr;58(4):801-10. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.11.014. Epub 2012 Nov 
23.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis: the role of oxidized low-density lipoproteins.

Walenbergh SM(1), Koek GH, Bieghs V, Shiri-Sverdlov R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The
Netherlands.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is hallmarked by lipid accumulation in the
liver (steatosis) along with inflammation (hepatitis). The transition from simple
steatosis towards NASH represents a key step in pathogenesis, as it will set the 
stage for further severe liver damage. Yet, the pathogenesis behind hepatic
inflammation is still poorly understood. It is of relevance to better understand 
the underlying mechanisms involved in NASH in order to apply new knowledge to
potential novel therapeutic approaches. In the current review, we propose
oxidized cholesterol as a novel risk factor for NASH. Here, we summarize mouse
and human studies that provide possible mechanisms for the involvement of
oxidized low-density lipoproteins in NASH and consequent potential novel
diagnostic tools and treatment strategies for hepatic inflammation.

Copyright © 2012 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.11.014 
PMID: 23183522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1220. Prog Lipid Res. 2013 Jan;52(1):165-74. doi: 10.1016/j.plipres.2012.10.004. Epub
2012 Nov 23.

Molecular mechanisms and the role of saturated fatty acids in the progression of 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Leamy AK(1), Egnatchik RA, Young JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Vanderbilt University, VU
Station B 351604, Nashville, TN 37235, USA.

The steady rise in Western obesity rates has been closely linked to significant
increases in a multitude of accompanying health problems including non-alcoholic 
fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD severity ranges from simple steatosis to acute
steatohepatitis, but the molecular mechanisms controlling progression of this
disease are poorly understood. Recent literature suggests that elevated free
fatty acids (FFAs), especially saturated FFAs, may play an important role in
lipotoxic mechanisms, both in experimental models and in NAFLD patients. This
review highlights important cellular pathways involved in hepatic lipotoxicity
and how the degree of intrahepatic lipid saturation controls cell fate in
response to an elevated FFA load. Relevant cellular processes that have been
causally linked to lipid-induced apoptosis, known as lipoapoptosis, include
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction,
and Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling. In contrast, increased triglyceride
synthesis has been shown to have a protective effect against lipotoxicity,
despite being one of the hallmark traits of NAFLD. Developing a more nuanced
understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying NAFLD progression will lead 
to more targeted and effective therapeutics for this increasingly prevalent
disease, which to date has no proven pharmacologic treatment to prevent or
reverse its course.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plipres.2012.10.004 
PMCID: PMC3868987
PMID: 23178552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1221. Med Clin (Barc). 2013 Jun 18;140(12):546-53. doi: 10.1016/j.medcli.2012.09.011.
Epub 2012 Nov 21.

[Alcohol and acute respiratory distress syndrome: casuality or causality?].

[Article in Spanish]

Sarmiento X(1), Guardiola JJ, Soler M.

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona,
Barcelona, España. 16155jsm@comb.cat

Alcohol has been considered an important risk factor for the development of
pneumonia since the last century. Nevertheless, it was not thought that it had
relevant effects on lung structure and functions until recently. Recent studies
have shown that the risk for acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is 2-4
times higher among alcoholic patients with sepsis or trauma, and that alcoholism 
can play a roll in more than 50% of cases in the pathogenesis of this syndrome.
Although alcoholism per se does not cause acute lung injury it predisposes to
pulmonary dysfunction after inflammatory stress, that is present in clinical
situations that cause ARDS leading to its development and complicating its
outcome. Recent investigations in animals and humans with alcohol abuse have
uncovered several alterations currently known as the "alcoholic lung". This
revision discusses the association between alcohol abuse and lung injury/ARDS and
tries to explain the physiopathology along with possible treatments.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2012.09.011 
PMID: 23177306  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1222. Proc Nutr Soc. 2013 Feb;72(1):178-88. doi: 10.1017/S0029665112002881. Epub 2012
Nov 23.

The gut microbial metabolome: modulation of cancer risk in obese individuals.

Russell WR(1), Duncan SH, Flint HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Lifelong Health Division, Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health, University
of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB21 9SB, UK. w.russell@abdn.ac.uk

Obesity is a critical health concern and although genetic factors may predispose 
an individual to become obese, changes in diet and lifestyle over the last few
decades are likely to be significant contributors. Even so, it has been suggested
that the causes of the current obesity crisis are not simply explained by changes
in eating and exercise habits. Evidence suggests that the gut microbiota may play
an important role in obesity and may be a factor in the development of associated
disease including diabetes, CVD, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and cancer.
There have been tremendous advances in knowledge regarding the composition of
human gut microbiota, but less is known about their function and role within the 
human host. It is becoming widely accepted that the products of microbial
metabolism influence human health and disease, particularly with respect to
immune response and inflammation. However, in most cases, the products of
microbial metabolism are uncharacterised and their mechanism of action remains
unknown. This review addresses the role of the metabolites produced by gut
microbiota in cancer and obesity. It is clear that only if the link between
microbial diversity and metabolic functionality is firmly established, will the
mechanism by which gut microbiota maintains health or contributes to disease
development be elucidated.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665112002881 
PMID: 23174203  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1223. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2013 Jan;57(1):58-70. doi: 10.1002/mnfr.201200454. Epub 2012
Nov 20.

miRNAs, polyphenols, and chronic disease.

Bladé C(1), Baselga-Escudero L, Salvadó MJ, Arola-Arnal A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Universitat Rovira i Virgili,
43007 Tarragona, Spain. mariacinta.blade@urv.cat

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs, approximately 18-25 nucleotides in
length, that modulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. Thousands
of miRNAs have been described, and it is thought that they regulate some aspects 
of more than 60% of all human cell transcripts. Several polyphenols have been
shown to modulate miRNAs related to metabolic homeostasis and chronic diseases.
Polyphenolic modulation of miRNAs is very attractive as a strategy to target
numerous cell processes and potentially reduce the risk of chronic disease.
Evidence is building that polyphenols can target specific miRNAs, such as
miR-122, but more studies are necessary to discover and validate additional miRNA
targets.

© 2012 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/mnfr.201200454 
PMID: 23165995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1224. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Jan;37(2):174-82. doi: 10.1111/apt.12133. Epub 2012 
Nov 16.

Review article: towards a considered and ethical approach to organ support in
critically-ill patients with cirrhosis.

Berry PA(1), Thomson SJ, Rahman TM, Ala A.

Author information: 
(1)Frimley Park Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Surrey, UK.
philip.berry@fph-tr.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Increasing numbers of patients are being admitted to hospital with
decompensated chronic liver disease in the UK. A significant proportion will
develop complicating extra-hepatic organ dysfunction, but the selection of those 
who should be admitted to intensive care is complex and challenging.
Alcohol-related liver disease also presents complex ethical dilemmas.
AIM: To review recent survival analyses and explore differences in secondary and 
tertiary care; to highlight strengths and weaknesses of prognostic models,
therapeutic advances and shifts in prognostic expectation. We also aim to explore
the ethical challenges presented by addiction and self-injury in an area of
limited resource.
METHODS: We searched PubMed for articles discussing 'cirrhosis', 'prognosis',
'critical illness', 'organ failure', 'renal failure', 'alcohol', 'ethics' and
'addiction'. We also explored particular ethical dilemmas encountered by the
authors and colleagues.
RESULTS: Prognosis has improved in many cirrhotic complications and historically 
poor outcomes in tertiary care may reflect a more complex patient cohort.
Previously 'untreatable' complications are now being managed successfully.
Estimates of survival are more accurate after a 48-h period of supportive care.
Physicians are not best placed to make judgments with regard to deservingness,
moral responsibility, rationing and access to organ support in cases of acute
deterioration related to alcoholism, and the case for denying support must be
made on purely medical grounds.
CONCLUSIONS: An early, aggressive approach to organ support is justified. Further
discussions between hepatologists and critical care physicians are required to
determine acceptable burden-to-benefit ratios for prolonged intensive care
support in young alcoholic patients.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12133 
PMID: 23157692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1225. Transplant Proc. 2012 Nov;44(9):2741-4. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2012.09.002.

Hepatic artery thrombosis after orthotopic liver transplantation: 3 patients with
collateral formation and conservative treatment.

Fouzas I(1), Sklavos A, Bismpa K, Paxiadakis I, Antoniadis N, Giakoustidis D,
Katsiki E, Tatsou N, Mouloudi E, Karapanagiotou A, Tsitlakidis A, Karakatsanis A,
Patsiaoura K, Petridis A, Gakis D, Imvrios G, Papanikolaou V.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Transplantation, Department of Surgery, Aristotle University
Medical School, Thessaloniki, Greece. ifouzas@auth.gr

Hepatic artery thrombosis (HAT), a serious complication after orthotopic liver
transplantation (OLT), can lead to patient death in the absence of
revascularization or retransplantation. Herein we have presented clinical
characteristics, imaging findings, and long-term outcomes of 3 OLT patients with 
HAT who were treated conservatively and developed hepatic arterial collaterals.
These patients underwent transplantation due to hepatitis B cirrhosis,
cryptogenic cirrhosis, or hepatitis C infection and alcoholic disease. They
presented with bile duct stenosis and/or a bile leak at 1, 3, and 36 months after
transplantation, respectively, and were treated with percutaneous drainage and
stent placement, endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography (ERCP), or
reanastomosis of the bile duct over a T tube. HAT was confirmed using
multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) 3-dimensional (3D) angiography and
Doppler sonography. They survive in good condition with normal liver function at 
30, 50, and 42 months after OLT, respectively. Development of collateral arterial
circulation to the liver graft was detected with MDCT 3D angiography and Doppler 
sonography. From our experience with 3 patients and a literature review, we
believe that there are a number of patients who experience long-term survival
after the diagnosis of irreversible HAT and the development of collaterals.
Although this group is at high risk for sepsis and biliary complications, these
are usually self-limiting complications due to improved treatment regimens. The
development of collateral arterial flow may also be beneficial.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2012.09.002 
PMID: 23146510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1226. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2012 Sep;36 Suppl 1:S41-5. doi:
10.1016/S2210-7401(12)70020-7.

Treatment of NASH with ursodeoxycholic acid: pro.

Ratziu V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Hépato-gastro-entérologie, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, 47-83,
boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75651 Paris Cedex 13, France. vlad.ratziu@upmc.fr

Comment in
    Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2013 Jun;37(3):e93-4.
    Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2012 Sep;36 Suppl 1:S46-52.

Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is one of hepatologists'oldest friends, always ready 
to help, throughout the years, in numerous and various liver and biliary tract
diseases. On paper, it has had an impeccable track record of cytoprotection in
vitro and in vivo due to its pleiotropic effects on many pathways leading to cell
injury. Most of its hepatoprotective effects demonstrated under experimental
conditions proved able to counteract pathogenic mechanisms involved in the
transition from steatosis to steatohepatitis, and early clinical studies
suggested a potentially beneficial effect in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)
as well. Yet, only scant data on the efficacy of UDCA specifically in
experimental models of steatosis/NASH are available, and the few available
randomized controlled clinical studies have substantial methodological issues and
are discussed in this review. Thus, at this point, there is not enough evidence
to either confirm or reject the efficacy of UDCA in NASH, although many NASH
patients clearly experience biochemical improvements with prolonged UDCA
treatment. Also, a few new UDCA derivatives have shown promising activity in
preclinical models and may be worth testing in clinical trials.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2210-7401(12)70020-7 
PMID: 23141893  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1227. Int J Cardiol. 2013 Aug 20;167(4):1109-17. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2012.09.085.
Epub 2012 Nov 9.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiovascular risk.

Brea A(1), Puzo J.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Lípidos, Servicio de Medicina Interna, Hospital San Pedro, Logroño, 
Spain.

The term "Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease" (NAFLD) covers a series of liver
lesions similar to those induced by alcohol, but not caused by alcohol use. The
importance of NAFLD lies in the high prevalence in Western societies and, from
the point of view of the liver, in its progression from steatosis to cirrhosis
and liver cancer. More recently, NAFLD has been found to be associated with lipid
metabolism disorders, the deposition of fat outside of the adipocytes, insulin
resistance and Metabolic Syndrome. Also attributed to NAFLD is a heightened
systemic pro-inflammatory state, which accelerates arteriosclerosis, thereby
increasing cardiovascular risk and associated cardiovascular events. Here we
provide an update to the etiopathogenesis of NAFLD, its influence on
cardiovascular disease, and the treatment options.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2012.09.085 
PMID: 23141876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1228. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Nov 7;18(41):5839-47. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i41.5839.

Omega-3 fatty acids for the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Di Minno MN(1), Russolillo A, Lupoli R, Ambrosino P, Di Minno A, Tarantino G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Regional Reference Centre
for Coagulation Disorders, "Federico II" University, 80131 Naples, Italy.
dario.diminno@hotmail.it

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been recognized as a major health
burden. It is the most important cause of chronic liver disease and a major
independent cardiovascular risk factor. Lacking a definite treatment for NAFLD, a
specific diet and an increase in physical activity represent the most commonly
used therapeutic approaches. In this review, major literature data about the use 
of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFAs) as a potential treatment of
NAFLD have been described. n-3 PUFAs, besides having a beneficial impact on most 
of the cardio-metabolic risk factors (hypertension, hyperlipidemia, endothelial
dysfunction and atherosclerosis) by regulating gene transcription factors [i.e., 
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α, PPARγ, sterol regulatory
element-binding protein-1, carbohydrate responsive element-binding protein],
impacts both lipid metabolism and on insulin sensitivity. In addition to an
enhancement of hepatic beta oxidation and a decrease of the endogenous lipid
production, n-3 PUFAs are able to determine a significant reduction of the
expression of pro-inflammatory molecules (tumor necrosis factor-α and
interleukin-6) and of oxygen reactive species. Further strengthening the results 
of the in vitro studies, both animal models and human intervention trials, showed
a beneficial effect of n-3 PUFAs on the severity of NAFLD as expressed by
laboratory parameters and imaging measurements. Despite available results
provided encouraging data about the efficacy of n-3 PUFAs as a treatment of NAFLD
in humans, well-designed randomized controlled trials of adequate size and
duration, with histological endpoints, are needed to assess the long-term safety 
and efficacy of PUFA, as well as other therapies, for the treatment of NAFLD and 
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis patients. It is worthwhile to consider that n-3
PUFAs cannot be synthesized by the human body and must be derived from exogenous 
sources (fish oil, flaxseeds, olive oil) which are typical foods of the
Mediterranean diet, known for its beneficial effects in preventing obesity,
diabetes and, in turn, cardiovascular events. According to these data, it is
important to consider that most of the beneficial effects of n-3 PUFAs can also
be obtained by an equilibrate nutrition program.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i41.5839 
PMCID: PMC3491590
PMID: 23139599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1229. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2013 Apr;57(4):596-606. doi: 10.1002/mnfr.201200077. Epub 2012
Nov 8.

Folate, alcohol, and liver disease.

Medici V(1), Halsted CH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of California Davis, Davis, CA
95817, USA. valentina.medici@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is typically associated with folate deficiency,
which is the result of reduced dietary folate intake, intestinal malabsorption,
reduced liver uptake and storage, and increased urinary folate excretion. Folate 
deficiency favors the progression of liver disease through mechanisms that
include its effects on methionine metabolism with consequences for DNA synthesis 
and stability and the epigenetic regulation of gene expression involved in
pathways of liver injury. This paper reviews the pathogenesis of ALD with
particular focus on ethanol-induced alterations in methionine metabolism, which
may act in synergy with folate deficiency to decrease antioxidant defense as well
as DNA stability while regulating epigenetic mechanisms of relevant gene
expressions. We also review the current evidence available on potential
treatments of ALD based on correcting abnormalities in methionine metabolism and 
the methylation regulation of relevant gene expressions.

© 2012 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/mnfr.201200077 
PMCID: PMC3736728
PMID: 23136133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1230. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2013 Apr;78(4):489-96. doi: 10.1111/cen.12095.

Fibroblast growth factor 21 as an emerging metabolic regulator: clinical
perspectives.

Woo YC(1), Xu A, Wang Y, Lam KS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR.

Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21), a metabolic hormone predominantly produced
by the liver, is also expressed in adipocytes and the pancreas. It regulates
glucose and lipid metabolism through pleiotropic actions in these tissues and the
brain. In mice, fasting leads to increased PPAR-α mediated expression of FGF21 in
the liver where it stimulates gluconeogenesis, fatty acid oxidation, and
ketogenesis, as an adaptive response to fasting and starvation. In the fed state,
FGF21 acts as an autocrine factor in adipocytes, regulating the activity of
PPAR-γ through a feed-forward loop mechanism. Administration of recombinant FGF21
has been shown to confer multiple metabolic benefits on insulin sensitivity,
blood glucose, lipid profile and body weight in obese mice and diabetic monkeys, 
without mitogenic or other side effects. Such findings highlight the potential
role of FGF21 as a therapeutic agent for obesity-related medical conditions.
However, in human studies, high circulating FGF21 levels are found in obesity and
its related cardiometabolic disorders including the metabolic syndrome, type 2
diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and coronary artery disease. These
findings may indicate the presence of FGF21 resistance or compensatory responses 
to the underlying metabolic stress, and imply the need for supraphysiological
doses of FGF21 to achieve therapeutic efficacy. On the other hand, serum FGF21
has been implicated as a potential biomarker for the early detection of these
cardiometabolic disorders. This review summarizes recent developments in the
understanding of FGF21, from physiological and clinical perspectives.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cen.12095 
PMID: 23134073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1231. Complement Ther Med. 2012 Dec;20(6):466-74. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2012.07.004. Epub
2012 Aug 17.

The effect of red yeast rice (Monascus purpureus) in dyslipidemia and other
disorders.

Yang CW(1), Mousa SA.

Author information: 
(1)The Pharmaceutical Research Institute at the Albany College of Pharmacy and
Health Sciences, Rensselaer, NY 12144, USA.

BACKGROUND: Red Yeast Rice (RYR) is a traditional Chinese food that is fermented 
and obtained after red yeast (Monascus purpureus) is grown on rice. RYR contains 
Monacolin K (Lovastatin) and other active ingredients that are thought to play a 
role in the management of cholesterol levels. Recently, many clinical trials have
focused on the uses of RYR, including for dyslipidemia, coronary heart disease,
diabetes, osteoporosis, cancer, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, fatigue, and
memory.
OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of this review is to evaluate the effectiveness
of RYR on the management of dyslipidemia. The secondary objective is to review
studies that focus on the other uses of RYR. The following search terms were
used: red yeast rice, Xuezhikang, Hypocol, Cholestin, Monascus purpureus combined
with dyslipidemia, hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, lipid, cardiovascular,
coronary, atherosclerosis, diabetes, sugar, bone, osteoporosis, liver, fatigue,
memory, Alzheimer's, dementia.
RESULTS: Studies reviewed show that RYR significantly lowered LDL cholesterol and
total cholesterol. Effects on triglycerides and HDL cholesterol were also
observed in some studies. Compared with statins, RYR was shown to have an equal
efficacy to statins when combined with or without other dietary supplements. RYR 
also appeared to be superior to placebo in preventing nonfatal myocardial
infarction, total coronary heart disease events, and total deaths. On the other
hand, information on diabetes, osteoporosis, cancer, non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease, fatigue, and memory are currently limited although in vivo and in vitro 
studies have shown an effect.
CONCLUSION: Results of RYR clinical trials presented here have limitations and
RYR's clinical use should be further investigated before using RYR as one of the 
alternative treatments for dyslipidemia management, despite the fact that the
strongest evidence for RYR use is in dyslipidemia versus other clinical
conditions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2012.07.004 
PMID: 23131380  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1232. J Physiol. 2013 Jan 15;591(2):401-14. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.215731. Epub
2012 Nov 5.

The role of fructose transporters in diseases linked to excessive fructose
intake.

Douard V(1), Ferraris RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Physiology, UMDNJ – New Jersey Medical School,
185 S. Orange Avenue, Newark, NJ 07101-1749, USA.

Fructose intake has increased dramatically since humans were hunter-gatherers,
probably outpacing the capacity of human evolution to make physiologically
healthy adaptations. Epidemiological data indicate that this increasing trend
continued until recently. Excessive intakes that chronically increase portal and 
peripheral blood fructose concentrations to >1 and 0.1 mm, respectively, are now 
associated with numerous diseases and syndromes. The role of the fructose
transporters GLUT5 and GLUT2 in causing, contributing to or exacerbating these
diseases is not well known. GLUT5 expression seems extremely low in neonatal
intestines, and limited absorptive capacities for fructose may explain the high
incidence of malabsorption in infants and cause problems in adults unable to
upregulate GLUT5 levels to match fructose concentrations in the diet. GLUT5- and 
GLUT2-mediated fructose effects on intestinal electrolyte transporters, hepatic
uric acid metabolism, as well as renal and cardiomyocyte function, may play a
role in fructose-induced hypertension. Likewise, GLUT2 may contribute to the
development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease by facilitating the uptake of
fructose. Finally, GLUT5 may play a role in the atypical growth of certain
cancers and fat tissues. We also highlight research areas that should yield
information needed to better understand the role of these GLUTs in
fructose-induced diseases.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.215731 
PMCID: PMC3577529
PMID: 23129794  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1233. Liver Int. 2013 Jan;33(1):24-30. doi: 10.1111/liv.12007. Epub 2012 Nov 1.

Liver involvement in Turner syndrome.

Roulot D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unité d'Hépatologie, Hôpital Avicenne Bobigny, Bobigny, France.

Liver test abnormalities are frequent in adult patients with Turner syndrome,
corresponding to various pathophysiological mechanisms. Steatosis, steatofibrosis
and steatohepatitis are the most frequently reported lesions, caused by metabolic
disorders, which are commonly related to overweight. Marked architectural
changes, including nodular regenerative hyperplasia, multiple focal nodular
hyperplasia and cirrhosis, found in some patients, are associated with a risk of 
severe liver-related complications. Architectural changes are often observed and 
are associated with vascular disorders caused by congenitally abnormal vessels.
Finally, small bile duct alterations resembling sclerosing cholangitis occur in
several patients. Oestrogen replacement therapy does not cause liver toxicity in 
patients with Turner syndrome and is not contraindicated in case of elevated
liver enzymes. Moreover, in recent studies, oestrogen therapy was reported to
improve liver function tests. Because of the wide spectrum of potential liver
injuries that may occur in Turner syndrome patients, a regular screening of liver
enzymes is recommended for early detection and treatment.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12007 
PMID: 23121401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1234. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Oct 21;18(39):5504-13. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i39.5504.

Molecular targets in the treatment of alcoholic hepatitis.

Dhanda AD(1), Lee RW, Collins PL, McCune CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Liver Medicine, University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation
Trust, Bristol, United Kingdom.

Alcohol related costs to health and society are high. One of the most serious
complications of alcohol misuse to the individual is the development of alcoholic
hepatitis (AH), a clinical syndrome of jaundice and progressive inflammatory
liver injury in patients with a history of recent heavy alcohol use. It has a
poor outcome and few existing successful therapies. The use of glucocorticoids in
patients with severe AH is still controversial and there remains a group of
patients with glucocorticoid-resistant disease. However, as our understanding of 
the pathogenesis of the condition improves there are opportunities to develop new
targeted therapies with specific actions to control liver inflammation without
having a detrimental effect on the immune system as a whole. In this article we
review the molecular mechanisms of AH concentrating on the activation of the
innate and adaptive immune response. We consider existing treatments including
glucocorticoids, anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy and pentoxifylline and their 
limitations. Using our knowledge of the disease pathogenesis we discuss possible 
novel therapeutic approaches. New targets include pro-inflammatory cytokines such
as interleukin (IL)-17, chemokines and their receptors (for example IL-8, CXCL9
and CXCR3) and augmentation of anti-inflammatory molecules such as IL-10 and
IL-22. And there is also future potential to consider combination therapy to
selectively modulate the immune response and gain control of disease.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i39.5504 
PMCID: PMC3482636
PMID: 23112542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1235. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2012 Dec;19(6):512-9. doi:
10.1097/MED.0b013e32835a000e.

Clinical update on screening, diagnosis and management of metabolic disorders and
cardiovascular risk factors associated with polycystic ovary syndrome.

Huang G(1), Coviello A.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Nutrition, Boston University School of
Medicine and Boston Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02118, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is the most common
endocrinopathy in premenopausal women. This review discusses the screening,
diagnosis and management of metabolic disorders and cardiovascular risk factors
associated with PCOS, highlighting significant recent developments.
RECENT FINDINGS: PCOS is a complex genetic disorder with multiple susceptibility 
genes as well as environmental factors influencing the expression of various PCOS
phenotypes. The first genome-wide association study of PCOS identified
susceptibility loci on chromosome 2 near the luteinizing hormone receptor gene
LHCGR and chromosome 9 near the obesity gene DEEND1A. Women with PCOS are
affected by a variety of metabolic disorders, including insulin resistance,
metabolic syndrome, type-2 diabetes, dyslipidemia and obesity. Recently, it has
been established that women with PCOS have a high risk of nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease. These metabolic disturbances are associated with an increased risk
of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Although women with PCOS have higher rates of
cardiovascular risk factors and intermediate markers of CVD, studies definitively
documenting increased CVD are lacking.
SUMMARY: The high prevalence of metabolic disorders and CVD risk factors in women
with PCOS highlights the need for early screening, diagnosis and treatment of
these disorders to promote long-term health and possibly prevent CVD.

DOI: 10.1097/MED.0b013e32835a000e 
PMID: 23108199  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1236. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):865-75. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.013.

Complications in patients with alcohol-associated liver disease who undergo liver
transplantation.

Gaglio PJ Jr(1), Gaglio PJ Sr.

Author information: 
(1)Rutgers University College of Arts and Sciences, New Brunswick, NJ 08901, USA.
pgaglio@montefiore.org

Cirrhosis caused by alcohol-associated liver disease is a common indication for
liver transplantation worldwide. Patients with alcohol-associated liver disease
who undergo liver transplantation face multiple challenging comorbid medical
issues that enhance the potential for perioperative and postoperative
complications. Awareness of these issues and appropriate therapeutic intervention
may minimize the negative effect of these complications on posttransplantation
survival. This article reviews important posttransplantation problems in patients
transplanted for alcohol-associated liver disease.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.013 
PMID: 23101987  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1237. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):851-63. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.012.

Evaluation and selection of the patient with alcoholic liver disease for liver
transplant.

Leong J(1), Im GY.

Author information: 
(1)Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, One
Gustave Levy Place, New York, NY 10029, USA. Jennifer.leong@mountsinai.org

Alcoholic liver cirrhosis is the second most common indication for liver
transplantation in the United States. Studies have shown that these patients do
as well as those transplanted for nonalcoholic liver disease. Recently,
transplantation of patients with alcoholic liver disease has come under closer
scrutiny following an article in the New England Journal of Medicine
demonstrating comparable outcomes and survival in patients transplanted for acute
alcoholic hepatitis. This article reviews the literature and data on the
evaluation and selection of patients with alcoholic cirrhosis for liver
transplant, and discusses the most recent indication (once a contraindication),
acute alcoholic hepatitis.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.012 
PMID: 23101986  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1238. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):839-50. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.011.

Liver cancer and alcohol.

Grewal P(1), Viswanathen VA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Liver Diseases, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, One Gustave L.
Levy Place, New York, NY 10029, USA. Priya.Grewal@mountsinai.org

Annually, hepatocellular carcinoma is diagnosed in approximately a half-million
people worldwide. Based on the association of alcohol with cancer, a
International Agency for Research on Cancer working group recently deemed
alcoholic beverages "carcinogenic to humans," causally related to occurrence of
malignant tumors of the oral cavity, pharynx, larynx, esophagus, liver,
colorectum, and female breast. Alcohol metabolism in the liver leads to reactive 
oxygen species production, induction of activity of cytochrome P450s, and
reduction of antioxidants. This review analyzes the epidemiology and pathogenesis
of alcohol in hepatocellular cancer.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.011 
PMID: 23101985  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1239. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):827-37. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.010.

Alcohol's effect on other chronic liver diseases.

Lee M(1), Kowdley KV.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Center of Excellence, Virginia Mason Medical Center, 1100 Ninth Avenue, 
Seattle, WA 98101, USA.

In addition to directly causing liver disease, alcohol consumption is a common
comorbid condition with other chronic liver diseases and may exacerbate liver
injury, particularly in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, chronic viral
hepatitis, hereditary hemochromatosis, and autoimmune liver diseases. This
synergism can result in increased hepatic inflammation and accelerated rates of
fibrosis, with more rapid and earlier development of cirrhosis, and also increase
the risk for liver cancer and death from liver disease.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.010 
PMID: 23101984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1240. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):805-26. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.009.

Nutrition in alcoholic liver disease.

Singal AK(1), Charlton MR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street Southwest, Rochester, MN 55905-0001, USA.

The liver plays an important role in the metabolism, synthesis, storage, and
absorption of nutrients. Patients with cirrhosis are prone to nutritional
deficiencies and malnutrition, with a higher prevalence among patients with
decompensated disease. Mechanisms of nutritional deficiencies in patients with
liver disease are not completely understood and probably multifactorial.
Malnutrition among patients with cirrhosis or alcoholic liver disease correlates 
with poor quality of life, increased risk of infections, frequent
hospitalizations, complications, mortality, poor graft and patient survival after
liver transplantation, and economic burden. Physicians, including
gastroenterologists and hepatologists, should be conversant with assessment and
management of malnutrition and nutritional supplementation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.009 
PMID: 23101983  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1241. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):783-803. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.008.

Infections in alcoholic liver disease.

Kim AC(1), Epstein ME, Gautam-Goyal P, Doan TL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, North Shore LIJ Health System, Division of Infectious 
Disease, 400 Community Drive, Manhasset, NY 11030, USA. akim@nshs.edu

Alcoholic individuals are at increased risk of infection in general, in part
because of immune defects. In addition, associated situations, such as depressed 
mental status, increase risk to specific syndromes such as lung abscess related
to depressed consciousness and aspiration. Social factors related to hygiene and 
living situations are also linked to specific microorganisms, such as
Mycobacteria tuberculosis, Bartonella quintana, Vibrio vulnificus, and
Capnocytophaga canimorus..

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.008 
PMID: 23101982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1242. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):763-81. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.007.

Long-term management of alcoholic liver disease.

Woo GA(1), O'Brien C.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Liver Diseases, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami,
1500 Northwest 12th Avenue, Miami, FL 33136, USA. gwoo@med.miami.edu

Alcoholic liver disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide.
Patients with cirrhosis caused by alcohol are at risk for developing
complications associated with a failing liver. The long-term management of
alcoholic liver disease stresses the following: (1) Abstinence of alcohol (Grade 
1A), with referral to an alcoholic rehabilitation program; (2) Adequate
nutritional support (Grade 1B), emphasizing multiple feedings and a referral to a
nutritionist; (3) Routine screening in alcoholic cirrhosis to prevent
complications; (4) Timely referral to a liver transplant program for those with
decompensated cirrhosis; (5) Avoid pharmacologic therapies, as these medications 
have shown no benefit.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.007 
PMID: 23101981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1243. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):717-36. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.005.

Diagnosis and management of alcoholic hepatitis.

Sohail U(1), Satapathy SK.

Author information: 
(1)University of Tennessee Health sciences center,1211 Union Avenue, Memphis, TN 
38104, USA.

Alcoholic hepatitis is a form of severe, cholestatic liver disease that results
from consumption of large amount of alcohol during a sustained period of time in 
a subset of alcoholics. Symptoms could be mild and nonspecific to more severe.
The diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis can be made with a thorough history,
physical examination, and review of laboratory results. Liver biopsy is
confirmatory but generally not indicated for the diagnosis. Abstinence is the key
form of therapeutic intervention. Despite variable results in clinical trials,
corticosteroids and pentoxifylline seem to provide moderate survival benefit.
Liver transplantation in acute alcoholic hepatitis is contentious.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.005 
PMID: 23101979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1244. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):699-716. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.004.

Histologic findings in alcoholic liver disease.

Crawford JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Hofstra North Shore-LIJ
School of Medicine, Uniondale, NY, USA. jcrawford1@nshs.edu

The necessity of the liver being the organ responsible for metabolism of alcohol 
exposes it to many untoward toxic side effects. In the first instance of hepatic 
steatosis, fibrosis may occur indolently over years, slowly converting a greasy, 
steatotic liver into a cirrhotic liver. In the case of alcoholic hepatitis, brisk
sinusoidal fibrosis may lead to more rapid development of cirrhosis, with the
liver extensively subdivided by sublobular fibrous septa developing in the midst 
of extensive ongoing inflammation and hepatocellular destruction. Continued
destruction of the parenchyma after cirrhosis has developed may produce a densely
fibrotic organ with little remaining parenchyma.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.004 
PMID: 23101978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1245. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):687-98. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.003.

Immunology in alcoholic liver disease.

Duddempudi AT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition North Shore University 
Hospital, 300 Community Drive, Manhasset, NY 11030, USA. aduddempudi@nshs.edu

Hepatic fibrosis is a known consequence of long-term use of alcohol and
is regarded as a turning point in alcohol-induced liver disease because it can
lead to cirrhosis. The mechanisms of injury are not well understood, but recent
studies have helped advance the understanding of the earliest events in the
process that eventually leads to hepatic injury and, in some cases, fibrosis. It 
is hoped that increasing understanding of the role played by the immune system in
the process will lead to the development of new therapies for these patients.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.003 
PMID: 23101977  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1246. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Nov;16(4):659-66. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.001.

Prevalence and natural history of alcoholic liver disease.

Schwartz JM(1), Reinus JF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases, Department of Medicine,
Albert Einstein College of Medicine/Montefiore Medical Center, 111 East 210th
Street, Bronx, NY 10467, USA. jonschwa@montefiore.org

Alcoholic liver disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among people 
who drink excessive amounts of alcohol. There is a spectrum of liver injury that 
ranges from steatosis to varying stages of hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis, with
subsequent risk for hepatocellular carcinoma. Steatohepatitis can occur at any
stage of disease.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.08.001 
PMID: 23101975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1247. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2013 Mar 1;51(3):457-65.

B-Vitamin dependent methionine metabolism and alcoholic liver disease.

Halsted CH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of California Davis, Davis, CA
95616,USA. chhalsted@ucdavis.edu

Convincing evidence links aberrant B-vitamin dependent hepatic methionine
metabolism to the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease (ALD). This review
focuses on the essential roles of folate and vitamins B6 and B12 in hepatic
methionine metabolism, the causes of their deficiencies among chronic alcoholic
persons, and how their deficiencies together with chronic alcohol exposure impact
on aberrant methionine metabolism in the pathogenesis of ALD. Folate is the
dietary transmethylation donor for the production of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), 
which is the substrate for all methyltransferases that regulate gene expressions 
in pathways of liver injury, as well as a regulator of the transsulfuration
pathway that is essential for production of glutathione (GSH), the principal
antioxidant for defense against oxidative liver injury. Vitamin B12 regulates
transmethylation reactions for SAM production and vitamin B6 regulates
transsulfuration reactions for GSH production. Folate deficiency accelerates the 
experimental development of ALD in ethanol-fed animals while reducing liver SAM
levels with resultant abnormal gene expression and decreased production of
antioxidant GSH. Through its effects on folate metabolism, reduced SAM also
impairs nucleotide balance with resultant increased DNA strand breaks, oxidation,
hepatocellular apoptosis, and risk of carcinogenesis. The review encompasses
referenced studies on mechanisms for perturbations of methionine metabolism in
ALD, evidence for altered gene expressions and their epigenetic regulation in the
pathogenesis of ALD, and clinical studies on potential prevention and treatment
of ALD by correction of methionine metabolism with SAM.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2012-0308 
PMID: 23096111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1248. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(15):2737-46.

Redox homeostasis and epigenetics in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).

Podrini C(1), Borghesan M, Greco A, Pazienza V, Mazzoccoli G, Vinciguerra M.

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Hepatology, The Foundation for Liver Research, 69-75 Chenies 
Mews, London, WC1E 6HX, United Kingdom.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), an accumulation of intra-hepatic
triglycerides that is often considered the hepatic manifestation of insulin
resistance, is the most common cause of chronic liver disease in the Western
countries with up to one third of the population affected. NAFLD is a spectrum of
disturbances that encompasses various degrees of liver damage ranging from simple
steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH is characterized by
hepatocellular injury/inflammation with or without fibrosis. The individuals with
NAFLD develop NASH in 10% of the cases, and are also at risk of developing
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Epigenetic mechanisms of nuclear chromatin
remodeling, such as DNA methylation, post-translational modifications of
histones, and incorporation of histone variants into the chromatin are
increasingly recognized as crucial factors in the pathophysiology of NAFLD. NAFLD
is often accompanied by oxidative stress: reactive oxygen species (ROS) are
implicated in altered reduction/oxidation (redox) reactions that attack cellular 
macromolecules and are detected in the liver of patients and animal models of
NAFLD. In this review, we summarize recent knowledge advancements in the hepatic 
epigenetic and redox mechanisms, and their possible links, involved in the
pathogenesis and treatment of NAFLD.


PMID: 23092327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1249. Rev Med Brux. 2012 Sep;33(4):212-4.

[Management of alcoholic hepatitis].

[Article in French]

Gustot T(1), Moreno C.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Gastroentérologie et d'Hépatopancréatologie, Hôpital Erasme et
Laboratoire de Gastroentérologie Expérimentale, Faculté de Médecine, ULB,
Bruxelles. tgustot@ulb.ac.be

Alcoholic hepatitis is a severe form of alcoholic liver disease. Diagnosis is
based on the association of new onset of jaundice and a compatible liver biopsy. 
Alcoholic hepatitis is severe when the Maddrey is up to 32 and, in this case, is 
associated with a mortality of 40-50% at 2 months. Corticosteroids improve
survival of patients suffering from severe alcoholic hepatitis. The decrease of
total bilirubin at day 7 of treatment and the Lille score are markers of response
to corticosteroids. The absence of response is associated with a dramatic outcome
(mortality rate of 75% at 6 months). Liver transplantation could be an
alternative in a strictly selected group of non-responders.


PMID: 23091923  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1250. Rev Med Brux. 2012 Sep;33(4):205-11.

[Non alcoholic fatty liver disease assessment].

[Article in French]

Juriens I(1), Rigaux J, Blero D.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Gastroentérologie, C.H.U. de Charleroi, ISPPC, Charleroi.

Non alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) is the leading cause of consultation in
hepatology department. It is a manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. If the
simple steatosis is considered as benign, Non Alcoholic Steato Hepatitis (NASH)
is associated with increased mortality linked to cardiovascular, metabolic and
liver diseases. The diagnosis of NAFLD is based on simple clinical and biological
data often corroborated by a liver imaging. The main issues in the assessment of 
these diseases are firstly to exclude secondary causes of steatosis and secondly 
to establish the severity of the disease. The assessment of the severity of NAFLD
implies the determination of the degree of fibrosis. Combination of biological
tests and elastography allows to determine indirectly fibrosis, reserving liver
biopsy for doubtful cases. Comorbidities associated with metabolic syndrome
(insulin resistance and cardiovascular diseases) must be researched and screening
measures for colon and breast cancers should be considered. Eventually, NASH
monitoring should include, like for others chronic hepatitis, the screening for
the complications of end-stage liver diseases, including portal hypertension and 
hepatocarcinoma.


PMID: 23091922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1251. Dig Dis. 2012;30 Suppl 1:69-73. doi: 10.1159/000341128. Epub 2012 Oct 11.

Clinical spectrum and therapy of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

Day CP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle
University, Newcastle, UK. c.p.day @ ncl.ac.uk

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is increasingly being diagnosed worldwide and
considered to be the commonest liver disorder in Western countries. It comprises 
a disease spectrum ranging from simple steatosis (fatty liver) through
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) to fat with fibrosis and, ultimately,
cirrhosis. Simple steatosis is largely benign and non-progressive, whereas NASH
can lead to cirrhosis, liver failure and hepatocellular carcinoma. Therapeutic
strategies can be divided into those directed at components of the metabolic
syndrome with potential beneficial liver effects and those directed specifically 
at the liver. Recent data suggest that diet and exercise improve NASH, particular
in those achieving >7% weight loss. Obesity surgery has been shown to improve
steatosis in all studies and inflammation and fibrosis in some. With respect to
anti-diabetic drugs, results for metformin have not been convincing and concerns 
over the safety of glitazones have reduced the initial enthusiasm for their use. 
ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers hold the most promise as
anti-hypertensive agents for patients with NASH and hypertension. With respect to
more specific liver-directed therapies, there have been promising studies of
antioxidants, including betaine and probucol, and vitamin E may improve NASH in
adults and children. The TNF-α-lowering agent pentoxifylline may have beneficial 
effects on NASH. Liver transplantation is successful, but the disease recurrence 
rate is high in the absence of treatment of the underlying metabolic syndrome.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000341128 
PMID: 23075871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1252. Dig Dis. 2012;30 Suppl 1:61-8. doi: 10.1159/000341127. Epub 2012 Oct 11.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: what the pathologist can tell the clinician.

Brunt EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. ebrunt @ path.wustl.edu

Liver biopsy evaluation continues to serve a significant, often primary, role in 
clinical care, as well as in fundamental aspects of investigation in nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD). This is a review of the major features of liver
pathology in NAFLD and specifically what role liver biopsy continues to play in
both clinical management and scientific investigation. Diagnostic criteria for
NAFLD and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in adults and children are discussed, as
are other histologic features that may be encountered. Histologic features for
diagnostic classification(s) of NAFLD and semiquantitative methods of assessment 
are reviewed. The unique patterns of injury and fibrosis that characterize this
disease are emphasized, and reasons why histologic scoring and diagnosis are
considered as interrelated but separate exercises given. In addition, pros and
cons and recognized limitations of liver biopsy in NAFLD are discussed.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000341127 
PMID: 23075870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1253. Dig Dis. 2012;30 Suppl 1:55-60. doi: 10.1159/000341126. Epub 2012 Oct 11.

Innate immunity and alcoholic liver disease.

Szabo G(1), Petrasek J, Bala S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
MA 01605, USA. Gyongyi.Szabo @ umassmed.edu

Innate immunity provides the primary response to danger signals from pathogens or
injured host cells and tissues. The cells of the innate immune system include
monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells, neutrophils, NK cells and NKT cells that
orchestrate innate immune and initiate adaptive immune responses via cell
interactions, cytokines, chemokines and other mediators. The most robust and
common response of the innate immune system to danger signals is inflammation. In
the multifactorial pathophysiology of alcoholic liver disease (ALD), activation
of innate immune cells and the inflammatory cascade play a central role. Recent
studies have demonstrated that Toll-like receptors (TLRs), the sensors of
microbial and endogenous danger signals, are expressed and activated in innate
immune cells as well as in parenchymal cells in the liver, and thereby contribute
to ALD. The importance of gut-derived endotoxin and its recognition by TLR4
expressed on innate immune cells and liver parenchymal cells and the specificity 
of TLR4-induced downstream signaling via the interferon regulator factor 3 (IRF3)
has recently been investigated. We have shown that mice deficient in IRF3 or TLR4
expression are protected from alcohol-induced liver steatosis, inflammation and
hepatocyte injury. In addition to pathogen-derived danger molecules, the
inflammatory cascade can also be activated by endogenous danger signals released 
from damaged cells. The inflammasome, a multiprotein complex, senses endogenous
danger molecules to result in caspase-1-mediated cleavage of IL-1β. Our recent
results suggest that inflammasome and caspase-1 activation occur in ALD and that 
IL-1 significantly contributes to both steatosis and inflammation in the liver in
ALD.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000341126 
PMID: 23075869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1254. Intern Emerg Med. 2012 Oct;7 Suppl 3:S297-305. doi: 10.1007/s11739-012-0826-5.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and atherosclerosis.

Gaudio E(1), Nobili V, Franchitto A, Onori P, Carpino G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Histology, Forensic Medicine and Orthopedics,
Sapienza University of Rome, Via Borelli 50, 00161, Rome, Italy.
eugenio.gaudio@uniroma1.it

Atherosclerosis is a complex inflammatory disease comprising multiple plaque
phenotypes. The development of advanced atheromatous plaques with necrotic core
represents the result of the invasion of lipid pools by macrophages. The release 
of activated proteolytic enzymes degrades the surrounding tissue and contributes 
to the formation of vulnerable plaque. Thinning of the fibrous cap and necrotic
core expansion are considered to be critical for the progression toward plaque
rupture and acute thrombosis. The pathogenic mechanisms leading the progression
of atherosclerotic lesions are various and involve endothelial cells,
inflammatory cells, and platelets. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
includes a spectrum of diseases ranging from simple fatty liver to nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) and may progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular
carcinoma. The prevalence of this pathology is quite high in the general
population and is one of the most important causes of liver-related morbidity and
mortality in children. NAFLD is considered the hepatic feature of the metabolic
syndrome and this has stimulated interest in its possible role in the
atherosclerosis development. Clinical observations indicated that NAFLD might be 
an independent risk factor for coronary artery disease. Moreover, NASH may
increase atherosclerotic and cardiovascular risks by local overexpression of
inflammatory mediators, endothelial damage, and regulators of blood pressure.
NASH development is correlated with hepatic progenitor cell activation and the
release of proatherogenic adipokines. These aspects suggest the necessity for an 
early therapeutic intervention in NASH patients, not only for ameliorating the
liver injury, but also for improving the systemic proatherogenic state.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-012-0826-5 
PMID: 23073871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1255. Intern Emerg Med. 2012 Oct;7 Suppl 3:S291-6. doi: 10.1007/s11739-012-0819-4.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiovascular disease: epidemiological,
clinical and pathophysiological evidences.

Del Ben M(1), Baratta F, Polimeni L, Angelico F.

Author information: 
(1)I Clinica Medica, Dipartimento di Medicina Interna e Specialità Mediche, La
Sapienza Università di Roma, Policlinico Umberto I, Viale del Policlinico 155,
00161, Rome, Italy.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is recognized as the most common and emerging
chronic liver disease in western countries. The disease has been traditionally
interpreted as a possibly progressing condition to liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. 
However, recently, a large number of publications have demonstrated that people
with non-alcoholic fatty liver have an increased chance of developing
cardiovascular diseases, which represent the major causes of death in this
setting. This association is mainly explained by the atherogenic profile of the
metabolic syndrome a condition frequently associated with fatty liver, which may 
represent its hepatic component. Some studies have also shown an association
independent of traditional risk factors or of the clinical features of the
metabolic syndrome. In this setting, cardiovascular disease seems to be the
consequence of low-grade chronic inflammation and increased oxidative stress.
Most studies did not differentiate cardiovascular risk between simple steatosis
and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, although the latter seems to be at higher
cardiovascular risk. Few studies have investigated the direct correlation between
hepatic inflammation and atherosclerosis. Genetic studies will probably improve
the interpretation of the increased cardiovascular risk in patients with fatty
liver and no metabolic syndrome.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-012-0819-4 
PMID: 23073870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1256. Intern Emerg Med. 2012 Oct;7 Suppl 3:S283-90. doi: 10.1007/s11739-012-0824-7.

Ultrasonography (US) and non-invasive diagnostic methods for non-alcoholic fatty 
liver disease (NAFLD) and early vascular damage. Possible application in a
population study on the metabolic syndrome (MS).

Arienti V(1), Aluigi L, Pretolani S, Accogli E, Polimeni L, Domanico A, Violi F.

Author information: 
(1)Ultrasound Center, Internal Medicine A, Maggiore Hospital, Bologna, Italy.
vincenzo.arienti@ausl.bologna.it

Abdominal ultrasonography (US) represents the first-line imaging examination in
chronic liver diseases; in most cases, US, laboratory findings and the clinical
context are generally sufficient to guide the diagnosis. Thanks to the
considerable diffusion of US, we have seen an increased diagnosis of NAFLD in
recent years, although this condition is generally silent from a clinical point
of view. We have to identify the metabolic syndrome in the general population and
to promptly recognize NAFLD to prevent its development into non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Among the non-invasive
diagnostic techniques for NAFLD and for early vascular damage, ultrasonography
represents the method of choice. In fact, besides the traditional semiotics of
fundamental US of the liver, new US techniques have recently been proposed
(contrast enhancement US, acoustic structure characterization), with respect to
serum biomarkers and Fibroscan, for the study of liver fibrosis. Similarly, also 
as concerns the US measurement of carotid intima-media thickness, new automated
methods with sophisticated software and radio-frequency signal have recently been
introduced. Finally, we report the preliminary results of a personal experience
on liver and carotid US in the epidemiology of the metabolic syndrome.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-012-0824-7 
PMID: 23073869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1257. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Dec;9(12):726-31. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2012.200. Epub 2012 Oct 23.

Physical activity: an essential component of lifestyle modification in NAFLD.

Rodriguez B(1), Torres DM, Harrison SA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Walter Reed National
Military Medical Center, Washington, DC 20889, USA.

NAFLD encompasses a spectrum of liver diseases pertaining to fat accumulation in 
the liver in the absence of significant alcohol consumption. NASH is the most
clinically relevant subset of NAFLD, and patients with NASH have an increased
risk of progression to cirrhosis or developing liver cancer. No pharmacotherapy
is currently approved for NAFLD, and lifestyle modification via diet and exercise
is most commonly recommended. The optimal physical activity regimen in terms of
both effectiveness and compliance remains to be determined and is the focus of
this Review.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2012.200 
PMID: 23090329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1258. J Formos Med Assoc. 2012 Oct;111(10):527-35. doi: 10.1016/j.jfma.2012.07.002.
Epub 2012 Aug 11.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: an emerging liver disease in Taiwan.

Hsu CS(1), Kao JH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Buddhist Tzu
Chi General Hospital, Taipei Branch, Taiwan.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disorder in
Western countries, and has become increasingly recognized as a public health
problem in Taiwan. Patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, a more severe
form of NAFLD, may progress to cirrhosis and its related complications, including
hepatocellular carcinoma. Since NAFLD is highly linked to metabolic syndrome,
such patients may have increased risks of complications related to both liver
disease and metabolic syndrome. Therefore, if we fail to cope with this growing
health problem, NAFLD may gradually replace viral hepatitis as the major etiology
of liver disease in Taiwan.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfma.2012.07.002 
PMID: 23089687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1259. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2012 Nov;15(6):641-8. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0b013e328357f747.

Vitamin E and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Pacana T(1), Sanyal AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of Internal
Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, Richmond, Virginia
23298-0341, USA. typacana@mcvh-vcu.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Oxidative stress plays a central role in the transition from
simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). An effective therapeutic
strategy is to target reduction in oxidative stress in NASH patients. The aim of 
this review is to discuss the role of oxidative stress in NASH and biological
activities of vitamin E and present available evidence on the therapeutic
efficacy of vitamin E in NASH.
RECENT FINDINGS: In Pioglitazone versus Vitamin E versus Placebo for the
Treatment of Nondiabetic Patients with Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis (PIVENS)
trial, vitamin E therapy demonstrated a significant improvement in steatosis,
inflammation, ballooning, and resolution of steatohepatitis in adult patients
with aggressive NASH, who do not have diabetes or cirrhosis. Although vitamin E
showed a significant resolution of NASH in children, a sustained reduction of
alanine aminotransferase was not attained in The Treatment of nonalcoholic fatty 
liver disease (NAFLD) in Children (TONIC) trial.
SUMMARY: The prevalence of NAFLD is likely to increase over time due to the
epidemics of obesity and diabetes. Presently, there is no definitive treatment
for NAFLD. Based on available evidence, vitamin E (RRR-α-tocopherol) is only
recommended in NASH adults without diabetes or cirrhosis and with aggressive
histology. Validation is needed in children before its use can be recommended.
Longer follow-up of randomized controlled trials are needed to assess long-term
vitamin E safety.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e328357f747 
PMCID: PMC4984672
PMID: 23075940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1260. Ital J Pediatr. 2012 Oct 17;38:55. doi: 10.1186/1824-7288-38-55.

Therapeutic options in pediatric non alcoholic fatty liver disease: current
status and future directions.

Vajro P(1), Lenta S, Pignata C, Salerno M, D'Aniello R, De Micco I, Paolella G,
Parenti G.

Author information: 
(1)Medical School of the University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy. pvajro@unisa.it

The epidemics of overweight and obesity has resulted in a significant increase of
non alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a potentially progressive condition.
Currently, obesity related hepatopathy represents therefore the main cause of
pediatric chronic liver disease. The first choice treatment at all ages is weight
loss and/or lifestyle changes, however compliance is very poor and a
pharmacological approach has become necessary. In the present article we present 
a systematic literature review focusing on established pediatric NALFD drugs
(ursodeoxycholic acid, insulin sensitizers, and antioxidants) and on innovative
therapeutic options as well.Regarding the former ones, a pediatric pilot study
highlighted that ursodeoxycholic acid is not efficient on transaminases levels
and bright liver. Similarly, a recent large scale, multicenter randomized
clinical trial (TONIC study) showed that also insulin sensitizers and antioxidant
vitamin E have scarce effects on serum transaminase levels. Among a large series 
of novel therapeutic approaches acting on recently proposed different
pathomechanisms, probiotics seem hitherto the most interesting and reasonable
option for their safety and tolerability. Toll-like receptors modifiers,
Pentoxifylline, and Farnesoid X receptors agonists have been still poorly
investigated, and will need further studies before becoming possible promising
innovative therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1186/1824-7288-38-55 
PMCID: PMC3534557
PMID: 23075296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1261. Mol Aspects Med. 2013 Feb;34(1):12-29. doi: 10.1016/j.mam.2012.10.002. Epub 2012 
Oct 13.

Innate immune activation in obesity.

Lumeng CN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, University of Michigan
Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, United States. clumeng@umich.ed

The innate immune system is a prewired set of cellular and humoral components
that has developed to sense perturbations in normal physiology and trigger
responses to restore the system back to baseline. It is now understood that many 
of these components can also sense the physiologic changes that occur with
obesity and be activated. While the exact reasons for this chronic immune
response to obesity are unclear, there is strong evidence to suggest that innate 
inflammatory systems link obesity and disease. Based on this, anti-inflammatory
therapies for diseases like type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome may form the
core of future treatment plans. This review will highlight the components
involved in the innate immune response and discuss the evidence that they
contribute to the pathogenesis of obesity-associated diseases.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mam.2012.10.002 
PMCID: PMC3888776
PMID: 23068074  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1262. J Ethnopharmacol. 2012 Dec 18;144(3):457-65. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.09.044. Epub
2012 Oct 9.

Herbal medicines for the prevention of alcoholic liver disease: a review.

Ding RB(1), Tian K, Huang LL, He CW, Jiang Y, Wang YT, Wan JB.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macao, PR China.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Long-term excess alcohol exposure leads to
alcoholic liver disease (ALD)-a global health problem without effective
therapeutic approach. ALD is increasingly considered as a complex and
multifaceted pathological process, involving oxidative stress, inflammation and
excessive fatty acid synthesis. Over the past decade, herbal medicines have
attracted much attention as potential therapeutic agents in the prevention and
treatment of ALD, due to their multiple targets and less toxic side effects.
Several herbs, such as Cnidium monnieri (L.) Cusson (Apiaceae), Curcuma longa L. 
(Zingiberaceae) and Pueraria lobata (Willd.) Ohwi (Leguminosae), etc., have been 
shown to be quite effective and are being widely used in China today for the
treatment of ALD when used alone or in combination.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: To review current available knowledge on herbal medicines used
to prevent or treat ALD and their underlying mechanisms.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used the pre-set searching syntax and inclusion
criteria to retrieve available published literature from PUBMED and Web of
Science databases, all herbal medicines and their active compounds tested on ALD 
induced by both acute and chronic alcohol ingestion were included.
RESULTS: A total of 40 experimental studies involving 34 herbal medicines and
(or) active compounds were retrieved and reviewed. We found that all reported
extracts and individual compounds from herbal medicines/natural plants could be
beneficial to ALD, which might be attributed to regulate multiple critical
targets involved in the pathways of oxidation, inflammation and lipid metabolism.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening chemical candidate from herbal medicine might be a
promising approach to drug discovery for the prevention or treatment of ALD.
However, further studies remain to be done on the systematic assessment of herbal
medicines against ALD and the underlying mechanisms, as well as their quality
control studies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.09.044 
PMID: 23058988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1263. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2012 Nov;36(10):909-21. doi: 10.1111/apt.12084. Epub 2012
Oct 11.

Review article: the emerging interplay among the gastrointestinal tract, bile
acids and incretins in the pathogenesis of diabetes and non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Zarrinpar A(1), Loomba R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of California
at San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0063, USA.

BACKGROUND: Recent research has led to an interest in the role of the gut and
liver in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
AIM: To review the role of the gastrointestinal system in glucose homoeostasis,
with particular focus on the effects of incretin hormones, hepatic steatosis and 
bile acids.
METHODS: PubMed and Google Scholar were searched using terms such as incretin,
glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), glucagon-like peptide-1
(GLP-1), dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4), hepatic steatosis, bile acid and gastric
bypass. Additional relevant references were identified by reviewing the reference
lists of articles.
RESULTS: Perturbations of incretin hormones and bile acid secretion contribute to
the pathogenesis of T2DM, leading to their potential as therapeutic targets. The 
incretin hormones (GIP and GLP-1) are deactivated by DPP-4. GLP-1 agonists and
DPP-4 inhibitors improve glycaemic control in patients with T2DM. Hepatic
steatosis, along with insulin resistance, may precede the development of T2DM,
and may benefit from anti-diabetes medications. Bile acids play an important role
in glucose homoeostasis, with effects mediated via the farnesoid X receptor (FXR)
and the cell surface receptor TGR5. The bile acid sequestrant colesevelam has
been shown to be effective in improving glycaemic control in patients with T2DM. 
Altered gastrointestinal anatomy after gastric bypass surgery may also affect
enterohepatic recirculation of bile acids and contribute to improved glycaemic
control.
CONCLUSIONS: Research in recent years has led to new pathways and processes with 
a role in glucose homoeostasis, and new therapeutic targets and options for type 
2 diabetes mellitus.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12084 
PMCID: PMC3535499
PMID: 23057494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1264. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Dec;10(12):1342-1359.e2. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2012.10.001. Epub 2012 Oct 4.

Association between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and risk for hepatocellular 
cancer, based on systematic review.

White DL(1), Kanwal F, El-Serag HB.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Epidemiology and Outcomes Program, Houston Veteran Affairs Health
Services Research and Development Center of Excellence, Michael E. DeBakey
Veteran Affairs Medical Center, Houston, TX, USA. dwhite1@bcm.edu

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been implicated
as a cause of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We performed a systematic review of
epidemiology studies to confirm the association between these disorders.
METHODS: We searched PubMed for original reports published from January 1992 to
December 2011 that evaluated the association between NAFLD, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), cryptogenic cirrhosis presumed to be NASH-related, and
the risk of HCC. Studies were categorized as offering potential direct evidence
(eg, cohort studies) or indirect evidence (eg, case-control, cross-sectional, or 
case-series studies) for an association. We analyzed data from a total of 17
cohort studies (3 population based, 9 clinic based [6 limited to patients with
cirrhosis], and 5 natural history), 18 case-control and cross-sectional studies, 
and 26 case series.
RESULTS: NAFLD or NASH cohorts with few or no cases of cirrhosis cases had a
minimal risk for HCC (cumulative HCC mortality of 0%-3% for study periods up to
20 y). Cohorts with NASH and cirrhosis had a consistently higher risk (cumulative
incidence ranging from 2.4% over 7 y to 12.8% over 3 y). However, the risk for
HCC was substantially lower in these cohorts than for cohorts with hepatitis
C-related cirrhosis. Factors that increased risk among cohorts with NASH and
cirrhosis could not be determined, because most studies were not sufficiently
powered for multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review shows that despite several limitations, there
is epidemiologic evidence to support an association between NAFLD or NASH and an 
increased risk of HCC; risk seems to be limited to individuals with cirrhosis.

Copyright © 2012 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2012.10.001 
PMCID: PMC3501546
PMID: 23041539  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1265. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2012 Sep;21(3):293-302.

Is there any consensus as to what diet or lifestyle approach is the right one for
NAFLD patients?

Finelli C(1), Tarantino G.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Obesity and Eating Disorder, Stella Maris Mediterraneum Foundation, 
Chiaromonte, Potenza, Federico II Univ. Medical School, Naples, Italy.

In this article, we review the current concepts about the pathogenesis of hepatic
steatosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and evaluate the existing diets in
the context of this knowledge and the available literature. The intent is to
enable clinicians to evaluate the diets of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) patients and make rational decisions based on this perspective - in the
absence of controlled trials - to help their patients. Finally, a tailored
approach for the dietary treatment of NAFLD is offered as a way to optimize the
dietary management of this condition.


PMID: 23012671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1266. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Sep 14;18(34):4651-8.

Interactions between hepatic iron and lipid metabolism with possible relevance to
steatohepatitis.

Ahmed U(1), Latham PS, Oates PS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Army Medical College, National University of
Sciences and Technology, Rawalpindi 46000, Pakistan.

The liver is an important site for iron and lipid metabolism and the main site
for the interactions between these two metabolic pathways. Although conflicting
results have been obtained, most studies support the hypothesis that iron plays a
role in hepatic lipogenesis. Iron is an integral part of some enzymes and
transporters involved in lipid metabolism and, as such, may exert a direct effect
on hepatic lipid load, intrahepatic metabolic pathways and hepatic lipid
secretion. On the other hand, iron in its ferrous form may indirectly affect
lipid metabolism through its ability to induce oxidative stress and inflammation,
a hypothesis which is currently the focus of much research in the field of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NAFLD/NASH). The
present review will first discuss how iron might directly interact with the
metabolism of hepatic lipids and then consider a new perspective on the way in
which iron may have a role in the two hit hypothesis for the progression of NAFLD
via ferroportin and the iron regulatory molecule hepcidin. The review concludes
that iron has important interactions with lipid metabolism in the liver that can 
impact on the development of NAFLD/NASH. More defined studies are required to
improve our understanding of these effects.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i34.4651 
PMCID: PMC3442203
PMID: 23002334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1267. Pediatr Obes. 2012 Dec;7(6):e75-80. doi: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2012.00089.x. Epub
2012 Sep 21.

The potential role of fatty liver in paediatric metabolic syndrome: a distinct
phenotype with high metabolic risk?

Nobili V(1), Bedogni G, Berni Canani R, Brambilla P, Cianfarani S, Pietrobelli A,
Agostoni C.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolic and Autoimmune Liver Disease Unit, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital,
Rome, Italy. nobili66@yahoo.it

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of obesity and its metabolic consequences has
dramatically increased in the last two decades urging physicians to find a
reliable definition for early detection, treatment and possibly prevention of
metabolic syndrome (MS). MS could be diagnosed in adult patients in the presence 
of a large waist circumference and ≥2 of the following features: high serum
triglycerides, low serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high blood
pressure and high fasting glucose. The definition of MS in children is more
problematic, and the potential role of its single components on metabolic risk
remains largely undefined. Recent evidence strongly suggests not only a
relationship between non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and MS in obese
children, adolescents and adults, but also the key role exerted by liver fat
deposition in the pathogenesis of MS.
CONCLUSION: We propose that NAFLD should be routinely checked in obese subjects
because early lifestyle changes may be effective in reducing the overall risk of 
MS.

© 2012 The Authors. Pediatric Obesity © 2012 International Association for the
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2012.00089.x 
PMID: 23001964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1268. J Adolesc Health. 2012 Oct;51(4):305-12. doi: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2012.01.010.
Epub 2012 Mar 13.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver in children and adolescents: an overview.

Della Corte C(1), Alisi A, Saccari A, De Vito R, Vania A, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Hepato-Metabolic Division, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Rome,
Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is rapidly becoming one of the most common liver
diseases in the pediatric population in industrialized countries because of the
growing prevalence of obesity and overweight. For this reason, there is a keen
and broad interest among researchers to identify new diagnostic noninvasive tools
and novel treatment modalities for this condition. Unfortunately, to date, liver 
biopsy remains the imperfect gold standard for diagnosis. In addition, available 
noninvasive markers are not fully satisfactory for the diagnosis of fatty liver. 
Although in recent years many pharmacological agents, on the basis of
pathogenetic mechanism of the disease, have been attempted, to date, the
guidelines for the management of fatty liver are still lacking. Establishing
effective therapeutic strategies to treat the disease represents the challenge
for pediatric hepatologists in the near future. In this article, we briefly
review the current knowledge and ideas concerning pediatric nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease, and discuss the new perspective therapies.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2012.01.010 
PMID: 22999829  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1269. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2013 May;1830(5):3143-53. doi:
10.1016/j.bbagen.2012.09.008. Epub 2012 Sep 17.

Glutathione synthesis.

Lu SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Keck School of Medicine USC, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA. shellylu@usc.edu

BACKGROUND: Glutathione (GSH) is present in all mammalian tissues as the most
abundant non-protein thiol that defends against oxidative stress. GSH is also a
key determinant of redox signaling, vital in detoxification of xenobiotics, and
regulates cell proliferation, apoptosis, immune function, and fibrogenesis.
Biosynthesis of GSH occurs in the cytosol in a tightly regulated manner. Key
determinants of GSH synthesis are the availability of the sulfur amino acid
precursor, cysteine, and the activity of the rate-limiting enzyme, glutamate
cysteine ligase (GCL), which is composed of a catalytic (GCLC) and a modifier
(GCLM) subunit. The second enzyme of GSH synthesis is GSH synthetase (GS).
SCOPE OF REVIEW: This review summarizes key functions of GSH and focuses on
factors that regulate the biosynthesis of GSH, including pathological conditions 
where GSH synthesis is dysregulated.
MAJOR CONCLUSIONS: GCL subunits and GS are regulated at multiple levels and often
in a coordinated manner. Key transcription factors that regulate the expression
of these genes include NF-E2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) via the antioxidant response
element (ARE), AP-1, and nuclear factor kappa B (NFκB). There is increasing
evidence that dysregulation of GSH synthesis contributes to the pathogenesis of
many pathological conditions. These include diabetes mellitus, pulmonary and
liver fibrosis, alcoholic liver disease, cholestatic liver injury, endotoxemia
and drug-resistant tumor cells.
GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: GSH is a key antioxidant that also modulates diverse
cellular processes. A better understanding of how its synthesis is regulated and 
dysregulated in disease states may lead to improvement in the treatment of these 
disorders. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Cellular functions of
glutathione.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbagen.2012.09.008 
PMCID: PMC3549305
PMID: 22995213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1270. Endocr J. 2012;59(11):955-62. Epub 2012 Sep 15.

Essential roles of growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I)
in the liver.

Takahashi Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kobe 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Kobe 650-0017, Japan.

Growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) play essential roles
in growth in childhood, and continue to have important metabolic actions in
adults. Adult growth hormone deficiency (AGHD) is characterized by increased
visceral adiposity, abnormal lipid profiles, premature atherosclerosis, decreased
quality of life, and increased mortality. Recently, case reports and several
clinical studies suggest that GHD state in adults is associated with an increased
prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and progression to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) or liver cirrhosis. As a mechanistic insight,
growing evidence has revealed that GH as well as IGF-I play essential roles in
the liver. Further investigation is necessary to clarify the precise mechanisms
by which GH and IGF-I exert their effects in the liver; however, it should be
noted that NAFLD/NASH has emerged as an important comorbidity in AGHD.


PMID: 22986486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1271. Gastroenterology. 2012 Nov;143(5):1158-72. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2012.09.008.
Epub 2012 Sep 13.

Sterile inflammation in the liver.

Kubes P(1), Mehal WZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Calgary, Calgary,
Alberta, Canada.

Inflammation In the absence of pathogens occurs in all tissues in response to a
wide range of stimuli that cause tissue stress and injury. Such sterile
inflammation (SI) is a key process in drug-induced liver injury, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis, and alcoholic steatohepatitis and is a major determinant of
fibrosis and carcinogenesis. In SI, endogenous damage-associated molecular
patterns (DAMPS), which are usually hidden from the extracellular environment,
are released on tissue injury and activate receptors on immune cells. More than
20 such DAMPS have been identified and activate cellular pattern recognition
receptors, which were originally identified as sensors of pathogen-associated
molecular patterns. Activation of pattern recognition receptors by DAMPS results 
in a wide range of immune responses, including production of proinflammatory
cytokines and localization of immune cells to the site of injury. DAMPS result in
the assembly of a cytosolic protein complex termed the inflammasome, which
activates the serine protease caspase-1, resulting in activation and secretion of
interleukin-1β and other cytokines. SI-driven liver diseases are responsible for 
the majority of liver pathology in industrially developed countries and lack
specific therapy. Identification of DAMPS, their receptors, signaling pathways,
and cytokines now provides a wide range of therapeutic targets for which many
antagonists are already available.

Copyright © 2012 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2012.09.008 
PMID: 22982943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1272. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012 Oct;26(5):689-700. doi:
10.1016/j.beem.2012.03.007. Epub 2012 May 22.

Glucocorticoids as mediators of developmental programming effects.

Khulan B(1), Drake AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology Unit, Centre for Cardiovascular Science, University of
Edinburgh, Queen's Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, UK.
kbatbaya@staffmail.ed.ac.uk

Epidemiological evidence suggests that exposure to an adverse environment in
early life is associated with an increased risk of cardio-metabolic and
behavioral disorders in adulthood, a phenomenon termed 'early life programming'. 
One major hypothesis for early life programming is fetal glucocorticoid
overexposure. In animal studies, prenatal glucocorticoid excess as a consequence 
of maternal stress or through exogenous administration to the mother or fetus is 
associated with programming effects on cardiovascular and metabolic systems and
on the brain. These effects can be transmitted to subsequent generations. Studies
in humans provide some evidence that prenatal glucocorticoid exposure may exert
similar programming effects on glucose/insulin homeostasis, blood pressure and
neurodevelopment. The mechanisms by which glucocorticoids mediate these effects
are unclear but may include a role for epigenetic modifications. This review
discusses the evidence for glucocorticoid programming in animal models and in
humans.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2012.03.007 
PMID: 22980050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1273. Curr Drug Metab. 2012 Dec;13(10):1454-63.

Recent advances on stearoyl-Coa desaturase regulation in fatty liver diseases.

Narce M(1), Bellenger J, Rialland M, Bellenger S.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Bourgogne, UFR Sciences de la Vie, de la Terre et de
l’Environnement, 6 Boulevard Gabriel, 21000 Dijon, France.
michel.narce@u-bourgogne.fr

Stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD-1) is a delta-9 fatty acid desaturase that
catalyzes the synthesis of monounsaturated fatty acids. Indeed, SCD-1 is the
critical control point regulating hepatic lipogenesis and lipid oxidation. Due to
its central role in lipid metabolism in the liver, recent studies have focused on
the involvement of SCD-1 in the development of fatty liver during obesity,
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, excessive alcohol consumption, and in subjects
with high triglyceride blood concentrations. The accumulation of fat in liver
cells can be a sign that harmful conditions are developing, possibly associated
with or leading to inflammation of the liver. This review evaluates the recent
advances in our understanding of the regulation of SCD-1 expression and its role 
in the development of nonalcoholic and alcoholic hepatosteatosis. Animal models
presenting a liver-specific loss or inhibition of SCD-1, as well as dietary
interventions, have highlighted the important role of the enzyme in the
accumulation of fat (fatty infiltration) in hepatocytes during both alcoholic and
nonalcoholic liver diseases. The data summarized in this article support the
notion that SCD-1 plays a direct role in the development of fatty liver diseases,
and is not simply a marker of an unfavorable diet or hepatic disorder.
Accordingly, SCD-1 represents a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of
hepatic steatosis.


PMID: 22978399  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1274. Curr Drug Metab. 2012 Dec;13(10):1358-70.

Fatty acids - induced lipotoxicity and inflammation.

Savary S(1), Trompier D, Andréoletti P, Le Borgne F, Demarquoy J, Lizard G.

Author information: 
(1)Lab. Bio-PeroxIL, EA7270 University of Bourgogne 6 Bd Gabriel, Dijon, F-21000,
France.

Fatty acids are known to serve as energetic substrates, key components of
membrane lipids, and as substrates for the synthesis of signaling molecules and
complex lipids. They are also known to be ligands either of membrane receptors
involved in cell signaling or of nuclear receptors mediating gene regulation.
Accumulation of fatty acids due to altered metabolism and/or unbalanced diet has 
been described to be toxic for several tissues, especially liver. In numerous
cell types, cell death, cytokine secretion and activation of inflammatory
processes appear to be a consequence of fatty acid accumulation. This review
presents the different classes of fatty acids known to trigger toxic effects and 
inflammation, the cellular and subcellular targets of these fatty acids in the
context of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and the mechanisms by which
these effects are mediated.


PMID: 22978392  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1275. Med Monatsschr Pharm. 2012 Aug;35(8):281-92; quiz 293-4.

[Alcohol intake--a two-edged sword. Part 1: metabolism and pathogenic effects of 
alcohol].

[Article in German]

Ströhle A(1), Wolters M, Hahn A.

Author information: 
(1)Leibniz Universität Hannover, Institut für Lebensmittelwissenschaft und
Humanernährung, Hannover. stroehle@nutrition.uni-hannover.de

From the biomedical point of view alcohol is a Janus-faced dietary component with
a dose-dependent effect varying from cardiovascular protection to cytotoxicity.
Alcohol is absorbed in the upper gastrointestinal tract by passive diffusion, is 
quickly distributed throughout body water and is mostly eliminated through
oxidation. The enzymatically-catalyzed oxidative degradation to acetaldehyde and 
further to acetate is primarily localized in the liver. In case of a low blood
alcohol concentration (<0.5 per thousand) alcohol is predominantely metabolized
by the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase; higher blood concentrations (>0.5 per
thousand) are increasingly oxidized by the microsomal ethanoloxidizing system
(MEOS). Alcohol consumption induces several metabolic reactions as well as acute 
effects on the central nervous system. Chronic alcohol consumption to some extent
irreparably damages nearly every organ with the liver being particularly
concerned. There are three stages of alcohol-induced liver disease (fatty liver, 
alcohol hepatitis, liver cirrhosis) and the liver damages mainly result from
reaction products of alcohol degradation (acetaldehyde, NADH and reactive oxygen 
species). An especially dreaded clinical complication of the alcohol-induced
liver disease is the hepatic encephalopathy. Its pathogenesis is a multifactorial
and self-perpetuating process with the swelling of astrocytes being a crucial
point. Swollen astrocytes induce several reactions such as oxidative/nitrosative 
stress, impaired signal transduction, protein modifications and a modified gene
expression profile. The swelling of astrocytes and the change in neuronal
activity are attributed to several neurotoxins, especially ammonia and aromatic
amino acids. In alcohol addicted subjects multiple micronutrient deficiencies are
common. The status of folic acid, thiamine, pyridoxine and zinc is especially
critical.


PMID: 22970527  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1276. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2012 Nov;36(9):815-23.

Review article: is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease a spectrum, or are steatosis
and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis distinct conditions?

Yilmaz Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Gastroenterology, Marmara University, Maltepe, Istanbul, Turkey. 
dryusufyilmaz@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is currently conceptualised
as a clinical spectrum that results from a ‘multiple-hit’ process which begins
with simple steatosis and subsequently renders the hepatocytes susceptible to a
variety of insults. Ultimately, more serious liver injuries like non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) and cirrhosis may develop. Although the metabolic syndrome
is considered the crucial player in the pathogenesis of NAFLD, recent studies
have highlighted novel pathophysiological mechanisms in this clinical entity.
AIM: To discuss the pathophysiology of NAFLD based on the hypothesis that simple 
steatosis and NASH are discrete entities rather than two points on a spectrum.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted in August 2012 on PubMed, Ovid Embase,
Ovid Medline and Scopus using the following search terms: steatosis,
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, pathophysiology, fatty liver, natural history and 
genetics.
RESULTS: Simple steatosis and NASH appear as two distinct pathophysiological
entities and progression from pure fatty liver to NASH appears to be so rare as
to warrant publication. The possible pathogenetic pathways specifically related
to NASH are highlighted.
CONCLUSIONS: Although simple steatosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis are
currently viewed as two histological subtypes of the unique spectrum of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, the two conditions are likely distinct not
only from a histological but also from a pathophysiological standpoint. Efforts
to distinguish simple steatosis from non-alcoholic steatohepatitis using
non-invasive modalities should be informed by the current pathophysiology of
these two clinical entities.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12046 
PMID: 22966992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1277. Alcohol. 2012 Dec;46(8):715-25. doi: 10.1016/j.alcohol.2012.08.004. Epub 2012 Sep
7.

Rodent models of alcoholic liver disease: of mice and men.

Brandon-Warner E(1), Schrum LW, Schmidt CM, McKillop IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Carolinas Medical Center, 1000 Blythe Boulevard,
Charlotte, NC 28203, USA.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of acute and chronic liver disease
worldwide. The progressive nature of ALD is well described; however, the complex 
interactions under which these pathologies evolve remain to be fully elucidated. 
Clinically there are no clear biomarkers or universally accepted, effective
treatment strategies for ALD. Experimental models of ALD are an important
component in identifying underlying mechanisms of alcohol-induced injury to
develop better diagnostic markers, predictors of disease progression, and
therapeutic targets to manage, halt, or reverse disease progression. Rodents
remain the most accessible model for studying ALD pathology. Effective rodent
models must mimic the natural history of ALD while allowing examination of
complex interactions between multiple hepatic, and non-hepatic, cell types in the
setting of altered metabolic or oxidative/nitrosative stress, inflammatory
responses, and sensitivity to cytotoxic stress. Additionally, mode and duration
of alcohol delivery influence hepatic response and present unique challenges in
understanding disease pathology. This review provides an overview of rodent
models of ALD, their strengths and weaknesses relative to human disease states,
and provides insight of the potential to develop novel rodent models to simulate 
the course of human ALD.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.alcohol.2012.08.004 
PMCID: PMC3496818
PMID: 22960051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1278. Nucleic Acid Ther. 2012 Oct;22(5):289-94. doi: 10.1089/nat.2012.0381. Epub 2012
Sep 5.

Role of regulatory micro RNAs in type 2 diabetes mellitus-related inflammation.

Hamar P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Semmelweis University, Institute of Pathophysiology, Budapest, Hungary.
hampet@net.sote.hu

Micro RNAs (miRNAs) are small, non-coding RNAs with the function of
post-transcriptional gene expression regulation. Micro RNAs may function in
networks, forming a complex relationship with diseases. Alterations of specific
miRNA levels have significant correlation with diseases of divergent origin, such
as diabetes. Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) has an increasing worldwide epidemic
with serious complications. However, T2DM is a chronic process, and from early
metabolic alterations to manifest complications decades may pass, during which
our diagnostic arsenal is limited. Micro RNAs may thus serve as novel diagnostic 
tools as well as therapeutic targets in pre-diabetes. Recent Fundings: Micro RNAs
(miRNAs) involved in inflammatory processes contributing to the development of
type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) published mostly in the past 2 years. MiRNAs are 
involved in such early diabetic processes as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)
and inflammation of the visceral adipose tissue. Evidence is emerging regarding
the continuous spectrum between type 1 diabetes (T1DM) and T2DM being just 2
endpoints of the same disease with different genetic background. Thus, miRNA
regulation of autoimmune components in T2DM may shed new light on pathogenesis.
Finally, the involvement of miRNAs in inflammation as a key driving force of
diabetic complications is also summarized.CONCLUSION: Inflammation is emerging as
a central pathophysiological process in the development of T2DM. Visceral adipose
tissue inflammation and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis together with insulitis are
probably the first events leading to a complex metabolic disorder. These early
events may be diagnosed or even influenced through our increasing knowledge about
the involvement of post-transcriptional gene regulation by miRNAs.

DOI: 10.1089/nat.2012.0381 
PMCID: PMC3464406
PMID: 22950794  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1279. Curr Atheroscler Rep. 2012 Dec;14(6):570-8. doi: 10.1007/s11883-012-0276-6.

Fructose and risk of cardiometabolic disease.

Bray GA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Louisiana State University, 6400
Perkins Road, Baton Rouge, LA 70808, USA. brayga@pbrc.edu

Fructose and glucose in soft drinks and fruit drinks account for just under 50 % 
of added sugars. Soft drinks intake has risen five-fold between 1950 and 2000,
and this increase in intake of simple sugars has raised health concerns. The
risks of cardiovascular disease, obesity and the metabolic syndrome have all been
related to consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages in several, but not all
meta-analyses. Fructose and sugar-sweetened beverages have also been related to
the risk of gout in men, and to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Studies show
that the calories in sugar-sweetened beverages do not produce an adequate
reduction in the intake of other foods, leading to increased caloric intake.
Plasma triglycerides are increased by sugar-sweetened beverages, and this
increase appears to be due to fructose, rather than to glucose in sugar. Several 
10-week to 26-week randomized trials of sugar-containing soft drinks show
increases in triglycerides, body weight, and visceral adipose tissue; there were 
also increases in muscle fat and liver fat, which might lead to
non-alcoholic-fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11883-012-0276-6 
PMID: 22949106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1280. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2013;190:85-100. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-16037-0_6.

Surgical resection for hepatocellular carcinoma in the noncirrhotic: the Western 
experience.

Schwartz ME(1), Shrager B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, NewYork, NY 10029-6574,
USA. myron.schwartz@mountsinai.org

Although hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is most often a sequela of severe hepatic
fibrosis or cirrhosis, a proportion of cases arise in the noncirrhotic patient.
The gold standard therapy in such cases is surgical resection. Innovations in
operative technique allow for this treatment to be implemented with very low
mortality and acceptable morbidity at high-volume hepatobiliary centers. This
chapter discusses various etiologies of noncirrhotic HCC and presents a large
single-center experience that is compared to other Western series.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-16037-0_6 
PMID: 22941015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1281. J Hepatol. 2013 Feb;58(2):395-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.08.018. Epub 2012 Aug
28.

CYP2E1 and oxidant stress in alcoholic and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Leung TM(1), Nieto N.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Liver Diseases, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Alcoholic (ALD) and non-alcoholic fatty liver diseases (NAFLD) are clinical
conditions leading to hepatocellular injury and inflammation resulting from
alcohol consumption, high fat diet, obesity and diabetes, among others. Oxidant
stress is a major contributing factor to the pathogenesis of ALD and NAFLD.
Multiple studies have shown that generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is
key for the progression of fatty liver to steatohepatitis. Cytochrome P450 2E1
(CYP2E1) plays a critical role in ROS generation and CYP2E1 is also induced by
alcohol itself. This review summarizes the role of CYP2E1 in ALD and NAFLD.

Copyright © 2012 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.08.018 
PMID: 22940046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1282. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Aug 14;18(30):3945-54. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i30.3945.

Overview and developments in noninvasive diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Baršić N(1), Lerotić I, Smirčić-Duvnjak L, Tomašić V, Duvnjak M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, "Sestre
milosrdnice" University Hospital Center, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.

High prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and very diverse
outcomes that are related to disease form and severity at presentation have made 
the search for noninvasive diagnostic tools in NAFLD one of the areas with most
intense development in hepatology today. Various methods have been investigated
in the recent years, including imaging methods like ultrasound and magnetic
resonance imaging, different forms of liver stiffness measurement, various
biomarkers of necroinflammatory processes (acute phase reactants, cytokines,
markers of apoptosis), hyaluronic acid and other biomarkers of liver fibrosis.
Multicomponent tests, scoring systems and diagnostic panels were also developed
with the purposes of differentiating non-alcoholic steatohepatitis from simple
steatosis or discriminating between various fibrosis stages. In all of the cases,
performance of noninvasive methods was compared with liver biopsy, which is still
considered to be a gold standard in diagnosis, but is by itself far from a
perfect comparative measure. We present here the overview of the published data
on various noninvasive diagnostic tools, some of which appear to be very
promising, and we address as well some of still unresolved issues in this
interesting field.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i30.3945 
PMCID: PMC3419991
PMID: 22912545  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1283. Georgian Med News. 2012 Jul;(208-209):24-30.

[Treatment of nonalcogolic fatty disease of liver].

[Article in Russian]

Antelava NA, Gongadze MV, Okudzhava MV, Pachkoriia KZ, Gogolauri MI.

The experimental and clinical data concerning of treatment of nonalcogolic fatty 
liver disease (NAFLD) are summarized and analyzed in the review. Some aspects of 
pathogenetic pharmacotherapy of NAFLD have been discussed (correction of insulin 
resistance, obesity, dislipidemia, oxidative stress, hepatoprotectors,
restoration of intestine microbiosis, replacement hormonal, syndrome and
antihypertensive drugs). Medical and non - medical methods of treatment is
compared. It is concluded that further study to improve methods of prevention and
treatment of NAFLD are required.


PMID: 22899407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1284. Georgian Med News. 2012 Jul;(208-209):16-23.

[Peculiarities of metabolic syndrome and nonalcogolic fatty liver disease in
menopausal women].

[Article in Russian]

Antelava NA, Antelava AV, Gongadze MV, Okudzhava MV, Pachkoriia KZ, Gogolauri MI.

Correlation between menopause metabolic syndrome and nonalcogolic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) is reviewed. NAFLD refers to a wide spectrum of liver disease
ranging from simple fatty liver (steatosis), to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, to 
cirrhosis. The causes and pathogenetic factors of the disease are still under
investigation. The risk of development of NAFLD during menopause is twice higher 
in comparison with fertile age and abdominal obesity and insulin resistances is
more apparent. This feature is associated with deficit of estrogens during
menopause, as risk of development of NAFLD is diminished with substitutive
hormonotherapy. The obesity, particularly in the period of menopause, is
discussed as additive, independent risk factor of metabolic syndrome and of
diseases of hepatobiliare and cardiovascular systems.


PMID: 22899406  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1285. Endocr J. 2012;59(9):745-63. Epub 2012 Aug 12.

Fatty liver as a consequence and cause of insulin resistance: lessons from type 2
diabetic liver.

Takamura T(1), Misu H, Ota T, Kaneko S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Disease Control and Homeostasis, Kanazawa University Graduate
School of Medical Sciences, Kanazawa 920-8641, Japan. ttakamura@m-kanazawa.jp

Obesity is less common in the Asian population, but Asian people may be
susceptible to obesity-associated metabolic dysregulation. Accumulating evidence 
suggests that insulin resistance is closely associated with ectopic fat
accumulation in the liver. Whether this correlation is due to a causal
relationship between the conditions has long been the subject of debate. Insulin 
resistance and type 2 diabetes affects liver pathology, typically leading to
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) by dynamically altering the hepatic
genes involved in glucose and lipid metabolism. Conversely, how overnutrition
induces hepatic insulin resistance has been studied intensively, and has been
shown to involve excessive energy flux into mitochondria, toxic lipids, reactive 
oxygen species, and hepatokines. In this review, we focus on NAFLD both as a
consequence and as a cause of insulin resistance through lessons learned from the
liver of patients with type 2 diabetes.


PMID: 22893453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1286. Liver Transpl. 2012 Nov;18(11):1277-89. doi: 10.1002/lt.23531. Epub 2012 Sep 26.

Burden of de novo malignancy in the liver transplant recipient.

Chandok N(1), Watt KD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada.

Recipients of liver transplantation (LT) have a higher overall risk (2-3 times on
average) of developing de novo malignancies than the general population, with
standardized incidence ratios ranging from 1.0 for breast and prostate cancers to
3-4 for colon cancer and up to 12 for esophageal and oropharyngeal cancers. Aside
from immunosuppression, other identified risk factors for de novo malignancies
include the patient's age, a history of alcoholic liver disease or primary
sclerosing cholangitis, smoking, and viral infections with oncogenic potential.
Despite outcome studies showing that de novo malignancies are major causes of
mortality and morbidity after LT, there are no guidelines for cancer surveillance
protocols or immunosuppression protocols to lower the incidence of de novo
cancers. Patient education, particularly for smoking cessation and excess sun
avoidance, and regular clinical follow-up remain the standard of care. Further
research in epidemiology, risk factors, and the effectiveness of screening and
management protocols is needed to develop evidence-based guidelines for the
prevention and treatment of de novo malignancies.

Copyright © 2012 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.23531 
PMID: 22887956  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1287. Dig Dis Sci. 2013 Feb;58(2):302-8. doi: 10.1007/s10620-012-2344-8. Epub 2012 Aug 
11.

Allostasis in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: implications for risk assessment.

Baffy G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, VA Boston Healthcare System and Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. gbaffy@partners.org

Allostasis, a concept of anticipatory physiological regulation in response to
external and internal challenges, was originally developed in the context of
neuroendocrinology and behavioral medicine. Allostasis preserves function under
changing conditions by abandoning physiological set points and developing new
ones. Allostatic load refers to the aggregate effect of adaptation throughout
life, and corresponds to the wear and tear associated with this process. In
response to chronic stress, allostatic load may accumulate faster than expected
if sustained activation of regulatory systems exceeds optimum operating ranges;
this results in increased risk of disease. Used in a broader sense, the
allostatic model of adaptive responses, trade-offs, feed-forward cycles, and
collateral damage provides a framework for assessing the involvement of
environmental-genetic interactions and co-morbidities in the course of chronic
disease and developing a comprehensive score for personalized risk prediction.
The utility of this approach is illustrated for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease,
a prevalent condition with common and less common outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-012-2344-8 
PMID: 22886595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1288. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2012 Sep;15(5):468-73. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0b013e3283566614.

Improving dietary patterns in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Carvalhana S(1), Machado MV, Cortez-Pinto H.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gastrenterologia, Unidade de Nutrição e Metabolismo, Hospital 
Santa Maria, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, Instituto de Medicina Molecular,
Lisbon, Portugal.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the liver epidemic
of our time. Diet strongly influences its development and should be a component
of any treatment plan. It is crucial to standardize diet recommendations in an
evidence-based manner.
RECENT FINDINGS: Calorie restriction per se seems beneficial regardless of
macronutrients composition. However, fat consumption, mainly cholesterol and
saturated fatty acids are particularly steatogenic. There is increasing evidence 
that fructose, mainly consumed as soft drinks, is highly deleterious to the
liver. Controversial results regarding modest alcohol consumption, suggest that
although alcohol should not be advised, it should not be strictly forbidden.
Recent studies suggest beneficial effects of coffee and tea in NAFLD.
SUMMARY: Patients with NAFLD should have an individualized diet recommendation,
in order to lose at least 7% of their weight if overweight, reducing caloric
intake, mainly at cost of cholesterol and saturated fatty acids. Simple sugars
should be avoided, and soft drinks discouraged.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e3283566614 
PMID: 22878240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1289. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Aug 7;18(29):3782-6. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i29.3782.

Diagnostic and therapeutic implications of the association between ferritin level
and severity of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Valenti L(1), Dongiovanni P, Fargion S.

Author information: 
(1)Università degli Studi di Milano, Fondazione Ca' Granda IRCCS Ospedale
Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy. luca.valenti@unimi.it

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), defined by excessive liver fat
deposition related to the metabolic syndrome, is a leading cause of progressive
liver disease, for which accurate non-invasive staging systems and effective
treatments are still lacking. Evidence has shown that increased ferritin levels
are associated with the metabolic insulin resistance syndrome, and higher hepatic
iron and fat content. Hyperferritinemia and iron stores have been associated with
the severity of liver damage in NAFLD, and iron depletion reduced insulin
resistance and liver enzymes. Recently, Kowdley et al demonstrated in a
multicenter study in 628 adult patients with NAFLD from the NAFLD-clinical
research network database with central re-evaluation of liver histology and iron 
staining that the increased serum ferritin level is an independent predictor of
liver damage in patients with NAFLD, and is useful to identify NAFLD patients at 
risk of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and advanced fibrosis. These data indicate 
that incorporation of serum ferritin level may improve the performance of
noninvasive scoring of liver damage in patients with NAFLD, and that iron
depletion still represents an attractive therapeutic target to prevent the
progression of liver damage in these patients.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i29.3782 
PMCID: PMC3413047
PMID: 22876027  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1290. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Aug 7;18(29):3775-81. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i29.3775.

Alanine and aspartate aminotransferase and glutamine-cycling pathway: their roles
in pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome.

Sookoian S(1), Pirola CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Hepatology, Institute of Medical Research
A Lanari-IDIM, University of Buenos Aires-National Council of Scientific and
Technological Research (CONICET), Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires 1427,
Argentina. sookoian.silvia@lanari.fmed.uba.ar

Although new research technologies are constantly used to look either for genes
or biomarkers in the prediction of metabolic syndrome (MS), the pathogenesis and 
pathophysiology of this complex disease remains a major challenge. Interestingly,
Cheng et al recently investigated possible pathways underlying MS by
high-throughput metabolite profiling in two large and well characterized
community-based cohorts. The authors explored by liquid chromatography and mass
spectrometry the plasma concentrations of 45 distinct metabolites and examined
their relation to cardiometabolic risk, and observed that metabolic risk factors 
such as obesity, insulin resistance (IR), high blood pressure, and dyslipidemia
were associated with several metabolites, including branched-chain amino acids,
other hydrophobic amino acids, tryptophan breakdown products, and nucleotide
metabolites. In addition, the authors found a significant association of IR
traits with glutamine, glutamate and the glutamine-to-glutamate ratio. These data
provide new insight into the pathogenesis of MS-associated phenotypes and
introduce a crucial role of glutamine-cycling pathway as prominently involved in 
the development of metabolic risk. We consider that the hypothesis about the role
of abnormal glutamate metabolism in the pathogenesis of the MS is certainly
challenging and suggests the critical role of the liver in the global metabolic
modulation as glutamate metabolism is linked with aminotransferase reactions. We 
discuss here the critical role of the "liver metabolism" in the pathogenesis of
the MS and IR, and postulate that before fatty liver develops, abnormal levels of
liver enzymes, such as alanine and aspartate aminotransferases might reflect high
levels of hepatic transamination of amino acids in the liver.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i29.3775 
PMCID: PMC3413046
PMID: 22876026  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1291. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2012 Nov 1;12(9):1045-61.

mTor as a potential target for the prevention and treatment of hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Buitrago-Molina LE(1), Vogel A.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Hepatology, Gastroenterology and Endocrinology, Medical School
Hannover, Hannover, Germany.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a global health problem and responsible for up 
to 500.000 deaths annually. It usually occurs secondary to infections with
hepatitis B or C viruses, alcohol consumption, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis or
hereditary liver diseases. The prognosis for patients with advanced disease is
dismal; therefore, new strategies to prevent or treat this malignancy are
urgently needed. Over recent years, several molecular pathways have been
identified contributing to the molecular pathogenesis of this devastating
disease, among them the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. mTOR is effectively inhibited by
rapamycin and its derivatives such as temsirolimus and everolimus. The anti-tumor
activity of rapamycin was identified more than 30 years ago in a screen performed
at the National Cancer Institute, but was subsequently not developed for cancer
treatment. In the 1990s, activation of the mTOR pathway was recognized in various
malignancies spurring again the interest in mTOR inhibitors for anti-cancer
treatment. In 2007, the US Food and Drug Administration approved the first mTOR
inhibitor, temsirolimus, for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma. Currently,
several clinical studies are underway to define the role of mTOR inhibitors for
the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. The aim of this review is to outline
the role of mTOR for hepatocarcinogenesis. We will also discuss the latest
preclinical and clinical data of mTOR inhibitors for the prevention and treatment
of HCC.


PMID: 22873368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1292. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2012 Sep;92(3):340-8. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2012.110. Epub 2012 
Aug 8.

Nrf2: a potential target for new therapeutics in liver disease.

Bataille AM(1), Manautou JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, 
USA.

Nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is an oxidative stress-mediated
transcription factor with a variety of downstream targets aimed at
cytoprotection. Nrf2 has recently been implicated as a new therapeutic target for
the treatment of liver disease. Here, we focus on the most common liver
diseases-nonalcoholic fatty liver disease/steatohepatitis, alcoholic liver
disease, and drug-induced liver injury-and highlight areas in the development of 
these conditions where activation of Nrf2 may alleviate disease progression.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2012.110 
PMCID: PMC3704160
PMID: 22871994  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1293. Pharmacol Res. 2012 Dec;66(6):463-74. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2012.07.003. Epub 2012 
Jul 31.

Targeting autophagy for the treatment of liver diseases.

Ni HM(1), Williams JA, Yang H, Shi YH, Fan J, Ding WX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutics, The University of
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS 66160, United States.

Autophagy is a lysosomal degradation pathway that can degrade bulk cytoplasm and 
superfluous or damaged organelles, such as mitochondria, to maintain cellular
homeostasis. It is now known that dysregulation of autophagy can cause
pathogenesis of numerous human diseases. Here, we discuss the critical roles that
autophagy plays in the pathogenesis of liver diseases such as non-alcoholic and
alcoholic fatty liver, drug-induced liver injury, protein aggregate-related liver
diseases, viral hepatitis, fibrosis, aging and liver cancer. In particular, we
discuss the emerging therapeutic potential by pharmacological modulation of
autophagy for these liver diseases.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2012.07.003 
PMCID: PMC3502728
PMID: 22871337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1294. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Nov;24(11):1247-53.

Ursodeoxycholic acid for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Wu SD(1), Li L, Wang JY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan
University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of ursodeoxycholic acid on
patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis using meta-analysis. PubMed, EMBASE,
Web of Science, Cochrane Library, Chinese Biomedical Databases, and article
references were searched. We included randomized controlled trials using liver
biopsy as a reference standard. We identified three eligible studies. Among
histological responses, only lobular inflammation improved in the high-dose
ursodeoxycholic acid subgroup compared with the control group [mean deviation
(MD): -0.23 (-0.40, -0.06), P=0.008]. However, fibrosis may tend to increase [MD:
0.08 (-0.04, 0.20), P=0.17]. Among biochemical responses, γ-glutamyl
transpeptidase reduction was significantly greater in the ursodeoxycholic acid
group than in the placebo group, and the reduction tendency was only shown in the
high-dose subgroup [MD: -35.58 (-52.60, -18.56), P<0.0001]. Serum total bilirubin
increased in the high-dose ursodeoxycholic acid subgroup compared with the
control group [MD: 0.43 (0.14, 0.72), P=0.004]. Ursodeoxycholic acid-treated
patients did not differ significantly from control patients with regard to
alanine transaminase, aspartate aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase
activities. Adverse events were nonspecific and considered of no major clinical
relevance. Ursodeoxycholic acid in monotherapy has no substantial positive effect
on nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0b013e3283572ec0 
PMID: 22864259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1295. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Nov;24(11):1344-7.

Corticosteroid replacement therapy in hepatoadrenal syndrome: case report with a 
review of the literature.

Tomaselli T(1), Privitera G, Fede G, Spadaro L, Scicali R, Di Vita R, Compagnone 
D, Purrello F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Garibaldi Hospital, University of Catania,
Catania, Italy.

In liver cirrhosis, hepatoadrenal syndrome has been described recently as a
progressive impairment in the adrenocortical reserve, with deficient production
or action of glucocorticoids resulting in adrenal insufficiency. Data on the
treatment of this syndrome are scarce. We report a case of a 60-year-old male
patient referred to our hospital because of rectal bleeding and bilateral leg
swelling. He complained of marked weakness, bilateral leg swelling, and shortness
of breath with exertion for the last 2 months. Biochemistry and imaging indicated
liver cirrhosis. Because of the weakness and persistent hypotension, we performed
a low-dose synacthen test, which indicated adrenal insufficiency (baseline
cortisol level 1.8 μg/dl, increasing to 3.5 and 3.7 μg/dl at 20 and 30 min,
respectively). The patient's general condition improved promptly after
corticosteroid supplementation.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0b013e328357188c 
PMID: 22850193  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1296. Semin Oncol. 2012 Aug;39(4):384-98. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2012.05.002.

Surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma.

Della Corte C(1), Colombo M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, First Division of Gastroenterology, Centro AM e A
Migliavacca for the Study of Liver Disease, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale 
Maggiore Policlinico and Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.

The only hope for a cure from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) rests on early
diagnosis as it can be attained through semiannual surveillance with abdominal
ultrasound (US) of patients at risk. While the strategy of semiannual screening
rests on the growth rate of the tumor that in cirrhotic patients takes 6 months
to double its volume, on average, the noninvasive radiological diagnosis of HCC
is possible in cirrhotic patients with a de novo HCC and patients with chronic
hepatitis B. More recently, metabolic diseases related to insulin resistance,
including diabetes and obesity, have been recognized to be causally related to
HCC as well, in most patients bridging HCC to the histopathological diagnosis of 
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). While the endpoint of an early diagnosis is
achieved quite easily in most patients with >1 cm HCC by computed tomography (CT)
or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrating the specific pattern of an
intense contrast uptake during the arterial phase (wash-in) and contrast wash-out
during the venous/delayed phase, nodules <1 cm in size are more difficult to
diagnose, almost invariably requiring an enhanced follow up with three monthly
examinations with US until they grow in size or change their echo pattern. Owing 
to the lack of robust controlled evidence demonstrating a clinical benefit of
surveillance, the real support for screening for liver cancer comes from the
striking differences in response to therapy between screened populations in whom 
HCC is diagnosed and treated at early stages and patients with more advanced,
incidentally detected tumors. This notwithstanding, numerous barriers work
against screening effectiveness, including limited or outdated knowledge, lack of
financial incentives, and limited access to appropriate testing and treatment.
Though strengthening prediction in individual patients is expected to improve the
cost-effectiveness ratio of screening, the benefits of approaches like
pretreatment patient stratification by clinical, histologic, and genetic scores
remain uncertain, while the worthiness of excluding patients with severe
comorbidities and aged individuals is still debated.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2012.05.002 
PMID: 22846857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1297. Semin Oncol. 2012 Aug;39(4):374-83. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2012.05.006.

Causes of and prevention strategies for hepatocellular carcinoma.

Cabibbo G(1), Maida M, Genco C, Antonucci M, Cammà C.

Author information: 
(1)Sezione di Gastroenterologia, DIBIMIS, University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a challenging malignancy of global importance. 
It is associated with a high rate of mortality and its prevalence in the United
States and in Western Europe is increasing. Cirrhosis is the strongest and the
most common known risk factor for HCC, usually due to hepatitis C virus (HCV) and
hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections. However, different lines of evidence identify
in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) a possible relevant risk factor for 
occurrence of HCC. Given the continuing increase in the prevalence of obesity and
diabetes, the incidence of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis-related HCC may also be 
expected to increase, and a potential role of behavior treatment and/or
insulin-sensitizing drugs can be envisaged. Vaccination against HBV is the most
efficient primary prevention measure currently available to reduce the HCC
incidence and mortality in high-incidence areas, while data on the role of
interferon (IFN) and nucleos(t)ide analogues (NUC) are still controversial. The
pooling of data from the literature suggests a slight preventive effect of
antiviral therapy on HCC development in patients with HCV-related cirrhosis, but 
the preventive effect is limited to sustained virological responders.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2012.05.006 
PMID: 22846856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1298. Semin Oncol. 2012 Aug;39(4):369-73. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2012.05.007.

Some new approaches to the management of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Carr BI(1).

Author information: 
(1)IRCCS de Bellis National Institute for Digestive Diseases, Castellana Grotte, 
BA, Italy. brianicarr@hotmail.com

A concordance of multiple advances is changing the management of hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC). These include: (1) identification of preventable and treatable
causal factors, including hepatitis B and obesity (non-alcoholic steatotic
hepatitis [NASH]); (2) description of molecular and proteomic profiles for HCC
prognosis, disease subtyping, and drug selection; (3) identification of
circulating tumor cells for non-invasive molecular typing; (4) identification of 
tumor stem cells, for HCC subtyping and as treatment targets; (5) large numbers
of multi-kinase inhibitors that are currently undergoing clinical trial
assessment and comparison; (6) an array of newer therapies of different drug
classes, aimed at a wide range of targets in cell growth, apoptosis, autophagy,
and tumor invasion pathways; (7) newer regional chemotherapy and radiotherapy
regimens and delivery systems; (8) the extension of liver transplantation to
larger HCCs and its wider availability through use of living-related organ
donors; (9) new radiological techniques to assess the changes in HCC vascularity 
associated with angiogenic drug actions; (10) re-evaluation of the importance of 
tumor biopsy to obtain molecular signatures; (11) recognition of the importance
of non-tumor liver parenchyma for tumor growth control and as a source of
prognostic profiling in HCC patients; (12) the evaluation of kinase- and other
inhibitors in neo-adjuvant and adjuvant therapy associated with resection and
liver transplant and minimization of transplant waiting list drop-out; (13)
re-evaluation of the role or limitation of tumor responses, since kinase
inhibitors can enhance survival without HCC size responses; and (14) the
development of combination therapies to enhance tumor control rates, either using
drugs targeting differing pathways, or kinase-inhibitors combined with either
chemotherapy drugs or yttrium 90.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2012.05.007 
PMID: 22846855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1299. Clin Calcium. 2012 Aug;22(8):1181-7. doi: CliCa120811811187.

[Magnesium and liver].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsui T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Applied Biosciences, Kyoto University Graduate School of
Agriculture, Japan.

The pathophysiological responses to experimental magnesium deficiency are
considered to result from mild inflammation and oxidative stress in various
tissues. It is not clear whether magnesium deficiency solely induces liver
diseases. However, magnesium deficiency is considered as a potential risk factor 
for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) because magnesium deficiency is
associated with type 2 diabetes that are closely related to the pathogenesis of
NAFLD. Further, inflammatory cytokines and oxidative stress play important roles 
in the progression to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. The relationship was reported
between plasma magnesium concentration and the incidence of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis. In this review, I briefly described how magnesium deficiency
induces oxidative stress and inflammatory responses, and the effect of magnesium 
deficiency on liver.

DOI: CliCa120811811187 
PMID: 22846353  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1300. Ultraschall Med. 2012 Dec;33(6):550-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1313011. Epub 2012 Jul
25.

Hepatic elastography for the assessment of liver fibrosis--present and future.

Sporea I(1), Sirli RL.

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy Timisoara, Romania.
isporea@umft.ro

Liver Biopsy was considered the "gold standard" for severity assessment in
chronic hepatitis for a very long time. In recent years, non invasive methods
were developed in order to replace it. Among them ultrasound based elastographic 
methods: Transient Elastography (already validated and replacing liver biopsy in 
some countries), Real Time Tissue Elastography and Acoustic Radiation Force
Impulse Elastography (currently under evaluation) and Shear Wave Elastography
(the newest one). As an alternative to liver biopsy, the development of all these
non invasive methods for dynamic evaluation of liver fibrosis will decrease the
need for LB, making clinical care safer and more convenient for patients with
liver diseases.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1313011 
PMID: 22833202  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1301. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Jul 21;18(27):3492-501. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v18.i27.3492.

Multicausality in fatty liver disease: is there a rationale to distinguish
between alcoholic and non-alcoholic origin?

Völzke H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Community Medicine, University of Greifswald, D-17487
Greifswald, Germany. voelzke@uni-greifswald.de

Apart from alcohol, there are other factors that may induce complications, which 
resemble alcohol-related liver disorders. In particular, obesity has been brought
into focus as a risk factor for fatty liver disease. The term "non-alcoholic"
fatty liver disease is commonly used to distinguish between obesity-related and
alcohol-related hepatic steatosis. This review uses the epidemiological
perspective to critically assess whether it is necessary and useful to
differentiate between alcoholic and "non-alcoholic" fatty liver disease. The
MEDLINE database was searched using the PubMed search engine, and a review of
reference lists from original research and review articles was conducted. The
concept to distinguish between alcoholic and "non-alcoholic" fatty liver disease 
is mainly based on specific pathomechanisms. This concept has, however, several
limitations including the common overlap between alcohol misuse and
obesity-related metabolic disorders and the non-consideration of additional
causal factors. Both entities share similar histopathological patterns. Studies
demonstrating differences in clinical presentation and outcome are often biased
by selection. Risk factor reduction is the main principle of prevention and
treatment of both disease forms. In conclusion, alcoholic and "non-alcoholic"
fatty liver diseases are one and the same disease caused by different risk
factors. A shift from artificial categories to a more general approach to fatty
liver disease as a multicausal disorder may optimize preventive strategies and
help clinicians more effectively treat patients at the individual level.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i27.3492 
PMCID: PMC3400850
PMID: 22826613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1302. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):631-45. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.003. Epub 2012 
Jun 20.

Management of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: an evidence-based approach.

Mahady SE(1), George J.

Author information: 
(1)Storr Liver Unit, Westmead Millennium Institute, University of Sydney, New
South Wales, Australia.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its progressive form, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), are an increasingly common cause of chronic liver disease
in the developed world, with NASH projected to be the leading cause of liver
transplantation in the United States by 2020. This review of NASH management
addresses current data from the perspective of levels of evidence for therapeutic
options in NASH, including lifestyle modification, drug therapies, and bariatric 
surgery. In particular, behavioral therapies to assist patients in adopting
lifestyle changes are highlighted and a research agenda for future NASH
management is presented.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.003 
PMID: 22824485  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1303. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):615-29. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.007. Epub 2012 
Jun 26.

Psychological and psychiatric aspects of treatment of obesity and nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease.

Stewart KE(1), Levenson JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond,
23298-0268, USA. kstewart2@mcvh-vcu.edu

Chronic illnesses incur a tremendous cost to American lives in dollars and
quality of life. Outcomes in these illnesses are often affected by psychological,
behavioral, and pharmacologic issues related to mental illness and psychological 
symptoms. This article focuses on psychological and psychiatric issues related to
the treatment of obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), including 
available weight-loss interventions, the complex relationship between psychiatric
disorders and obesity, and special considerations regarding use of psychiatric
drugs in patients with or at risk for NAFLD and obesity. Recommendations for
collaborative care of individuals with comorbid NAFLD and psychological
disorders/symptoms are discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.007 
PMCID: PMC4843993
PMID: 22824484  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1304. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):599-613. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.008. Epub 2012
Jul 3.

The cardiovascular link to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a critical analysis.

Pacana T(1), Fuchs M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Virginia Commonwealth 
University School of Medicine, Richmond, 23298-0341, USA. typacana@mcvh-vcu.edu

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease
in Western countries and can progress from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis and finally to liver cirrhosis. NAFLD is considered to be the
hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome because both share common
features, which implicates a role of NAFLD in the development and progression of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD). The diagnosis of NAFLD deserves special attention
in clinical practice for cardiovascular risk screening and surveillance
strategies to allow for early targeted intervention in selected individuals at
risk of future cardiovascular events.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.008 
PMID: 22824483  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1305. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):587-98. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.004. Epub 2012 
Jun 23.

Is nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in children the same disease as in adults?

Hsu E(1), Murray K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Seattle Children's
Hospital, WA 98115, USA. evelyn.hsu@seattlechildrens.org

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the leading cause of chronic liver
disease in children, and can present in toddlerhood. There is a differential
distribution of NAFLD in children based on race and gender. The gold standard for
diagnosis and classification of pediatric NAFLD is liver biopsy although ongoing 
studies aim to identify and define noninvasive investigations for pediatric
NAFLD. Treatments that have been shown to be successful in adult NAFLD, such as
insulin sensitizers and Vitamin E, have not been proven to be as definitively
successful in children with NAFLD.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.004 
PMID: 22824482  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1306. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):567-85. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.001. Epub 2012 
Jun 26.

Can NASH be diagnosed, graded, and staged noninvasively?

Grandison GA(1), Angulo P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Digestive Diseases & Nutrition, Department of Medicine, University
of Kentucky Medical Center, Lexington, 40536-0298, USA.

Nonalcoholic bland steatosis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are stages
in the spectrum of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NASH may progress to
end-stage liver disease. Liver biopsy distinguishes between patients with NASH
and no NASH and can stage fibrosis. Markers of hepatocyte apoptosis hold promise 
as noninvasive tests for NASH diagnosis. Several scoring systems that combine
routine clinical and laboratory variables and some proprietary panels can assist 
in predicting fibrosis severity. Noninvasive imaging modalities are reasonably
accurate available tools to determine severity of fibrosis in NAFLD, but none of 
them yet can replace liver biopsy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.001 
PMCID: PMC3405360
PMID: 22824481  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1307. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):549-65. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.002.

Mechanisms of disease progression in NASH: new paradigms.

Bohinc BN(1), Diehl AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Duke University
Hospital, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

The incidence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is increasing at an astonishing
rate in the US population. Although only a small proportion of these patients
develop steatohepatitis (NASH), those who do have a greater likelihood of
developing end-stage liver disease and complications. Research on liver fibrosis 
and NASH progression shows that hedgehog (Hh) is reactivated after liver injury
to assist in liver repair and regeneration. When the process of tissue repair and
regeneration is prolonged or when Hh ligand and related genes are aberrantly
regulated and excessive, tissue repair goes awry and NASH progresses to cirrhosis
and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.002 
PMID: 22824480  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1308. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):525-48. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.009. Epub 2012 
Jun 26.

A myriad of pathways to NASH.

Larrain S(1), Rinella ME.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Department of Medicine,
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is defined histopathologically by the
presence of macrovesicular steatosis, cellular ballooning, and inflammation. NASH
represents a complex multifactorial disease that typically occurs within the
context of the metabolic syndrome. NASH lacks homogeneity, and other forms of
NASH can present atypically. Less than 50% of patients with NASH respond to
pharmacologic treatment, which speaks to this heterogeneity. The authors discuss 
drugs, disease entities, and nutritional states that can cause or exacerbate
underlying NASH indirectly through worsening insulin resistance or directly by
interfering with lipid metabolism, promoting oxidative injury, or activating
inflammatory pathways.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.009 
PMID: 22824479  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1309. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):505-24. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.005.

Mechanisms of simple hepatic steatosis: not so simple after all.

Matherly SC(1), Puri P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of Internal
Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University Medical Center, Richmond, 23298, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is becoming an epidemic. Fat is typically stored
in adipose tissue in the form of triglycerides (TGs). The deposition of TGs in
the liver is the result of an imbalance between the amount of energy taken in and
the amount used. This balance is maintained by a complex interplay between the
dietary intake of nutrients, the hormonal response to the nutrients, and their
effect on both the liver and adipose tissue. Disruption of this system is what
leads to the development of steatosis and is the focus of this article.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.005 
PMID: 22824478  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1310. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):487-504. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.006. Epub 2012
Jun 27.

The relevance of liver histology to predicting clinically meaningful outcomes in 
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Pagadala MR(1), McCullough AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Cleveland Clinic, OH 44195,
USA. pagadam@ccf.org

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as the most prevalent
chronic liver disease. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the more severe form 
of NAFLD, has an increased risk for progression to cirrhosis. The available data 
suggest increased morbidity and mortality among those patients with advanced
histologic severity such as NASH and fibrosis. Despite the lack of a universally 
accepted histologic definition of NAFLD and inconsistency among pathologists
regarding histologic findings essential to the diagnosis of NASH, a few studies
have identified specific histologic findings (particularly fibrosis regardless of
stage) that are able to predict NAFLD-related mortality as being most important.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.006 
PMCID: PMC4176889
PMID: 22824477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1311. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 Aug;16(3):467-85. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.011. Epub 2012 
Jun 20.

The genetic epidemiology of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: toward a
personalized medicine.

Sookoian S(1), Pirola CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Hepatology, Institute of Medical Research
A Lanari-IDIM, University of Buenos Aires-National Council of Scientific and
Technological Research, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina.
sookoian.silvia@lanari.fmed.uba.ar

The understanding of the genetic bases of complex diseases such as nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease opens new opportunities and challenges. This article explores
new tools designed toward moving genomic data into clinical medicine, providing
putative answers to more practical questions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.05.011 
PMID: 22824476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1312. Annu Rev Nutr. 2012 Aug 21;32:17-33. doi: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071811-150644.

Endoplasmic reticulum stress in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Pagliassotti MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Colorado State University,
Fort Collins, CO 80523, USA. pagliasm@cahs.colostate.edu

The underlying causes of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease are unclear, although
recent evidence has implicated the endoplasmic reticulum in both the development 
of steatosis and progression to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Disruption of
endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis, often termed ER stress, has been observed in
liver and adipose tissue of humans with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and/or
obesity. Importantly, the signaling pathway activated by disruption of
endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis, the unfolded protein response, has been linked
to lipid and membrane biosynthesis, insulin action, inflammation, and apoptosis. 
Therefore, understanding the mechanisms that disrupt endoplasmic reticulum
homeostasis in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and the role of the unfolded
protein response in the broader context of chronic, metabolic diseases have
become topics of intense investigation. The present review examines the
endoplasmic reticulum and the unfolded protein response in the context of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071811-150644 
PMID: 22809102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1313. Panminerva Med. 2012 Sep;54(3):171-8.

Metabolic derangements mediate cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: role
of peripheral insulin-resistance diseases.

De La Monte SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Rhode Island Hospital and the Warren Alpert
Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
Suzanne_DeLaMonte_MD@Brown.edu

Herein, we review evidence that systemic insulin-resistance diseases linked to
obesity, type 2 diabetes, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis promote
neurodegeneration. Insulin-resistance dysregulates lipid metabolism, which
promotes ceramide accumulation with attendant inflammation and endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) stress. Mechanistically, we propose that toxic ceramides generated
in extra-CNS tissues, e.g. liver, get released into peripheral blood, and
subsequently transit across the blood-brain barrier into the brain where they
induce brain insulin-resistance, inflammation, and cell death (extrinsic
pathway). These abnormalities establish or help propagate a cascade of
neurodegeneration associated with increased ER stress and ceramide generation,
which exacerbate brain insulin-resistance, cell death, myelin degeneration, and
neuro-inflammation. The data suggest that a mal-signaling network mediated by
toxic ceramides, ER stress, and insulin-resistance should be targeted to disrupt 
positive feedback loops that drive the AD neurodegeneration cascade.


PMCID: PMC4537701
PMID: 22801434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1314. J Hepatol. 2012 Dec;57(6):1370-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.07.003. Epub 2012 Jul 
11.

Phenotyping the effect of diet on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

de Wit NJ(1), Afman LA, Mensink M, Müller M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Nutrition, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The
Netherlands.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is associated with the growing
incidence of metabolic syndrome. Diet is an important contributor to the
pathogenesis of NAFLD. In this review, we focused on recent publications
reporting on the effect of macro- and micronutrients on development and
progression of NAFLD. In general, saturated fat and fructose seem to stimulate
hepatic lipid accumulation and progression into NASH, whereas unsaturated fat,
choline, antioxidants, and high-protein diets rich in isoflavones seem to have a 
more preventive effect. Knowledge of the underlying mechanisms by which diet
affects NAFLD is expanding, not in the least due to innovative techniques, such
as genomics tools that provide detailed comprehensive information on a large
high-throughput scale. Although most nutrients seem to interfere with the balance
between hepatic de novo lipogenesis (endogenous synthesis of fatty acids) and
lipid oxidation (burning fat for energy), there are also indications that diet
can trigger or prevent hepatic lipid accumulation by influencing the interaction 
between liver, gut, and adipose tissue. This review now gives a current detailed 
overview of diet-mediated mechanisms underlying NAFLD development and progression
and summarizes recent results of genomics (transcriptomics, proteomics and
metabolomics) studies that contribute to improved staging, monitoring and
understanding of NAFLD pathophysiology.

Copyright © 2012 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.07.003 
PMID: 22796155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1315. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2012 Dec;36(6):554-60. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2012.06.005. Epub 2012 Jul 12.

Does fructose consumption contribute to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease?

Tappy L(1), Lê KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
luc.tappy@unil.ch

Fructose is mainly consumed with added sugars (sucrose and high fructose corn
syrup), and represents up to 10% of total energy intake in the US and in several 
European countries. This hexose is essentially metabolized in splanchnic tissues,
where it is converted into glucose, glycogen, lactate, and, to a minor extent,
fatty acids. In animal models, high fructose diets cause the development of
obesity, insulin resistance, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia. Ectopic lipid
deposition in the liver is an early occurrence upon fructose exposure, and is
tightly linked to hepatic insulin resistance. In humans, there is strong
evidence, based on several intervention trials, that fructose overfeeding
increases fasting and postprandial plasma triglyceride concentrations, which are 
related to stimulation of hepatic de novo lipogenesis and VLDL-TG secretion,
together with decreased VLDL-TG clearance. However, in contrast to animal models,
fructose intakes as high as 200 g/day in humans only modestly decreases hepatic
insulin sensitivity, and has no effect on no whole body (muscle) insulin
sensitivity. A possible explanation may be that insulin resistance and
dysglycemia develop mostly in presence of sustained fructose exposures associated
with changes in body composition. Such effects are observed with high daily
fructose intakes, and there is no solid evidence that fructose, when consumed in 
moderate amounts, has deleterious effects. There is only limited information
regarding the effects of fructose on intrahepatic lipid concentrations. In animal
models, high fructose diets clearly stimulate hepatic de novo lipogenesis and
cause hepatic steatosis. In addition, some observations suggest that fructose may
trigger hepatic inflammation and stimulate the development of hepatic fibrosis.
This raises the possibility that fructose may promote the progression of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease to its more severe forms, i.e. non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis and cirrhosis. In humans, a short-term fructose overfeeding
stimulates de novo lipogenesis and significantly increases intrahepatic fat
concentration, without however reaching the proportion encountered in
non-alcoholic fatty liver diseases. Whether consumption of lower amounts of
fructose over prolonged periods may contribute to the pathogenesis of NAFLD has
not been convincingly documented in epidemiological studies and remains to be
further assessed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2012.06.005 
PMID: 22795319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1316. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2012 Sep;13(13):1901-9. doi:
10.1517/14656566.2012.706604. Epub 2012 Jul 7.

The safety and effectiveness of statins as treatment for HIV-dyslipidemia: the
evidence so far and the future challenges.

Ahmed MH(1), Al-Atta A, Hamad MA.

Author information: 
(1)The James Cook University Hospital, Division of acute Medicine, Middlesbrough 
TS4 3BW, UK. elziber@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION: Statin therapy is widely used across the globe for the treatment
and prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD). It is well established that
statin therapy is associated with significant decrease in low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol (LDL-C) and plasma cholesterol levels. HIV-dyslipidemia is a common
problem with extensive use of combination antiretroviral therapy (CART), and is
associated with an increase in incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD),
resulting in hospital admission and surgery throughout the western healthcare
systems.
AREAS COVERED: This review describes the effectiveness and safety of statins in
the treatment of HIV-dyslipidemia. Medline was searched for different statins as 
treatment for HIV-dyslipidemia.
EXPERT OPINION: Dyslipidemia in patients with HIV is different from the normal
population, due to the fact that HIV treatment may not only cause dyslipidemia,
but may also interact with lipid lowering medication. Statin-unresponsive
HIV-dyslipidemia can be treated with the addition of ezetimibe, fenofibrate, fish
oil and niacin. Current guidelines recommend the use of pravastatin and
atorvastatin as first-line therapy, whereas European guidelines include
rosuvastatin. There is an urgent need to confirm whether the use of statins in
HIV-dyslipidemia is associated with an increase in the incidence of diabetes;
this is significant because HIV patients are known to be insulin-resistant. HIV
is also associated with Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD), a condition
known to be associated with insulin resistance. Further clinical trials are
urgently needed to assess the impact of statins on CVD in HIV patients, and
future challenges for researchers in this area are enormous.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2012.706604 
PMID: 22770622  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1317. Am J Gastroenterol. 2012 Jul;107(7):976-8. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2012.20.

What should we recommend to our patients with NAFLD regarding alcohol use?

Liangpunsakul S(1), Chalasani N.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.

It is generally recommended that patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) not consume alcohol. However, because these patients are at increased
cardiovascular risk, and light to moderate alcohol consumption may have hepatic
benefits in people with or at risk for NAFLD, this recommendation may be
ill-advised. We reviewed the literature on alcohol consumption and NAFLD and
conclude that (i) heavy consumption has many harmful effects, including those on 
the liver, and should be discouraged whether a person has NAFLD or not; (ii) it
is unknown whether cardiovascular and metabolic benefits of light to moderate
consumption observed in the general population extend to those with NAFLD; (iii) 
epidemiological and cohort studies suggesting that light to moderate drinking may
have hepatic benefits are largely cross-sectional and used surrogate end points; 
and (iv) until further data from rigorous prospective studies become available,
people with NAFLD should avoid alcohol of any type or amount.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2012.20 
PMCID: PMC3766378
PMID: 22764020  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1318. J Nutr Biochem. 2012 Sep;23(9):1027-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2012.03.004. Epub 
2012 Jun 27.

The role of dietary fatty acids in the pathology of metabolic syndrome.

Lottenberg AM(1), Afonso Mda S, Lavrador MS, Machado RM, Nakandakare ER.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medical Sciences of the University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
amlottenberg@uol.com.br

Dysfunctional lipid metabolism is a key component in the development of metabolic
syndrome, a very frequent condition characterized by dyslipidemia, insulin
resistance, abdominal obesity and hypertension, which are related to an elevated 
risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus. The prevalence of metabolic syndrome is
strongly associated with the severity of obesity; its physiopathology is related 
to both genetics and food intake habits, especially the consumption of a
high-caloric, high-fat and high-carbohydrate diet. With the progress of
scientific knowledge in the field of nutrigenomics, it was possible to elucidate 
how the majority of dietary fatty acids influence plasma lipid metabolism and
also the genes expression involved in lipolysis and lipogenesis within
hepatocytes and adipocytes. The aim of this review is to examine the relevant
mechanistic aspects of dietary fatty acids related to blood lipids, adipose
tissue metabolism, hepatic fat storage and inflammatory process, all of them
closely related to the genesis of metabolic syndrome.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2012.03.004 
PMID: 22749135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1319. Curr Drug Metab. 2012 Nov;13(9):1327-44.

Drug disposition in pathophysiological conditions.

Gandhi A(1), Moorthy B, Ghose R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacological and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
Houston, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Expression and activity of several key drug metabolizing enzymes (DMEs) and
transporters are altered in various pathophysiological conditions, leading to
altered drug metabolism and disposition. This can have profound impact on the
pharmacotherapy of widely used clinically relevant medications in terms of safety
and efficacy by causing inter-individual variabilities in drug responses. This
review article highlights altered drug disposition in inflammation and infectious
diseases, and commonly encountered disorders such as cancer, obesity/diabetes,
fatty liver diseases, cardiovascular diseases and rheumatoid arthritis. Many of
the clinically relevant drugs have a narrow therapeutic index. Thus any changes
in the disposition of these drugs may lead to reduced efficacy and increased
toxicity. The implications of changes in DMEs and transporters on the
pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics of clinically-relevant medications are also
discussed. Inflammation-mediated release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and
activation of toll-like receptors (TLRs) are known to play a major role in
down-regulation of DMEs and transporters. Although the mechanism by which this
occurs is unclear, several studies have shown that inflammation-associated
cell-signaling pathway and its interaction with basal transcription factors and
nuclear receptors in regulation of DMEs and transporters play a significant role 
in altered drug metabolism. Altered regulation of DMEs and transporters in a
multitude of disease states will contribute towards future development of
powerful in vitro and in vivo tools in predicting the drug response and opt for
better drug design and development. The goal is to facilitate a better
understanding of the mechanistic details underlying the regulation of DMEs and
transporters in pathophysiological conditions.


PMCID: PMC3937312
PMID: 22746301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1320. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Oct;27(10):1555-60. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2012.07222.x.

Prevalence and risk factors for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in Asian people
who are not obese.

Liu CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, National Taiwan University College of
Medicine and National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
cjliu@ntu.edu.tw

Fatty liver (hepatic steatosis) is prevalent in industrialized countries. It is
typically linked to obesity, central obesity and the presence of metabolic
syndrome. With the introduction of a Westernized lifestyle and the increasing
frequency of obesity in the Asia-Pacific region, the prevalence of non-alcoholic 
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been increasing over the past two decades. The
risk factors are similar to those in other ethnic populations; but it is
important to adopt the regional (ethnic-specific) anthropometric criteria to
define overweight, obesity (including central obesity) and metabolic syndrome. To
be noted, even using strict ethnic-specific criteria, a high percentage (15-21%) 
of Asia-Pacific NAFLD subjects in some series have been found to be non-obese,
i.e. to have a normal body mass index (BMI) (17.5-22.4 kg/m(2)) or to be
overweight (BMI 22.5-24.9 kg/m(2)). Differential distribution of visceral adipose
tissue, recent increase in body weight, intake of high cholesterol diet and
genetic background are factors likely associated with the development of NAFLD in
these non-obese (but often overweight) Asia-Pacific subjects. Furthermore,
insulin resistance may be the underlying key mechanism. In addition, since NAFLD 
may be the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome, the presence of NAFLD is 
a predictor of future type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular
disease. Therefore, interventions at the public health level are indicated to
halt the trend of overweight as well as obesity in Asia-Pacific region,
particularly among those with relevant family history. Since the pathophysiology 
of NAFLD is closely related to metabolic derangement, lifestyle modification
remains the cornerstone of management.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley Publishing
Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2012.07222.x 
PMID: 22741595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1321. Liver Transpl. 2012 Oct;18(10):1147-53. doi: 10.1002/lt.23499.

Evolution of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease recurrence after liver
transplantation.

Patil DT(1), Yerian LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. 
patild@ccf.org

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is the progressive form of nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD) and is the fourth most common indication for liver
transplantation. Risk factors for NAFLD can persist and even worsen after liver
transplantation. However, the risk and significance of NAFLD recurrence remain
unclear. Reported posttransplant NAFLD and NASH recurrence rates vary widely
across studies. There is little information detailing the histological evolution 
of NAFLD recurrence, and the long-term natural history of NAFLD recurrence is
unclear. In this review, we summarize the findings of studies on the prevalence
of recurrent NAFLD and its risk factors in the posttransplant setting, and we
explore reasons for the discrepant reported recurrence rates. On the basis of
currently available data, the relatively low rates of advanced fibrosis and
NAFLD-associated graft loss and the comparability of the survival rates for these
patients and patients undergoing transplantation for other diseases suggest that 
although NAFLD or NASH can recur, the clinical significance of disease recurrence
for graft or patient survival may be small.

Copyright © 2012 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.23499 
PMID: 22740341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1322. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2012 Aug;36(4):345-52. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2012.05196.x. Epub 2012 Jun 26.

Review article: non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and osteoporosis--clinical and 
molecular crosstalk.

Yilmaz Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Gastroenterology, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey.
dryusufyilmaz@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Low bone mineral density (BMD) has been reported in both paediatric
and adult patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The mechanisms
behind the reduced BMD in NAFLD are still not completely understood.
AIM: To provide a critical overview of the pathophysiological pathways linking
NAFLD, reduced BMD and osteoporosis, with a special focus on the alterations of
soluble mediators which could link fat accumulation in the liver with bone
health. The MEDLINE database was searched by a combination of keywords:
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease OR hepatic steatosis OR metabolic syndrome OR
insulin resistance AND bone mineral density OR osteoporosis OR bone AND
biomarkers OR serum marker.
RESULTS: Several factors that may influence bone mineralisation and the increased
risk of osteoporosis in NAFLD can be discussed. These include the release of
cytokines from the inflamed liver which may influence the bone microenvironment, 
vitamin D deficiency, and limited physical activity. Circulating markers of bone 
metabolism, including osteopontin, osteoprotegerin, osteocalcin and fetuin-A,
have been found to be altered in patients with NAFLD.
CONCLUSION: A better understanding of the mechanisms that link bone metabolism
and the liver may open a new frontier to fight two highly prevalent conditions
like NAFLD and osteoporosis.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2012.05196.x 
PMID: 22730920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1323. Dig Dis. 2012;30(2):158-62. doi: 10.1159/000336669. Epub 2012 Jun 20.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease/steatohepatitis: epidemiology, pathogenesis,
clinical presentation and treatment.

Milić S(1), Stimac D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, University
Hospital Rijeka, Croatia. smilic05@gmail.com

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic hepatic
disorder in Western countries, with a prevalence of 20-30%. NAFLD comprises
'silent liver disease', in which simple steatosis is the only histological
finding and which is benign in course, and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, which is
characterized by hepatocellular injury and inflammation with or without fibrosis.
NAFLD is clinically important, because even benign fatty liver can progress to
steatohepatitis in many patients, which can lead to liver cirrhosis and its
complications and hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD is a hepatic manifestation of
metabolic syndrome; it is closely related to other clinical features of metabolic
syndrome, and thus to cardiovascular morbidity. There are several different
noninvasive techniques for formal diagnosis and follow-up, but liver biopsy
remains the gold standard. The most important therapeutic strategies include
lifestyle changes, including changes in dietary habits aimed at weight loss and
blood pressure regulation, with a consequent decrease in insulin resistance. For 
some patients with NAFLD/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, pharmacological treatment 
is the best option, although further studies are needed to confirm its efficacy
and tolerability.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000336669 
PMID: 22722431  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1324. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2012 Jun;21(2):205-8.

Is visceral fat reduction necessary to favour metabolic changes in the liver?

Finelli C(1), Tarantino G.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Obesity and Eating Disorder, Stella Maris Mediterraneo Foundation
Chiaromonte, Potenza, Italy.

As excess body weight constitutes a major health problem, it is now important for
hepatologists to weigh risk factors that lead to insulin resistance and hepatic
steatosis. This mini-review focuses on the type of bodily fat distribution that
determines the ectopic fat storage into the liver in overweight or obese people. 
Although obesity is closely associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,
the excess of visceral fat storage is reckoned to be just as or even more
important.


PMID: 22720311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1325. Can J Gastroenterol. 2012 Jun;26(6):353-7.

Current treatment options for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis.

Beaton MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Unversity of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
melanie.beaton@lhsc.on.ca

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the leading cause of liver disease in western
society. It is a cause of end-stage liver disease, with increased mortality
secondary to cirrhosis and its complications. It is also recognized that
cardiovascular disease is a significant cause of death in these patients.
Significant work evaluating various treatments has been performed in recent
years; however, to date, no ideal therapy exists. Lifestyle modification remains 
the cornerstone of management. The present article reviews the current status of 
various treatment modalities evaluated in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.


PMCID: PMC3378283
PMID: 22720278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1326. Mol Biol Rep. 2012 Oct;39(10):9715-22. doi: 10.1007/s11033-012-1836-0. Epub 2012 
Jun 21.

Traditional Chinese medicines benefit to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Shi KQ(1), Fan YC, Liu WY, Li LF, Chen YP, Zheng MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection and Liver Diseases, Liver Research Center, The First
Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical College, No. 2 Fuxue Lane, Wenzhou 325000,
China.

Evidences from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) for the efficiency of
traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) on the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) are conflicting. Here we conducted a systematic review and
meta-analysis of RCTs to evaluate the efficiency and safety of TCM in the
treatment of NAFLD. Studies were searched on PubMed and China National Knowledge 
Infrastructure from January 1995 to June 2010. RCTs comparing either TCM
formulations alone or in combination with placebo, ursodeoxycholic acid, insulin 
sensitizers, lipid-lowering drugs, or antioxidants were included. The category of
most usually used herbs in the treatment of NAFLD was also calculated. Five
thousand nine hundred and four patients from 62 RCTs were included for
meta-analysis and 25,661 patients from 419 clinical studies were for TCM
formulation analysis. Comparing with western medicines mentioned above, TCM had a
better effect on the normalization of alanine aminotransferase and disappearance 
of radiological steatosis in the treatment of NAFLD. Furthermore, 246 kinds of
Chinese herbs were included in our present study, with an average of 10 herbs
(range 1-31) in each formulation. Hawthorn Fruit (321 times in 17,670 patients)
was the most often used herb in the treatment of NAFLD. In conclusion, TCM is of 
modest benefit to the treatment of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-012-1836-0 
PMID: 22718512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1327. J Acad Nutr Diet. 2012 Mar;112(3):401-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jada.2011.10.007. Epub
2012 Mar 1.

The role of diet and nutrient composition in nonalcoholic Fatty liver disease.

McCarthy EM(1), Rinella ME.

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern Faculty Foundation, Chicago, IL, USA. m-rinella@northwestern.edu

Comment in
    J Acad Nutr Diet. 2013 Feb;113(2):211.
    J Acad Nutr Diet. 2013 Feb;113(2):211-2.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in the developed world. NAFLD is tightly linked to insulin
resistance and considered to be the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic
syndrome. The cornerstone of any treatment regimen for patients with NAFLD is
lifestyle modification focused on weight loss, exercise, and improving insulin
sensitivity. Here we review the literature and discuss the role of diet and
nutrient composition in the management of NAFLD. Because there are currently no
specific dietary guidelines for NAFLD, this review proposes a dietary framework
for patients with NAFLD based on the available evidence and extrapolates from
dietary guidelines aimed at reducing insulin resistance and cardiovascular risk.

Copyright © 2012 Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jada.2011.10.007 
PMID: 22717200  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1328. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2012 Apr;32(190):270-3.

[The laboratory diagnostics of alcoholic disease].

[Article in Polish]

Strumnik A(1), Karski J.

Author information: 
(1)Niepubliczny Zakład Opieki Zdrowotnej "Klinika", Szpital w Rykach.
annastrumnik@gmail.com

Ethyl alcohol is metabolized in the body with the involvement of three metabolic 
pathways which are the system of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), the layout of the
microsomal oxidation of alcohol (MEOS) and pathway of catalase. The
above-mentioned routes are oxidative mechanisms for the elimination of alcohol
and run in the liver. For the mechanism of oxidative metabolites of alcohol
elimination include sialic acid, beta-hexosaminidase, carbohydrate-deficient
transferrin, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase,
gamma-glutamyltransferase, and 5-hydroxytryptophol. Minor importance in the
detoxification pathway of alcohol nonoxidative whose metabolites act as
indicators of recent alcohol consumption. These include fatty acid ethyl esters, 
ethyl glucuronide, etyl sulphate and phosphatidylo ethanol.


PMID: 22708288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1329. Adv Anat Pathol. 2012 Jul;19(4):250-62. doi: 10.1097/PAP.0b013e31825c6a20.

Liver biopsy in modern clinical practice: a pediatric point-of-view.

Ovchinsky N(1), Moreira RK, Lefkowitch JH, Lavine JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of New York, NY, 
USA.

Liver biopsy remains the foundation of evaluation and management of liver disease
in children, although the role of the liver biopsy is changing with development
of alternative methods of diagnosis and advancement of hepatic imaging
techniques. The indications for liver biopsy are evolving as current knowledge of
etiologies, noninvasive biomarker alternatives, and treatment options in
pediatric liver disease are expanding. The procedure can often be complicated in 
children by technical difficulties, cost, and smaller specimen size.
Communication and partnership of clinicians with pathologists experienced in
pediatric liver diseases are essential. DNA sequencing, novel imaging modalities,
noninvasive biomarkers of fibrosis and apoptosis, proteomics, and genome-wide
association studies offer potential alternative methods for evaluation of liver
disease in children. This review presents specific indications, considerations,
methods, complications, contraindications, and alternatives for pediatric liver
biopsy.

DOI: 10.1097/PAP.0b013e31825c6a20 
PMCID: PMC3404724
PMID: 22692288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1330. Adv Anat Pathol. 2012 Jul;19(4):220-30. doi: 10.1097/PAP.0b013e31825c6bab.

Histopathologic evaluation of liver biopsy for cirrhosis.

Ma C(1), Brunt EM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.

In current medical practice, the clinical diagnosis of cirrhosis is rendered when
a patient has suggestive imaging findings or features of portal hypertension
(pHTN). Liver biopsy may be considered to assess potential underlying cause(s).
Cirrhosis, however, is not the only etiology of pHTN; in fact, schistosomiasis
remains a significant factor worldwide. pHTN results from obstruction of hepatic 
blood flow; it is classified clinically based on either the anatomic location of 
obstruction or hepatic venous pressure gradient measurements. The clinical
categories carry clinicopathologic significances. Histopathologically, pHTN is
manifest with either cirrhotic or noncirrhotic features. Noncirrhotic pHTN
results from a heterogeneous group of disease processes, all of which result in
vascular remodeling with variable parenchymal nodularity and fibrosis. This
review summarizes liver biopsy findings of cirrhosis and possible etiologies and 
provides a stepwise approach for the histologic differential diagnosis of a liver
biopsy done for "cirrhosis."

DOI: 10.1097/PAP.0b013e31825c6bab 
PMID: 22692285  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1331. Nutrients. 2012 May;4(5):356-71. doi: 10.3390/nu4050356. Epub 2012 May 7.

The adverse effects of alcohol on vitamin A metabolism.

Clugston RD(1), Blaner WS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Institute of Human Nutrition, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. rdc2132@columbia.edu

The objective of this review is to explore the relationship between alcohol and
the metabolism of the essential micronutrient, vitamin A; as well as the impact
this interaction has on alcohol-induced disease in adults. Depleted hepatic
vitamin A content has been reported in human alcoholics, an observation that has 
been confirmed in animal models of chronic alcohol consumption. Indeed, alcohol
consumption has been associated with declines in hepatic levels of retinol
(vitamin A), as well as retinyl ester and retinoic acid; collectively referred to
as retinoids. Through the use of animal models, the complex interplay between
alcohol metabolism and vitamin A homeostasis has been studied; the reviewed
research supports the notion that chronic alcohol consumption precipitates a
decline in hepatic retinoid levels through increased breakdown, as well as
increased export to extra-hepatic tissues. While the precise biochemical
mechanisms governing alcohol's effect remain to be elucidated, its profound
effect on hepatic retinoid status is irrefutable. In addition to a review of the 
literature related to studies on tissue retinoid levels and the metabolic
interactions between alcohol and retinoids, the significance of altered hepatic
retinoid metabolism in the context of alcoholic liver disease is also considered.

DOI: 10.3390/nu4050356 
PMCID: PMC3367262
PMID: 22690322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1332. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2012 Dec;69(23):3953-61. doi: 10.1007/s00018-012-1037-y. Epub 
2012 Jun 8.

Studying non-alcoholic fatty liver disease with zebrafish: a confluence of
optics, genetics, and physiology.

Schlegel A(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Utah Molecular Medicine (U2M2) Program, University of Utah
School of Medicine, 15 North 2030 East, Building 533, Room 3240B, Salt Lake City,
UT, 84124, USA, amnons@u2m2.utah.edu.

Obesity is a public health crisis. New methods for amelioration of its
consequences are required because it is very unlikely that the social and
economic factors driving it will be reversed. The pathological accumulation of
neutral lipids in the liver (hepatic steatosis) is an obesity-related problem
whose molecular underpinnings are unknown and whose effective treatment is
lacking. Here I review how zebrafish, a powerful model organism long-used for
studying vertebrate developmental programs, is being harnessed to uncover new
factors that contribute to normal liver lipid handling. Attention is given to
dietary models and individual mutants. I speculate on the possible roles of
non-hepatocyte residents of the liver, the adipose tissue, and gut microbiome on 
the development of hepatic steatosis. The highlighted work and future directions 
may lead to fresh insights into the pathogenesis and treatment of excess liver
lipid states.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-012-1037-y 
PMCID: PMC3492697
PMID: 22678663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1333. Diabet Med. 2012 Sep;29(9):1098-107. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2012.03732.x.

Dorothy Hodgkin Lecture 2012: non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, insulin
resistance and ectopic fat: a new problem in diabetes management.

Byrne CD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition and Metabolism and NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre,
University Hospital Southampton and Faculty of Medicine, University of
Southampton, Southampton, UK. cdtb@soton.ac.uk

Comment in
    Diabet Med. 2012 Sep;29(9):1097.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is now recognized as the hepatic component of
the metabolic syndrome. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a spectrum of
fat-associated liver conditions that can result in end-stage liver disease and
the need for liver transplantation. Simple steatosis, or fatty liver, occurs
early in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and may progress to non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis, fibrosis and cirrhosis with increased risk of hepatocellular
carcinoma. Prevalence estimates for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease range from 
17 to 33% in the general populations and it has been estimated that non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease exists in up to 70% of people with Type 2 diabetes.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease increases risk of Type 2 diabetes and
cardiovascular disease. In people with Type 2 diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease is the most frequent cause (∼80%) of fatty liver diagnosed by ultrasound.
As non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is strongly associated with insulin
resistance, the presence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease with diabetes often
contributes to poor glycaemic control. Consequently, strategies that decrease
liver fat and improve whole-body insulin sensitivity may both contribute to
prevention of Type 2 diabetes and to better glycaemic control in people who
already have developed diabetes. This review summarizes the Dorothy Hodgkin
lecture given by the author at the 2012 Diabetes UK annual scientific conference,
proposing that fatty acid fluxes through the liver are crucial for the
pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and for increasing insulin
resistance.

© 2012 The Author. Diabetic Medicine © 2012 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2012.03732.x 
PMID: 22672330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1334. J Am Coll Nutr. 2012 Feb;31(1):14-23.

Probiotics in the treatment of the liver diseases.

Kirpich IA(1), McClain CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of
Medicine, University of Louisville, KY 40202, USA.

The concept that interactions between the gut, the liver, and the immune system
play an important role in liver diseases is an old concept that has recently seen
a resurgence in interest. Altered intestinal bacterial flora and gut-associated
endotoxemia are increasingly recognized as critical components in both
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and alcoholic liver disease (ALD).
Probiotics have been proposed in the treatment and prevention of many conditions,
including the liver diseases. Probiotics are live microorganisms that, when
consumed in adequate amounts, confer a health benefit to the host. There are many
mechanisms by which probiotics enhance intestinal health and influence the
gut-liver axis, including modulation of the intestinal microflora, modification
of intestinal barrier function, and immunomodulation. The present review
summarizes the recent studies highlighting the role of the intestinal microflora 
in the development of NAFLD and ALD and the potential efficacy of probiotics as a
therapeutic strategy for liver diseases.


PMID: 22661622  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1335. Drug Discov Today. 2012 Sep;17(17-18):988-97. doi: 10.1016/j.drudis.2012.05.012. 
Epub 2012 May 29.

Farnesoid X receptor targeting to treat nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Adorini L(1), Pruzanski M, Shapiro D.

Author information: 
(1)Intercept Pharmaceuticals, 18 Desbrosses Street, New York, NY 10013, USA.
ladorini@interceptpharma.com

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a highly prevalent chronic liver
condition evolving in a proportion of patients into nonalcoholic steatohepatitis 
(NASH), an aggressive form of NAFLD associated with increased cardiovascular
mortality and significant risk of progressive liver disease, including fibrosis, 
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. At present, no specific therapies for
NASH exist. In this review, we examine the evidence supporting activation of the 
farnesoid X receptor (FXR), a nuclear hormone receptor regulated by bile acids
(BAs), for the treatment of NASH. We also discuss the potential of the
semi-synthetic BA derivative obeticholic acid (OCA), a first-in-class FXR
agonist, as a safe and effective drug to address this significant unmet medical
need.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2012.05.012 
PMID: 22652341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1336. Histol Histopathol. 2012 Jul;27(7):835-53.

Farnesoid X Receptor (FXR) from normal to malignant state.

Koutsounas I(1), Giaginis C, Theocharis S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Medical School, University of 
Athens, Athens, Greece.

The Farnesoid X Receptor (FXR) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of
ligand-activated transcription factors, which plays crucial role in bile acid,
cholesterol, lipid and glucose metabolism, as well as in the development of
atherosclerosis, intestinal bacterial growth and liver regeneration. FXR is also 
involved in the pathogenesis of cholestatic diseases, non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease and inflammatory bowel disease. Recent evidence further suggests a key
role for FXR in apoptosis and cancer. Notably, FXR deficiency promoted intestinal
inflammation and tumorigenesis, suggesting that FXR activation might be a
promising strategy in the treatment of colon cancer. FXR deficiency in mice led
to the development of spontaneous hepatocarcinomas, while FXR inhibition might
represent a novel therapeutic approach in Barett's esophagus. In breast cancer
cell lines, FXR agonists down-regulated the breast cancer target gene aromatase. 
FXR inhibited Leydig tumor growth and progression, supporting evidence that FXR
may be an important regulator of androgen homoeostasis. Further studies are
required in order to establish possible antitumor effects of this nuclear
receptor. Either reactivating or inhibiting FXR expression may represent
promising therapeutic strategies in the treatment of certain types of human
cancer.


PMID: 22648540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1337. J Hepatol. 2012 Oct;57(4):897-909. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.04.033. Epub 2012 May
23.

D-livering the message: the importance of vitamin D status in chronic liver
disease.

Kitson MT(1), Roberts SK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The Alfred, Melbourne, Australia.

Vitamin D is synthesized predominantly in the liver and functions as an important
secosteroid hormone with pleiotropic effects. While its key regulatory role in
calcium and bone homeostasis is well established, recently there is increasing
recognition that vitamin D also regulates cell proliferation and differentiation,
and has immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic properties. These
non-skeletal effects are relevant in the pathogenesis and treatment of many
causes of chronic liver disease. Vitamin D deficiency is frequently present in
chronic liver disease and may predict non-response to antiviral therapy in
chronic hepatitis C. Small studies suggest that vitamin D supplementation
improves sustained viral response rates, while 1α-hydroxylase polymorphisms and
vitamin D-binding protein are also implicated in therapeutic outcomes. Vitamin D 
deficiency also closely relates to the severity of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) and is implicated in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance, a
key factor in the development of NAFLD. In preclinical studies, phototherapy and 
vitamin D supplementation ameliorate NAFLD histopathology, while vitamin D is a
powerful anti-fibrotic against thioacetamide liver injury. In liver transplant
recipients severe vitamin D deficiency predicts, and vitamin D supplementation
prevents, acute cellular rejection. The role of vitamin D in the activation and
regulation of both innate and adaptive immune systems may explain its importance 
in the above liver diseases. Further prospective studies are therefore warranted 
to investigate the therapeutic impact of vitamin D supplementation in chronic
liver disease.

Copyright © 2012 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.04.033 
PMID: 22634121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1338. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2012 Aug;23(4):345-52. doi: 10.1097/MOL.0b013e3283541cfc.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and lipids.

Wierzbicki AS(1), Oben J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Metabolic Medicine/Chemical Pathologyemical Pathology, Guy's and
St. Thomas' Hospitals, London, UK. Anthony.wierzbicki@kcl.ac.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This article reviews the mechanisms leading to the development
of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) and the effects of hypoglycaemic and lipid-lowering therapies on
NAFLD/NASH.
RECENT FINDINGS: The interaction of lipogenesis, fatty acid oxidation,
inflammation, endoplasmic reticulum stress and hepatic insulin resistance
contribute to the pathogenesis of NAFLD/NASH. Few large scale clinical trials
exist with biopsy or magnetic resonance endpoints as opposed to ultrasonographic 
and transaminase endpoints. Trial evidence that exists supports the utility of
weight loss, metformin, thiazolidinediones, fibrates, niacin, ezetimibe and
statins in improving the steatosis component of NAFLD/NASH though with less or
minimal effects on the fibrotic component of NASH.
SUMMARY: Hypoglycaemic and lipid-lowering therapies may have a role in the
treatment of NAFLD/NASH but large scale endpoint trials remain to be performed.

DOI: 10.1097/MOL.0b013e3283541cfc 
PMID: 22617751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1339. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2012 Jul;15(4):374-80. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0b013e3283547157.

Low-carbohydrate ketogenic diets, glucose homeostasis, and nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease.

Schugar RC(1), Crawford PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Center for Cardiovascular Research, Washington
University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Obesity-associated nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
highly prevalent, for which weight loss is the generally recommended clinical
management. Low-carbohydrate ketogenic diets have been successful in promoting
weight loss, but variations in the range of metabolic responses to these diets
indicate that the effects of altering macronutrient content are not completely
understood. This review focuses on the most recent findings that reveal the
relationship between low-carbohydrate diets and NAFLD in rodent models and
humans.
RECENT FINDINGS: Low-carbohydrate diets have been shown to promote weight loss,
decrease intrahepatic triglyceride content, and improve metabolic parameters of
patients with obesity. These ketogenic diets also provoke weight loss in rodents.
However, long-term maintenance on a ketogenic diet stimulates the development of 
NAFLD and systemic glucose intolerance in mice. The relationship between
ketogenic diets and systemic insulin resistance in both humans and rodents
remains to be elucidated.
SUMMARY: Because low-carbohydrate ketogenic diets are increasingly employed for
treatment of obesity, NAFLD, and neurological diseases such as epilepsy,
understanding the long-term systemic effects of low-carbohydrate diets is crucial
to the development of efficacious and safe dietary interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e3283547157 
PMCID: PMC3679496
PMID: 22617564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1340. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2012 Jul;15(4):350-6. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0b013e3283546f9f.

DNA methylation and hepatic insulin resistance and steatosis.

Sookoian S(1), Pirola CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Hepatology, University of Buenos Aires,
Buenos Aires, Argentina. sookoian.silvia@lanari.fmed.uba.ar

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In this review, we show novel evidence about the role of the
liver in the development of insulin resistance and suggest that abnormal hepatic 
triglyceride accumulation is not an innocent bystander comorbidity but adversely 
affects the peripheral insulin sensitivity.
RECENT FINDINGS: The core of this review is built up around the concept that
liver DNA methylation of the peroxisome proliferative activated receptor gamma
coactivator one alpha gene promoter modulates the status of peripheral insulin
resistance and is strongly associated with plasma fasting insulin levels. We
discuss about other mechanisms associated with peroxisome proliferative activated
receptor gamma coactivator one alpha regulation, such as an acetylation and
deacetylation switch and how these events impact on the liver metabolic function.
We suggest a mitochondrial-centric approach to understand the connection between 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and insulin resistance. We finally show new data
about how the liver epigenome is modulated by nutritional cues and introduce the 
role of epigenetics in liver metabolic programming.
SUMMARY: The implications of these findings for clinical practice are promising, 
as the inherent plasticity of epigenetic modifications, produced either
physiologically or pathologically, suggests that early therapeutic intervention
in patients with fatty liver can potentially revert the systemic phenotype
associated with insulin resistance.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e3283546f9f 
PMID: 22617561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1341. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2012 Jul;27(4):420-8. doi: 10.1097/HCO.0b013e328354829c.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and vascular risk.

Bhatia LS(1), Curzen NP, Byrne CD.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Health Research Biomedical Research Unit, Southampton
University Hospitals NHS Trust, Southampton, UK. loke.bhatia@soton.ac.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an increasingly
common condition, which is strongly associated with obesity and diabetes. The
risk of cardiovascular disease is increased in NAFLD and represents the main
cause of death in these patients. However, given the shared features between
NAFLD, the metabolic syndrome and traditional cardiovascular risk factors,
uncertainty exists as to whether NAFLD is an independent risk factor for
increased cardiovascular disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: Multiple epidemiological and case-control studies now
demonstrate that NAFLD is associated with increased vascular risk, independently 
of conventional cardiometabolic risk factors. Evidence also suggests a graded
association between NAFLD severity and increased vascular risk. However, given
the heterogeneous disease spectrum of NAFLD, these findings have limitations with
respect to accuracy of diagnosis and staging of NAFLD in most studies.
SUMMARY: Although accumulating evidence points to NAFLD emerging as a novel
cardiovascular risk factor, more research is needed to find suitable noninvasive 
biomarkers of NAFLD severity to allow better risk-stratification based on
cardiovascular outcomes. Furthermore, with no established pharmacological
treatment option for NAFLD currently available, any potential treatment must show
efficacy not only in slowing liver disease progression, but also in ameliorating 
adverse cardiovascular outcomes.

DOI: 10.1097/HCO.0b013e328354829c 
PMID: 22596186  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1342. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012 May 16;(5):CD008344. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD008344.pub2.

Nutritional support for liver disease.

Koretz RL(1), Avenell A, Lipman TO.

Author information: 
(1)Granada Hills, CA, USA. rkoretz@msn.com.

BACKGROUND: Weight loss and muscle wasting are commonly found in patients with
end-stage liver disease. Since there is an association between malnutrition and
poor clinical outcome, such patients (or those at risk of becoming malnourished) 
are often given parenteral nutrition, enteral nutrition, or oral nutritional
supplements. These interventions have costs and adverse effects, so it is
important to prove that their use results in improved morbidity or mortality, or 
both.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the beneficial and harmful effects of parenteral nutrition,
enteral nutrition, and oral nutritional supplements on the mortality and
morbidity of patients with underlying liver disease.
SEARCH METHODS: The following computerised databases were searched: the Cochrane 
Hepato-Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, the Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Science 
Citation Index Expanded (January 2012). In addition, reference lists of
identified trials and review articles and Clinicaltrials.gov were searched.
Trials identified in a previous systematic handsearch of Index Medicus were also 
considered. Handsearches of a number of medical journals, including abstracts
from annual meetings, were done. Experts in the field and manufacturers of
nutrient formulations were contacted for potential references.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised clinical trials (parallel or cross-over design)
comparing groups of patients with any underlying liver disease who received, or
did not receive, enteral or parenteral nutrition or oral nutritional supplements 
were identified without restriction on date, language, or publication status. Six
categories of trials were separately considered: medical or surgical patients
receiving parenteral nutrition, enteral nutrition, or supplements.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The following data were sought in each report: date
of publication; geographical location; inclusion and exclusion criteria; the type
of nutritional support and constitution of the nutrient formulation; duration of 
treatment; any nutrition provided to the controls; other interventions provided
to the patients; number, sex, age of the study participants; hospital or
outpatient status; underlying liver disease; risks of bias (sequence generation, 
allocation concealment, blinding, incomplete outcome reporting,
intention-to-treat analysis, selective outcome reporting, others (vested
interests, baseline imbalance, early stopping)); mortality; hepatic morbidity
(development or resolution of ascites or hepatic encephalopathy, occurrence of
gastrointestinal bleeding); quality of life scores; adverse events; infections;
lengths of stay in the hospital or intensive care unit; costs; serum bilirubin;
postoperative complications (surgical trials only); and nutritional outcomes
(nitrogen balance, anthropometric measurements, body weight). The primary
outcomes of this review were mortality, hepatic morbidity, quality of life, and
adverse events. Data were extracted in duplicate; differences were resolved by
consensus.Data for each outcome were combined in a meta-analysis (RevMan 5.1).
Estimates were reported using risk ratios or mean differences, along with the 95%
confidence intervals (CI). Both fixed-effect and random-effects models were
employed; fixed-effect models were reported unless one model, but not the other, 
found a significant difference (in which case both were reported). Heterogeneity 
was assessed by the Chi(2) test and I(2) statistic. Subgroup analyses were
planned to assess specific liver diseases (alcoholic hepatitis, cirrhosis,
hepatocellular carcinoma), acute or chronic liver diseases, and trials employing 
standard or branched-chain amino acid formulations (for the hepatic
encephalopathy outcomes). Sensitivity analyses were planned to compare trials at 
low and high risk of bias and trials reported as full papers. The following
exploratory analyses were undertaken: 1) medical and surgical trials were
combined for each nutritional intervention; 2) intention-to-treat analyses in
which missing dichotomous data were imputed as best- and worst-case scenarios; 3)
all trials were combined to assess mortality; 4) effects were estimated by
absolute risk reductions.
MAIN RESULTS: Thirty-seven trials were identified; only one was at low risk of
bias. Most of the analyses failed to find any significant differences. The
significant findings that were found were the following: 1) icteric medical
patients receiving parenteral nutrition had a reduced serum bilirubin (mean
difference (MD) -2.86 mg%, 95% CI -3.82 mg% to -1.89 mg%, 3 trials) and better
nitrogen balance (MD 3.60 g/day, 95% CI 0.86 g/day to 6.34 g/day, 1 trial); 2)
surgical patients receiving parenteral nutrition had a reduced incidence of
postoperative ascites only in the fixed-effect model (RR 0.65, 95% CI 0.48 to
0.87, 2 trials, I(2) = 70%) and one trial demonstrated a reduction in
postoperative complications, especially infections (pneumonia in particular); 3) 
enteral nutrition may have improved nitrogen balance in medical patients
(although a combination of the three trials was not possible); 4) one surgical
trial of enteral nutrition found a reduction in postoperative complications; and 
5) oral nutritional supplements had several effects in medical patients (reduced 
occurrence of ascites (RR 0.57, 95% CI 0.37 to 0.88, 3 trials), possibly
(significant differences only seen in the fixed-effect model) reduced rates of
infection (RR 0.49, 95% CI 0.24 to 0.99, 3 trials, I(2) = 14%), and improved
resolution of hepatic encephalopathy (RR 3.75, 95% CI 1.15 to 12.18, 2 trials,
I(2) = 79%). While there was no overall effect of the supplements on mortality in
medical patients, the one low risk of bias trial found an increased risk of death
in the recipients of the supplements. Three trials of supplements in surgical
patients failed to show any significant differences. No new information was
derived from the various subgroup or sensitivity analyses. The exploratory
analyses were also unrevealing except for a logical conundrum. There was no
difference in mortality when all of the trials were combined, but the trials of
parenteral nutrition found that those recipients had better survival (RR 0.53,
95% CI 0.29 to 0.98, 10 trials). Either the former observation represents a type 
II error or the latter one a type I error.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The data do not compellingly justify the routine use of
parenteral nutrition, enteral nutrition, or oral nutritional supplements in
patients with liver disease. The fact that all but one of these trials were at
high risks of bias even casts doubt on the few benefits that were demonstrated.
Data from well-designed and executed randomised trials that include an untreated 
control group are needed before any such recommendation can be made. Future
trials have to be powered adequately to see small, but clinically important,
differences.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008344.pub2 
PMID: 22592729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1343. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2012 May;32(5):695-702.

[Efficacy of antioxidants in treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver: a systematic 
review].

[Article in Chinese]

Zeng M(1), Wang Y, Wu L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Digestive Diseases, West China Hospital of Sichuan University,
Chengdu, China. Zmj0628@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of antioxidants in the treatment of
non-alcoholic fatty liver.
METHODS: The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE or
PUBMED (1978-2011), EMBASE (1978-2011), ISI, OVID Database (1978-2011), CNKI Net 
and WANFANG database (1978-2011) were searched for relevant randomized controlled
trials, with also manual search of the bibliographies of the retrieved articles. 
The data were synthesized to assess the histological response of the patients
(hepatic steatosis, inflammation and fibrosis) and hepatic biochemical changes
after the treatments (alanine aminotransferase responses).
RESULTS: Fourteen trials involving 1284 patients were included in the
Meta-analysis. The quality of the trials was inconsistent. The data were
extracted for meta-analysis or descriptive analysis, which did not yield
sufficient evidence that antioxidants could improve hepatic steatosis,
inflammation, fibrosis or alanine aminotransferase responses.
CONCLUSIONS: The current data do not support a positive therapeutic effect of
antioxidants on nonalcoholic fatty liver, and antioxidants are therefore not
recommended in the clinical treatment of the condition.


PMID: 22588928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1344. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2012 May;39(5):693-7.

[Hepatocarcinogenesis in NASH].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakade Y(1), Sato K, Nakao H, Yoneda M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Gastroenterology, Aichi Medical University, Nagakute, Aichi, Japan.

With the increase of lifestyle-related diseases, metabolic syndrome has clearly
increased in recent years. Fatty liver, which is the manifestation of metabolic
syndrome in the liver, has received little attention because it is not the actual
cause of death. However, with the developing increase of metabolic syndrome,
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease(NAFLD), especially nonalcoholic
steatohepatits(NASH), has increased, and has received much attention. In chronic 
liver disease, liver cirrhosis develops, finally leading to liver failure. The
most serious chronic liver disease is progression to liver cancer. Once hepatic
fibrosis develops, the hepatic carcinogenic rate has been increased. Hepatic
carcinogenic rate has been reported to reach 8%per year in hepatitis type
C-related liver cirrhosis. Although little has been reported about NASH-related
liver cancer, NASH-related hepatic carcinogenic rate reached to about 2. 6%per
year. In this review, we will describe the epidemiology, gender differences, risk
factors and pathogenesis of NASH-related liver cancer.


PMID: 22584317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1345. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2013 Sep 25;378(1-2):29-40. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2012.04.013. 
Epub 2012 May 11.

The role of angiotensin II in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Matthew Morris E(1), Fletcher JA, Thyfault JP, Rector RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine - Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
University of Missouri, MO, United States; Harry S Truman Memorial Veterans
Medical Center, Columbia, MO 65201, United States. Electronic address:
morrisem@health.missouri.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now considered the most prevalent
chronic liver disease, affecting over 30% of the US adult population. NAFLD is
strongly linked to insulin resistance and is considered the hepatic manifestation
of the metabolic syndrome. Activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
(RAAS) is known to play a role in the hypertension observed in the metabolic
syndrome and also is thought to play a central role in insulin resistance and
NAFLD. Angiotensin II (AngII) is considered the primary effector of the
physiological outcomes of RAAS signaling, both at the systemic and local tissue
level. Herein, we review data describing the potential involvement of
AngII-mediated signaling at multiple levels in the development and progression of
NAFLD, including increased steatosis, inflammation, insulin resistance, and
fibrosis. Additionally, we present recent work on the potential therapeutic
benefits of RAAS and angiotensin II signaling inhibition in rodent models and
patients with NAFLD.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2012.04.013 
PMID: 22579612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1346. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2013 Jan;37(1):1-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.2012.01840.x. 
Epub 2012 May 11.

Impact of altered methylation in cytokine signaling and proteasome function in
alcohol and viral-mediated diseases.

Kharbanda KK(1), Bardag-Gorce F, Barve S, Molina PE, Osna NA.

Author information: 
(1)Research Service, Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System,
Omaha, NE 68105, USA. kkharbanda@unmc.edu

Data from several laboratories have shown that ethanol (EtOH) feeding impairs
many essential methylation reactions that contribute to alcoholic liver disease
(ALD). EtOH is also a comorbid factor in the severity of hepatitis C
virus-induced liver injury. The presence of viral proteins further exacerbates
the methylation defects to disrupt multiple pathways that promote the
pathogenesis of liver disease. This review is a compilation of presentations that
linked the methylation reaction defects with proteasome inhibition, decreased
antigen presentation, and impaired interferon (IFN) signaling in the hepatocytes 
and dysregulated TNFα expression in macrophages. Two therapeutic modalities,
betaine and S-adenosylmethionine, can correct methylation defects to attenuate
many EtOH-induced liver changes, as well as improve IFN signaling pathways,
thereby overcoming viral treatment resistance.

Copyright © 2012 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.2012.01840.x 
PMCID: PMC3421055
PMID: 22577887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1347. Exp Gerontol. 2012 Jun;47(6):411-6. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.03.019. Epub 2012
Apr 10.

Alcohol use disorders in the elderly: a brief overview from epidemiology to
treatment options.

Caputo F(1), Vignoli T, Leggio L, Addolorato G, Zoli G, Bernardi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, SS Annunziata Hospital, Cento (Ferrara),
Italy. f.caputo@ausl.fe.it

Alcohol-use-disorders (AUDs) afflict 1-3% of elderly subjects. The CAGE, SMAST-G,
and AUDIT are the most common and validated questionnaires used to identify AUDs 
in the elderly, and some laboratory markers of alcohol abuse (AST, GGT, MCV, and 
CDT) may also be helpful. In particular, the sensitivity of MCV or GGT in
detecting alcohol misuse is higher in older than in younger populations. The
incidence of medical and neurological complications during alcohol withdrawal
syndrome in elderly alcoholics is higher than in younger alcoholics. Chronic
alcohol abuse is associated with tissue damage to several organs. Namely, an
increased level of blood pressure is more frequent in the elderly than in younger
adults, and a greater vulnerability to the onset of alcoholic liver disease, and 
an increasing risk of breast cancer in menopausal women have been described. In
addition, the prevalence of dementia in elderly alcoholics is almost 5 times
higher than in non-alcoholic elderly individuals, approximately 25% of elderly
patients with dementia also present AUDs, and almost 20% of individuals aged 65
and over with a diagnosis of depression have a co-occurring AUD. Moreover,
prevention of drinking relapse in older alcoholics is, in some cases, better than
in younger patients; indeed, more than 20% of treated elderly alcohol-dependent
patients remain abstinent after 4 years. Considering that the incidence of AUDs
in the elderly is fairly high, and AUDs in the elderly are still underestimated, 
more studies in the fields of epidemiology, prevention and pharmacological and
psychotherapeutic treatment of AUDs in the elderly are warranted.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.03.019 
PMCID: PMC4999313
PMID: 22575256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1348. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 May 8;9(7):372-81. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2012.79.

Increased risk of cardiovascular disease and chronic kidney disease in NAFLD.

Bonora E(1), Targher G.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases, University and Azienda
Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata of Verona, Ospedale Civile Maggiore, Piazzale
Stefani 1, 37126 Verona, Italy. enzo.bonora@univr.it

NAFLD is very common in the general population and its prevalence is increasing
worldwide in parallel with the increasing incidences of obesity and metabolic
diseases, mainly type 2 diabetes. In some cases, however, the diagnosis of NAFLD 
remains uncertain because other causes of liver disease are not easy to exclude
in patients who are diagnosed with NAFLD after a biochemical or ultrasonographic 
analysis. Several studies have documented a strong association between NAFLD and 
traditional and nontraditional risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 
chronic kidney disease (CKD). Accordingly, patients with NAFLD have an increased 
prevalence and incidence of both CVD and CKD. It is reasonable to believe that
NAFLD, CVD and CKD share common risk factors (such as visceral obesity, insulin
resistance, dysglycaemia, dyslipidaemia and hypertension) and therefore that
NAFLD might simply be a marker rather than a causal risk factor of CVD and CKD.
In this context, the identification of NAFLD might be an additional clinical
feature to improve the stratification of patients for their risk of CVD and CKD. 
Growing evidence suggests that in patients with NAFLD, especially if NASH is
present, several molecules released from the steatotic and inflamed liver might
have pathogenic roles in the development of atherosclerosis and kidney damage. If
these findings are confirmed by further studies, NAFLD could become a target for 
the prevention and treatment of CVD and CKD. NAFLD, whatever its role (marker or 
causal risk factor), is therefore a clinical condition that deserves greater
attention from gastroenterologists, endocrinologists, cardiologists and
nephrologists, as well as internists and general practitioners.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2012.79 
PMID: 22565095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1349. J Diabetes. 2012 Sep;4(3):266-80. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-0407.2012.00204.x.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Tuyama AC(1), Chang CY.

Author information: 
(1)Rockefeller University, New York, NY, USA. atuyama@mail.rockefeller.edu

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver
disease in the Western world. It is closely associated with metabolic syndrome.
The alarming epidemics of diabetes and obesity have fueled an increasing
prevalence of NAFLD, particularly among these high-risk groups. Histologically,
NAFLD encompasses a disease spectrum ranging from simple steatosis to
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which is characterized by hepatocyte
injury, inflammation, and variable degrees of fibrosis on liver biopsy.
Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis can progress to cirrhosis in a fraction of
patients. There is currently little understanding of risk factors for disease
progression and the disease pathogenesis has not been fully defined. Liver biopsy
remains the gold standard for diagnosis. Weight loss, dietary modification, and
the treatment of underlying metabolic syndrome remain the mainstays of therapy
once the diagnosis is established. There are no well-established pharmacological 
agents for treatment of NASH, although this is a subject of ongoing research.

© 2012 Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine and Wiley
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-0407.2012.00204.x 
PMID: 22564417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1350. Cell Metab. 2012 May 2;15(5):574-84. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.03.005.

Diacylglycerol activation of protein kinase Cε and hepatic insulin resistance.

Jornayvaz FR(1), Shulman GI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, CT 06510, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now the most frequent chronic liver
disease in Western societies, affecting one in four adults in the USA, and is
strongly associated with hepatic insulin resistance, a major risk factor in the
pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. Although the cellular mechanisms underlying this
relationship are unknown, hepatic accumulation of diacylglycerol (DAG) in both
animals and humans has been linked to hepatic insulin resistance. In this
Perspective, we discuss the role of DAG activation of protein kinase Cε as the
mechanism responsible for NAFLD-associated hepatic insulin resistance seen in
obesity, type 2 diabetes, and lipodystrophy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.03.005 
PMCID: PMC3353749
PMID: 22560210  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1351. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2012 Aug;36(8):1301-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1530-0277.2012.01742.x. Epub 2012 May 2.

Autophagy in alcohol-induced liver diseases.

Dolganiuc A(1), Thomes PG, Ding WX, Lemasters JJ, Donohue TM Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, USA.
angela.dolganiuc@medicine.uﬂ.edu

Alcohol is the most abused substance worldwide and a significant source of liver 
injury; the mechanisms of alcohol-induced liver disease are not fully understood.
Significant cellular toxicity and impairment of protein synthesis and degradation
occur in alcohol-exposed liver cells, along with changes in energy balance and
modified responses to pathogens. Autophagy is the process of cellular catabolism 
through the lysosomal-dependent machinery, which maintains a balance among
protein synthesis, degradation, and recycling of self. Autophagy is part of
normal homeostasis and it can be triggered by multiple factors that threaten cell
integrity, including starvation, toxins, or pathogens. Multiple factors regulate 
autophagy; survival and preservation of cellular integrity at the expense of
inadequately folded proteins and damaged high-energy generating intracellular
organelles are prominent targets of autophagy in pathological conditions.
Coincidentally, inadequately folded proteins accumulate and high-energy
generating intracellular organelles, such as mitochondria, are damaged by alcohol
abuse; these alcohol-induced pathological findings prompted investigation of the 
role of autophagy in the pathogenesis of alcohol-induced liver damage. Our review
summarizes the current knowledge about the role and implications of autophagy in 
alcohol-induced liver disease.

Copyright © 2012 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.2012.01742.x 
PMCID: PMC3653416
PMID: 22551004  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1352. Clin Chim Acta. 2012 Aug 16;413(15-16):1190-3. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2012.04.019.
Epub 2012 Apr 23.

Serum proteomics for biomarker discovery in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Yilmaz Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Gastroenterology, Marmara University, Maltepe, Istanbul, Turkey. 
dryusufyilmaz@gmail.com

Proteomic platforms have gained increasing attention in the clinical spectrum of 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). This approach allows for the unbiased
discovery of circulating biochemical markers, i.e., it is not limited to known
molecules of presumed importance. This manuscript provides an overview of
proteomic serum biomarker discovery in NAFLD. Hemoglobin is currently the most
widely replicated proteomic circulating biomarker of NAFLD; it was identified as 
a biomarker of fatty liver in two distinct proteomic studies and subsequently
validated using distinct analytical methods by independent research groups in
large replication cohorts. Given the increasing availability of numerous serum
samples and the refinement of the technological platforms available to scrutinize
the blood proteome, large collaborative studies between academia and industry are
warmly encouraged to identify novel, unbiased circulating biomarkers of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2012.04.019 
PMID: 22546610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1353. Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis. 2012 Jun;22(6):471-6. doi:
10.1016/j.numecd.2012.02.007. Epub 2012 Apr 28.

Gut--liver axis: the impact of gut microbiota on non alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Compare D(1), Coccoli P, Rocco A, Nardone OM, De Maria S, Cartenì M, Nardone G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Gastroenterology Unit,
Federico II University of Naples, Via S. Pansini 5, 80131 Naples, Italy.

Comment in
    Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis. 2013 Jan;23(1):e9-10.

AIM: To examine the impact of gut microbiota on non alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) pathogenesis.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Emerging evidence suggests a strong interaction between gut
microbiota and liver. Receiving approximately 70% of its blood supply from the
intestine, the liver represents the first line of defence against gut-derived
antigens. Intestinal bacteria play a key role in the maintenance of gut-liver
axis health. Disturbances in the homeostasis between bacteria- and host-derived
signals at the epithelial level lead to a break in intestinal barrier function
and may foster "bacterial translocation", defined as the migration of bacteria or
bacterial products from the intestinal lumen to mesenteric lymph nodes or other
extraintestinal organs and sites. While the full repertoire of gut-derived
microbial products that reach the liver in health and disease has yet to be
explored, the levels of bacterial lipopolysaccharide, a component of the outer
membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, are increased in the portal and/or systemic
circulation in several types of chronic liver diseases. Derangement of the gut
flora, particularly small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, occurs in a large
percentage (20-75%) of patients with chronic liver disease. In addition, evidence
implicating the gut-liver axis in the pathogenesis of metabolic liver disorders
has accumulated over the past ten years.
CONCLUSIONS: Complex metabolic diseases are the product of multiple perturbations
under the influence of triggering factors such as gut microbiota and diet, thus, 
modulation of the gut microbiota may represent a new way to treat or prevent
NAFLD.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.numecd.2012.02.007 
PMID: 22546554  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1354. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 May;16(2):397-419. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.03.005.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Paredes AH(1), Torres DM, Harrison SA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Walter Reed National
Military Medical Center, Bethesda, MD 20889, USA.

As the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome, nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease (NAFLD) has become the most common cause of asymptomatic liver enzyme
elevations in Western nations. Although it is easy to diagnose NAFLD, a liver
biopsy is currently required to diagnose nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
Patients with NASH are those at greatest risk of progression to cirrhosis and,
thus, treatment efforts are targeted to these individuals. Although currently
there are no FDA-approved treatments for NASH, a multidisciplinary approach that 
addresses comorbid conditions and promotes modest weight loss comprises the
backbone of therapy.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.03.005 
PMID: 22541706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1355. Clin Liver Dis. 2012 May;16(2):371-85. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.03.015.

Alcoholic hepatitis: a clinician's guide.

Choi G(1), Runyon BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, 
CA 90043, USA.

Alcoholic hepatitis is a frequent reason for admission and a common consultation 
request for hepatologists and gastroenterologists. Although it seems to occur
acutely, it is usually subacute and often superimposed on underlying alcoholic
cirrhosis. Typically patients have a background of drinking on a daily basis,
but, in response to a life crisis, patients have started drinking massively.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2012.03.015 
PMID: 22541704  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1356. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Oct;35(8):585-93. doi:
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2012.02.005. Epub 2012 Apr 26.

[Influence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease on cardiovascular disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Ampuero J(1), Romero-Gómez M.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Gestión Clínica de Enfermedades Digestivas, Centro de Investigación 
Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas, Hospital Universitario
de Valme, Universidad de Sevilla, Sevilla, España.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease encompasses a spectrum ranging from simple
steatosis to steatohepatitis without excess alcohol intake and is considered to
be the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome. Recent studies indicate that 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is closely related to cardiovascular disease,
especially to thickening of the intima-media layer of the carotid artery, as the 
morphostructural manifestation of the presence of subclinical atheromatosis.
Therefore, the correct management of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease would
allow the natural history of both the liver disease and the atherosclerosis to be
modified.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. and AEEH y AEG. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2012.02.005 
PMID: 22541252  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1357. Int J Obes (Lond). 2012 Oct;36(10):1270-7. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2012.54. Epub 2012
Apr 24.

Effect of intrauterine growth retardation on liver and long-term metabolic risk.

Cianfarani S(1), Agostoni C, Bedogni G, Berni Canani R, Brambilla P, Nobili V,
Pietrobelli A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Endocrinology Unit-DPUO, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital - 'Rina
Balducci' Center of Pediatric Endocrinology, Tor Vergata University, Rome, Italy.
stefano.cianfarani@uniroma2.it

Intrauterine growth retardation predisposes toward long-term morbidity from type 
2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. To explain this association, the concept
of programming was introduced to indicate a process whereby a stimulus or insult 
at a critical period of development has lasting or lifelong consequences on key
endocrine and metabolic pathways. Subtle changes in cell composition of tissues, 
induced by suboptimal conditions in utero, can influence postnatal physiological 
functions. There is increasing evidence, suggesting that liver may represent one 
of the candidate organs targeted by programming, undergoing structural,
functional and epigenetic changes following exposure to an unfavorable
intrauterine environment. The aim of this review is to provide insights into the 
molecular mechanisms underlying liver programming that contribute to increase the
cardiometabolic risk in subjects with intrauterine growth restriction.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2012.54 
PMID: 22531091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1358. Annu Rev Nutr. 2012 Aug 21;32:343-68. doi: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-072610-145138.
Epub 2012 Apr 18.

Inflammation in alcoholic liver disease.

Wang HJ(1), Gao B, Zakhari S, Nagy LE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Metabolism and Health Effects, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse
and Alcoholism, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. wangh4@mail.nih.gov

Frank Burr Mallory's landmark observation in 1911 on the histopathology of
alcoholic liver disease (ALD) was the first identification of a link between
inflammation and ALD. In this review, we summarize recent advances regarding the 
origins and roles of various inflammatory components in ALD. Metabolism of
ethanol generates a number of metabolites, including acetate, reactive oxygen
species, acetaldehyde, and epigenetic changes, that can induce inflammatory
responses. Alcohol and its metabolites can also initiate and aggravate
inflammatory conditions by promoting gut leakiness of microbial products, by
sensitizing immune cells to stimulation, and by activating innate immune
pathways, such as complement. Chronic alcohol consumption also sensitizes
nonimmune cells, e.g., hepatocytes, to inflammatory signals and impairs their
ability to respond to protective signals. Based on these advances, a number of
inflammatory targets have been identified with potential for therapeutic
intervention in ALD, presenting new opportunities and challenges for
translational research.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-072610-145138 
PMCID: PMC3670145
PMID: 22524187  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1359. Br J Hosp Med (Lond). 2012 Feb;73(2):79-85.

Hepatic encephalopathy.

Patel D(1), McPhail MJ, Cobbold JF, Taylor-Robinson SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Hepatology and Gastroenterology Section, Imperial
College London, St Mary's Hospital Campus, London.

Hepatic encephalopathy is a serious and potentially fatal complication of both
acute and chronic liver disease, arising as a result of hepatocellular failure,
cirrhosis and/or portal-systemic shunting (Ferenci et al, 2002). It reflects a
broad spectrum of neuropsychiatric abnormalities, encompassing a range of defects
in psychomotor, locomotive, cognitive, emotional and behavioural functions
(Prakash and Mullen, 2010). Hepatic encephalopathy is either overt or minimal.
While overt hepatic encephalopathy can be diagnosed using bedside clinical tests,
minimal hepatic encephalopathy is clinically invisible and requires psychometric 
testing to diagnose. The rising prevalence of end-stage viral hepatitis-related
liver disease, coupled with the growing problem of alcoholic and non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease, has significantly increased the burden of disease from
cirrhosis (Mooney et al, 2007; Fleming et al, 2008), so recognition and
appropriate management of the manifestations of decompensating cirrhosis
(including hepatic encephalopathy) is essential. Hepatic encephalopathy has a
substantial societal burden because of its impact on survival, quality of life
and daily functioning, including an impaired ability to drive, leaving patients
especially vulnerable to road traffic accidents (Ferenci et al, 2002; Prakash and
Mullen, 2010).


PMID: 22504749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1360. Gastroenterology. 2012 Jun;142(7):1431-43. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2012.04.007.
Epub 2012 Apr 11.

MicroRNAs in liver disease.

Wang XW(1), Heegaard NH, Orum H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Human Carcinogenesis, Center for Cancer Research, National
Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
xw3u@nih.gov

MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression
posttranscriptionally through complementary base pairing with thousands of
messenger RNAs. They regulate diverse physiological, developmental, and
pathophysiological processes. Recent studies have uncovered the contribution of
microRNAs to the pathogenesis of many human diseases, including liver diseases.
Moreover, microRNAs have been identified as biomarkers that can often be detected
in the systemic circulation. We review the role of microRNAs in liver physiology 
and pathophysiology, focusing on viral hepatitis, liver fibrosis, and cancer. We 
also discuss microRNAs as diagnostic and prognostic markers and microRNA-based
therapeutic approaches for liver disease.

Copyright © 2012 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2012.04.007 
PMID: 22504185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1361. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012 Apr;26(2):145-57. doi:
10.1016/j.beem.2011.09.003.

Metabolic insights from extreme human insulin resistance phenotypes.

Stears A(1), O'Rahilly S, Semple RK, Savage DB.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolic Research Laboratories and NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre,
Institute of Metabolic Science, University of Cambridge, UK.

As well as improving diagnostic and clinical outcomes for affected patients,
understanding the genetic basis of rare human metabolic disorders has resulted in
several fundamental biological insights. In some cases understanding extreme
phenotypes has also informed thinking about more prevalent metabolic diseases.
Insulin resistance underpins the twin epidemics of obesity and type 2 diabetes as
well as accounting for many of the metabolic problems encompassed by the term
metabolic syndrome. This review provides a brief update on current understanding 
of human severe insulin resistance syndromes, before highlighting recent insights
provided by studies in these rare syndromes into the molecular pathogenesis of
elements of the metabolic syndrome.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2011.09.003 
PMID: 22498245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1362. Clin Biochem. 2012 Jun;45(9):610-8. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2012.03.024. Epub 
2012 Mar 28.

Role of mitochondria in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease--from origin to
propagation.

Grattagliano I(1), de Bari O, Bernardo TC, Oliveira PJ, Wang DQ, Portincasa P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Interdisciplinary Medicine, Clinica Medica A. Murri, University 
of Bari Medical School, Bari, Italy. i.grattagliano@semeiotica.uniba.it

OBJECTIVES: Mitochondria play a major role in cell energy-generating processes
and integrate several signalling pathways to control cellular life and death.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Several liver diseases are characterized by mitochondrial
alterations which are directly or indirectly dependent on the activation of
intracellular stress cascades or receptor-mediated pathways. This article
examines the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in critical initiating or
propagating events in fatty liver infiltration and nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD). Genetic variants and the role of drug-induced toxicity have been
considered.
RESULTS: Key alterations of mitochondrial physiology associated with hepatocyte
fatty changes are described. The value of novel non-invasive diagnostic methods
to detect mitochondrial metabolic alterations is also discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: Mitochondrial metabolic remodeling is a predominant factor in the
appearance and perpetuation of hepatocyte fat accumulation. Non-invasive
techniques to identify mitochondrial dysfunction and proper mitochondria
protection are two necessary clinical steps for an efficient management of NAFLD.

Copyright © 2012 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2012.03.024 
PMID: 22484459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1363. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2012 Jul;46(6):457-67. doi: 10.1097/MCG.0b013e31824cf51e.

The role of nutrients in the development, progression, and treatment of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Mouzaki M(1), Allard JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology & Nutrition, Hospital for Sick
Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of liver
disease in adults and children and is currently the third most common indication 
for liver transplantation in North America. Its pathogenesis is thought to be
secondary to multiple "hits" derived from the dietary components, adipose tissue,
immune system, and intestinal microbiota. Lack of physical activity may
contribute as well. Nutrients may exert their effect directly or through
alteration of the intestinal microbiota. Research focusing on specific dietary
components predisposing to NAFLD has shown conflicting results. Total energy
intake, and macronutrients, has been linked to the development of NAFLD. Fructose
not only contributes to hepatic steatosis but may trigger inflammatory signals as
well. Polyunsaturated fatty acids are thought to exert anti-inflammatory effects.
The role of vitamins as well as minerals in this field is actively being
investigated. In this review, we discuss the evidence-linking macronutrients
(such as carbohydrates and fat in general and fructose, fiber, short chain fatty 
acids, polyunsaturated fatty, and choline specifically) and micronutrients (such 
as vitamin E and C and minerals) with the development and treatment of NAFLD. We 
also discuss the literature on physical activity and NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0b013e31824cf51e 
PMID: 22469640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1364. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2012 May;35(10):1135-44. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2012.05080.x. Epub 2012 Apr 2.

Review article: fructose in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Yilmaz Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Gastroenterology, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey.
dryusufyilmaz@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The role of excess fructose intake in the pathogenesis of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has recently received increasing
attention, but the pathophysiology of this relationship has been only partly
elucidated.
AIM: To provide an overview of the potential role played by fructose in the
pathogenesis of NAFLD by focusing on both indirect and direct harmful effects.
METHODS: Experimental and clinical studies which investigated the relation of
fructose with NAFLD are reviewed.
RESULTS: Several factors may potentially contribute to fructose-induced NAFLD,
including the induction of the metabolic syndrome, copper deficiency, bacterial
translocation from the gut to the liver, the formation of advanced glycation
endproducts and a direct dysmetabolic effect on liver enzymes.
CONCLUSIONS: Experimentally-increased fructose intake recapitulates many of the
pathophysiological characteristics of the metabolic syndrome in humans, which may
in turn lead to NAFLD. However, the majority of experimental studies tend to
involve feeding excessively high levels of fructose (60-70% of total energy
intake) which is not reflective of average human intake. Hopefully, the
combination of in vivo, in vitro and genetic research will provide substantial
mechanistic evidence into the role of fructose in NAFLD development and its
complications.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2012.05080.x 
PMID: 22469071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1365. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Mar 21;18(11):1141-53. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i11.1141.

Genetically modified mouse models for the study of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Nagarajan P, Mahesh Kumar MJ, Venkatesan R, Majundar SS, Juyal RC.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is associated with obesity, insulin
resistance, and type 2 diabetes. NAFLD represents a large spectrum of diseases
ranging from (1) fatty liver (hepatic steatosis); (2) steatosis with inflammation
and necrosis; to (3) cirrhosis. The animal models to study NAFLD/nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) are extremely useful, as there are still many events to be
elucidated in the pathology of NASH. The study of the established animal models
has provided many clues in the pathogenesis of steatosis and steatohepatitis, but
these remain incompletely understood. The different mouse models can be
classified in two large groups. The first one includes genetically modified
(transgenic or knockout) mice that spontaneously develop liver disease, and the
second one includes mice that acquire the disease after dietary or
pharmacological manipulation. Although the molecular mechanism leading to the
development of hepatic steatosis in the pathogenesis of NAFLD is complex,
genetically modified animal models may be a key for the treatment of NAFLD. Ideal
animal models for NASH should closely resemble the pathological characteristics
observed in humans. To date, no single animal model has encompassed the full
spectrum of human disease progression, but they can imitate particular
characteristics of human disease. Therefore, it is important that the researchers
choose the appropriate animal model. This review discusses various genetically
modified animal models developed and used in research on NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i11.1141 
PMCID: PMC3309902
PMID: 22468076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1366. Nutrition. 2012 Jul;28(7-8):722-6. doi: 10.1016/j.nut.2011.11.017. Epub 2012 Mar 
28.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in children now: lifestyle changes and
pharmacologic treatments.

Alisi A(1), Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Liver Research, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital and Research
Institute, Rome, Italy.

Over the past decade, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become one of
most common chronic liver diseases in children. A greater understanding about the
risk factors and molecular pathogenesis of NAFLD suggests that lifestyle
interventions aiming to decrease obesity/body mass index and metabolic
derangement are the first line of treatments adopted in children affected by this
disease. However, because these therapeutic options are often at the beginning
misjudged by the patients and their parents, the use of pharmacologic agents may 
help to protect the liver and other organs from further irreversible tissue
damage. Pharmacologic therapies against one or more specific factors and/or
molecules involved in the development of NAFLD (i.e., insulin resistance, free
fatty acid lipid toxicity, and oxidative stress) also might slow the progression 
of this increasingly prevalent pediatric disorder. On this basis, insulin
sensitizers, antioxidants, cytoprotective agents, and dietary supplementations
have been evaluated in pediatric clinical trials. In this review, we discuss the 
efficacy of the dietary approaches, possibly coupled with regular exercise, on
decreasing the metabolic and histologic damage in pediatric NAFLD. We also
emphasize several advantages of the pharmacologic treatments adopted or adoptable
in combination with lifestyle interventions in children with NAFLD.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nut.2011.11.017 
PMID: 22464551  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1367. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2012 May;28(3):209-16. doi:
10.1097/MOG.0b013e3283525cb8.

Keratins: markers and modulators of liver disease.

Strnad P(1), Paschke S, Jang KH, Ku NO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
pavel.strnad@uniklinik-ulm.de

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Keratins are a subgroup of intermediate filaments expressed in
the epithelia. Keratins emerged as important tissue-protecting genes and keratin 
variants cause/predispose to development of more than 50 human disorders. Our
review focuses on the importance of keratins in context of liver disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: K8/K18 variants are found in approximately 4% of white
population and predispose to development and adverse outcome of multiple liver
diseases. K8/K18 are major constituents of Mallory-Denk bodies, that is
inclusions found in alcoholic and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and
dysregulated keratin expression, K8 hyperphosphorylation, misfolding and
crosslinking via transglutaminase 2 facilitate aggregate formation.
Necrosis-generated and apoptosis-generated keratin serum fragments are emerging
as important noninvasive markers of multiple liver diseases, particularly NASH.
Keratins are established markers of tumor origin and in hepatocellular carcinoma,
K19 expression is associated with poor prognosis.
SUMMARY: Keratins are established tumor markers and are widely used as
noninvasive markers of liver injury. In addition, the data that have become
available in recent years have greatly advanced our understanding of keratins as 
modifiers of liver disease development.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0b013e3283525cb8 
PMID: 22450891  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1368. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2012 Feb;33(1):80-95. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1301737.
Epub 2012 Mar 23.

Infectious complications of acute and chronic liver disease.

Leber B(1), Spindelboeck W, Stadlbauer V.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Transplantation Surgery, Medical University of Graz, Graz,
Austria.

Acute and chronic liver diseases are frequently complicated by infections, which 
result in increased morbidity and mortality and place an economic burden on
health care systems. This review discusses the epidemiology and the impact on
prognosis of infections in liver cirrhosis, nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, acute liver failure, and post-liver
transplantation. Possible mechanisms for this increased susceptibility are innate
immune dysfunction (Kupffer cells, neutrophils, monocytes), genetic
predisposition, and intrinsic cellular defects. The causes for innate immune
dysfunction may lie in increased gut permeability, the occurrence of endotoxemia,
albumin and lipoprotein dysfunction, or toll-like receptor expression. From a
clinical viewpoint this article discusses problems in diagnosing infection.
Established (vaccination, antibiotic prophylaxis, antiviral prophylaxis, and
nutrition) and experimental (probiotic) prophylactic strategies as well as
established (antibiotics) and experimental (liver support, albumin, toll-like
receptor antagonists) strategies are also reviewed.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1301737 
PMID: 22447263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1369. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Aug;10(8):837-58. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2012.03.011. Epub 2012 Mar 23.

Features, diagnosis, and treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Torres DM(1), Williams CD, Harrison SA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Walter Reed National
Military Medical Center, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

As the global incidence of obesity has increased, nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) has become a worldwide health concern. NAFLD occurs in children
and adults of all ethnicities and includes isolated fatty liver and nonalcoholic 
steatohepatitis (NASH). Patients with NASH are at risk for developing cirrhosis, 
hepatic decompensation, and hepatocellular carcinoma and have increased all-cause
mortality. NAFLD is associated with a variety of clinical conditions and is an
independent risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma. The pathogenesis of NAFLD
and the specific steps that lead to NASH and advanced fibrosis are not fully
understood, although researchers have found that a combination of environmental, 
genetic, and metabolic factors lead to advanced disease. There have been
improvements in noninvasive radiographic methods to diagnose NAFLD, especially
for advanced disease. However, liver biopsy is still the standard method of
diagnosis for NASH. There are many challenges to treating patients with NASH, and
no therapies have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration;
multimodal approaches are being developed and becoming the standard of care. We
review pathogenesis and treatment approaches for the West's largest liver-related
public health concern.

Copyright © 2012 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2012.03.011 
PMID: 22446927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1370. Zentralbl Chir. 2014 Apr;139(2):168-74. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1283813. Epub 2012
Mar 22.

[NASH (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis): fatty liver or fatal liver disease?].

[Article in German]

Roeb E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterologie Justus-Liebig-Universität Gießen, Gießen, Deutschland.

INTRODUCTION: Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) was first described in 1980
and has emerged from an anecdotal disease to a widely distributed liver disease
in the current decade.
METHODS: This review is based on publications in PubMed and our own experiences
and deals with basic pathophysiological aspects, diagnostic, and therapeutic
tools as well as with the modern management of this serious liver disease.
RESULTS: For a long time the potenial for serious liver destruction and enhanced 
liver mortality by NASH has been observed. The recognition of the metabolic
origin of NASH has contributed to diagnostic as well as therapeutic approaches.
Since then patients with metabolic syndrome are often screened for liver disease.
NASH might worsen other chronic liver diseases but should be judged as an
independent illness rather than the exclusion of other potential liver diseases. 
Furthermore, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis has systemic consequences concerning
insulin resistance, metabolic complications and cardiovascular diseases.
PERSPECTIVES: Future research should concentrate on non-invasive screening
strategies, identification of risk factors, evaluation of hepatocellular
carcinogenesis and new therapeutic targets.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1283813 
PMID: 22441997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1371. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Mar 22;13(4):239-50. doi: 10.1038/nrm3313.

MicroRNAs in metabolism and metabolic disorders.

Rottiers V(1), Näär AM.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Charlestown, Massachusetts
02129, USA.

Erratum in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 May;13(5). doi:10.1038/nrm3328.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have recently emerged as key regulators of metabolism. For
example, miR-33a and miR-33b have a crucial role in controlling cholesterol and
lipid metabolism in concert with their host genes, the sterol-regulatory
element-binding protein (SREBP) transcription factors. Other metabolic miRNAs,
such as miR-103 and miR-107, regulate insulin and glucose homeostasis, whereas
miRNAs such as miR-34a are emerging as key regulators of hepatic lipid
homeostasis. The discovery of circulating miRNAs has highlighted their potential 
as both endocrine signalling molecules and disease markers. Dysregulation of
miRNAs may contribute to metabolic abnormalities, suggesting that miRNAs may
potentially serve as therapeutic targets for ameliorating cardiometabolic
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nrm3313 
PMCID: PMC4021399
PMID: 22436747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1372. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Aug;27(8):1281-92. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2012.07127.x.

Assessment of inflammation and fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease by
imaging-based techniques.

Cobbold JF(1), Patel D, Taylor-Robinson SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK.
j.cobbold@imperial.ac.uk

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NALFD) is a burgeoning global health problem, 
and the assessment of disease severity remains a clinical challenge. Conventional
imaging and clinical blood tests are frequently unable to determine disease
activity (the degree of inflammatory change) and fibrotic severity, while the
applicability of histological examination of liver biopsy is limited. Imaging
platforms provide liver-specific structural information, while newer applications
of these technologies non-invasively exploit the physical and chemical
characteristics of liver tissue in health and disease. In this review,
conventional and newer imaging-based techniques for the assessment of
inflammation and fibrosis in NAFLD are discussed in terms of diagnostic accuracy,
radio-pathological correlations, and practical considerations. In particular,
recent clinical studies of ultrasound (US)-based and magnetic resonance
elastography techniques are evaluated, while the potential of contrast-enhanced
US and magnetic resonance spectroscopy techniques is discussed. The development
and application of these techniques is starting to reduce the clinical need for
liver biopsy, to produce surrogate end-points for interventional and
observational clinical studies, and through this, to provide new insights into
the natural history of NAFLD.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2012.07127.x 
PMID: 22432836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1373. Presse Med. 2012 Nov;41(11):1064-70. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2012.01.034. Epub 2012
Mar 15.

[Current trends in liver biopsy indications in chronic liver diseases].

[Article in French]

Cadranel JF(1), Nousbaum JB.

Author information: 
(1)Centre hospitalier Laënnec, service d'hépatogastroentérologie et de nutrition,
60100 Creil, France. jfrancois.cadranel@ch-creil.fr

Liver biopsy (LB) remains a major tool in chronic liver disease evaluation. Main 
current indications of LB in chronic liver disease are reviewed in this
manuscript. Major development of non-invasive tools for evaluation of liver
fibrosis led to decrease of LB indications in patients with chronic hepatitis C. 
LB is the only tool for exploration of necroinflammatory and fibrosis lesions in 
chronic hepatitis B as well as in autoimmune hepatitis. LB is the sole exam that 
can differentiate between bland steatosis and steatohepatitis in the setting of
metabolic syndrome and to confirm the diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis when
corticosteroids are indicated.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2012.01.034 
PMID: 22425478  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1374. Rev Med Interne. 2012 Jun;33(6):311-7. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2012.02.002. Epub
2012 Mar 15.

[Alcoholic hepatitis].

[Article in French]

Trabut JB(1), Thépot V, Sogni P, Pol S.

Author information: 
(1)Unité d'hépatologie, Inserm U1016, université Paris Descartes, hôpital Cochin 
Saint-Vincent-de-Paul, AP-HP, 27, rue du Faubourg-Saint-Jacques, 75014 Paris,
France. jean-baptiste.trabut@cch.aphp.fr

Alcoholic hepatitis is one of the most severe presentations of alcoholic liver
disease. It is usually revealed by the recent onset of jaundice in a patient with
alcoholic cirrhosis. Maddrey's discriminant function can help to recognize
patients with poor prognosis (the 6-month mortality is above 50% when it exceeds 
32). Corticosteroids increase survival in those patients with high risk of death.
Other treatments (pentoxifylline, N-acetyl-cysteine or enteral nutrition) need to
be investigated further before to recommend their routine use instead of, or in
association with, corticoids. Liver transplantation can be proposed to highly
selected patients who do not respond to medical therapy. In any case, long-term
prognosis will primarily depend on the maintenance of alcohol abstinence.

Copyright © 2012 Société nationale française de médecine interne (SNFMI).
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2012.02.002 
PMID: 22425133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1375. Dig Dis Sci. 2012 Jul;57(7):1773-81. doi: 10.1007/s10620-012-2118-3. Epub 2012
Mar 15.

Lipid-lowering agents in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and steatohepatitis:
human studies.

Nseir W(1), Mograbi J, Ghali M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Holy Family Hospital, Nazareth, Israel.
w.nseir@yahoo.com

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver disease which refers
to the presence of hepatic steatosis without significant intake of alcohol. NAFLD
is an asymptomatic disease that can progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD is currently the
most common cause of incidental abnormal liver tests and elevated serum liver
enzyme activities in the developed world. Obesity, diabetes, and other components
of the metabolic syndrome are frequently associated with the NAFLD. The treatment
of NAFLD focuses on life-style modifications. Statins, fibrates, and other
lipid-lowering agents have been proposed as effective lipid-lowering treatments
in patients with NAFLD/NASH. However, clinicians are concerned that
hyperlipidemic patients with NAFLD/NASH who are treated with statins could
develop transaminitis. We assessed the efficacy and safety of lipid-lowering
agents for NAFLD/NASH by reviewing reports of human studies including pilot,
prospective, preliminary, and post hoc analysis studies on online databases
during the period of 1980 to December 2012. The results of studies provide
compelling evidence that lipid-lowering agents are safe and efficacious in
patients with NAFLD/NASH and that some of these agents can induce a reduction in 
the extent of the hepatic steatosis. Well-designed randomized controlled studies 
of adequate size and duration with histological endpoints are needed in order to 
establish a suitable lipid-lowering treatment for hyperlipidemic patients with
NAFLD/NASH, and for nonhyperlipidemic patients with NAFLD/NASH with a high risk
for cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-012-2118-3 
PMID: 22419057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1376. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol. 2012 Mar;58(1):25-34.

Advanced HCC: emerging molecular therapies.

Finn RS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, USA.
rfinn@mednet.ucla.edu

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common complication of chronic liver disease 
and represents the third-leading cause of death world-wide. While the majority of
cases occur in Asia, the incidence has been rising in the West for some time.
This is driven not only by the Hepatitis C epidemic but also the rising incidence
of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and resulting liver disease. Despite its
frequency, treatments for HCC have generally been limited. Curative treatments
are limited to surgical resection or liver transplant for a subset of patients
and locally ablative techniques such as radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and
trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE) have been shown to extend survival for
patients with unresectable and intermediate stage liver cancer. For patients with
advanced HCC, sorafenib, a small molecule multitargeted kinase inhibitor is the
only agent that has been shown to improve survival. At this time there is an
abundance of research activity in HCC with an emphasis on developing new agents
that target specific molecular alterations in HCC. In this review, we will focus 
on those agents currently in Phase III studies for front-line, second-line and
other indications.


PMID: 22419002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1377. Semin Liver Dis. 2012 Feb;32(1):80-91. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1306428. Epub 2012 Mar
13.

The impact of bariatric surgery on nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Rabl C(1), Campos GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Paracelsus Private Medical University, Salzburg,
Austria.

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a stage of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD), and in most patients, is associated with obesity and the
metabolic syndrome. The current best treatment of NAFLD and NASH is weight
reduction with the current options being life style modifications, with or
without pharmaceuticals, and bariatric surgery. Bariatric surgery is an effective
treatment option for individuals who are severely obese (body mass index ≥ 35
kg/m(2)), and provides for long-term weight loss and resolution of
obesity-associated diseases in most patients. Regression and/or histologic
improvement of NASH have been documented after bariatric surgery. We review the
available literature reporting on the impact of the various bariatric surgery
techniques on NASH.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1306428 
PMID: 22418890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1378. Semin Liver Dis. 2012 Feb;32(1):49-64. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1306426. Epub 2012 Mar
13.

Obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease:
emerging evidence and mechanisms.

Musso G(1), Olivetti C, Cassader M, Gambino R.

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, Turin, Italy. giovanni_musso@yahoo.it

Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) are common conditions, frequently encountered in patients with metabolic 
disorders. OSAS has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular and 
metabolic complications. It has been recently suggested that the chronic
intermittent hypoxia of OSAS may also affect the presence and severity of NAFLD. 
We will critically review experimental and human evidence connecting OSAS to
NAFLD pathogenesis, trying to dissect the effect of intermittent hypoxia from
that of obesity and associated comorbidities, and examine molecular mechanisms
connecting OSAS to liver and metabolic disease in NAFLD, including hypoxia
inducible factor (HIF), nuclear factor-kappa B, unfolded protein response,
hypoxic adipose tissue inflammation, and their therapeutic potential for NAFLD
and its complications, including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Finally,
we will provide suggestions for the management of NAFLD patients with suspected
OSAS and recommendations for future research.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1306426 
PMID: 22418888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1379. Semin Liver Dis. 2012 Feb;32(1):39-48. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1306425. Epub 2012 Mar
13.

Hypercoagulation and thrombophilia in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease:
mechanisms, human evidence, therapeutic implications, and preventive
implications.

Northup PG(1), Argo CK, Shah N, Caldwell SH.

Author information: 
(1)Coagulation in Liver Disease Study Group, Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
pgn5qs@virginia.edu

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a spectrum of disorders with a high
prevalence in the industrialized world. Despite the high prevalence, the etiology
and fundamental pathophysiology for the disease process is poorly understood.
There is now a growing fund of knowledge suggesting that the ongoing inflammatory
state associated with NAFLD leads to a low-level activation of the coagulation
system. Although the data supporting this activation of the coagulation system
are significant, the link with end-organ disease, mainly cardiovascular disease, 
is less firm and mostly epidemiological. In this review, we will explore the
evidence for and against a hypercoagulable or thrombophilic state in NAFLD. We
will examine possible pathophysiologic explanations and mechanisms, human
epidemiologic and population-based data, and the possible therapeutic and
preventative implications for treatment of thrombophilia in patients with this
disease process.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1306425 
PMID: 22418887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1380. Semin Liver Dis. 2012 Feb;32(1):30-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1306424. Epub 2012 Mar 
13.

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and noncirrhotic hepatocellular carcinoma: fertile
soil.

Torres DM(1), Harrison SA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Walter Reed National
Military Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is easily the most common cause of
chronic liver disease in the United States (U.S.) as the hepatic manifestation of
the metabolic syndrome. Although only 5 to 20% of patients with NAFLD are
generally considered to meet criteria for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
with its inherent risk for progression to cirrhosis, this still represents an
alarmingly large number of individuals. The exponentially growing rates of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the U.S. may be partially attributable to
increased numbers of NASH cirrhotics, although recent evidence has suggested that
NAFLD may directly promote hepatic carcinogenesis independent of cirrhosis. This 
review focuses on HCC in noncirrhotic NASH with an emphasis on clinical
presentation, pathogenesis, and implications for screening.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1306424 
PMID: 22418886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1381. Semin Liver Dis. 2012 Feb;32(1):22-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1306423. Epub 2012 Mar 
13.

Dyslipidemia in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Chatrath H(1), Vuppalanchi R, Chalasani N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis,
Indiana 46202, USA.

Patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) often have dyslipidemia
along with other features of metabolic syndrome such as obesity, diabetes
mellitus, and hypertension. The dyslipidemia in NAFLD is characterized by
increased serum triglycerides, increased small, dense low-density lipoprotein
(LDL nontype A) particles, and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol.
The pathogenesis of dyslipidemia in NAFLD is not well understood, but it is
likely related to hepatic overproduction of the very low-density lipoprotein
particles and dysregulated clearance of lipoproteins from the circulation. There 
is unequivocal evidence that cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of
mortality in patients with NAFLD. Aggressive treatment of dyslipidemia plays a
critical role in the overall management of patients with NAFLD. Statins are the
first-line agents to treat high cholesterol and their dosage should be adjusted
based on achieving therapeutic targets and tolerability. Although all statins
appear to be effective in improving cholesterol levels in patients with NAFLD,
there is more experience with atorvastatin in patients with NAFLD; furthermore,
it is the only statin to date to show a reduced cardiovascular morbidity in
patients with NAFLD. The risk for serious liver injury from statins is quite rare
and patients with NAFLD are not at increased risk for statin hepatotoxicity.
Omega-3 fatty acids are perhaps the first choice to treat hypertriglyceridemia
because of their safety, tolerability, and efficacy in improving serum
triglycerides, as well as their potential to improve liver disease.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1306423 
PMCID: PMC3654545
PMID: 22418885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1382. Semin Liver Dis. 2012 Feb;32(1):14-21. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1306422. Epub 2012 Mar
13.

NAFLD in the absence of metabolic syndrome: different epidemiology, pathogenetic 
mechanisms, risk factors for disease progression?

Yilmaz Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Marmara University, School of Medicine,
Pendik, Istanbul, Turkey. dryusufyilmaz@gmail.com

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a cluster of metabolic abnormalities that have been 
associated with an increased risk of developing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 
(NAFLD). Insulin resistance and central obesity are the key components of MetS,
ultimately leading to liver fat accumulation and the subsequent development of
necroinflammatory liver injury. However, the origin and nature of the metabolic
stressors responsible for stimulating the progression of simple steatosis to
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) remain to be clearly identified. In addition,
epidemiologic research on the association between MetS and NAFLD has provided
only limited information to guide the development of targeted interventions, in
particular, nutrition and pharmacologic prevention programs. This review
summarizes the evidence supporting the proposal that NAFLD is not invariably
associated with the presence of MetS, and mechanisms other than insulin
resistance may contribute to the chronic inflammatory processes that underpin the
development of liver fat accumulation and the subsequent architectural distortion
of the liver. A special focus is given to increased hemoglobin as a risk factor
for the development of NAFLD in the absence of MetS.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1306422 
PMID: 22418884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1383. Semin Liver Dis. 2012 Feb;32(1):3-13. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1306421. Epub 2012 Mar 
13.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: pathologic patterns and biopsy evaluation in
clinical research.

Kleiner DE(1), Brunt EM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Pathology, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. kleinerd@mail.nih.gov

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) results in histologically complex
specific and nonspecific injury patterns. In clinical research of NAFLD, the
liver biopsy evaluation provides a wealth of information on the architectural
arrangement and severity of a variety of histologic changes, including steatosis,
inflammation, cellular injury, and fibrosis. This information is summarized as an
overall diagnostic category, such steatosis or steatohepatitis and the severity
of the injury can be graded and staged. Histopathologic disease classification in
NAFLD is related to but separate from evaluation of individual histologic
lesions. The patient population under study may affect the prevalence of
histologic findings and in particular, pediatric patients with NAFLD may show a
higher prevalence of zone 1 steatosis and periportal fibrosis as compared with
adult populations. For the purposes of clinical research, it is important to
provide the pathologist with biopsies that are adequate to classify the disease
process as well as to grade and stage the changes. A current understanding of
NAFLD pathologic classification, as well as nuances of grading and staging, is
presented in this review.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1306421 
PMID: 22418883  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1384. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Mar;27 Suppl 2:19-22. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07010.x.

Cancer stem cells generated by alcohol, diabetes, and hepatitis C virus.

Machida K(1), Chen CL, Liu JC, Kashiwabara C, Feldman D, French SW, Sher L,
Hyeongnam JJ, Tsukamoto H.

Author information: 
(1)Southern California Research Center for ALPD and Cirrhosis, Los Angeles,
California, USA. kmachida@usc.edu

Cancer stem cells (tumor-initiating stem-like cells: TISCs) are resistant to
chemotherapy and are associated with metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC),
which is commonly observed in hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected patients with
obesity or alcohol abuse. However, it is unknown whether the TLR4-NANOG pathway
serves as a universal oncogenic signaling in the genesis of TISCs and HCC. We
aimed to determine whether Tlr4 is a putative proto-oncogene for TISCs in liver
oncogenesis due to different etiologies and how Tlr4 is regulated at the
transcriptional and epigenetic levels. CD133+/CD49f+ TISCs were isolated using
FACS from HCC developed in HCV Core Tg mice fed alcohol,
diethylnitrosamine-treated mice, and alcoholic patients with or without HCV
infection. CD133+/CD49f+ cells isolated from the animal models and patients are
tumorigenic both in vitro and in a xenograft model, and Tlr4 or Nanog silencing
with shRNA attenuates their tumor initiating property. Functional oncogene
screening of a cDNA library identified the organ size control pathway targets
Yap1 and AKT activator Igf2bp3 as NANOG-dependent genes that inhibit transforming
growth factor-β signaling in TISCs. Tlr4 expression is higher in TISCs compared
with CD133-/CD49f+ cells. Taken together, Tlr4 may be a universal proto-oncogene 
responsible for the genesis of TLR4-NANOG dependent TISCs, and this pathway
serves as a novel therapeutic target for HCC.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07010.x 
PMCID: PMC3306127
PMID: 22320911  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1385. J Hepatol. 2012 Jul;57(1):157-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.02.023. Epub 2012 Mar 
10.

Exercise and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a systematic review and
meta-analysis.

Keating SE(1), Hackett DA, George J, Johnson NA.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Exercise and Sport Science, University of Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Exercise is an integral component of lifestyle intervention
aimed at weight loss, but an independent benefit of exercise in NAFLD has also
been suggested.
METHODS: We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of aerobic exercise and/or progressive
resistance training for the modulation of liver fat and alanine aminotransferase 
(ALT) levels in adults. Relevant databases were searched up to August 2011 for
controlled trials, which compared regular exercise vs. a non-exercise control on 
change in liver fat and/or ALT.
RESULTS: Of the 16,822 studies from the initial search, 12 were included. There
was a significant pooled effect size (ES) for the comparison between exercise
therapy vs. control (ES=-0.37, 95% CI: -0.06 to -0.69; p=0.02), but only when
interventions which compared combined exercise and diet vs. diet-alone and
achieved substantial weight loss, were omitted. The benefit of exercise on liver 
fat occurred with minimal or no weight loss. There was no effect of exercise
alone vs. control on ALT (ES=-0.15, 95% CI: 0.14 to -0.45; p=0.32).
CONCLUSIONS: Individual reports of exercise interventions often have low sample
sizes and insufficient power to detect clinically meaningful hepatic benefits. By
pooling current research, we show clear evidence for a benefit of exercise
therapy on liver fat but not ALT levels. This benefit is apparent with minimal or
no weight loss and at exercise levels below current exercise recommendations for 
obesity management. Given the paucity of current treatment options, exercise
provides a valid, low-cost therapy for disorders characterised by fatty liver.

Copyright © 2012 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.02.023 
PMID: 22414768  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1386. Eur Heart J. 2012 May;33(10):1190-200. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehr453. Epub 2012
Mar 8.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a new and important cardiovascular risk
factor?

Bhatia LS(1), Curzen NP, Calder PC, Byrne CD.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Health Research Biomedical Research Unit, Southampton
University Hospitals NHS Trust, Southampton General Hospital, Tremona Road,
Southampton, UK. loke.bhatia@soton.ac.uk

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects up to a third of the population
worldwide and may confer increased cardiometabolic risk with consequent adverse
cardiovascular outcomes independent of traditional cardiovascular risk factors
and the metabolic syndrome. It is characterized almost universally by insulin
resistance and is strongly associated with type 2 diabetes and obesity.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a marker of pathological ectopic fat
accumulation combined with a low-grade chronic inflammatory state. This results
in several deleterious pathophysiological processes including abnormal glucose,
fatty acid and lipoprotein metabolism, increased oxidative stress, deranged
adipokine profile, hypercoaguability, endothelial dysfunction, and accelerated
progression of atherosclerosis. This ultimately leads to a dysfunctional
cardiometabolic phenotype with cardiovascular mortality representing the main
mode of premature death in NAFLD. This review is aimed at introducing NAFLD to
the clinical cardiologist by discussing in-depth the evidence to date linking
NAFLD with cardiovascular disease, reviewing the likely mechanisms underlying
this association, as well as summarizing from a cardiologist's perspective,
current and potential future treatment options for this increasingly prevalent
disease.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehr453 
PMID: 22408036  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1387. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2012 Apr;46(4):272-84. doi: 10.1097/MCG.0b013e31824587e0.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: multimodal treatment options for a
pathogenetically multiple-hit disease.

Polyzos SA(1), Kountouras J, Zavos C, Deretzi G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Second Medical Clinic, Aristotle University of
Thessaloniki, Ippokration Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. stergios@endo.gr

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as a significant public
health problem. Besides the liver, NAFLD is also associated with increased
cardiovascular and overall morbidity and mortality. NAFLD warrants intensive
research, because no treatment has been established as yet. This may be partly
attributed to the fact that the majority of the relative clinical trials have a
monotherapeutic direction. However, the multifactorial pathogenesis of NAFLD may 
probably direct clinical trials to a combined therapeutic approach. The aim of
this review is to provide a description of the multifactorial pathogenesis of
NAFLD and type II diabetes mellitus-NAFLD interplay, and to summarize the
therapeutic trials focusing on the combined NAFLD treatment, providing a link
between the multiple-hit pathogenesis and the multimodal treatment of NAFLD
patients. A diabetes-like therapeutic approach for NAFLD is finally proposed.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0b013e31824587e0 
PMID: 22395062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1388. Metab Syndr Relat Disord. 2012 Jun;10(3):161-6. doi: 10.1089/met.2011.0145. Epub 
2012 Mar 6.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a nutritional approach.

Colak Y(1), Tuncer I, Senates E, Ozturk O, Doganay L, Yilmaz Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Istanbul Medeniyet University Faculty of
Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey. dryasarcolak@yahoo.com

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is among the most common causes of
chronic liver disease in many countries, and its prevalence is increasing. NAFLD 
is often considered to be a hepatic component of metabolic syndrome, and studies 
have established that insulin resistance plays a major role in the pathogenesis
of NAFLD. Treatments for NAFLD primarily target insulin resistance.
Interestingly, the most common environmental cause of insulin resistance is diet.
This article examines the correlations between NAFLD and diet and provides some
diet recommendations based on the most current data available.

DOI: 10.1089/met.2011.0145 
PMID: 22394108  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1389. Proc Nutr Soc. 2012 May;71(2):307-15. doi: 10.1017/S0029665112000171. Epub 2012
Mar 6.

Potential health benefits of moderate alcohol consumption: current perspectives
in research.

Nova E(1), Baccan GC, Veses A, Zapatera B, Marcos A.

Author information: 
(1)Immunonutrition Group, Institute of Food Science and Technology and Nutrition,
ICTAN-CSIC, C/Jose Antonio Novais 10, 28040 Madrid, Spain. enova@ictan.csic.es

The benefits of moderate amounts of alcohol for a better health and longer life
expectancy compared with abstinence have been suggested by the findings of
numerous studies. However, controversies have emerged regarding the influence of 
confounding factors and the systematic errors that might have been inadvertently 
disregarded in the early studies. This review includes a description of the
findings of those research studies published in the last 5 years on the effects
of moderate alcohol consumption on all-cause mortality, CVD and inflammation, the
immune system, insulin sensitivity, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and
cancer. Promising evidences exist from both animal studies and human clinical
trials regarding intermediate end-points of CHD and insulin sensitivity, such as 
HDL, adiponectin or fibrinogen. However, controversies and inconsistent findings 
exist regarding many of these diseases and related functions and biomarkers.
Further research and human randomised-controlled trials with adequate
standardisation of the study conditions are necessary in order to draw a
comparison between studies, establish the causal effect of moderate alcohol
intake on disease protection and reach consensus on the circumstances that allow 
the recommendation of moderate alcohol habitual intakes as a strategy for health 
maintenance.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665112000171 
PMID: 22391060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1390. Cell. 2012 Mar 2;148(5):852-71. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2012.02.017.

Mechanisms for insulin resistance: common threads and missing links.

Samuel VT(1), Shulman GI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06510, USA. varman.samuel@yale.edu

Insulin resistance is a complex metabolic disorder that defies explanation by a
single etiological pathway. Accumulation of ectopic lipid metabolites, activation
of the unfolded protein response (UPR) pathway, and innate immune pathways have
all been implicated in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance. However, these
pathways are also closely linked to changes in fatty acid uptake, lipogenesis,
and energy expenditure that can impact ectopic lipid deposition. Ultimately,
these cellular changes may converge to promote the accumulation of specific lipid
metabolites (diacylglycerols and/or ceramides) in liver and skeletal muscle, a
common final pathway leading to impaired insulin signaling and insulin
resistance.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2012.02.017 
PMCID: PMC3294420
PMID: 22385956  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1391. Minerva Endocrinol. 2012 Mar;37(1):25-40.

Neuroendocrine and endocrine dysfunction in the hyperinsulinemic PCOS patient:
the role of metformin.

Weickert MO(1), Hodges P, Tan BK, Randeva HS.

Author information: 
(1)Warwickshire Institute for the Study of Diabetes, Endocrinology and
Metabolism, University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, Coventry,
UK. m.weickert@warwick.ac.uk

Metformin is a widely used and extensively studied insulin sensitising drug for
the treatment of women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), with various
actions in tissues responding to insulin that include the liver, skeletal muscle,
adipose tissue, the endothelium of blood vessels, and the ovaries. Treatment of
PCOS women with metformin has been shown to reduce fasting glucose levels, blood 
pressure, and serum androgens; further effects of metformin in women with PCOS
may include direct effects on the central nervous system; and indirect effects
via the modification of gut hormone and adipokine synthesis and/or secretion. A
number of "novel" adipokines and metabolic factors have been recently identified 
which may play a role both in the pathogenesis and the treatment of women with
PCOS. We here discuss recent advances in the area, with a focus on neuroendocrine
and endocrine dysfunctions in women with PCOS and the potential role of metformin
in this context.


PMID: 22382613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1392. Hepatology. 2012 Oct;56(4):1567-74. doi: 10.1002/hep.25674. Epub 2012 Sep 11.

Chronic inflammation, immune escape, and oncogenesis in the liver: a unique
neighborhood for novel intersections.

Stauffer JK(1), Scarzello AJ, Jiang Q, Wiltrout RH.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer and Inflammation Program, NCI, Frederick, MD 21702, USA.

Sustained hepatic inflammation, driven by alcohol consumption, nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease, and/or chronic viral hepatitis (hepatitis B and C), results in
damage to parenchyma, oxidative stress, and compensatory
regeneration/proliferation. There is substantial evidence linking these
inflammation-associated events with the increased incidence of hepatocellular
carcinogenesis. Although acute liver inflammation can play a vital and beneficial
role in response to liver damage or acute infection, the effects of chronic liver
inflammation, including liver fibrosis and cirrhosis, are sufficient in a
fraction of individuals to initiate the process of transformation and the
development of hepatocellular carcinoma. This review highlights immune-dependent 
mechanisms that may be associated with hepatocellular oncogenesis, including
critical transformative events/pathways in the context of chronic inflammation
and subverted tolerogenesis.

Copyright © 2012 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.25674 
PMCID: PMC3381981
PMID: 22378061  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1393. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Apr;6(2):163-71. doi: 10.1586/egh.11.97.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and bariatric surgery.

Stephen S(1), Baranova A, Younossi ZM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Liver Diseases, Department of Medicine, Inova Fairfax Hospital,
Falls Church, VA, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common causes of
chronic liver disease worldwide. Treatment recommendations for NAFLD are aimed
towards weight reduction, thereby reducing insulin resistance. Unfortunately,
lifestyle modifications have not yielded long-term success, while durable weight 
loss is routinely achieved with bariatric surgery. This article reviews the
effects of bariatric surgery on patients with NAFLD. In these patients,
postsurgical evaluations of liver histology by repeat liver biopsy are hindered
by the risk of the procedure and the inherent sample variability, which makes the
impact of bariatric surgery on NAFLD difficult to quantify. In longitudinal
studies of NAFLD, the biopsy-based evaluations should be augmented by repeated
measurements of the noninvasive biomarkers that may provide an insight into the
changes in the physiological state of the liver after bariatric or other types of
interventions. Nevertheless, currently available tests are not able to provide
this type of in-depth outcome measures for these patients.

DOI: 10.1586/egh.11.97 
PMID: 22375522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1394. Histopathology. 2012 Aug;61(2):141-52. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2559.2011.04145.x.
Epub 2012 Feb 28.

The epidemiology, pathogenesis and histopathology of fatty liver disease.

Levene AP(1), Goldin RD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Histopathology, Imperial College Faculty of Medicine at St
Mary's Hospital, London, UK.

Fatty liver disease includes non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and
alcoholic liver disease (ALD), each of which is increasing in prevalence. Each
represents a histological spectrum that extends from isolated steatosis to
steatohepatitis and cirrhosis. NAFLD is associated with obesity, diabetes, and
insulin resistance, and is considered to be the liver manifestation of the
metabolic syndrome. The pathogenesis of NAFLD and ALD involves cytokines,
adipokines, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Histopathology is the gold standard 
for assessing the severity of liver damage in NAFLD and ALD. We have reviewed the
literature, and described and compared the epidemiology, natural disease history,
pathogenesis and histopathology of NAFLD and ALD.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2559.2011.04145.x 
PMID: 22372457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1395. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Feb 28;18(8):727-35. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i8.727.

Role of cytokines and chemokines in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Braunersreuther V(1), Viviani GL, Mach F, Montecucco F.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Foundation for Medical Researches, Faculty of
Medicine, Geneva University Hospital, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) includes a variety of histological
conditions (ranging from liver steatosis and steatohepatitis, to fibrosis and
hepatocarcinoma) that are characterized by an increased fat content within the
liver. The accumulation/deposition of fat within the liver is essential for
diagnosis of NAFLD and might be associated with alterations in the hepatic and
systemic inflammatory state. Although it is still unclear if each histological
entity represents a different disease or rather steps of the same disease,
inflammatory processes in NAFLD might influence its pathophysiology and
prognosis. In particular, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (the most inflamed
condition in NAFLDs, which more frequently evolves towards chronic and serious
liver diseases) is characterized by a marked activation of inflammatory cells and
the upregulation of several soluble inflammatory mediators. Among several
mediators, cytokines and chemokines might play a pivotal active role in NAFLD and
are considered as potential therapeutic targets. In this review, we will update
evidence from both basic research and clinical studies on the potential role of
cytokines and chemokines in the pathophysiology of NAFLD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i8.727 
PMCID: PMC3286135
PMID: 22371632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1396. Arch Toxicol. 2012 Sep;86(9):1337-48. doi: 10.1007/s00204-012-0814-6. Epub 2012
Feb 25.

Cytokines in alcoholic liver disease.

An L(1), Wang X, Cederbaum AI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Systems Therapeutics, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Toxicol. 2012 Sep;86(9):1331-2.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is associated with a spectrum of liver injury
ranging from steatosis and steatohepatitis to fibrosis and cirrhosis. While
multifactorial pathogenesis plays a role in the disease progression, enhanced
inflammation in the liver during ethanol exposure is a major feature of ALD.
Dysregulated cytokine metabolism and activity are crucial to the initiation of
alcohol-induced liver injury. The pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor
(TNF-α) has been demonstrated to be one of the key factors in the various aspects
of pathophysiology of ALD. The immunomodulatory cytokines such as interleukin 10 
and interleukin 6 play roles in exerting hepatic protective effects. Adiponectin 
is an adipose tissue-derived hormone, which displays protective actions on
ethanol-induced liver injury. Treatment for mice with adiponectin decreases TNF-α
expression, steatosis and prevents alcohol-induced liver injury. Adiponectin
exerts its anti-inflammatory effects via suppression of TNF-α expression and
induction of anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-10. Adiponectin attenuates
alcoholic liver injury by the complex network of multiple signaling pathways in
the liver, leading to enhanced fatty acid oxidation and reduced steatosis.
Interactions between pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines such as TNFα and
adiponectin and other cytokines are likely to play important roles in the
development and progression of alcoholic liver disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-012-0814-6 
PMID: 22367091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1397. J Dig Dis. 2012 Mar;13(3):133-42. doi: 10.1111/j.1751-2980.2011.00569.x.

Oxidative stress and redox signaling mechanisms of alcoholic liver disease:
updated experimental and clinical evidence.

Zhu H(1), Jia Z, Misra H, Li YR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Edward Via College of Osteopathic Medicine,
Virginia Tech Corporate Research Center, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University, Blacksburg, Virginia 24060, USA.

Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the 
United States and Europe. The spectrum of ALD ranges from fatty liver to
alcoholic hepatitis and cirrhosis, which may eventually lead to hepatocellular
carcinoma. In developed countries as well as developing nations, ALD is a major
cause of end-stage liver disease that requires liver transplantation. The most
effective therapy for ALD is alcohol abstinence; however, for individuals with
severe ALD and those in whom alcohol abstinence is not achievable, targeted
therapies are absolutely necessary. In this context, advances of our
understanding of the pathophysiology of ALD over the past two decades have
contributed to the development of therapeutic modalities (e.g., pentoxifylline
and corticosteroids) for the disease although the efficacy of the available
treatments remains limited. This article is intended to succinctly review the
recent experimental and clinical findings of the involvement of oxidative stress 
and redox signaling in the pathophysiology of ALD and the development of
mechanistically based antioxidant modalities targeting oxidative stress and redox
signaling mechanisms. The biochemical and cellular sources of reactive oxygen and
nitrogen species (ROS/RNS) and dysregulated redox signaling pathways associated
with alcohol consumption are particularly discussed to provide insight into the
molecular basis of hepatic cell dysfunction and destruction as well as tissue
remodeling underlying ALD.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Digestive Diseases © 2012 Chinese Medical
Association Shanghai Branch, Chinese Society of Gastroenterology, Renji Hospital 
Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-2980.2011.00569.x 
PMCID: PMC3297983
PMID: 22356308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1398. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Mar;27 Suppl 2:127-34. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07013.x.

Epidemiology, risk factors, and the promotion of pancreatic cancer: role of the
stellate cell.

Pandol S(1), Gukovskaya A, Edderkaoui M, Dawson D, Eibl G, Lugea A.

Author information: 
(1)Southern California Research Center for Alcoholic Liver and Pancreatic
Diseases, University of California and Department of Veterans Affairs, Los
Angeles, California, USA. Stephen.pandol@va.gov

Erratum in
    J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 May;27(5):990. Edderkoui, Mouad [corrected to
Edderkaoui, Mouad].

There are approximately 277,000 new cases of pancreatic cancer and 266,000 deaths
from pancreatic cancer annually, indicating a mortality rate of 96% of the cases 
diagnosed. Because of the ineffectiveness of therapies, a major emphasis needs to
be placed on prevention. This paper reviews the epidemiology and risk factors for
pancreatic cancer, and uses this information to propose plausible research
directions for determining the biological mechanisms mediating the effects of
risk factors on the promotion of pancreatic cancer, with a focus on the
pancreatic stellate cell.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07013.x 
PMCID: PMC3736749
PMID: 22320930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1399. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Mar;27 Suppl 2:89-93. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07003.x.

Hepatoprotective and anti-inflammatory cytokines in alcoholic liver disease.

Gao B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Liver Diseases, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
bgao@mail.nih.gov

The activation of innate immunity by various factors (e.g. lipopolysaccharide and
complements) plays an important role in initiating and promoting alcoholic liver 
injury via the stimulation of Kupffer cells to induce oxidative stress and to
produce pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g. tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-α) that
cause hepatocellular damage. Accumulating evidence suggests that the activation
of innate immunity also stimulates Kupffer cells to produce the hepatoprotective 
cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 during
alcoholic liver injury. IL-6 protects against alcoholic liver injury via the
activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and the 
subsequent induction of a variety of hepatoprotective genes in hepatocytes. IL-10
inhibits alcoholic liver inflammation via the activation of STAT3 in Kupffer
cells/macrophages and the subsequent inhibition of liver inflammation. Recent
studies have suggested that IL-10 may play a dual role in controlling
ethanol-induced steatosis and liver injury via the inhibition of the
pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-α, thereby ameliorating alcoholic liver injury, or 
via the inhibition of the hepatoprotective cytokine IL-6, thereby potentiating
alcoholic liver injury. IL-22 is another important hepatoprotective cytokine that
protects against acute and chronic alcoholic liver injury by binding to a
receptor complex composed of IL-10R2 and IL-22R chains on the surfaces of
hepatocytes. Finally, IL-22 treatment is a potential therapeutic option for
treating severe forms of alcoholic liver disease because of its antioxidant,
antiapoptotic, antisteatotic, proliferative, and antimicrobial effects, as well
as the potential added benefit of few side effects.

Published © 2012 This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07003.x 
PMCID: PMC3281557
PMID: 22320924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1400. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Mar;27 Suppl 2:75-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07007.x.

Retinoic acids and hepatic stellate cells in liver disease.

Lee YS(1), Jeong WI.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Liver Research, Graduate School of Medical Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Daejeon, Korea.

Quiescent hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) in healthy liver store 80% of total liver
retinols and release them depending on the extracellular retinol status. However,
HSCs activated by liver injury lose their retinols and produce a considerable
amount of extracellular matrix, subsequently leading to liver fibrosis. Emerging 
evidence suggests that retinols and their metabolites such as retinoic acids
(RAs) contribute to liver regeneration, fibrosis and tumor. However, it is not
clear yet why HSCs lose retinol, which enzymes are involved in the retinol
metabolism of HSCs and what function of retinol metabolites on HSCs upon liver
injury. Recently, our group and collaborators have demonstrated that during
activation, HSCs not only lose retinols but also metabolize them into RAs by
alcohol dehydrogenases and retinaldehyde dehydrogenases. As transcriptional
factors, metabolized RAs induce retinoic acid early inducible-1 and suppressor of
cytokine signaling 1 in HSCs, which plays an important role in the interaction
between HSCs and natural killer cells. In addition, RAs released from HSCs may
induce hepatic cannabinoid receptor 1 expression in alcoholic liver steatosis or 
regulate immune responses upon liver inflammation. The present review summarizes 
the role of endogenous metabolized RAs on HSCs themselves and on other liver
cells including hepatocytes and immune cells. Moreover, the effects of exogenous 
retinol and RA treatments on HSCs and liver disease are discussed.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07007.x 
PMID: 22320921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1401. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Mar;27 Suppl 2:58-64. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07018.x.

Pathophysiology guided treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Nguyen TA(1), Sanyal AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of Internal
Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, Richmond, Virginia
23298-0341, USA.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is a spectrum that ranges from benign steatosis 
to steatohepatitis. It has become the most common cause of chronic liver disease,
and yet there continues to be a lack of effective therapeutic options. This
article reviews current concepts underlying the pathophysiological basis of
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis from development of insulin resistance to the
establishment of fibrosis. Then using a physiology-based approach, specific
targeted therapeutics are reviewed along with their drawbacks. The evidence
behind current therapies is based predominantly on small trials and, thus, no
recommendations can be made until larger randomized trials are conducted.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07018.x 
PMCID: PMC4900150
PMID: 22320918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1402. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Mar;27 Suppl 2:42-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07014.x.

Iron and steatohepatitis.

Corradini E(1), Pietrangelo A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Internal Medicine 2 and Center for Hemochromatosis, Mario Coppo
Liver Research Center, University Hospital of Modena, Modena, Italy.

As the main iron storage site in the body and the main source of the
iron-regulatory hormone, hepcidin, the liver plays a pivotal role in iron
homeostasis. A variable degree of hepatic iron accumulation has long been
recognized in a number of chronic liver diseases. Both alcoholic and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis display increased iron deposits in the liver, with 
an hepatocellular, mesenchymal, or mixed pattern, and recent reports have
documented a concomitant aberrant hepcidin expression that could be linked to
different coincidental pathogenic events (e.g. the etiological agent itself,
necroinflammation, metabolic derangements, genetic predisposition). The present
study reviews the pathogenic mechanisms of iron accumulation in steatohepatitis
during alcoholic and non-alcoholic liver disease and the role of excess iron in
chronic disease progression.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07014.x 
PMID: 22320915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1403. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Mar;27 Suppl 2:33-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07023.x.

Alcohol, insulin resistance and the liver-brain axis.

de la Monte S(1), Derdak Z, Wands JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University,
Providence, Rhode Island, USA.

Chronic alcohol exposure inhibits insulin and insulin-like growth factor
signaling in the liver and brain by impairing the signaling cascade at multiple
levels. These alterations produced by alcohol cause severe hepatic and central
nervous system insulin resistance as the cells fail to adequately transmit
signals downstream through Erk/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), which is 
needed for DNA synthesis and liver regeneration, and phosphatidylinositol
3-kinase (PI3K), which promotes growth, survival, cell motility, glucose
utilization, plasticity, and energy metabolism. The robust inhibition of insulin 
signaling in liver and brain is augmented by additional factors involving the
activation of phosphatases such as phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN), which
further impairs insulin signaling through PI3K/Akt. Thus, intact insulin
signaling is important for neuronal survival. Chronic alcohol consumption
produces steatohepatitis, which also promotes hepatic insulin resistance,
oxidative stress and injury, with the attendant increased generation of "toxic
lipids" such as ceramides that increase insulin resistance. The PI3K/Akt
signaling cascade is altered by direct interaction with ceramides as well as
through PTEN upregulation as a downstream target gene of enhanced p53
transcriptional activity. Cytotoxic ceramides transferred from the liver to the
blood can enter the brain due to their lipid-soluble nature, and thereby exert
neurodegenerative effects via a liver-brain axis. We postulate that the
neurotoxic and neurodegenerative effects of liver-derived ceramides activate
pro-inflammatory cytokines and increase lipid adducts and insulin resistance in
the brain to impair cognitive and motor function. These observations are
discussed in the context of insulin sensitizers as potential cytoprotective
agents against liver and brain injury induced by alcohol.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07023.x 
PMCID: PMC4550293
PMID: 22320914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1404. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Mar;27 Suppl 2:27-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07004.x.

Impaired autophagy and organellar dysfunction in pancreatitis.

Gukovsky I(1), Pandol SJ, Mareninova OA, Shalbueva N, Jia W, Gukovskaya AS.

Author information: 
(1)Southern California Research Centers for Alcoholic Liver and Pancreatic
Diseases and Cirrhosis, VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, and University 
of California at Los Angeles, California 90073, USA.

Recent findings from our group, obtained on experimental in vivo and ex vivo
models of pancreatitis, reveal that this disease causes a profound dysfunction of
key cellular organelles, lysosomes and mitochondria. We found that autophagy, the
main cellular degradative, lysosome-driven process, is activated but also
impaired in acute pancreatitis because of its' inefficient progression/resolution
(flux) resulting from defective function of lysosomes. One mechanism underlying
the lysosomal dysfunction in pancreatitis is abnormal processing (maturation) and
activation of cathepsins, major lysosomal hydrolases; another is a decrease in
pancreatic levels of key lysosomal membrane proteins LAMP-1 and LAMP-2. Our data 
indicate that lysosomal dysfunction plays an important initiating role in
pancreatitis pathobiology. The impaired autophagy mediates vacuole accumulation
in acinar cells; furthermore, the abnormal maturation and activation of
cathepsins leads to increase in intra-acinar trypsin, the hallmark of
pancreatitis; and LAMP-2 deficiency causes inflammation and acinar cell necrosis.
Thus, the autophagic and lysosomal dysfunctions mediate key pathologic responses 
of pancreatitis. On the other hand, we showed that pancreatitis causes acinar
cell mitochondria depolarization, mediated by the permeability transition pore
(PTP). Genetic (via deletion of cyclophilin D) inactivation of PTP prevents
mitochondrial depolarization and greatly ameliorates the pathologic responses of 
pancreatitis. Further, our data suggest that mitochondrial damage, by stimulating
autophagy, increases the demand for efficient lysosomal degradation and therefore
aggravates the pathologic consequences of lysosomal dysfunction. Thus, the
combined autophagic, lysosomal and mitochondrial dysfunctions are key to the
pathogenesis of pancreatitis.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07004.x 
PMCID: PMC3281514
PMID: 22320913  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1405. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2012 Jun;36(3):202-8. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2011.12.011. Epub 2012 Feb 10.

HCC and NASH: how strong is the clinical demonstration?

Rosmorduc O(1), Fartoux L.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'hépatologie, Inserm UMP_S938, hôpital Saint-Antoine, université
Pierre-et-Marie-Curie, Paris, France.

Obesity and the metabolic syndrome (MS) are growing epidemics associated with an 
increased risk for many types of cancer. In the liver, inﬂammatory and angiogenic
changes due to insulin resistance and fatty liver disease are associated with an 
increased incidence of liver cancer. Regardless of underlying liver disease,
cirrhosis remains the most important risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC) although rare cases of HCC arising without cirrhosis raise the possibility 
of a direct carcinogenesis secondary to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
Moreover, MS and its different features may also increase the risk of HCC in the 
setting of chronic liver diseases of other causes such as viral hepatitis or
alcohol abuse. Taking into account all these data, it is necessary to better
determine the risk of developing HCC in patients with MS to improve the screening
guidelines and develop prophylactic treatments in this setting.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2011.12.011 
PMID: 22326764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1406. J Hepatol. 2012 Jun;56(6):1384-91. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.10.027. Epub 2012 Feb
9.

Hepatocellular carcinoma in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: an emerging
menace.

Baffy G(1), Brunt EM, Caldwell SH.

Author information: 
(1)VA Boston Healthcare System and Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA. gbaffy@partners.org

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common cancer worldwide that primarily
develops in cirrhosis resulting from chronic infection by hepatitis B virus and
hepatitis C virus, alcoholic injury, and to a lesser extent from genetically
determined disorders such as hemochromatosis. HCC has recently been linked to
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the hepatic manifestation of obesity
and related metabolic disorders such as diabetes. This association is alarming
due to the globally high prevalence of these conditions and may contribute to the
rising incidence of HCC witnessed in many industrialized countries. There is also
evidence that NAFLD acts synergistically with other risk factors of HCC such as
chronic hepatitis C and alcoholic liver injury. Moreover, HCC may complicate
non-cirrhotic NAFLD with mild or absent fibrosis, greatly expanding the
population potentially at higher risk. Major systemic and liver-specific
molecular mechanisms involved include insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia,
increased TNF signaling pathways, and alterations in cellular lipid metabolism.
These provide new targets for prevention, early recognition, and effective
treatment of HCC associated with NAFLD. Indeed, both metformin and PPAR gamma
agonists have been associated with lower risk and improved prognosis of HCC. This
review summarizes current evidence as it pertains to the epidemiology,
pathogenesis, and prevention of NAFLD-associated HCC.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.10.027 
PMID: 22326465  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1407. Gastroenterology. 2012 Apr;142(4):711-725.e6. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2012.02.003. 
Epub 2012 Feb 8.

Role of obesity and lipotoxicity in the development of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis: pathophysiology and clinical implications.

Cusi K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida 32610-0226, USA. kenneth.cusi@medicine.ufl.edu

As obesity reaches epidemic proportions, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
is becoming a frequent cause of patient referral to gastroenterologists. There is
a close link between dysfunctional adipose tissue in NAFLD and common conditions 
such as metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular disease.
This review focuses on the pathophysiology of interactions between adipose tissue
and target organs in obesity and the resulting clinical implications for the
management of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. The release of fatty acids from
dysfunctional and insulin-resistant adipocytes results in lipotoxicity, caused by
the accumulation of triglyceride-derived toxic metabolites in ectopic tissues
(liver, muscle, pancreatic beta cells) and subsequent activation of inflammatory 
pathways, cellular dysfunction, and lipoapoptosis. The cross talk between
dysfunctional adipocytes and the liver involves multiple cell populations,
including macrophages and other immune cells, that in concert promote the
development of lipotoxic liver disease, a term that more accurately describes the
pathophysiology of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. At the clinical level, adipose
tissue insulin resistance contributes to type 2 diabetes mellitus and
cardiovascular disease. Treatments that rescue the liver from lipotoxicity by
restoring adipose tissue insulin sensitivity (eg, significant weight loss,
exercise, thiazolidinediones) or preventing activation of inflammatory pathways
and oxidative stress (ie, vitamin E, thiazolidinediones) hold promise in the
treatment of NAFLD, although their long-term safety and efficacy remain to be
established. Better understanding of pathways that link dysregulated adipose
tissue, metabolic dysfunction, and liver lipotoxicity will result in improvements
in the clinical management of these challenging patients.

Copyright © 2012 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2012.02.003 
PMID: 22326434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1408. Chin J Integr Med. 2012 Feb;18(2):152-60. doi: 10.1007/s11655-012-0993-2. Epub
2012 Feb 5.

Chinese herbal medicine in the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Dong H(1), Lu FE, Zhao L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Integrative Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Tongji
Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan, China.

Chinese herbal medicine has developed new therapies for nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease (NAFLD) based on its unique theory system and substantial herb remedies. 
In this review, 21 traditional Chinese herbs were introduced for their potential 
benefit in the treatment of NAFLD. Majority of them are evaluated by experimental
studies and few by multicenter clinical trials. Herbal monomers as berberine and 
resveratrol, extracts from Polygonum hypoleucum Ohwi, and Artemisia sacrorum
Ledeb., and formulae including Yinchenhao Decoction (, YCHD), Qushi Huayu
Decoction (, QSHYD), and Danning Tablet () were discussed in detail on their
therapeutic potentials. Most of these herbal medicines were proved to improve
biochemical and histological changes of NAFLD both in vitro and in vivo. Also,
their therapeutic activities were associated with inhibiting lipid accumulation
through adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase activation or
upregulating low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) expression, alleviating
lipid peroxidation, and reducing the production of inflammatory cytokines.
Although the efficacy and safety of these herbal medicines needed to be evaluated
in multicenter large-scale clinical trials, Chinese medicine is promising and
effective for preventing and treating NAFLD disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11655-012-0993-2 
PMID: 22311412  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1409. J Gastroenterol. 2012 Mar;47(3):215-25. doi: 10.1007/s00535-012-0527-x. Epub 2012
Feb 7.

Inflammation and fibrogenesis in steatohepatitis.

Fujii H(1), Kawada N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka City University, 
1-4-3, Asahimachi, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8585, Japan.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease consists of a range of disorders characterized
by excess accumulation of triglyceride within the liver. Whereas simple steatosis
is clinically benign, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) often progresses to
cirrhosis. Inflammation and fibrogenesis are closely inter-related and are major 
targets of NASH research. Experimental data have shown that inflammation in NASH 
is caused by insulin resistance, systemic lipotoxicity due to overnutrition,
lipid metabolites, the production of proinflammatory cytokines and adipokines by 
visceral adipose tissue, gut-derived bacteria, and oxidative stress. In
NASH-associated fibrosis, the principal cell type responsible for extracellular
matrix production is recognized as the hepatic stellate cell. Although the
fibrotic mechanisms underlying NASH are largely similar to those observed in
other chronic liver diseases, the altered patterns of circulating adipokines, the
generation of oxidative stress, and the hormonal profile associated with the
metabolic syndrome might play unique roles in the fibrogenesis associated with
the disease. Information on the basic pathogenesis of NASH with a focus on the
generation of inflammation and fibrosis will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00535-012-0527-x 
PMID: 22310735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1410. Nutr Clin Pract. 2012 Feb;27(1):8-20. doi: 10.1177/0884533611433534.

Zinc and liver disease.

Mohammad MK(1), Zhou Z, Cave M, Barve A, McClain CJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, USA.

Erratum in
    Nutr Clin Pract. 2012 Apr;27(2):305. Mohommad, Mohammad K [corrected to Mohammad,
Mohammad K].

Zinc is an essential trace element required for normal cell growth, development, 
and differentiation. It is involved in DNA synthesis, RNA transcription, and cell
division and activation. It is a critical component in many zinc protein/enzymes,
including critical zinc transcription factors. Zinc deficiency/altered metabolism
is observed in many types of liver disease, including alcoholic liver disease
(ALD) and viral liver disease. Some of the mechanisms for zinc deficiency/altered
metabolism include decreased dietary intake, increased urinary excretion,
activation of certain zinc transporters, and induction of hepatic
metallothionein. Zinc deficiency may manifest itself in many ways in liver
disease, including skin lesions, poor wound healing/liver regeneration, altered
mental status, or altered immune function. Zinc supplementation has been
documented to block/attenuate experimental ALD through multiple processes,
including stabilization of gut-barrier function, decreasing endotoxemia,
decreasing proinflammatory cytokine production, decreasing oxidative stress, and 
attenuating apoptotic hepatocyte death. Clinical trials in human liver disease
are limited in size and quality, but it is clear that zinc supplementation
reverses clinical signs of zinc deficiency in patients with liver disease. Some
studies suggest improvement in liver function in both ALD and hepatitis C
following zinc supplementation, and 1 study suggested improved fibrosis markers
in hepatitis C patients. The dose of zinc used for treatment of liver disease is 
usually 50 mg of elemental zinc taken with a meal to decrease the potential side 
effect of nausea.

DOI: 10.1177/0884533611433534 
PMID: 22307488  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1411. Endocrinol Nutr. 2012 Mar;59(3):197-206. doi: 10.1016/j.endonu.2011.11.007. Epub 
2012 Feb 1.

The role of gut hormones in controlling the food intake: what is their role in
emerging diseases?

Del Prete A(1), Iadevaia M, Loguercio C.

Author information: 
(1)CIRANAD: Centro Interuniversitario Per Ricerche Su Alimenti Nutrizione Ed
Apparato Digerente, Surgical Medical Department of Clinical and Experimental
Internistica F.Magrassi e A.Lanzara, Second University of Naples, Italy.
adpbrothers@libero.it

Central nervous system (CNS) receives peripheral relevant information that are
able to regulate individual's energy balance through metabolic, neural, and
endocrine signals. Ingested nutrients come into contact with multiple sites in
the gastrointestinal tract that have the potential to alter peptide and neural
signaling. There is a strong relationship between CNS and those peripheral
signals (as gastrointestinal hormones) in the control of food intake. The purpose
of this review is to give updated information about the role of gut hormones as
mediators of feeding behavior and of different nutrients in modulating gut
hormones production. The role of gut hormones in the pathogenesis of emerging
diseases as obesity and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is also
discussed together with the possible role of these peripheral signals as targets 
of future therapeutic options.

Copyright © 2011 SEEN. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.endonu.2011.11.007 
PMID: 22300605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1412. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2012 Jul;69(13):2135-46. doi: 10.1007/s00018-012-0917-5.

A role for sphingolipids in the pathophysiology of obesity-induced inflammation.

Bikman BT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Developmental Biology, Brigham Young University, 
Provo, UT 84602, USA. benjamin_bikman@byu.edu

Following the initial discovery that adipose tissue actively synthesizes and
secretes cytokines, obesity-induced inflammation has been implicated in the
etiology of a host of disease states related to obesity, including cardiovascular
disease and type II diabetes. Interestingly, a growing body of evidence similarly
implicates sphingolipids as prime instigators in these same diseases. From the
recent discovery that obesity-related inflammatory pathways modulate sphingolipid
metabolism comes a novel perspective—sphingolipids may act as the dominant
mediators of deleterious events stemming from obesity-induced inflammation. This 
paradigm may identify sphingolipids as an effective target for future
therapeutics aimed at ameliorating diseases associated with chronic inflammation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-012-0917-5 
PMID: 22294100  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1413. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2012 Mar;8(3):349-60. doi:
10.1517/17425255.2012.656087. Epub 2012 Jan 27.

Genetics or environment in drug transport: the case of organic anion transporting
polypeptides and adverse drug reactions.

Clarke JD(1), Cherrington NJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Arizona, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, 1703 E.
Mabel Street, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) uptake transporters
are important for the disposition of many drugs and perturbed OATP activity can
contribute to adverse drug reactions (ADRs). It is well documented that both
genetic and environmental factors can alter OATP expression and activity. Genetic
factors include single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that change OATP activity 
and epigenetic regulation that modify OATP expression levels. SNPs in OATPs
contribute to ADRs. Environmental factors include the pharmacological context of 
drug-drug interactions and the physiological context of liver diseases. Liver
diseases such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, cholestasis and
hepatocellular carcinoma change the expression of multiple OATP isoforms. The
role of liver diseases in the occurrence of ADRs is unknown.
AREAS COVERED: This article covers the roles OATPs play in ADRs when considered
in the context of genetic or environmental factors. The reader will gain a
greater appreciation for the current evidence regarding the salience and
importance of each factor in OATP-mediated ADRs.
EXPERT OPINION: A SNP in a single OATP transporter can cause changes in drug
pharmacokinetics and contribute to ADRs but, because of overlap in substrate
specificities, there is potential for compensatory transport by other OATP
isoforms. By contrast, the expression of multiple OATP isoforms is decreased in
liver diseases, reducing compensatory transport and thereby increasing the
probability of ADRs. To date, most research has focused on the genetic factors in
OATP-mediated ADRs while the impact of environmental factors has largely been
ignored.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.2012.656087 
PMCID: PMC3753226
PMID: 22280100  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1414. Diabetologia. 2012 Apr;55(4):885-904. doi: 10.1007/s00125-011-2446-4. Epub 2012
Jan 27.

Impact of current treatments on liver disease, glucose metabolism and
cardiovascular risk in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD): a systematic
review and meta-analysis of randomised trials.

Musso G(1), Cassader M, Rosina F, Gambino R.

Author information: 
(1)Gradenigo Hospital, C.so Regina Margherita 8, Turin, Italy.
giovanni_musso@yahoo.it

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a spectrum
ranging from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH): NAFLD
causes an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes and liver-related
complications (the latter confined to NASH). The effect of proposed treatments on
liver disease, glucose metabolism and cardiovascular risk in NAFLD is unknown. We
reviewed the evidence for the management of liver disease and cardio-metabolic
risk in NAFLD.
METHODS: Publications through November 2011 were systematically reviewed by two
authors. Outcomes evaluated though standard methods were:
histological/radiological/biochemical features of NAFLD, variables of glucose
metabolism and cardiovascular risk factors. Seventy-eight randomised trials were 
included (38 in NASH, 40 in NAFLD): 41% assessed post-treatment histology, 71%
assessed glucose metabolism and 88% assessed cardiovascular risk factors.
Lifestyle intervention, thiazolidinediones, metformin and antioxidants were most 
extensively evaluated.
RESULTS: Lifestyle-induced weight loss was safe and improved cardio-metabolic
risk profile; a weight loss ≥7% improved histological disease activity, but was
achieved by <50% patients. Statins and polyunsaturated fatty acids improved
steatosis, but their effects on liver histology are unknown. Thiazolidinediones
improved histological disease activity, glucose, lipid and inflammatory variables
and delayed fibrosis progression. Pioglitazone also improved blood pressure.
Weight gain (up to 4.8%) was common. Antioxidants yielded mixed histological
results: vitamin E improved histological disease activity when administered for
2 years, but increased insulin resistance and plasma triacylglycerols.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Weight loss is safe, and improves liver histology and
cardio-metabolic profile. For patients not responding to lifestyle intervention, 
pioglitazone improves histological disease activity, slows fibrosis progression
and extensively ameliorates cardio-metabolic endpoints. Further randomised
controlled trials (RCTs) of adequate size and duration will assess long-term
safety and efficacy of proposed treatments on clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-011-2446-4 
PMID: 22278337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1415. Panminerva Med. 2012 Mar;54(1):29-37.

A 2012 clinical update for internists in adult nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

Younossi ZM(1), Venkatesan C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Inova Fairfax Hospital, Falls Church, VA
22042, USA. Zobair.younossi@inova.org

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic
liver disease in the Western world. Associated with the metabolic syndrome, NAFLD
is associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes. A subset of NAFLD patients
with histologic nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) can have increased liver
related mortality. Because of the prevalence and complications of this chronic
liver disease, it is important that internists understand important aspects about
diagnosis and management. In this article, we aim to provide an update to
clinicians related to issues surrounding prognosis, monitoring, and treatment.


PMID: 22278114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1416. J Dig Dis. 2012 Feb;13(2):69-74. doi: 10.1111/j.1751-2980.2011.00554.x.

Liver X receptors bridge hepatic lipid metabolism and inflammation.

Liu Y(1), Qiu DK, Ma X.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Shanghai Jiao-Tong University
School of Medicine Renji Hospital, Shanghai Institute of Digestive Disease and
Key Laboratory of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Ministry of Health (Shanghai
Jiao-Tong University), Shanghai, China.

Liver X receptors (LXRs) are members of the superfamily of metabolic nuclear
receptors, which play central roles in the regulation of cholesterol absorption, 
efflux, transportation and excretion and many other processes correlating with
lipid metabolism. LXRs can also regulate inflammation in vitro and in vivo.
Accumulating evidence demonstrates that LXR are involved in the metabolism and
inflammation in human diseases. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
classically associated with lipid metabolic disorders and inflammatory responses,
especially in the nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) phase. The effects of LXRs 
on cholesterol metabolism and inflammation make them attractive as a potential
target for the treatment of NAFLD. Since the ability to synthesize triglycerides 
may be protective in obesity and fatty liver, the hepatic lipogenesis by LXRs
should not rule out the possibility of the use of LXRs in NAFLD.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Digestive Diseases © 2012 Chinese Medical
Association Shanghai Branch, Chinese Society of Gastroenterology, Renji Hospital 
Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-2980.2011.00554.x 
PMID: 22257474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1417. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2012 Feb;11(1):18-27.

Clinical features of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease-associated hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Duan XY(1), Qiao L, Fan JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. fanjiangao@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), especially nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis, is a recognized risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). 
However, detailed analysis of the clinical features in patients with NAFLD and
their association with HCC is lacking. This study aimed to update the clinical
features of patients with NAFLD-associated HCC.
DATA SOURCES: The clinical data of patients with NAFLD-associated HCC from 25
studies published between 1990 and 2010 in the Pubmed database were
comprehensively reviewed.
RESULTS: In a total of 169 patients with NAFLD-associated HCC, 72.8% were male.
The median age at abnormal liver function tests and diagnosis of NAFLD and HCC
was 60, 64 and 67 years, respectively. Most patients were obese (75%) and
diabetic (59.8%), 32.3% had dyslipidemia, and 53% had hypertension. Nearly all
patients (98.6%, 71/72) were complicated with at least one metabolic disorder.
The majority (76%) of the HCC patients had a solitary tumor nodule, with the
tumor size ranging from 0.8 to 20 cm in diameter (mean 3.4 cm). Most (61.1%) of
the patients had moderately-differentiated HCC. In 40.2% of the patients, HCC
occurred in the absence of cirrhosis. Among 130 patients, 57.7% underwent
hepatectomy and 14.6% received liver transplantation. The mean follow-up of the
treated patients for 25 months showed that 32.4% (24/74) died and 18.8% (9/48)
had recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with NAFLD-associated HCC are usually accompanied with
metabolic disorders. Regular surveillance in patients with NAFLD for HCC is
necessary, especially for elderly men with metabolic syndrome.


PMID: 22251466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1418. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Jan 17;9(3):152-61. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2011.273.

Pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a multidisciplinary approach.

Alisi A(1), Feldstein AE, Villani A, Raponi M, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Unit, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Istituto di Ricovero e 
Cura a Carattere Scientifico, Piazza Sant'Onofrio 4, 00165 Rome, Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a multifactorial condition, ranging
from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with or without
fibrosis. NAFLD affects both adults and children who present with particular risk
factors, including obesity, sedentary lifestyle and/or a predisposing genetic
background. The escalation of the prevalence of NAFLD in children worldwide is a 
worrying phenomenon because this disease is closely associated with the
development of both cirrhosis and cardiometabolic syndrome in adulthood. The
etiopathogenesis of primary NAFLD in children is unknown; however, considerable
knowledge about the mechanisms of liver damage that occur during disease
progression has been gathered over the past 30 years. Understanding the
pathogenetic mechanisms, together with the histological pattern, provide the
basis to characterize potential early predictors of the disease, suitable
noninvasive diagnostic tools and design novel specific treatments and possible
management strategies. Despite a few clinical trials on the use of antioxidants
combined with lifestyle intervention for NAFLD that showed encouraging results,
to date, no treatment guidelines exist for children with NAFLD. In this Review,
we provide an overview of current concepts in epidemiology, histological
features, etiopathogenesis, diagnosis and treatment of NAFLD in children and
adolescents.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2011.273 
PMID: 22249728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1419. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2012 Mar;42(3):212-21. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyr198. Epub 2012 Jan 
12.

Obesity and liver cancer risk: an evaluation based on a systematic review of
epidemiologic evidence among the Japanese population.

Tanaka K(1), Tsuji I, Tamakoshi A, Matsuo K, Ito H, Wakai K, Nagata C, Mizoue T, 
Sasazuki S, Inoue M, Tsugane S; Research Group for the Development and Evaluation
of Cancer Prevention Strategies in Japan.

Collaborators: Tsugane S, Inoue M, Sasazuki S, Iwasaki M, Otani T, Sawada N,
Shimazu T, Tsuji I, Tsubono Y, Nishino Y, Tamakoshi A, Matsuo K, Ito H, Wakai K, 
Nagata C, Mizoue T, Tanaka K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Saga University, Saga, Japan.
tanakake@post.saga-med.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: With increased interest in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, its common
co-morbid condition, obesity, has recently attracted much attention as a risk
factor for liver cancer. Recent studies also suggest that obesity may play a role
in the development of liver cancer in alcoholic cirrhosis or viral hepatitis and 
in the general population.
METHODS: We systematically reviewed epidemiologic studies on overweight/obesity
and liver cancer among Japanese populations. Original data were obtained by
searching the MEDLINE (PubMed) and Ichushi databases, complemented by manual
searches. The evaluation was performed in terms of the magnitude of association
in each study and the strength of evidence ('convincing', 'probable', 'possible' 
or 'insufficient'), together with biologic plausibility.
RESULTS: Among nine cohort studies identified, five (four on patients with
chronic liver disease and one on local residents) reported a weak to strong
positive association, while four (one on patients with hepatitis B and three on
local residents) found no association [summary relative risk for one unit
increase in body mass index (kg/m(2)) 1.07, 95% confidence interval 1.03-1.10].
All three case-control studies identified (two on cirrhotic patients and one on
atomic bomb survivors) reported a strong positive association (summary relative
risk 1.31, 95% confidence interval 1.12-1.53). Overall, the summary relative risk
was estimated at 1.13 (95% confidence interval 1.07-1.20), and overweight/obese
individuals had a relative risk of 1.74 (95% confidence interval 1.33-2.28)
compared with those who had normal/low weight.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that overweight or obesity 'probably' increases the risk
of primary liver cancer, to a moderate degree, among the Japanese population.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyr198 
PMID: 22241822  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1420. Curr Vasc Pharmacol. 2012 Mar;10(2):162-72.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in type 2 diabetes: pathogenesis and treatment 
options.

Tziomalos K(1), Athyros VG, Karagiannis A.

Author information: 
(1)First Propedeutic Department of Internal Medicine, AHEPA Hospital,
Thessaloniki, Greece. ktziomalos@yahoo.com

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common disorder and its prevalence
is expected to increase due to the rising incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus
(T2DM) and obesity. NAFLD is associated with increased mortality rates and
cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in these patients. The
pathogenesis of NAFLD is not completely elucidated but insulin resistance and
oxidative stress appear to play a major role. NAFLD is more prevalent and more
severe in patients with T2DM. A multitude of pharmacological agents have been
evaluated in NAFLD but most studies were small, short-term and yielded
unsatisfactory results in terms of efficacy. Patients with T2DM and NAFLD appear 
to be even less responsive to the evaluated agents. Thus, the optimal management 
strategy for NAFLD remains unclear. On the other hand, preliminary data suggest
that lifestyle intervention can reduce the incidence of NAFLD in overweight or
obese patients with T2DM. Accordingly, prevention of obesity and T2DM is of
paramount importance for the reduction of the prevalence of NAFLD and of its
associated cardiovascular and liver-related complications.


PMID: 22239625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1421. Obes Rev. 2012 Apr;13(4):381-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2011.00978.x. Epub 2012 
Jan 12.

Oestradiol is a protective factor for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in
healthy men.

Tian GX(1), Sun Y, Pang CJ, Tan AH, Gao Y, Zhang HY, Yang XB, Li ZX, Mo ZN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrasound, First Affiliated Hospital, Guangxi Medical
University, Nanning, Guangxi, China.

Visceral fat is a risk factor for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). A
reduction in sex hormones is associated with increased abdominal fat. Thus, we
investigated whether reduced testosterone (T) or oestradiol (E2) levels in men
are associated with NAFLD and central obesity. The study involved a survey of
1,882 men between 20 and 60 years of age. We detected hepatic fat infiltration by
ultrasound. Early morning serum was analyzed for total testosterone (TT), E2, sex
hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and
luteinizing hormone (LH). Free testosterone (FT) was calculated using the
Vermeulen method. In the studied population, the prevalence of NAFLD, FSH, LH and
SHBG increased with age, TT and FT declined with age, and E2 remained stable.
However, in the NAFLD group, TT remained stable, FT and E2 declined, and hepatic 
fat infiltration increased (P < 0.001 for both). Using multivariate analysis, a
correlation was found between E2 and NAFLD, with an odds ratio of 0.954 (95%
confidence interval: 0.946-0.967). E2 is one of the protective factors against
NAFLD in healthy men. T has no significant correlation with NAFLD. Further
investigation would be required to assess the clinical consequences of reduced E2
in men with NAFLD, particularly for men whose TT remained stable.

© 2012 The Authors. obesity reviews © 2012 International Association for the
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2011.00978.x 
PMID: 22239319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1422. Liver Int. 2012 May;32(5):701-11. doi: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2011.02730.x. Epub
2011 Dec 30.

The potential role of prebiotic fibre for treatment and management of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and associated obesity and insulin resistance.

Parnell JA(1), Raman M, Rioux KP, Reimer RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Education and Recreation Studies, Faculty of Health and
Community Studies, Mount Royal University, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
jparnell@mtroyal.ca

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and the more severe non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) represent a spectrum of diseases involving hepatic fat
accumulation and histological features essentially identical to alcoholic liver
disease; however, they occur in the absence of excessive alcohol intake. They
typically arise in conjunction with one or more features of the metabolic
syndrome. Lifestyle mediated weight loss remains the primary mode of therapy for 
NAFLD and NASH, but this is often ineffective and adjunctive medical and surgical
treatments are presently lacking. Prebiotic fibres are a group of non-digestible 
carbohydrates that modulate the human microbiota in a manner that is advantageous
to host health. Rodent studies suggest that dietary supplementation with
prebiotic fibres positively impacts NAFLD by modifying the gut microbiota,
reducing body fat, and improving glucoregulation. Future research should focus on
placebo-controlled, human, clinical trials using histological endpoints to
address the effects of prebiotics on NAFLD and NASH. The aim of this review is to
summarize current knowledge about prebiotics as an emerging therapeutic target
for NAFLD.

© 2011 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2011.02730.x 
PMID: 22221818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1423. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2012 May;1821(5):795-9. doi: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2011.12.002. 
Epub 2011 Dec 22.

Apolipoprotein A-V dependent modulation of plasma triacylglycerol: a puzzlement.

Sharma V(1), Ryan RO, Forte TM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Prevention of Obesity, Diabetes, and Cardiovascular Disease,
Children's Hospital Oakland Research Institute, Oakland, CA 94609, USA.

The discovery of apolipoprotein A-V (apoA-V) in 2001 has raised a number of
intriguing questions about its role in lipid transport and triglyceride (TG)
homeostasis. Genome wide association studies (GWAS) have consistently identified 
APOA5 as a contributor to plasma TG levels. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP)
within the APOA5 gene locus have been shown to correlate with elevated plasma TG.
Furthermore, transgenic and knockout mouse models support the view that apoA-V
plays a critical role in maintenance of plasma TG levels. The present review
describes recent concepts pertaining to apoA-V SNP analysis and their association
with elevated plasma TG. The interaction of apoA-V with
glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein binding protein 1 
(GPIHBP1) is discussed relative to its postulated role in TG-rich lipoprotein
catabolism. The potential role of intracellular apoA-V in regulation of TG
homeostasis, as a function of its ability to associate with cytosolic lipid
droplets, is reviewed. While some answers are emerging, numerous mysteries remain
with regard to this low abundance, yet potent, modulator of TG homeostasis. Given
the strong correlation between elevated plasma TG and heart disease, there is
great scientific and public interest in deciphering the numerous biological
riddles presented by apoA-V. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled
Triglyceride Metabolism and Disease.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2011.12.002 
PMCID: PMC3319174
PMID: 22209939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1424. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2012 Jun 1;123(1-3):7-14. doi:
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2011.12.005. Epub 2011 Dec 22.

The temporal relationship between per capita alcohol consumption and harm: a
systematic review of time lag specifications in aggregate time series analyses.

Holmes J(1), Meier PS, Booth A, Guo Y, Brennan A.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Public Health, School of Health and Related Research, University of
Sheffield, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. john.holmes@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Changes in per capita alcohol consumption are temporally linked to
changes in rates of alcohol-related harm. Methodological approaches for analysing
this relationship have been suggested, however, the problem of time lags is not
well-addressed. This study provides a review of time lag specifications, looking 
at (a) time to first effect on harm, (b) time to full effect and (c) the
functional form of the effect accumulation from first to full effect to inform
modelling of the relationship between changes in aggregate alcohol consumption
and changes in rates of harm.
METHODS: Bibliographic databases were searched and citation and reference
checking was used to identify studies. Included studies were time series analyses
of the relationship between aggregated population alcohol consumption and rates
of alcohol-related harms where time lag specifications had been derived or
tested.
RESULTS: 36 studies were included with liver cirrhosis, heart disease and suicide
dominating the evidence base. For a large number of alcohol-related harms, no
literature was identified. There was strong evidence of an immediate first effect
following a change in consumption for most harms. Recommended lag specifications 
are proposed for a set of alcohol-attributable harms.
CONCLUSIONS: Research on time lag specifications is under-developed for most
harms although we provide suggested specifications based on the findings of the
review. Greater methodological attention needs to be given to the rationale for
choosing or applying lag specifications and the inherent complexity of the time
lag process. More consistent and transparent reporting of methodological
decisions would aide progress in the field.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2011.12.005 
PMID: 22197480  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1425. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2012 Feb;25(1):10-6. doi: 10.1097/QCO.0b013e32834ef599.

From nonalcoholic fatty liver to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and cirrhosis in
HIV-infected patients: diagnosis and management.

Lemoine M(1), Serfaty L, Capeau J.

Author information: 
(1)UPMC UMR_S 938, INSERM UMR_S 938, Faculté de Médecine Pierre et Marie Curie,
Département d'Hépatologie, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, AP-HP , Paris, France.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Steatosis or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
commonly associated with abdominal obesity and metabolic disorders. It may evolve
to severe liver injuries including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), cirrhosis
and hepatocellular carcinoma. HIV-infected patients are aging and face an
increased prevalence of abdominal obesity and metabolic disorders. We provide
here an overview of NAFLD in HIV-infected patients for a better management of
these patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: Steatosis is observed in 30-40% of HIV-infected patients,
associated with increased adiposity and metabolic disorders. Whereas steatosis
has probably a benign prognosis, clinically silent lesions of NASH are frequent
in patients undergoing liver biopsy with often fibrosis and even cirrhosis.
Fibrosis severity is related to age, insulin resistance and
stavudine/didanosine-based therapy. Noninvasive markers of fibrosis are useful
for the management of NAFLD-suspected patients. In addition to lifestyle changes,
new treatment options are emerging and need to be evaluated in these patients.
Steatosis is also common in HIV-hepatitis C virus (HCV) co-infected patients and 
worsens fibrosis progression but does not impact on the rate of sustained
virological response.
SUMMARY: HIV-infected patients are at risk of NAFLD, a silent disease that can
progress to more severe liver injuries. An accurate screening of these patients
should be considered to prevent harmful evolution.

DOI: 10.1097/QCO.0b013e32834ef599 
PMID: 22183113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1426. J Hepatol. 2012 Apr;56(4):952-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.08.025. Epub 2011 Dec 
13.

The interaction of hepatic lipid and glucose metabolism in liver diseases.

Bechmann LP(1), Hannivoort RA, Gerken G, Hotamisligil GS, Trauner M, Canbay A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Essen,
University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.

It is widely known that the liver is a central organ in lipogenesis,
gluconeogenesis and cholesterol metabolism. However, over the last decades, a
variety of pathological conditions highlighted the importance of metabolic
functions within the diseased liver. As observed in Western societies, an
increase in the prevalence of obesity and the metabolic syndrome promotes
pathophysiological changes that cause non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). 
NAFLD increases the susceptibility of the liver to acute liver injury and may
lead to cirrhosis and hepatocellular cancer. Alterations in insulin response,
β-oxidation, lipid storage and transport, autophagy and an imbalance in
chemokines and nuclear receptor signaling are held accountable for these changes.
Furthermore, recent studies revealed a role for lipid accumulation in
inflammation and ER stress in the clinical context of liver regeneration and
hepatic carcinogenesis. This review focuses on novel findings related to nuclear 
receptor signaling - including the vitamin D receptor and the liver receptor
homolog 1 - in hepatic lipid and glucose uptake, storage and metabolism in the
clinical context of NAFLD, liver regeneration, and cancer.

Copyright Â© 2012 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.08.025 
PMID: 22173168  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1427. Ann Med. 2012 Dec;44(8):758-72. doi: 10.3109/07853890.2011.605387. Epub 2011 Dec 
12.

Mapping body fat distribution: a key step towards the identification of the
vulnerable patient?

Arsenault BJ(1), Beaumont EP, Després JP, Larose E.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire de cardiologie et de
pneumologie de Québec, Canada.

Although excess body fat is a significant health hazard, estimation of body fat
content with the body mass index may not adequately reflect the amount of
atherogenic adipose tissue (AT), i.e. visceral and ectopic fat. As opposed to
subcutaneous AT that supposedly acts as a metabolic sink buffering excess dietary
energy, visceral or intra-abdominal AT depots respond to several external stimuli
that trigger lipolysis and secretion of free fatty acids (FFAs). Reaching the
liver, FFAs accumulate in the liver and, over time, promote a chronic condition
known as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The liver of the typical
NAFLD patient secretes large amounts of very-low-density lipoproteins, the lipid 
content of which may accumulate in additional organs (skeletal muscle, heart, and
pancreas). Here, we review the evidence emerging from functional and population
studies that point towards an important role of ectopic fat accumulation in the
pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. We conclude that
although patients with impaired glycemic control or type 2 diabetes are at
increased cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk, estimating cardiovascular risk goes 
wellbeyond the assessment of glycemic control and traditional CVD risk factors,
and the estimation of visceral/ectopic fat deposition via readily available
imaging techniquesshould be considered.

DOI: 10.3109/07853890.2011.605387 
PMID: 22149719  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1428. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2012 Mar;28(2):159-65. doi:
10.1097/MOG.0b013e32834e7b4b.

Choline metabolism provides novel insights into nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 
and its progression.

Corbin KD(1), Zeisel SH.

Author information: 
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Nutrition Research Institute,
Kannapolis, North Carolina, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Choline is an essential nutrient and the liver is a central
organ responsible for choline metabolism. Hepatosteatosis and liver cell death
occur when humans are deprived of choline. In the last few years, there have been
significant advances in our understanding of the mechanisms that influence
choline requirements in humans and in our understanding of choline's effects on
liver function. These advances are useful in elucidating why nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD) occurs and progresses sometimes to hepatocarcinogenesis.
RECENT FINDINGS: Humans eating low-choline diets develop fatty liver and liver
damage. This dietary requirement for choline is modulated by estrogen and by
single-nucleotide polymorphisms in specific genes of choline and folate
metabolism. The spectrum of choline's effects on liver range from steatosis to
development of hepatocarcinomas, and several mechanisms for these effects have
been identified. They include abnormal phospholipid synthesis, defects in
lipoprotein secretion, oxidative damage caused by mitochondrial dysfunction, and 
endoplasmic reticulum stress. Furthermore, the hepatic steatosis phenotype can be
characterized more fully via metabolomic signatures and is influenced by the gut 
microbiome. Importantly, the intricate connection between liver function,
one-carbon metabolism, and energy metabolism is just beginning to be elucidated.
SUMMARY: Choline influences liver function, and the dietary requirement for this 
nutrient varies depending on an individual's genotype and estrogen status.
Understanding these individual differences is important for gastroenterologists
seeking to understand why some individuals develop NAFLD and others do not, and
why some patients tolerate total parenteral nutrition and others develop liver
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0b013e32834e7b4b 
PMCID: PMC3601486
PMID: 22134222  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1429. J Nutr Biochem. 2012 Mar;23(3):203-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2011.09.006. Epub
2011 Nov 29.

The role of fructose-enriched diets in mechanisms of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease.

Nomura K(1), Yamanouchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hygiene and Public Health, School of Medicine, Teikyo
University, Tokyo 1838605, Japan. DZB07241@nifty.ne.jp

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) currently affects 20%-30% of adults and 
10% of children in industrialized countries, and its prevalence is increasing
worldwide. Although NAFLD is a benign form of liver dysfunction, it can proceed
to a more serious condition, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which may lead 
to liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. NAFLD is accompanied by obesity,
metabolic syndrome and diabetes mellitus, and evidence suggests that fructose, a 
major caloric sweetener in the diet, plays a significant role in its
pathogenesis. Inflammatory progression to NASH is proposed to occur by a two-hit 
process. The first "hit" is hepatic fat accumulation owing to increased hepatic
de novo lipogenesis, inhibition of fatty acid beta oxidation, impaired
triglyceride clearance and decreased very-low-density lipoprotein export. The
mechanisms of the second "hit" are still largely unknown, but recent studies
suggest several possibilities, including inflammation caused by oxidative stress 
associated with lipid peroxidation, cytokine activation, nitric oxide and
reactive oxygen species, and endogenous toxins of fructose metabolites.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2011.09.006 
PMID: 22129639  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1430. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2012 Feb;14(1):8-16. doi: 10.1007/s11894-011-0234-4.

Iron metabolism in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Nelson JE(1), Klintworth H, Kowdley KV.

Author information: 
(1)Benaroya Research Institute at Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, USA.

Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) is a common worldwide clinical and
major public health problem affecting both adults and children in developed
nations. Increased hepatic iron stores are observed in about one-third of adult
NAFLD patients. Iron deposition may occur in parenchymal and/or non-parenchymal
cells of the reticuloendothelial system (RES). Similar patterns of iron
deposition have been associated with increased severity of other chronic liver
diseases including HCV infection and dysmetabolic iron overload, suggesting there
may be a common mechanism for hepatic iron deposition in these diseases. In
NAFLD, iron may potentiate the onset and progression of disease by increasing
oxidative stress and altering insulin signaling and lipid metabolism. The impact 
of iron in these processes may depend upon the sub-cellular location of iron
deposition in hepatocytes or RES cells. Iron depletion therapy has shown efficacy
at reducing serum aminotransferase levels and improving insulin sensitivity in
subjects with NAFLD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-011-0234-4 
PMID: 22124850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1431. J Physiol. 2012 Feb 1;590(3):447-58. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.219691. Epub 2011
Nov 28.

Role of innate immunity and the microbiota in liver fibrosis: crosstalk between
the liver and gut.

Seki E(1), Schnabl B.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of
California, San Diego, School of Medicine, 9500 Gilman Drive, MC no. 0702,
Leichtag Biomedical Research Building, Room no. 118B, La Jolla, CA 92093-0702,
USA. ekseki@ucsd.edu

Liver fibrosis occurs as a wound-healing scar response following chronic liver
inflammation including alcoholic liver disease, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis,
viral hepatitis, cholestatic liver disease and autoimmune liver diseases. The
liver has a unique vascular system within the gastrointestinal tract, as the
majority of the liver's blood supply comes from the intestine through the portal 
vein. When the intestinal barrier function is disrupted, an increase in
intestinal permeability leads to the translocation of intestine-derived bacterial
products such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and unmethylated CpG containing DNA to 
the liver via the portal vein. These gut-derived bacterial products stimulate
innate immune receptors, namely Toll-like receptors (TLRs), in the liver. TLRs
are expressed on Kupffer cells, endothelial cells, dendritic cells, biliary
epithelial cells, hepatic stellate cells, and hepatocytes. TLRs activate these
cells to contribute to acute and chronic liver diseases. This review summarizes
recent studies investigating the role of TLRs, intestinal microbiota and
bacterial translocation in liver fibrosis, alcoholic liver disease and
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.219691 
PMCID: PMC3379693
PMID: 22124143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1432. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2012 Apr;13(5):726-35.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis: new insights from OMICS studies.

Martel C(1), Esposti DD, Bouchet A, Brenner C, Lemoine A.

Author information: 
(1)Universite Paris-Sud, Institut Andre Lwoff, PRES Universud-Paris, Villejuif,
France

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver pathology
characterized by fat accumulation in a context of metabolic syndrome or insulin
resistance. It can be associated with obesity, diabetes, hyperinsulinemia,
dyslipidemia as well as hypertension. NAFLD consists of a large spectrum of
hepatic lesions including benign steatosis, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma. Upon chronic stress, NASH would occur via 
at least "two-hits" process involving modulation of a high number of genes and
proteins. Firstly, the accumulation of fat, either due to the increased inflow of
free fatty acids or de novo lipogenesis, leads to steatosis. Secondly, when
adaptive mechanisms for stress tolerance are overwhelmed, lipotoxicity and
chronic inflammation trigger major hepatic damages, mainly via oxidative and
inflammatory stress, lipid peroxidation and cell death. As a consequence, all
these processes concur to favor steatohepatitis, fibrosis and cancer. Recently,
the elucidation of physiopathological signaling cascades controlling NAFLD and
NASH benefited from large-scale studies, namely the omics, such as
transcriptomics, genomics, proteomics, and lipidomics. The advent of lipidomics
would allow shedding light upon the respective roles of triglyceride and fatty
acid metabolites in the lipotoxic liver injury hypothesis for the pathogenesis of
NASH. In this review, the contribution of the omics to the understanding of the
molecular basis of NASH is discussed that could offer perspectives for novel
biomarkers discovery.


PMID: 22122481  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1433. J Hepatol. 2012 Mar;56(3):704-13. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.09.020. Epub 2011 Nov 
25.

Obesity, inflammation, and liver cancer.

Sun B(1), Karin M.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Transplantation Center, First Affiliated Hospital and Cancer Center,
Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, PR China.
sunbc@njmu.edu.cn

Obesity has become a universal and major public health problem with increasing
prevalence in both adults and children in the 21st century, even in developing
countries. Extensive epidemiological studies reveal a strong link between obesity
and development and progression of various types of cancers. The connection
between obesity and liver cancer is particularly strong and obesity often results
in liver diseases such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and the more 
severe non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH is characterized by fatty liver
inflammation and is believed to cause fibrosis and cirrhosis. The latter is a
known liver cancer risk factor. In fact due to its much higher prevalence obesity
may be a more substantial contributor to overall hepatocellular carcinoma burden 
than infection with hepatitis viruses. Here we review and discuss recent advances
in elucidation of cellular and molecular alterations and signaling pathways
associated with obesity and liver inflammation and their contribution to
hepatocarcinogenesis.

Copyright © 2011 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.09.020 
PMCID: PMC3889660
PMID: 22120206  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1434. Food Funct. 2012 Feb;3(2):101-9. doi: 10.1039/c1fo10170f. Epub 2011 Nov 28.

Dietary agents in the prevention of alcohol-induced hepatotoxicty: preclinical
observations.

Shivashankara AR(1), Azmidah A, Haniadka R, Rai MP, Arora R, Baliga MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Father Muller Medical College, Kankanady,
Mangalore, Karnataka, India.

Long term alcohol consumption is one of the important causes for liver failure
and death. To complicate the existing problem there are no dependable
hepatoprotective drugs and a large number of patients prefer using complementary 
and alternative medicines for treating and managing hepatic complications. Almost
25 centuries ago, Hippocrates, the father of medicine, proclaimed "Let food be
thy medicine and medicine be thy food." Exploring the association between diet
and health continues even today. Preclinical studies carried out in the recent
past have shown that the commonly used dietary agents like Allium sativum
(garlic), Camellia sinensis (tea), Curcuma longa (turmeric), Emblica officinalis 
(Indian gooseberry), Ferula asafoetida (asafoetida), Garcinia cambogia (Malabar
tamarind), Glycine max (soyabean), Murraya koenigii (curry leaves), Piper betle
(beetle leaf), Prunus armeniaca (apricot), Ocimum gratissimum (wild basil),
Theobroma cacao (cocoa), Trigonella foenum-graecum (fenugreek) and Vitis vinifera
(grapes) protect against ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity. Mechanistic studies have
shown that the beneficial effects of these phytochemicals in preventing the
ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity are mediated by the antioxidant, free radical
scavenging, anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic effects. The present review for
the first time collates the hepatoprotective effects of these agents and also
emphasizes on aspects that need future research to establish their utility in
humans.

DOI: 10.1039/c1fo10170f 
PMID: 22119904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1435. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2012 Feb;14(1):67-73. doi: 10.1007/s11894-011-0231-7.

Vitamin d deficiency in patients with chronic liver disease and cirrhosis.

Lim LY(1), Chalasani N.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.

Vitamin D is now widely recognized to have multiple extraskeletal health
functions. The liver is one of the major organs involved in its metabolism.
Recent studies have demonstrated a very high prevalence of vitamin D deficiency
and insufficiency in patients with chronic liver disease and cirrhosis. There is 
an emerging interest to explore the relationship between vitamin D deficiency and
prevalence and severity of non-alcoholic liver disease and response to antiviral 
therapy in hepatitis C. In this review, we discuss the current status of our
understanding of vitamin D metabolism and vitamin D deficiency in patients with
chronic liver disease and cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-011-0231-7 
PMID: 22113744  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1436. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Feb;27(2):238-47. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.06974.x.

Liver disease in Viet Nam: screening, surveillance, management and education: a
5-year plan and call to action.

Gish RG(1), Bui TD, Nguyen CT, Nguyen DT, Tran HV, Tran DM, Trinh HN;
International Group for Liver Health in Viet Nam.

Author information: 
(1)Division of GI Hepatology, University of California, San Diego, California
92103-8413, USA. rgish@ucsd.edu

Despite a high prevalence of liver disease in Viet Nam, there has been no
nationwide approach to the disease and no systematic screening of at-risk
individuals. Risk factors include chronic hepatitis B (estimated prevalence of
12%), chronic hepatitis C (at least 2% prevalence), and heavy consumption of
alcohol among men. This combination of factors has resulted in liver cancer being
the most common cause of cancer death in Viet Nam. There is a general lack of
understanding by both the general public and health-care providers about the
major risk to health that liver disease represents. We report here the initial
steps taken as part of a comprehensive approach to liver disease that will
ultimately include nationwide education for health-care providers, health
educators, and the public; expansion of nationwide screening for hepatitis B and 
C followed by hepatitis B virus vaccination or treatment of chronic hepatitis B
and/or hepatitis C; education about alcoholic liver disease; long-term
surveillance for liver cancer; reduction of infection transmission related to
medical, commercial, and personal re-use of contaminated needles, syringes, sharp
instruments, razors, and inadequately sterilized medical equipment; and ongoing
collection and analysis of data about the prevalence of all forms of liver
disease and the results of the expanded screening, vaccination, and treatment
programs. We report the beginning results of our pilot hepatitis B screening
program. We believe that this comprehensive nationwide approach could
substantially reduce the morbidity and mortality from liver disease and greatly
lessen the burden in terms of both lives lost and health-care costs.

© 2011 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.06974.x 
PMID: 22098550  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1437. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Apr;27(4):670-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.06978.x.

Association of tumor necrosis factor-α gene promoter polymorphism at sites -308
and -238 with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a meta-analysis.

Wang JK(1), Feng ZW, Li YC, Li QY, Tao XY.

Author information: 
(1)School of Public Health, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Environmental and genetic factors play a role in the
pathogenesis and natural history of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
The objective of this study was to quantitatively evaluate the association
between tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α gene promoter polymorphism at sites -308
and -238 and NAFLD susceptibility.
METHODS: We performed an extensive search of relevant studies and made a
meta-analysis, including eight studies with 837 NAFLD cases and 990 controls in
the association between TNF-α -308 polymorphism and NAFLD; and seven studies with
771 cases and 787 controls in TNF-α -238 polymorphism.
RESULTS: The combined results showed that there was a significant difference in
TNF-α-238 genotype distribution between NAFLD and control based on all studies
(GA/AA vs GG [odds ratio = 2.06, 95% confidence interval = 1.58-2.69, P <
0.000,01]). However, the combined results based on all studies showed there was
no evidence of association of TNF-α-308 genotype distribution between NAFLD cases
and controls (GA/AA vs GG [odds ratio = 1.08, 95% confidence interval =
0.82-1.42, P = 0.60]). When stratifying for race, the significant results did not
change materially compared with whole populations.
CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis suggested that TNF-α gene promoter polymorphism at
position -238 but not -308 might be a risk factor for NAFLD.

© 2011 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.06978.x 
PMID: 22097889  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1438. Eur J Endocrinol. 2012 Apr;166(4):575-83. doi: 10.1530/EJE-11-0755. Epub 2011 Nov
17.

Recent advances in cardiovascular aspects of polycystic ovary syndrome.

Sathyapalan T(1), Atkin SL.

Author information: 
(1)Hull York Medical School, Academic Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism,
Michael White Diabetes Centre, 220-236 Anlaby Road, Hull, UK.
thozhukat.sathyapalan@hyms.ac.uk

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) has been associated with increased
cardiovascular risk (CVR) markers, but population studies have not clarified
whether there is an increase in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Four
different PCOS phenotypes resulted from the Rotterdam criteria that may differ in
their CVR potential, thus introducing further complexity. This has led to studies
using surrogate CVR markers including biomarkers in blood and imaging such as
flow-mediated vasodilatation. In PCOS, both peripheral and central insulin
resistance (IR) have been shown. Weight loss has been shown to improve IR and
visceral fat, while insulin sensitizer therapies with metformin or
thiazolidinediones improve IR and endothelial dysfunction. IR is also found in
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease that in turn is very common in PCOS; studies
have suggested that IR may be improved by treatment with metformin and omega-3
fish oils. PCOS patients have a more dyslipidemic phenotype that is worse in
'classical PCOS' associated with a higher CVR. Studies with atorvastatin and
simvastatin have reported a decrease in the lipid parameters and an improvement
in CVR indices including IR, but it is unclear whether this is due to their
lipid-lowering action or a pleiotropic effect of the statin. In this expert
opinion review, the relevant literature published during the last 2 years was
considered. It focuses on some recent important data that has emerged while also 
exposing the gaps that remain in our knowledge that need to be addressed.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-11-0755 
PMID: 22096112  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1439. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol. 2013;358:323-46. doi: 10.1007/82_2011_189.

Contribution of the intestinal microbiota to human health: from birth to 100
years of age.

Cheng J(1), Palva AM, de Vos WM, Satokari R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Biosciences, University of Helsinki, Helsinki,
Finland. jing.cheng@helsinki.fi

Our intestinal tract is colonized since birth by multiple microbial species that 
show a characteristic succession in time. Notably the establishment of the
microbiota in early life is important as it appears to impact later health. While
apparently stable in healthy adults, the intestinal microbiota is changing
significantly during aging. After 100 years of symbiosis marked changes have been
observed that may relate to an increased level of intestinal inflammation. There 
is considerable interest in the microbiota in health and disease as it may
provide functional biomarkers, the possibility to differentiate subjects, and
avenues for interventions. This chapter reviews the present state of the art on
the research to investigate the contribution of the intestinal microbiota to
human health. Specific attention will be given to the healthy microbiota and
aberrations due to disturbances such as celiac disease, irritable bowel syndrome,
inflammatory bowel disease, obesity and diabetes, and non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease.

DOI: 10.1007/82_2011_189 
PMID: 22094893  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1440. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2012 May;1821(5):809-18. doi: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2011.10.016.
Epub 2011 Oct 25.

Roles of PPARs in NAFLD: potential therapeutic targets.

Tailleux A(1), Wouters K, Staels B.

Author information: 
(1)Université Lille Nord de France, F-59000 Lille, France.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a liver pathology with increasing
prevalence due to the obesity epidemic. Hence, NAFLD represents a rising threat
to public health. Currently, no effective treatments are available to treat NAFLD
and its complications such as cirrhosis and liver cancer. Peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are ligand-activated nuclear receptors
which regulate lipid and glucose metabolism as well as inflammation. Here we
review recent findings on the pathophysiological role of PPARs in the different
stages of NAFLD, from steatosis development to steatohepatitis and fibrosis, as
well as the preclinical and clinical evidence for potential therapeutical use of 
PPAR agonists in the treatment of NAFLD. PPARs play a role in modulating hepatic 
triglyceride accumulation, a hallmark of the development of NAFLD. Moreover,
PPARs may also influence the evolution of reversible steatosis toward
irreversible, more advanced lesions. Presently, large controlled trials of long
duration are needed to assess the long-term clinical benefits of PPAR agonists in
humans. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Triglyceride Metabolism 
and Disease.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2011.10.016 
PMID: 22056763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1441. J Hepatol. 2012 Apr;56(4):944-51. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.08.018. Epub 2011 Oct 
21.

Omega-3 supplementation and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a systematic
review and meta-analysis.

Parker HM(1), Johnson NA, Burdon CA, Cohn JS, O'Connor HT, George J.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Exercise and Sport Science, University of Sydney, Australia.

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2012 Aug;57(2):468-9; author reply 469-70.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a frequent accompaniment of obesity 
and insulin resistance. With the prevalence approaching 85% in obese populations,
new therapeutic approaches to manage NAFLD are warranted. A systematic search of 
the literature was conducted for studies pertaining to the effect of omega-3
polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) supplementation on NAFLD in humans. Primary
outcome measures were liver fat and liver function tests: alanine
aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase [1]. Data were pooled and
meta-analyses conducted using a random effects model. Nine eligible studies,
involving 355 individuals given either omega-3 PUFA or control treatment were
included. Beneficial changes in liver fat favoured PUFA treatment (effect
size=-0.97, 95% CI: -0.58 to -1.35, p<0.001). A benefit of PUFA vs. control was
also observed for AST (effect size=-0.97, 95% CI: -0.13 to -1.82, p=0.02). There 
was a trend towards favouring PUFA treatment on ALT but this was not significant 
(effect size=-0.56, 95% CI: -1.16 to 0.03, p=0.06). Sub-analyses of only
randomised control trials (RCTs) showed a significant benefit for PUFA vs.
control on liver fat (effect size=-0.96, 95% CI: -0.43 to -1.48, p<0.001), but
not for ALT (p=0.74) or AST (p=0.28). There was significant heterogeneity between
studies. The pooled data suggest that omega-3 PUFA supplementation may decrease
liver fat, however, the optimal dose is currently not known. Well designed RCTs
which quantify the magnitude of effect of omega-3 PUFA supplementation on liver
fat are needed.

Copyright Â© 2011 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.08.018 
PMID: 22023985  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1442. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2012 May;1821(5):762-9. doi: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2011.09.007. 
Epub 2011 Sep 22.

Liver triacylglycerol lipases.

Quiroga AD(1), Lehner R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G
2S2.

The hallmark of obesity and one of the key contributing factors to insulin
resistance, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease is excess triacylglycerol 
(TG) storage. In hepatocytes, excessive accumulation of TG is the common
denominator of a wide range of clinicopathological entities known as nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease, which can eventually progress to cirrhosis and associated
complications including hepatic failure, hepatocellular carcinoma and death. A
tight regulation between TG synthesis, hydrolysis, secretion and fatty acid
oxidation is required to prevent lipid accumulation as well as lipid depletion
from hepatocytes. Therefore, understanding the pathways that regulate hepatic TG 
metabolism is crucial for development of therapies to ameliorate
pathophysiological conditions associated with excessive hepatic TG accumulation, 
including dyslipidemias, viral infection and atherosclerosis. This review
highlights the physiological roles of liver lipases that degrade TG in cytosolic 
lipid droplets, endoplasmic reticulum, late endosomes/lysosomes and along the
secretory route. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Triglyceride
Metabolism and Disease.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2011.09.007 
PMID: 21963564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1443. Atherosclerosis. 2012 Feb;220(2):287-93. doi:
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2011.08.041. Epub 2011 Sep 3.

NASH and atherosclerosis are two aspects of a shared disease: central role for
macrophages.

Bieghs V(1), Rensen PC, Hofker MH, Shiri-Sverdlov R.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Molecular Genetics, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The
Netherlands.

Macrophage infiltration into the atherosclerotic lesion is known to play a
central role in the initiation of atherosclerosis. In contrast, the role of
macrophages during the etiology of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) has been 
considered to be merely a late consequence of steatosis. However, recent insights
suggest that macrophage activation and infiltration is also an early initiating
event in NASH and thereby point to the shared etiology of atherosclerosis and
NASH. In this review, we put forward the hypothesis that NASH and atherosclerosis
are actually two aspects of a shared disease, involving the local presence of
activated macrophages. We will review the current data supporting the shared
mechanisms and also discuss the implications.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2011.08.041 
PMID: 21930273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1444. J Mol Med (Berl). 2012 Feb;90(2):105-18. doi: 10.1007/s00109-011-0803-x. Epub
2011 Sep 6.

Genetic variants in candidate genes influencing NAFLD progression.

Di Rosa M(1), Malaguarnera L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Catania, Via Androne, 83,
95124 Catania, Italy.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a metabolic disorder including simple
steatosis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Advanced stages of NASH result
ultimately in fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocarcinoma. A diagnosis of NASH
entails an increased risk of both liver-related and cardiovascular mortality as
worsening of the metabolic syndrome. Because of its escalation, many
investigations have been performed to elucidate the pathophysiologic origins of
the disease progression. Human epidemiologic studies describing polymorphisms in 
a number of genes involved in metabolic dysfunctions have contributed to clarify 
the causes leading to the disease evolution. In this review, we attempt to
outline critically the most recently identified genetic variants in NAFLD
patients to identify possible risk factors promoting the progression of the
disease. The evaluation of altered genotypes together with other clinical
variables may facilitate the clinical management of these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-011-0803-x 
PMID: 21894552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1445. Liver Int. 2012 Feb;32(2):189-98. doi: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2011.02573.x. Epub
2011 Jun 28.

A systems biology approach for understanding the collagen regulatory network in
alcoholic liver disease.

Nieto N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Liver Diseases, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA. natalia.nieto@mssm.edu

Among the pathogenesis and risk factors of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) are the 
source of dietary fat, obesity, insulin resistance, adipokines and acetaldehyde. 
Translocation of Gram-negative bacteria from the gut, the subsequent effects
mediated by endotoxin, and the increased production of matricellular proteins,
cytokines, chemokines and growth factors, actively participate in the progression
of liver injury. In addition, generation of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species 
and the activation of non-parenchymal cells also contribute to the
pathophysiology of ALD. A key event leading to liver damage is the transition of 
quiescent hepatic stellate cells into activated myofibroblasts, with the
consequent deposition of fibrillar collagen I resulting in significant scarring. 
Thus, it is becoming clearer that matricellular proteins are critical players in 
the pathophysiology of liver disease; however, additional mechanistic insight is 
needed to understand the signalling pathways involved in the up-regulation of
collagen I protein. At present, systems biology approaches are helping to answer 
the many unresolved questions in this field and are allowing to more
comprehensively identify protein networks regulating pathological collagen I
deposition in hopes of determining how to prevent the onset of liver fibrosis
and/or to slow disease progression. Thus, this review article provides a snapshot
on current efforts for identifying pathological protein regulatory networks in
the liver using systems biology tools. These approaches hold great promise for
future research in liver disease.

© 2011 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2011.02573.x 
PMID: 21745314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1446. Presse Med. 2012 Feb;41(2):169-89. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2011.04.006. Epub 2011 Jun 
30.

[Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease].

[Article in French]

Lemoine M(1), Serfaty L.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Saint-Antoine, service d'hépatologie, Inserm UMRS 938, 75571 Paris
cedex 12, France. maud.lemoine@sat.aphp.fr

NAFLD encompasses a spectrum of liver diseases including simple steatosis and
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which is characterized by inflammation and
hepatocyte ballooning on a background of steatosis. NAFLD, the hepatic
manifestation of the metabolic syndrome, has become one of the most common causes
of chronic liver diseases over the last decade in developed countries as well as 
in low and middle-income regions owing to dramatic epidemic proportions of
obesity and diabetes worldwide. While simple steatosis has mostly a benign
course, NASH can lead to fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.
Insulin resistance is considered as the cornerstone in the development of
NAFLD/NASH. Liver biopsy remains the gold standard for the diagnosis of NASH.
However, non-invasive markers of NASH and fibrosis represent interesting tools to
identify patients with severe liver injuries. Even if insulin sensitizers and
hepatoprotective agents are promising drugs, no medication has been currently
approved for the treatment of NASH. Diet, exercise and control of the metabolic
disorders still represent crucial therapeutic options for the management of
NAFLD/NASH.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2011.04.006 
PMID: 21723084  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1447. Br J Pharmacol. 2012 Feb;165(3):622-32. doi: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.2011.01369.x.

Resistin: functional roles and therapeutic considerations for cardiovascular
disease.

Jamaluddin MS(1), Weakley SM, Yao Q, Chen C.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Surgeon Research Center, Division of Vascular Surgery and
Endovascular Therapy, Michael E. DeBakey Department of Surgery, Baylor College of
Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Resistin, originally described as an adipocyte-specific hormone, has been
suggested to be an important link between obesity, insulin resistance and
diabetes. Although its expression was initially defined in adipocytes,
significant levels of resistin expression in humans are mainly found in
mononuclear leukocytes, macrophages, spleen and bone marrow cells. Increasing
evidence indicates that resistin plays important regulatory roles apart from its 
role in insulin resistance and diabetes in a variety of biological processes:
atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease (CVD), non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease, autoimmune disease, malignancy, asthma, inflammatory bowel disease and
chronic kidney disease. As CVD accounts for a significant amount of morbidity and
mortality in patients with diabetes and without diabetes, it is important to
understand the role that adipokines such as resistin play in the cardiovascular
system. Evidence suggests that resistin is involved in pathological processes
leading to CVD including inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, thrombosis,
angiogenesis and smooth muscle cell dysfunction. The modes of action and
signalling pathways whereby resistin interacts with its target cells are
beginning to be understood. In this review, the current knowledge about the
functions and pathophysiological implications of resistin in CVD development is
summarized; clinical translations, therapeutic considerations and future
directions in the field of resistin research are discussed.LINKED ARTICLES: This 
article is part of a themed section on Fat and Vascular Responsiveness. To view
the other articles in this section visit
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/bph.2012.165.issue-3.

© 2011 The Authors. British Journal of Pharmacology © 2011 The British
Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.2011.01369.x 
PMCID: PMC3315035
PMID: 21545576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1448. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2012 Feb;13(2):278-91.

Methodologies for investigating natural medicines for the treatment of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).

Kim MS(1), Kung S, Grewal T, Roufogalis BD.

Author information: 
(1)Herbal Medicines Research and Education Centre, Faculty of Pharmacy,
University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is emerging as a prominent condition in
Western countries. In this review we describe the characteristics and current
treatments of NAFLD and discuss opportunities for developing new therapeutic
management approaches, with a particular emphasis on development of animal
studies and in vitro assays for identification of components of natural product
medicines. The main manifestation of NAFLD is hepatic lipid accumulation in the
form of lipid droplets (LDs), known as hepatic steatosis (fatty liver). Current
treatments for NAFLD generally aim to reduce triglyceride (TG) accumulation,
often utilizing thiazolidinedines (TZDs) and fibrates, which are known to lower
TG levels in hyperlipidemia, diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Both of these
compounds act through activation of nuclear receptors of the Peroxisome
Proliferator-Activated Receptor (PPAR) family, thereby activating genes involved 
in triglyceride metabolism. Thus treatment using natural PPAR α and PPAR γ
ligands, such as polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), has also been considered.
Alternatively, natural medicines for the treatment of NAFLD have a long and
successful history of controlling disease without prominent side effects.
However, active compounds in natural medicine responsible for lowering hepatic TG
levels are yet poorly characterized. This points to the need for medium-high
throughput screening assays to identify active components within natural herbs.
As outlined in this review, the quantification of the size and number of lipid
droplets could provide an opportunity to screen compound libraries derived from
natural medicine for their potential to reduce NAFLD.


PMID: 21470125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1449. Intern Emerg Med. 2012 Feb;7(1):9-13. doi: 10.1007/s11739-011-0582-y. Epub 2011
Apr 2.

Identifying high-risk individuals for cardiovascular disease: similarities
between venous and arterial thrombosis in perspective. A 2011 update.

Di Minno MN(1), Tufano A, Ageno W, Prandoni P, Di Minno G.

Author information: 
(1)Regional Reference Centre for Coagulation Disorders, Federico II University,
Naples, Italy. dario.diminno@hotmail.it

The aim of this narrative review is to assess the potential association between
arterial and venous thrombotic events. Several studies have suggested that the
major cardiovascular risk factors, alone or in combination (e.g. in the metabolic
syndrome), are significantly associated with venous thromboembolism (VTE). Recent
evidence also suggests that microalbuminuria and non-alcoholic liver steatosis,
both markers of arterial disease, may independently predict the risk for VTE. An 
association between a history of VTE and the risk of future arterial events is
also well documented, inflammation and endothelial dysfunction being thought as
the common soil on which further investigation in the area should be pursued. The
existence of a common pathophysiologic background is also suggested by the
evidence that aspirin, low-molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and warfarin are
recommended for the prevention and treatment of both venous and arterial
thrombosis. In addition, rosuvastatin recently has been shown to prevent venous
thromboembolism (VTE) in a time-dependent fashion. Together, these data argue for
patients with a history of VTE as being at intermediate/high cardiovascular risk,
a concept that implies that VTE patients should undergo a careful assessment for 
the presence of cardiovascular risk factors and adequate lifestyle changes. The
value of routine screening for asymptomatic atherosclerosis (e.g. 2D
echocardiography, microalbuminuria, arterial vessel ultrasonography) in these
patients should be confirmed in future studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-011-0582-y 
PMID: 21461594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1450. Ann Med. 2012 Feb;44(1):29-40. doi: 10.3109/07853890.2010.547869. Epub 2011 Feb
28.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and metabolic syndrome in adolescents:
pathogenetic role of genetic background and intrauterine environment.

Alisi A(1), Cianfarani S, Manco M, Agostoni C, Nobili V.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Research Unit, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

In the last three decades the incidence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) has been
growing worldwide along with an increase of obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus,
and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). In children and adolescents such
epidemics are particularly worrisome, since the metabolic consequences in
adulthood will significantly burden the health care system. Although the
definition of MetS in childhood is still controversial, there is agreement with
respect to NAFLD being the hepatic manifestation of MetS. However, the molecular 
pathogenesis of MetS and its contribution to NAFLD is complex and closely related
to the pre- and postnatal environment as well as to genetic predisposing factors.
The analysis of the possible relationships between NAFLD and MetS is particularly
interesting, not only from an epidemiological point of view, but also to better
understand the genetic and environmental factors contributing to the development 
of both diseases. We here summarize the most recent epidemiological data on the
incidence of both diseases in adolescents, and several aspects linking MetS with 
NAFLD, discussing the possible role played by genetics and intrauterine
environment.

DOI: 10.3109/07853890.2010.547869 
PMID: 21355790  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1451. Rev Diabet Stud. 2011 Winter;8(4):454-67. doi: 10.1900/RDS.2011.8.454. Epub 2012 
Feb 10.

Hepatic steatosis in type 1 diabetes.

Regnell SE(1), Lernmark Å.

Author information: 
(1)Lund University, CRC, Department of Clinical Sciences, Diabetes and Celiac
Disease Unit, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden. fek09sre@student.lu.se

Islet autoimmunity in type 1 diabetes results in the loss of the pancreatic
β-cells. The consequences of insulin deficiency in the portal vein for liver fat 
are poorly understood. Under normal conditions, the portal vein provides 75% of
the liver blood supply. Recent studies suggest that non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) may be more common in type 1 diabetes than previously thought,
and may serve as an independent risk marker for some chronic diabetic
complications. The pathogenesis of NAFLD remains obscure, but it has been
hypothesized that hepatic fat accumulation in type 1 diabetes may be due to
lipoprotein abnormalities, hyperglycemia-induced activation of the transcription 
factors carbohydrate response element-binding protein (ChREBP) and sterol
regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c), upregulation of glucose
transporter 2 (GLUT2) with subsequent intrahepatic fat synthesis, or a
combination of these mechanisms. Novel approaches to non-invasive determinations 
of liver fat may clarify the consequences for liver metabolism when the pancreas 
has ceased producing insulin. This article aims to review the factors potentially
contributing to hepatic steatosis in type 1 diabetes, and to assess the
feasibility of using liver fat as a prognostic and/or diagnostic marker for the
disease. It provides a background and a case for possible future studies in the
field.

DOI: 10.1900/RDS.2011.8.454 
PMCID: PMC3359690
PMID: 22580727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

