
1. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2017 Jan 4. pii: S0936-6555(16)30459-9. doi:
10.1016/j.clon.2016.12.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in Lung Cancer - An Unheralded Opportunity?

Marshall R(1), Popple A(1), Kordbacheh T(1), Honeychurch J(1), Faivre-Finn C(2), 
Illidge T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cancer Sciences, The University of Manchester, Manchester
Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK. (2)Institute of Cancer Sciences, 
The University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre,
Manchester, UK; The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK. (3)Institute
of Cancer Sciences, The University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health
Science Centre, Manchester, UK; The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester,
UK. Electronic address: tmi@manchester.ac.uk.

Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, with
non-small cell lung cancer accounting for 85% of the disease. Over 70%
of patients present with locally advanced, non-resectable or metastatic disease
and despite improvements in chemoradiotherapy regimens and the development of
molecularly targeted agents, 5 year survival rates remain poor, with acquired
resistance to novel targeted therapies becoming a growing concern. Currently
there remains an unmet need in effectively treating and inducing durable
responses in advanced disease. Targeting the immune system has, however, recently
given hope of improving therapeutic outcomes for these patients. The notion that 
the immune system is capable of recognising and eliminating cancer cells is now a
widely accepted phenomenon and growing evidence suggests lung cancer is an
attractive target for such intervention. Recent success targeting the programmed 
death-1/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) axis of immune checkpoint
inhibition suggests a major immunotherapeutic advance in treating lung cancer and
unheralded opportunity for such approaches to further improve outcome for
patients. Currently there is considerable interest in combining anti-PD-1 or
PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies with established standard of care therapies such as
radiotherapy. Radiotherapy is known to be immunostimulatory and efforts are
underway to combine and augment the efficacy of the immune checkpoint inhibitors 
further. This review outlines the interaction between lung cancer and the immune 
system, summarises current evidence supporting the use of monoclonal antibodies
targeting the PD-1 axis in lung cancer and explores the potential of combining
radiotherapy with immunotherapy to augment anti-tumour immune responses.

Copyright © 2016 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2016.12.003 
PMID: 28063623  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


2. Curr Med Res Opin. 2017 Jan 5:1-30. doi: 10.1080/03007995.2017.1279132. [Epub
ahead of print]

Targeting PD-1 Pathway; A new hope for Gastrointestinal Cancers.

Bilgin B(1), Sendur MA(1), Akıncı MB(1), Şener Dede D(1), Yalçın B(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Yıldırım Beyazıt University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medical
Oncology , Ankara , Turkey.

BACKGROUND: VEGF, HER2 and EGFR targeted agents are currently used in gastric,
esophageal and colorectal cancers. However, treatment outcomes are still poor in 
most of the Gastrointestinal (GI) cancers. Immune checkpoints are one of the most
promising immunotherapy approaches. In this review article, we aimed to discuss
the efficacy and safety of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapies in GI cancers, including
gastric, esophageal and colorectal cancer in the era of published or reported
recent studies.
SCOPE: Literature search is made from PubMed, and ASCO Annual Meetings abstracts 
by using the following search keywords; "nivolumab", "pembrolizumab", "avelumab",
"GI cancers" "anti-PD1 therapy" and "anti-PD-L1 therapy". The last search was on 
November 02, 2016. The most important limitation of our review is that the most
of the data of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapies in GI cancers reliance on to phase I and
II trials.
FINDINGS: Currently, there are two anti-PD-1 and three anti-PD-L1 agents that
approved by FDA. After the treatment efficacy of immune checkpoint blockade was
shown in melanoma, renal cell cancer and non-squamous lung cancer, trials which
evaluated immune checkpoint blockade in GI cancers are ongoing. Early results of 
trials were promising and encouraging for patients with advanced stage
gastro-esophageal cancer. According to early results of published trials,
response to anti-PD1/PD-L1 agents appears to be associated with tumor PD-L1
levels. According to the recent published two phase II trials, clinical benefits 
of immune checkpoint blockade with both nivolumab and pembrolizumab were limited 
in patients with microsatellite instability (MSI) positive advanced colorectal
cancer. However, several phase 2/3 trials are still ongoing.
CONCLUSION: Both pembrolizumab and nivolumab showed promising efficacy with
acceptable safety data in GI cancers especially in refractory MSI positive
metastatic colorectal cancer in the era of published trials.

DOI: 10.1080/03007995.2017.1279132 
PMID: 28055269  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


3. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2017 Jan 1:1-11. doi: 10.1080/13543784.2017.1274731. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Do CDK4/6 inhibitors have potential as targeted therapeutics for squamous cell
cancers?

Kalu NN(1), Johnson FM(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Thoracic/Head & Neck Medical Oncology , The University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center , Houston , TX , USA. (2)b The University of
Texas Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences , Houston , TX , USA.

Introduction Dysregulation of cell cycle progression has an established link to
neoplasia and cancer progression. Components of the cyclin D-CDK4/6-INK4-Rb
pathway are frequently altered in squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) by diverse
mechanisms, including viral oncogene-induced degradation, mutation, deletion, and
amplification. Activation of the CDK4/6 pathway may predict response to CDK4/6
inhibitors and provide clinical biomarkers. Recently, the CDK4/6 inhibitor
palbociclib showed clinical efficacy in combination with cetuximab in HNSCC
patients. Areas covered This review focuses on the current research on the use of
CDK4/6 inhibitors, comprising preclinical animal studies through phase II
clinical trials across all SCCs. Expert opinion CDK4/6 inhibitors have a proven
clinical benefit in breast cancer, but data on SCCs are sparse. Although frequent
dysregulation of the cyclin D-CDK4/6-INK4-Rb pathway in SCCs suggests that
targeting CDK4/6 may hold promise for improved clinical outcomes, single-agent
activity has been modest in preclinical studies and absent in clinical studies.
Combinations with immunotherapy or inhibitors of the PI3 K/mTOR or EGFR pathway
may be effective. Given that SCCs caused by human papillomavirus have high levels
of p16 and low levels of Rb, the CDK4/6 inhibitors are predicted to be
ineffective in these cancers.

DOI: 10.1080/13543784.2017.1274731 
PMID: 28042706  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


4. Onco Targets Ther. 2016 Dec 16;10:21-30. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S90459. eCollection
2017.

Potential role of immunotherapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.

de Mello RA(1), Veloso AF(2), Esrom Catarina P(2), Nadine S(3), Antoniou G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Medicine, University of Algarve, Faro;
Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal; Research Center,
Cearense School of Oncology, Instituto do Câncer do Ceará. (2)Oncology &
Hematology League, School of Medicine, State University of Ceará (UECE),
Fortaleza, Brazil. (3)Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar (ICBAS),
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal. (4)Department of Medical Oncology, The
Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.

Immuno checkpoint inhibitors have ushered in a new era with respect to the
treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Many patients are not suitable 
for treatment with epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors
(eg, gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib) or with anaplastic lymphoma kinase
inhibitors (eg, crizotinib and ceritinib). As a result, anti-PD-1/PD-L1 and
CTLA-4 inhibitors may play a novel role in the improvement of outcomes in a
metastatic setting. The regulation of immune surveillance, immunoediting, and
immunoescape mechanisms may play an interesting role in this regard either alone 
or in combination with current drugs. Here, we discuss advances in immunotherapy 
for the treatment of metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer as well as future
perspectives within this framework.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S90459 
PMCID: PMC5179204
PMID: 28031719  [PubMed]


5. J Clin Oncol. 2016 Dec 28:JCO2016699793. [Epub ahead of print]

Pulmonary Infiltrates in a Patient With Advanced Melanoma.

Powell CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Charles A. Powell, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY.

The Oncology Grand Rounds series is designed to place original reports published 
in the Journal into clinical context. A case presentation is followed by a
description of diagnostic and management challenges, a review of the relevant
literature, and a summary of the authors' suggested management approaches. The
goal of this series is to help readers better understand how to apply the results
of key studies, including those published in Journal of Clinical Oncology, to
patients seen in their own clinical practice. A 60-year-old former smoker with
metastatic melanoma presented with the chief complaint of pulmonary infiltrates. 
Five years ago, he was diagnosed with a left chest wall melanoma. He underwent
surgery but received no additional therapy for an American Joint Committee on
Cancer stage T3a N0 M0 tumor that was 2.7 mm in depth with no ulceration of the
epidermal surface. Resection margins were free of tumor. Four years later, he
underwent excision of a raised pigmented skin lesion on his left calf that proved
to be melanoma with positive margins. He underwent re-excision of melanoma but 2 
months later developed a new left hip soft tissue nodule. Positron emission
tomography (PET) -computed tomography showed multiple hypermetabolic lesions
involving subcutaneous tissue, muscle osseous structures, and bone marrow,
consistent with advanced melanoma. He began systemic therapy with ipilimumab and 
nivolumab. After four cycles of immunotherapy, he developed a nonproductive cough
and mild dyspnea on exertion (Modified Medical Research Council dyspnea scale
score of 2 [ie, he had to stop for breath when walking at his own pace on level
ground]). A chest x-ray showed bilateral hilar enlargement, thickening of the
right paratracheal stripe, and scattered patchy increased interstitial markings
bilaterally. PET and chest computed tomography images showed enlarged mediastinal
adenopathy with increased [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake on PET and scattered
diffuse 1- to 2-mm pulmonary nodules with ground-glass opacities ( Fig 1 ). The
patient was referred for pulmonary input. The patient had smoked one pack of
cigarettes per day for 35 years; he quit 6 years ago. He had no history of
pneumonia, childhood asthma, or tuberculosis. His mother had asthma, but there
was no other family history of asthma or other lung disease.


PMID: 28029320  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


6. Lung Cancer. 2017 Jan;103:27-37. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.11.011. Epub 2016
Nov 15.

The race to target MET exon 14 skipping alterations in non-small cell lung
cancer: The Why, the How, the Who, the Unknown, and the Inevitable.

Reungwetwattana T(1), Liang Y(2), Zhu V(3), Ou SI(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of
Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State
Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center for
Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou 510060, China. (3)Long Beach Veterans Administration
Hospital, Long Beach, CA 90822, USA; Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center,
Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology, University of California
Irvine School of Medicine, Orange County, CA 92868, USA. (4)Chao Family
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Medicine, Division of
Hematology-Oncology, University of California Irvine School of Medicine, Orange
County, CA 92868, USA. Electronic address: ignatius.ou@uci.edu.

A number of small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have now been
approved for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC), including
those targeted against epidermal growth factor receptor, anaplastic lymphoma
kinase, and ROS1. Despite a wealth of agents developed to target the receptor
tyrosine kinase, MET, clinical outcomes have as yet been disappointing, leading
to pessimism about the role of MET in the pathogenesis of NSCLC. However, in
recent years, there has been a renewed interest in MET exon 14 alterations as
potential drivers of lung cancer. MET exon 14 alterations, which result in
increased MET protein levels due to disrupted ubiquitin-mediated degradation,
occur at a prevalence of around 3% in adenocarcinomas and around 2% in other lung
neoplasms, making them attractive targets for the treatment of lung cancer. At
least five MET-targeted TKIs, including crizotinib, cabozantinib, capmatinib,
tepotinib, and glesatinib, are being investigated clinically for patients with
MET exon 14 altered-NSCLC. A further two compounds have shown activity in
preclinical models. In this article, we review the current clinical and
preclinical data available for these TKIs, along with a number of other potential
therapeutic options, including antibodies and immunotherapy. A number of
questions remain unanswered regarding the future of MET TKIs, but unfortunately, 
the development of resistance to targeted therapies is inevitable. Resistance is 
expected to arise as a result of receptor tyrosine kinase mutation or from
upregulation of MET ligand expression; potential strategies to overcome
resistance are proposed.

Copyright © 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.11.011 
PMID: 28024693  [PubMed - in process]


7. Front Med (Lausanne). 2016 Dec 13;3:67. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2016.00067. eCollection
2016.

Focus on Nivolumab in NSCLC.

Cortinovis DL(1), Canova S(1), Abbate M(1), Colonese F(1), Bidoli P(1).

Author information: 
(1)SC Oncologia Medica, Ospedale San Gerardo , Monza , Italy.

Immunotherapy is changing the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
The PD-1 inhibitor nivolumab has demonstrated meaningful results in terms of
efficacy with a good safety profile. The novel approach to treating NSCLC using
immunotherapy still has unsolved questions and challenging issues. The main
doubts regarding the optimal selection of the patient are the role of this drug
in first line of treatment, the individualization of the correct methodology of
radiologic assessment and efficacy analysis, the best management of
immune-mediated adverse events, and how to overcome the immunoresistance. The aim
of this review is to analyze literature data on nivolumab in lung cancer with a
focus on critical aspects related to the drug in terms of safety, the use in
clinical practice, and possible placement in the treatment algorithm.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2016.00067 
PMCID: PMC5153403
PMID: 28018902  [PubMed]


8. Front Immunol. 2016 Dec 15;7:598. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2016.00598. eCollection
2016.

IFN-λ: A New Inducer of Local Immunity against Cancer and Infections.

Lasfar A(1), Zloza A(2), de la Torre A(3), Cohen-Solal KA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy,
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Piscataway, NJ, USA; Rutgers Cancer 
Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ, USA. (2)Rutgers Cancer Institute of
New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ, USA; Section of Surgical Oncology Research,
Department of Surgery, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Rutgers, The
State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ, USA. (3)Department of Surgery,
New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Newark,
NJ, USA; St Joseph's Medical Center, Paterson, NJ, USA.

IFN-λ is the newly established type III IFN with unique immunomodulatory
functions. In contrast to the IFN-α/β family and to some extent IFN-γ, IFN-λ is
apparently acting in specific areas of the body to activate resident immune cells
and induces a local immunity, instrumental in preventing particular infections
and also keeping transformed cells under control. Mucosal areas of lung and
gastrointestinal tracts are now under scrutiny to elucidate the immune mechanisms
triggered by IFN-λ and leading to viral protection. New evidence also indicates
the crucial role of IFN-λ in promoting innate immunity in solid cancer models.
Based on its unique biological activities among the IFN system, new
immunotherapeutic approaches are now emerging for the treatment of cancer,
infection, and autoimmune diseases. In the present review, we highlight the
recent advances of IFN-λ immunomodulatory functions. We also discuss the
perspectives of IFN-λ as a therapeutic agent.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2016.00598 
PMCID: PMC5156659
PMID: 28018361  [PubMed]


9. Biochem Pharmacol. 2016 Dec 22. pii: S0006-2952(16)30491-9. doi:
10.1016/j.bcp.2016.12.011. [Epub ahead of print]

The network of immunosuppressive pathways in glioblastoma.

Mangani D(1), Weller M(2), Roth P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neuro-Oncology, Department of Neurology and Brain
Tumor Center, University Hospital and University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. 
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Neuro-Oncology, Department of Neurology and Brain
Tumor Center, University Hospital and University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; 
Center for Neuroscience, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. (3)Laboratory
of Molecular Neuro-Oncology, Department of Neurology and Brain Tumor Center,
University Hospital and University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; Center for
Neuroscience, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
patrick.roth@usz.ch.

Glioblastoma remains a fatal tumor despite increased knowledge regarding the
complex signalling pathways that drive this devastating disease. Recently,
immunotherapeutic approaches have shown remarkable and durable responses in
various cancers including metastatic melanoma and advanced non-small cell lung
cancer. So far, it remains unclear whether these immunotherapeutics may also work
against glioblastoma and other tumors residing in the central nervous system. It 
is well known that patients with glioblastoma suffer from profound local
immunosuppression that represents the major hurdle to overcome in the context of 
immunotherapy. Several studies have demonstrated that this immunosuppressive
phenotype is orchestrated by glioma-derived membrane-bound and soluble factors as
well as the particular microenvironment within the brain. Here, we discuss the
molecular and cellular pathways involved in glioblastoma-mediated inhibition of
the immune system and highlight possible treatment approaches aiming at
reinvigorating anti-tumor immune responses.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2016.12.011 
PMID: 28017775  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


10. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2017 Jan;109:35-41. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2016.11.015. Epub 2016 Nov 25.

New perspectives in the second-line treatment of non squamous NSCLC patients:
Results from a large Italian Lung Cancer Working Group.

Cortinovis D(1), Gregorc V(2), Migliorino MR(3), Abate MI(1), Manzo A(4),
Malapelle U(5), Morabito A(6); Italian Lung Cancer Working Group.

Author information: 
(1)SC Oncologia Medica asst, Monza H S Gerardo, Italy. (2)Department of Medical
Oncology, IRCCS Ospedale San Raffaele, Milan, Italy. (3)UOSD Pneumologia
Oncologica, Azienda Ospedaliera San Camillo-Forlanini, Roma, Italy. (4)SC
Thoracic Medical Oncology Istituto Nazionale Tumori, "Fondazione G.
Pascale"-IRCCS, Napoli, Italy. (5)Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica, Università
degli Studi di Napoli Federico II, Italy. (6)SC Thoracic Medical Oncology
Istituto Nazionale Tumori, "Fondazione G. Pascale"-IRCCS, Napoli, Italy.
Electronic address: a.morabito@istitutotumori.na.it.

Lung cancer is still considered a big killer among cancer diseases, due to high
incidence and mortality rates. The newer frontiers of therapeutic development
regard the discovery of oncogene driven tumours: however, the majority of NSCLC
patients are wild type and they cannot be treated with targeted based agents. The
recent positive results obtained with immunotherapy and with the combination of
angiogenesis inhibitors and docetaxel, changed the therapeutic scenario of the
second line therapy of non squamous NSCLC without actionable mutations. A major
issue is currently the lack of predictive biomarkers that could help the
oncologists in the choice of the best second-line treatment. Aim of this project 
was to define an optimal therapeutic pathway for patients with non-squamous
NSCLC, through a working group of a large number of Italian lung cancer
oncologists. Panellists have identified and discussed the more significant
criteria in the second-line setting for a therapeutic decision between the
combination of angiogenesis inhibitors plus chemotherapy or immunotherapy.
Finally, they expressed their preference on each criterion, building a proposal
of a decision-making tree for a second-line treatment of non-squamous NSCLC.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2016.11.015 
PMID: 28010896  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Immunol Cell Biol. 2016 Dec 22. doi: 10.1038/icb.2016.128. [Epub ahead of print]

CAR T cell therapy of solid tumors.

Yong CS(1,)(2), Dardalhon V(2), Devaud C(3), Taylor N(2), Darcy PK(1), Kershaw
MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (2)Institut de 
Génétique Moléculaire de Montpellier, Montpellier, France. (3)Institut de
Recherche en Santé Digestive, Université de Toulouse, INPT, INRA, INSERM UMR1220,
UPS, France.

The potential for immunotherapy as a treatment option for cancer is clear from
remarkable responses of some leukemia patients to adoptive cell transfer using
autologous T cells genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors
(CARs). However, the vast majority of cancers, in particular the more common
solid cancers, such as those of the breast, colon and lung, fail to respond
significantly to infusions of CAR T cells. Solid cancers present some formidable 
barriers to adoptive cell transfer, including suppression of T cell function and 
inhibition of T cell localization. In this review, we discuss the current state
of CAR T cell therapy in solid cancers, the variety of concepts being
investigated to overcome these barriers as well as approaches aimed at increasing
the specificity and safety of adoptive cell transfer.Immunology and Cell Biology 
accepted article preview online, 22 December 2016. doi:10.1038/icb.2016.128.

DOI: 10.1038/icb.2016.128 
PMID: 28003642  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


12. J Hematol Oncol. 2016 Dec 9;9(1):138.

Emerging therapeutic agents for lung cancer.

Dholaria B(1), Hammond W(1), Shreders A(1), Lou Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road,
Jacksonville, FL, 32224, USA. (2)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Mayo Clinic, 
4500 San Pablo Road, Jacksonville, FL, 32224, USA. Lou.Yanyan@mayo.edu.

Lung cancer continues to be the most common cause of cancer-related mortality
worldwide. Recent advances in molecular diagnostics and immunotherapeutics have
propelled the rapid development of novel treatment agents across all cancer
subtypes, including lung cancer. Additionally, more pharmaceutical therapies for 
lung cancer have been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in the last
5 years than in previous two decades. These drugs have ushered in a new era of
lung cancer managements that have promising efficacy and safety and also provide 
treatment opportunities to patients who otherwise would have no conventional
chemotherapy available. In this review, we summarize recent advances in lung
cancer therapeutics with a specific focus on first in-human or early-phase I/II
clinical trials. These drugs either offer better alternatives to drugs in their
class or are a completely new class of drugs with novel mechanisms of action. We 
have divided our discussion into targeted agents, immunotherapies, and antibody
drug conjugates for small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and non-small-cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC). We briefly review the emerging agents and ongoing clinical studies. We
have attempted to provide the most current review on emerging therapeutic agents 
on horizon for lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/s13045-016-0365-z 
PMCID: PMC5148871
PMID: 27938382  [PubMed - in process]


13. Z Gastroenterol. 2016 Dec;54(12):1334-1342. Epub 2016 Dec 9.

Perspectives of immunotherapy in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).

Büttner N, Schmidt N, Thimme R.

Immunotherapy is considered a new treatment option for many tumor entities, as
decades of research into cancer immunotherapy have recently yielded promising
results. Indeed, impressive clinical results of checkpoint blockade inhibitors in
malignant melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer indicate the therapeutic
potential of tumor-specific immune restoration. Over the years, different
immunotherapeutic approaches have been evaluated for the treatment of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with some respectable results. In this review
article, we will summarize the key studies of the past 30 years and will
elucidate in which direction the dynamic field of HCC immunotherapy is currently 
moving.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0042-120417 
PMID: 27936483  [PubMed - in process]


14. Clin Lung Cancer. 2016 Oct 26. pii: S1525-7304(16)30352-7. doi:
10.1016/j.cllc.2016.10.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Treatment Design and Rationale for a Randomized Trial of Cisplatin and Etoposide 
Plus Thoracic Radiotherapy Followed by Nivolumab or Placebo for Locally Advanced 
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer (RTOG 3505).

Gerber DE(1), Urbanic JJ(2), Langer C(3), Hu C(4), Chang IF(5), Lu B(6), Movsas
B(7), Jeraj R(8), Curran WJ(9), Bradley JD(10).

Author information: 
(1)Harold C. Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center at University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX. Electronic address:
david.gerber@utsouthwestern.edu. (2)University of California San Diego, San
Diego, CA. (3)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. (4)Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, MD; RTOG Foundation, Philadelphia, PA. (5)Bristol-Myers
Squibb, New York, NY. (6)Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA. (7)Henry 
Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI. (8)University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center,
Madison, WI. (9)Emory University Medical Center, Atlanta, GA. (10)Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Mo.

Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 3505 is a randomized phase 3 study of
concurrent chemoradiation followed by immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy or
placebo in patients with locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Patients with surgically unresectable stage 3 NSCLC will receive thoracic
radiotherapy to 60 Gy with concurrent cisplatin 50 mg/m(2) intravenously (I.V.)
on days 1, 8, 29, and 36, and etoposide 50 mg/m(2) I.V. on days 1 to 5 and days
29 to 33. Between 4 and 12 weeks after completion of concurrent chemoradiation,
eligible patients will be randomized to the anti-programmed death 1 (PD-1)
monoclonal antibody nivolumab 240 mg I.V. or placebo every 2 weeks for up to 1
year. The primary end points are overall survival (OS) and progression-free
survival (PFS), as determined by central independent radiology review. Secondary 
objectives include toxicity assessment, patient-reported outcomes and quality of 
life, and OS and PFS in programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expressors (≥ 1%) and
PD-L1 nonexpressors (< 1%). Assuming a rate of 16.7% due to ineligibility and
dropout before randomization, a total of 660 patients will be enrolled to ensure 
550 patients will be randomized after completion of chemoradiation. This sample
size will provide ≥ 90% power to detect a hazard ratio of 0.7 for OS with 2-sided
type I error of 0.04, and to detect a hazard ratio of 0.667 for PFS 2-sided type 
I error of 0.01. (NCT02768558).

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2016.10.009 
PMID: 27923550  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


15. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2016 Dec;35(4):525-546. doi: 10.1007/s10555-016-9654-9.

Immunotherapy for breast cancer: past, present, and future.

Spellman A(1), Tang SC(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Georgia Regents University Cancer Center, 1411 Laney Walker Boulevard,
Augusta, GA, 30912, USA. (2)Georgia Regents University Cancer Center, 1411 Laney 
Walker Boulevard, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA. stang@gru.edu. (3)Tianjin Medical
University Cancer Institute and Hospital, Huanhuxi Road, Hexi District, Tianjin, 
300060, China. stang@gru.edu.

Immunotherapy has shown promise in many solid tumors including melanoma and
non-small cell lung cancer with an evolving role in breast cancer. Immunotherapy 
encompasses a wide range of therapies including immune checkpoint inhibition,
monoclonal antibodies, bispecific antibodies, vaccinations, antibody-drug
conjugates, and identifying other emerging interventions targeting the tumor
microenvironment. Increasing efficacy of these treatments in breast cancer
patients requires identification of better biomarkers to guide patient selection;
recognizing when to initiate these therapies in multi-modality treatment plans;
establishing novel assays to monitor immune-mediated responses; and creating
combined systemic therapy options incorporating conventional treatments such as
chemotherapy and endocrine therapy. This review will focus on the current role
and future directions of many of these immunotherapies in breast cancer, as well 
as highlighting clinical trials that are investigating several of these active
issues.

DOI: 10.1007/s10555-016-9654-9 
PMID: 27913998  [PubMed - in process]


16. Bull Cancer. 2016 Nov 29. pii: S0007-4551(16)30284-3. doi:
10.1016/j.bulcan.2016.10.017. [Epub ahead of print]

[Perioperative therapies in surgical non N2 non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in French]

Ruppert AM(1), Lavolé A(1), Assouad J(2), Cadranel J(1), Wislez M(3).

Author information: 
(1)AP-HP, hôpital Tenon, service de pneumologie, 75970 Paris, France; Sorbonne
universités, UPMC université Paris 06, GRC n(o) 04, Theranoscan, 75252 Paris,
France. (2)AP-HP, hôpital Tenon, service de chirurgie thoracique, 75970 Paris,
France. (3)AP-HP, hôpital Tenon, service de pneumologie, 75970 Paris, France;
Sorbonne universités, UPMC université Paris 06, GRC n(o) 04, Theranoscan, 75252
Paris, France. Electronic address: marie.wislez@aphp.fr.

Platinum-based perioperative chemotherapy is actually the standard of care in
stage II-IIIa non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). A benefit may also be seen in
stage IB NSCLC with tumors of more than 4cm of diameter. Perioperative
chemotherapy improves 5-year survival of 4 to 15%. This benefit is mainly proved 
by postoperative chemotherapy trials. Nevertheless, preoperative chemotherapy has
advantages: a better tolerance, an estimation of tumor chemosensibility, without 
an increased postoperative morbimortality. However, pTNM and pathological tumor
analyses are modified. Indications of postoperative radiotherapy are limited. In 
early stage NSCLC (stage I-II), radiotherapy worsens survival. Radiotherapy is
routinely achieved in NSCLC with parietal tumor invasion and incomplete tumor
resection. Indications of immunotherapy and targeted therapies in case of
oncogenic addiction remain to be established in resected NSCLC. Several
biomarkers are studied to better describe the indications of perioperative
chemotherapy: recognize groups of patients with a worse prognosis and distinguish
chemosensibility of the tumor.

Copyright Â© 2016 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2016.10.017 
PMID: 27912893  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


17. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2017 Feb;31(1):31-44. doi:
10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.011.

Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Chuang JC(1), Liang Y(2), Wakelee HA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Divisions of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, Stanford
Hospital and Clinics, 875 Blake Wilbur Drive, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. (2)First
Division, Department of Medical Oncology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center,
State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center 
for Cancer Medicine, No 651, Dongfeng East Road, 16th Floor, Building No 2,
Guangzhou, Guangdong 510060, China. (3)Division of Oncology, Department of
Medicine, Stanford Cancer Institute, Stanford University, 875 Blake Wilbur Drive,
Room 2233, Stanford, CA 94305-5826, USA. Electronic address:
Hwakelee@stanford.edu.

The use of 4 cycles of cisplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy is now the standard 
of care for patients with resected stage II and IIIA non-small cell lung cancer. 
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy lacks the same level of data as adjuvant treatment, but 
meta-analyses of this approach support its use. Selection of patients who are
most likely to benefit from chemotherapy remain elusive. Ongoing adjuvant trials 
are exploring biomarkers, molecularly targeted agents, postoperative radiation
therapy, and immunotherapy.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.011 
PMID: 27912832  [PubMed - in process]


18. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2017 Feb;31(1):157-176. doi:
10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.007.

Systemic Treatment of Brain Metastases.

Waqar SN(1), Morgensztern D(2), Govindan R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Campus
Box 8056, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. Electronic address: saiamawaqar@wustl.edu.
(2)Washington University School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Campus
Box 8056, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. (3)Section of Medical Oncology, Washington
University School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Campus Box 8056, St
Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Lung cancer continues to be the leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the 
United States. Brain metastases are a significant problem in patients with lung
cancer and have conventionally been treated with whole-brain radiation. This
article reviews the data for systemic chemotherapy to treat brain metastasis from
lung cancer and examines the activity of small molecule tyrosine kinase
inhibitors for the targeted therapy for brain metastases from EGFR-mutant and
ALK-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer. Future directions for evaluating the
role of immunotherapy in treating brain metastasis are also discussed.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.007 
PMID: 27912831  [PubMed - in process]


19. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2017 Feb;31(1):143-156. doi:
10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.005.

Advances in Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Kalemkerian GP(1), Schneider BJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, University
of Michigan, C350 Med Inn-SPC 5848, 1500 East Medical Center Drive, Ann Arbor, MI
48109-5848, USA. Electronic address: kalemker@umich.edu. (2)Division of
Hematology/Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan,
C411 Med Inn-SPC 5848, 1500 East Medical Center Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-5848, 
USA.

Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive neuroendocrine tumor characterized
by early metastatic spread and responsiveness to initial therapy. The incidence
of SCLC has been declining in the United States in parallel with the decreasing
prevalence of cigarette smoking. Limited stage disease is potentially curable
with chemoradiotherapy followed by cranial irradiation. Extensive stage disease
is incurable, but systemic chemotherapy can improve quality of life and prolong
survival. Nearly all patients relapse with chemoresistant disease. Molecularly
targeted therapy has failed to yield convincing clinical benefits. Nevertheless, 
many biologically rational strategies, including immune checkpoint inhibition,
show promise in ongoing clinical trials.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.005 
PMID: 27912830  [PubMed - in process]


20. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2017 Feb;31(1):131-141. doi:
10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.004.

Immunotherapy in Lung Cancer.

Du L(1), Herbst RS(2), Morgensztern D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 South
Euclid Avenue, Box 8056, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. (2)Thoracic Oncology Research
Program, Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center, Yale School of Medicine, 333 Cedar
Street, WWW221, New Haven, CT 06520-8028, USA. (3)Division of Oncology,
Washington University School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Box 8056, St
Louis, MO 63110, USA. Electronic address: dmorgens@dom.wustl.edu.

The treatment of patients with good performance status and advanced stage
non-small cell lung cancer has been based on the use of first-line platinum-based
doublet and second-line docetaxel. Immunotherapy represents a new therapeutic
approach with the potential for prolonged benefit. Although the vaccines studied 
have not shown benefit in patients with non-small cell lung cancer, immune
checkpoint inhibitors against the PD-1/PD-L1 axis showed increased overall
survival compared with docetaxel in randomized clinical trials, which led to the 
approval of nivolumab and pembrolizumab. Because only a minority of patients
benefit from this class of drugs, there has been an intense search for
biomarkers.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.004 
PMID: 27912829  [PubMed - in process]


21. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2017 Feb;31(1):13-29. doi:
10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.006.

Lung Cancer Biomarkers.

Villalobos P(1), Wistuba II(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, 2130 Holcombe Boulevard, Unit 2951, Houston, TX 77030,
USA. (2)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas 
MD Anderson Cancer Center, 2130 Holcombe Boulevard, Unit 2951, Houston, TX 77030,
USA. Electronic address: iiwistuba@mdanderson.org.

The molecular characterization of lung cancer has changed the classification and 
treatment of these tumors, becoming an essential component of pathologic
diagnosis and oncologic therapy decisions. Through the recognition of novel
biomarkers, such as epidermal growth factor receptor mutations and anaplastic
lymphoma kinase translocations, it is possible to identify subsets of patients
who benefit from targeted molecular therapies. The success of targeted anticancer
therapies and new immunotherapy approaches has created a new paradigm of
personalized therapy and has led to accelerated development of new drugs for lung
cancer treatment. This article focuses on clinically relevant cancer biomarkers
as targets for therapy and potential new targets for drug development.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.006 
PMCID: PMC5137804 [Available on 2018-02-01]
PMID: 27912828  [PubMed - in process]


22. Front Oncol. 2016 Nov 14;6:239. eCollection 2016.

Recent Advances in Immunotherapy in Metastatic NSCLC.

Bansal P(1), Osman D(1), Gan GN(2), Simon GR(3), Boumber Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, University
of New Mexico Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of New Mexico School of
Medicine, Albuquerque, NM, USA; Hematology/Oncology Fellowship Program,
University of New Mexico Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of New Mexico
School of Medicine, Albuquerque, NM, USA. (2)Department of Internal Medicine,
Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of New Mexico Comprehensive Cancer
Center, University of New Mexico School of Medicine, Albuquerque, NM, USA;
Section of Radiation Oncology, University of New Mexico Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Albuquerque, NM, USA. (3)Department of Thoracic and Head/Neck Medical
Oncology, Division of Cancer Medicine, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center , Houston, TX , USA. (4)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of
Hematology/Oncology, University of New Mexico Comprehensive Cancer Center,
University of New Mexico School of Medicine, Albuquerque, NM, USA; Molecular
Therapeutics Program, Department of Hematology/Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center,
Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is one of most common malignancies and the
leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide. Despite advances in targeted therapies,
majority of NSCLC patients do not have targetable genomic alterations.
Nevertheless, recent discovery that NSCLC is an immunogenic tumor type, and
several breakthroughs in immunotherapies have led to rapid expansion of this new 
treatment modality in NSCLC with recent FDA approvals of programed death
receptor-1 inhibitors, such as nivolumab and pembrolizumab. Here, we review
promising immunotherapeutic approaches in metastatic NSCLC, including checkpoint 
inhibitors, agents with other mechanisms of action, and immunotherapy
combinations with other drugs. With advent of immunotherapy, therapeutic options 
in metastatic NSCLC are rapidly expanding with the hope to further expand life
expectancy in metastatic lung cancer.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2016.00239 
PMCID: PMC5107578
PMID: 27896216  [PubMed - in process]


23. Immunotherapy. 2016 Dec;8(12):1383-1391. doi: 10.2217/imt-2016-0075. Epub 2016
Nov 28.

Evaluation of efficacy and safety of different pembrolizumab dose/schedules in
treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer and melanoma: a systematic review.

Abdel-Rahman O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Oncology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University,
Cairo, Egypt.

AIM: Pembrolizumab is a fully humanized anti-PD-1 agent currently approved for
the treatment of advanced melanoma and pretreated non-small-cell lung cancer
(NSCLC).
OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and safety of different dose schedules of
pembrolizumab in the treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC and melanoma.
Search method: MEDLINE database has been searched. Reference lists of original
studies and review articles were checked for other related articles.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Prospective clinical trials reporting the outcomes of more
than one dose schedule of pembrolizumab in the treatment of advanced NSCLC and
melanoma.
DATA COLLECTION & ANALYSIS: The review author extracted information on the
outcomes of the study for this review, and presented the results.
MAIN RESULTS: Four trials with 3425 patients were included in this systematic
review. Pooled analysis for the odds ratio of objective response rate comparing 2
versus 10 mg/kg every 3 weeks in advanced melanoma was 1.03 (95% CI: 0.71-1.49; p
= 0.89), while for advanced NSCLC, it was 0.97 (95% CI: 0.66-1.43; p = 0.87).
Moreover, odds ratio for selected side effects between the two doses was as
follows: rash: 0.83 (95 CI: 0.58-1.18; p = 0.29); vitiligo: 1.27 (95% CI:
0.62-2.61; p = 0.52); diarrhea: 0.94 (95% CI: 0.63-1.42; p = 0.79);
hypothyroidism: 0.97 (95% CI: 0.63-1.50; p = 0.90); hepatitis/elevated
transaminases: 1.86 (95% CI: 0.91-3.79; p = 0.09); nephritis: 0.88 (95% CI:
0.32-2.44; p = 0.80); pneumonitis: 1.17 (95% CI: 0.62-2.23; p = 0.63).

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2016-0075 
PMID: 27892744  [PubMed - in process]


24. BMC Nephrol. 2016 Nov 22;17(1):188.

Nivolumab-associated acute glomerulonephritis: a case report and literature
review.

Jung K(1), Zeng X(2), Bilusic M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Fox Chase Cancer Center, 333 Cottman Ave,
Philadelphia, PA, 19111, USA. Kyungsuk.Jung@fccc.edu. (2)Department of Pathology 
and Laboratory Medicine, Lewis Katz School of Medicine, Temple University, 3500N 
Broad St, Philadelphia, PA, 19140, USA. (3)Department of Medical Oncology, Fox
Chase Cancer Center, 333 Cottman Ave, Philadelphia, PA, 19111, USA.

BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint inhibitors are changing the landscape of oncology
treatment as they are significantly improving treatment for multiple
malignancies. Nivolumab, an anti-programmed death 1 antibody, is a US Food and
Drug Administration-approved treatment for melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer, 
and kidney cancer but can result in a spectrum of autoimmune side effects.
Adverse effects can occur within any organ system in the body including the
colon, lung, liver, endocrine systems, or kidneys.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 70-year-old male with clear cell kidney cancer was admitted 
with acute kidney injury while on nivolumab. A kidney biopsy revealed diffuse
tubular injury and immune complex-mediated glomerulonephritis. Electron
microscopy of the specimen showed hump-like subepithelial deposits. Nivolumab was
discontinued and the patient was started on a high dose of steroids. After
5 months of systemic corticosteroids and hemodialysis, the patient's kidney
function improved to his baseline level. Despite a prolonged interruption to
treatment, immunosuppressive therapy did not compromise the anticancer effects of
nivolumab.
CONCLUSION: Immune-related adverse effects in the kidney can cause autoimmune
glomerulonephritis as well as tubulointerstitial injury. In the literature,
immune-related nephritis generally responded well to systemic corticosteroid
treatment. Based on our experience, a prolonged course of a high dose of steroids
and hemodialysis may be required to achieve an adequate treatment effect.

DOI: 10.1186/s12882-016-0408-2 
PMCID: PMC5120473
PMID: 27876011  [PubMed - in process]


25. Curr Probl Cancer. 2016 Mar - Aug;40(2-4):151-162. doi:
10.1016/j.currproblcancer.2016.09.009. Epub 2016 Sep 26.

Immunotherapy in breast cancer: An overview of modern checkpoint blockade
strategies and vaccines.

Sanchez K(1), Page D(1), McArthur HL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Providence Cancer Center / Earle A. Chiles Research Institute, Portland, OR.
(2)Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA. Electronic address:
heather.mcarthur@cshs.org.

Immune therapy has recently emerged as a standard-of-care strategy for the
treatment of melanoma, lung cancer, bladder cancer, among other malignancies.
However, the role of immune therapy in the treatment of breast cancer is still
being determined. Two current strategies for harnessing the immune system to
treat cancer include drugs that modulate key T cell inhibitory checkpoints and
vaccines. Specifically, modern immune therapy strategies can facilitate T-cell
mediated tumor regression by priming the immune system against specific tumor
associated antigens, by modulating immunoregulatory signals, or both. In breast
cancer, preliminary data from preclinical and early clinical studies are
promising. In fact, clinical data with checkpoint blockade as monotherapy has
been reported in multiple breast cancer subtypes to date, with durable responses 
observed in a significant proportion of women with chemotherapy resistant
disease. However, because the number of genetic mutations and thus, the number of
neoantigens available for immune response are modest in most breast cancers when 
compared with other cancers, most breast cancers may not be inherently sensitive 
to immune modulation and therefore may require strategies that enhance tumor
associated antigen presentation if immune modulation strategies are to be
effective. To that end, studies that combine checkpoint blockade with other
strategies including established systemic therapies (including hormone therapy
and chemotherapy), radiation therapy, and localized therapy including tumor
freezing (cryoablation) are underway in breast cancer. Studies that combine
checkpoint blockade with vaccines are also planned. Herein, we provide a brief
summary of key components of the immune response against cancer, a rationale for 
the use of immune therapy in breast cancer, data from early clinical trials of
checkpoint blockade and vaccine strategies in breast cancer, and future
directions in the field.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.currproblcancer.2016.09.009 
PMID: 27855963  [PubMed - in process]


26. Klin Onkol. 2016 Fall;29(Supplementum 4):78-87.

[Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer - from Immunobiology to Immunotherapy].

[Article in Czech]

Bílek O, Bohovicová L, Demlová R, Poprach A, Lakomý R, Zdražilová-Dubská L.

BACKGROUND: The treatment of early or locally advanced stages of non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) is based on surgical resection or radiotherapy. Metastatic
disease is always incurable, treatment is palliative, systemic based on
chemotherapy or target therapy. NSCLC is the most common cause of cancer-related 
death worldwide, and new therapeutic approaches are needed. Based on the emerging
data on the role of immune system in shaping of tumor outbreak and outcome,
immunotherapy is currently in the center of interest of cancer research and
therapy of solid cancers including NSCLC. Various anti-cancer vaccination
approaches and antigen-independent immunomodulatory drugs are being developed and
trialed. The most advanced in terms of approaching clinical practice are the
so-called checkpoint inhibitors blocking cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4
(CTLA-4) or programmed cell death of the protein and its ligand (PD-1, PD-L1).
Beside innovative drug development, the field of cancer immunotherapy focuses on 
the identification and clinical application of effective biomarkers of clinical
efficacy and on the evaluation of combinations of immunotherapeutic drugs or with
classical anti-cancer approaches, such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy or with
targeted therapy.
AIM: In this review, we summarize basic principles of immnobiology of NSCLC in
the context of innovative immunotherapeutics, strategy and phase III results of
anti-cancer vaccines in NSCLC, results of NSCLC treatment with checkpoint
inhibitors, and current challenges in immunotherapy of lung cancers.Key words:
non-small cell lung cancer - immunotherapy - cancer vaccines - drug response
biomarkersThis work was supported by MEYS - NPS I - LO1413.The authors declare
they have no potential conflicts of interest concerning drugs, products, or
services used in the study.The Editorial Board declares that the manuscript met
the ICMJE recommendation for biomedical papers.Submitted: 10. 6. 2016Accepted:
16. 6. 2016.


PMID: 27846725  [PubMed - in process]


27. Epigenetics. 2016 Dec;11(12):858-870. Epub 2016 Nov 15.

Epigenetic therapy approaches in non-small cell lung cancer: Update and
perspectives.

Schiffmann I(1,)(2), Greve G(1,)(3), Jung M(4,)(5), Lübbert M(1,)(2,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Hematology, Oncology and Stem Cell Transplantation , University 
of Freiburg, Medical Center , Freiburg , Germany. (2)b University of Freiburg,
Faculty of Medicine , Freiburg , Germany. (3)c University of Freiburg, Faculty of
Biology , Freiburg , Germany. (4)d University of Freiburg, Institute of
Pharmaceutical Sciences , Freiburg , Germany. (5)e German Cancer Consortium
(DKTK) , Freiburg , Germany.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) still constitutes the most common
cancer-related cause of death worldwide. All efforts to introduce suitable
treatment options using chemotherapeutics or targeted therapies have, up to this 
point, failed to exhibit a substantial effect on the 5-year-survival rate. The
involvement of epigenetic alterations in the evolution of different cancers has
led to the development of epigenetics-based therapies, mainly targeting DNA
methyltransferases (DNMTs) and histone-modifying enzymes. So far, their greatest 
success stories have been registered in hematologic neoplasias. As the effects of
epigenetic single agent treatment of solid tumors have been limited, the
investigative focus now lies on combination therapies of epigenetically active
agents with conventional chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or kinase inhibitors. This 
review includes a short overview of the most important preclinical approaches as 
well as an extensive discussion of clinical trials using epigenetic combination
therapies in NSCLC, including ongoing trials. Thus, we are providing an overview 
of what lies ahead in the field of epigenetic combinatory therapies of NSCLC in
the coming years.

DOI: 10.1080/15592294.2016.1237345 
PMCID: PMC5193491 [Available on 2017-11-15]
PMID: 27846368  [PubMed - in process]


28. ESMO Open. 2016 May 20;1(3):e000065. eCollection 2016.

Update on clinical research and state of the art management of patients with
advanced sarcomas and GIST.

Metaxas Y(1), Oikonomopoulos G(2), Pentheroudakis G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology , Kantonsspital Graubünden , Chur , Switzerland.
(2)Department of Oncology , Metropolitan Hospital , Athens , Greece. (3)Medical
Faculty , University of Ioannina , Ioannina , Greece.

Sarcomas constitute a rare group of malignancies. According to histology,
different treatment options are effective. For gastrointestinal stromal tumours
(GISTs), targeted treatment with imatinib controls about 20% of advanced or
metastatic disease, whereas chemotherapy is more effective for the rest of the
sarcomas. Currently, new targeted treatments are emerging, showing activity in
cases resistant to established primary treatment. On the other hand, the exciting
results of immunotherapy for other solid tumours, for example, melanoma and lung 
cancer, make it a promising option in the fight against sarcomas. In this review,
we have collected data of established and promising treatments in trials with a
view to facilitating the sequencing of sarcoma treatments and for identifying the
future of these therapeutic options.

DOI: 10.1136/esmoopen-2016-000065 
PMCID: PMC5070248
PMID: 27843616  [PubMed - in process]


29. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2017 Jan;17(1):47-59. Epub 2016 Nov 23.

Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies in non-small cell lung cancer: the era of
immunotherapy.

Valecha GK(1), Vennepureddy A(2), Ibrahim U(2), Safa F(1), Samra B(3), Atallah
JP(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Medicine , Staten Island University Hospital , Staten Island ,
NY , USA. (2)b Department of Hematology-Oncology , Staten Island University
Hospital , Staten Island , NY , USA. (3)c Department of Hematology-Oncology ,
SUNY Downstate Medical Center , Brooklyn , NY , USA.

INTRODUCTION: Advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has been conventionally
treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy with short-lived responses and significant
toxicities. Monoclonal antibodies to programmed death-1 receptor (PD-1) and
programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) have shown tremendous promise in the treatment 
of advanced NSCLC in various clinical trials. Areas covered: In this article, we 
will review the outcomes of various trials of anti-PD-1/anti-PD-L1 antibodies in 
the treatment of NSCLC. We will also discuss their mechanism of action and
toxicities. Expert commentary: Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies offer several
advantages including significant antitumor activity, induction of long lasting
responses, and favorable safety profile. Several trials are now being conducted
to evaluate their efficacy as first line agents as well as in combination with
other agents. More research is also needed to identify other biomarkers, in
addition to PD-L1 expression, that could more reliably predict response to these 
drugs, and aid in better patient selection.

DOI: 10.1080/14737140.2017.1259574 
PMID: 27841044  [PubMed - in process]


30. Med J Aust. 2016 Nov 7;205(9):418-424.

Management of adverse events related to new cancer immunotherapy (immune
checkpoint inhibitors).

Bourke JM(1), O'Sullivan M(2), Khattak MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Fiona Stanley Hospital, Perth, WA Jack.Bourke@health.wa.gov.au. (2)Fiona
Stanley Hospital, Perth, WA.

New immunotherapies have significantly improved survival in certain advanced
cancers in recent years, particularly metastatic melanoma and lung cancer. The
most effective of these therapies are the immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs)
such as ipilimumab, nivolumab and pembrolizumab. The use of ICIs will continue to
increase in the coming years as evidence of their benefit in a range of other
cancers builds. ICIs are associated with novel immune-related adverse events
(irAEs), which can involve a wide range of organs. The most common irAEs involve 
the skin (rash, pruritus), gastrointestinal tract (diarrhoea, colitis) and
endocrine system (thyroid, pituitary). While severity is generally mild,
life-threatening complications can occur if not recognised and treated promptly. 
Due to the diverse manifestations of irAEs, patients may present to doctors who
are not familiar with these drugs, which creates the potential for delays in
management. Management of irAEs depends on severity and the organ affected.
Systemic steroids are often required and ICI therapy may be withheld or
discontinued. Additional immunosuppressive medications may be necessary in
steroid-refractory cases. This review provides an overview of the potential
toxicities and their management for general clinicians. Broader awareness of
these issues among medical professionals will hopefully reduce unnecessary delays
in diagnosis and treatment. Patient and carer education regarding irAEs is
extremely important; patients and carers should be advised to seek urgent medical
attention if required.


PMID: 27809739  [PubMed - in process]


31. Curr Opin Neurol. 2016 Dec;29(6):797-805.

Leptomeningeal metastases of solid cancer.

Le Rhun E(1), Galanis E.

Author information: 
(1)aBreast Unit, Department of Medical Oncology, Oscar Lambret Center
bNeuro-oncology, Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital cLille
University, Inserm U-1192, Laboratoire de Protéomique, Réponse Inflammatoire,
Spectrométrie de Masse (PRISM), Lille, France dDepartment of Oncology, Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review recent original data on leptomeningeal metastases in
patients with solid cancer.
RECENT FINDINGS: Lung and breast cancer as well as melanoma remain the most
common primaries. Advanced cytological methods and targeted sequencing for
candidate tumor-specific mutations may improve the sensitivity of cerebrospinal
fluid diagnostics in leptomeningeal metastases. Targeted treatments like
epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors for non-small cell
lung cancer, anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 treatments for breast 
cancer or B-rapidly accelerated fibrosarcoma-targeted or immunotherapy for
melanoma have an emerging role in the management of this condition.
SUMMARY: Novel diagnostic approaches and the introduction of targeted agents may 
improve the clinical management of patients with leptomeningeal metastases from
solid cancers.

DOI: 10.1097/WCO.0000000000000393 
PMID: 27661208  [PubMed - in process]


32. Ther Adv Med Oncol. 2016 Nov;8(6):460-473. Epub 2016 Jul 26.

Checkpoint inhibitors in lung cancer: latest developments and clinical potential.

Schvartsman G(1), Ferrarotto R(2), Massarelli E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cancer Medicine, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, TX, USA. (2)Department of Thoracic Head and Neck Medical Oncology,
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (3)Department of
Medical Oncology, City of Hope Comprehensive Cancer Center, 1500 East Duarte
Road, Duarte, CA 91010, USA.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the United States. The vast
majority of patients are diagnosed with metastatic disease with a 5-year survival
rate of less than 5%. After first-line chemotherapy or biomarker-matched targeted
therapy, only suitable for a small group of patients, further systemic therapy
options rendered very limited, if any, benefit until recently. Checkpoint
inhibitors have significantly improved outcomes in patients with metastatic
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and are currently an established second-line
therapeutic option. In this manuscript, we review the mechanism of action of
checkpoint inhibitors, present the available data with approved and experimental 
agents, discuss the progress that has already been made in the field, as well as 
toxicity awareness, and future perspectives.

DOI: 10.1177/1758834016661164 
PMCID: PMC5066544
PMID: 27800034  [PubMed - in process]


33. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2016;57(10):2224-2231.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) in cancer
therapy.

Hatae R(1), Chamoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Genomic Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine,
Kyoto University.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors, especially anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)
antibodies, have revolutionized cancer therapy. A PD-1 antibody, nivolumab, was
the first of these agents to be approved by the Pharmaceuticals and Medical
Devices Agency (PMDA) of Japan, as a new cancer drug for melanoma, in July 2014. 
While PD-1 mAb therapy has so far been approved only for untreated malignant
melanomas and non-small cell lung cancer, many clinical studies on various types 
of cancer have been conducted worldwide. Immune checkpoint inhibitors target
lymphocytes rather than cancer cells, and evoke an anti-tumor immune reaction.
Since the activated lymphocytes recognize various tumor-associated antigens
including a mutated antigen, immune checkpoint inhibitors exhibit continuous
long-term effectiveness, despite the generation of genetic mutations in cancer
cells. As compared with previous cancer treatments, immune checkpoint inhibitors 
show superior efficacy against tumors with fewer side effects. Therefore, these
novel immune checkpoint inhibitor agents are anticipated to become a 4(th) cancer
treatment option following surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. Herein, 
we review the main clinical results of PD-1 mAb cancer immunotherapy obtained to 
date and discuss issues relevant to administering this form of treatment.

DOI: 10.11406/rinketsu.57.2224 
PMID: 27795534  [PubMed - in process]


34. Anticancer Res. 2016 Nov;36(11):5607-5622.

Immune Blockade Inhibition in Breast Cancer.

Voutsadakis IA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Sault Area
Hospital and Division of Clinical Sciences, Northern Ontario School of Medicine, 
Sudbury, ON, Canada ivoutsadakis@yahoo.com ivoutsadakis@nosm.ca.

Besides limited success in treatment of melanoma and renal cell carcinoma, immune
treatments of cancer (cancer immunotherapy) had not until recently met the great 
expectations associated with them over the years. This failure appears now to be 
reversed with the introduction of checkpoint (immune blockade) inhibitors. Two
receptor-ligand checkpoint inhibition pairs, the one based on the inhibition of
inhibitory receptor cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and the 
other based on the inhibition of the programmed death-ligand 1/programmed cell
death-1 (PD-L1/PD-1) pair have entered the clinical arena. Melanoma leads the way
followed by non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in both of which such drugs are
already approved for clinical use. Several other cancer types will follow as
trials data accumulate. Breast cancer clinical data are mixed so far and the
arising picture is one of efficacy dependent on sub-types and sub-sets. This
article will review available data on checkpoint molecules expression in breast
cancer cells that may be one determinant factor of effective inhibition, as well 
as other possible biomarkers of immune blockade inhibitors effectiveness in
breast cancer. Emerging data of clinical trials of immune checkpoint inhibitors
in breast cancer will also be presented. Development and validation of reliable
predictive markers of response to this new category of anti-cancer drugs will
help optimize results and spare patients not expected to respond the toxicity and
cost of the drugs. Moreover, predictive markers may advance the understanding of 
resistance to these therapies in order to reverse it.

Copyright© 2016 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G.
Delinassios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.11145 
PMID: 27793883  [PubMed - in process]


35. Front Oncol. 2016 Oct 7;6:212. eCollection 2016.

Combining Radiation Therapy with Immune Checkpoint Blockade for Central Nervous
System Malignancies.

D'Souza NM(1), Fang P(2), Logan J(2), Yang J(2), Jiang W(2), Li J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, USA; Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center , Houston, TX , USA.

Malignancies of the central nervous system (CNS), particularly glioblastoma and
brain metastases from a variety of disease sites, are difficult to treat despite 
advances in multimodality approaches consisting of surgery, chemotherapy, and
radiation therapy (RT). Recent successes of immunotherapeutic strategies
including immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) via anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4
antibodies against aggressive cancers, such as melanoma, non-small cell lung
cancer, and renal cell carcinoma, have presented an exciting opportunity to
translate these strategies for CNS malignancies. Moreover, via both localized
cytotoxicity and systemic proinflammatory effects, the role of RT in enhancing
antitumor immune response and, therefore, promoting tumor control is being
re-examined, with several preclinical and clinical studies demonstrating
potential synergistic effect of RT with ICB in the treatment of primary and
metastatic CNS tumors. In this review, we highlight the preclinical evidence
supporting the immunomodulatory effect of RT and discuss the rationales for its
combination with ICB to promote antitumor immune response. We then outline the
current clinical experience of combining RT with ICB in the treatment of multiple
primary and metastatic brain tumors. Finally, we review advances in
characterizing and modifying tumor radioimmunotherapy responses using biomarkers 
and microRNA (miRNA) that may potentially be used to guide clinical
decision-making in the near future.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2016.00212 
PMCID: PMC5053992
PMID: 27774435  [PubMed - in process]


36. Chest. 2016 Oct 18. pii: S0012-3692(16)60776-6. doi: 10.1016/j.chest.2016.10.007.
[Epub ahead of print]

Immunotherapy of lung malignancies - from gene sequencing to novel therapies.

Chee J(1), Robinson BW(2), Holt RA(3), Creaney J(4).

Author information: 
(1)National Centre of Asbestos Related Diseases, School of Medicine and
Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia,
Australia. (2)National Centre of Asbestos Related Diseases, School of Medicine
and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia,
Australia; Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Nedlands, Western Australia, Australia.
Electronic address: bruce.robinson@uwa.edu.au. (3)BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver,
British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada; Department of Medical Genetics, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada; Department of
Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British
Columbia V5A 1S6, Canada. (4)National Centre of Asbestos Related Diseases, School
of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, Western
Australia, Australia; Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Nedlands, Western Australia,
Australia.

Harnessing the immune system to fight cancer is an exciting advancement in lung
cancer therapy. Anti-tumor immunity can be augmented by checkpoint blockade
therapy, which removes the inhibition/brakes imposed on the immune system by the 
tumor. Checkpoint blockade therapy with anti-PD1/anti-PDL1 antibodies causes
tumor regression in around 25% of lung cancer patients. In another approach, the 
immune system is forced or accelerated to attack the tumour, via augmentation of 
the anti-tumour response against mutations carried by each lung tumour. This
latter approach has become feasible since the advent of next generation
sequencing technology, which allows identification of the specific mutations that
each individual lung tumor bears. Indeed lung cancers are now known to have high 
mutation rates, making them logical targets for mutation-directed immune
therapies. We review how sequencing of lung cancer mutations leads to better
understanding of how the immune system recognizes tumors, providing improved
opportunities to track anti-tumor immunity, and ultimately the development of
personalized vaccine strategies aimed at unleashing the host immune system to
attack mutations in the tumor.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chest.2016.10.007 
PMID: 27769776  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


37. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016 Dec;17(12):59.

From 2000 to 2016: Which Second-Line Treatment in Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung
Cancer?

D'Argento E(1), Rossi S(2), Schinzari G(1), Strippoli A(1), Basso M(1), Cassano
A(1), Barone C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Catholic University of Sacred Heart, Largo A. 
Gemelli, 8, 00168, Rome, Italy. (2)Department of Medical Oncology, Humanitas
Clinical and Research Center, Via Manzoni, 56, 20089, Rozzano, MI, Italy.
sbrn.rossi85@gmail.com.

Erratum in
    Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016 Dec;17 (12 ):65.

OPINION STATEMENT: New treatments-as immunotherapies and new antiangiogenic
agents-are now available in second-line setting for patients affected by EGFR
wild-type and ALK-negative non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Nintedanib,
ramucirumab, nivolumab and pembrolizumab have to be included in the therapeutic
sequences for patients affected by NSCLC, but no clear selection criteria are to 
date offered, except for patients with PD-L1 expression ≥50 %. Performance
status, smoking habits and comorbidities should be considered as clinical
criteria in order to select the appropriate treatment, but also tumour
characteristics as histotype, platinum resistance and rapid progression after a
first-line therapy should be taken into account. The aim of the present paper is 
to identify subgroups of patients eligible for different therapy sequences.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-016-0437-x 
PMID: 27766545  [PubMed - in process]


38. Indian J Med Res. 2016 May;143(Supplement):S1-S10. doi: 10.4103/0971-5916.191738.

Adoptive immunotherapy with interleukin-2 & induced killer cells in non-small
cell lung cancer: A systematic review & meta-analysis.

Mi D(1), Ren W(2), Yang K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Evidence Based Medicine Centre, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou
University, 199 Donggang West Road; The First Clinical Medicine College of
Lanzhou University, 1 Donggang West Road; Gansu Provincial Second People's
Hospital, 1 Hezheng West Road, Chengguan District, Lanzhou, Gansu, PR China.
(2)Evidence Based Medicine Centre, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou
University, 199 Donggang West Road; The First Clinical Medicine College of
Lanzhou University, 1 Donggang West Road; Gansu Provincial Cancer Hospital, 2
Xiaoxihu East Street, Qilihe District, Lanzhou, Gansu, PR China. (3)Evidence
Based Medicine Centre, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou University, 199 
Donggang West Road; The First Clinical Medicine College of Lanzhou University, 1 
Donggang West Road, Chengguan District, Lanzhou, Gansu, PR China.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: The effectiveness of interleukin-2 (IL-2) and induced
killer cells for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is controversial. This study 
evaluates the efficacy and safety of interleukin-2 and induced killer cells on
NSCLC, so as to provide references for further clinical practice and research.
METHODS: Relevant randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were searched in Cochrane
library (Issue 2, 2013), Web of Science (1980-March 2013), PubMed (1966-March
2013), China Knowledge Resource Integrated database (CNKI) (1994-March 2013),
China Biology Medicine database (CBM) (1978-March 2013), VIP (1989-March 2013),
and Wan Fang databases (1997-March 2013). There were no language restrictions.
After independent quality assessment and data extraction by two authors,
meta-analysis was conducted by RevMan 5.1 software.
RESULTS: Ten RCTs were included. Odds ratio (OR), 95% confidence intervals (CI), 
P value expressed as test group (interleukin-2 or induced killer cells combined
chemotherapy) versus control group (chemotherapy alone), was 2.02 (1.24, 3.29;
P=0.004) for disease control rate. Hazard ratios (HR) (95% CI; P value),
expressed as test group (interleukin-2 or induced killer cells) versus control
group, were 0.60 (0.46, 0.79; P=0.0003) for overall survival of postoperative
treatment, and 0.77 (0.60, 0.99; P =0.04) for overall survival of combination
with chemotherapy. Mean differences (MD) (95% CI; P value), expressed as test
group (interleukin-2 or induced killer cells) versus control group (after
treatment), were 11.32 (6.32, 16.33; P=0.00001) for NK cells, 11.79 (2.71, 20.86;
P=0.01) for CD3+ cells, 14.63 (2.62, 26.64; P=0.02) for CD4+ cells, and -4.49
(-7.80, 1.18; P=0.008) for CD8+ cells.
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSIONS: The meta-analysis showed that IL-2 or induced
killer cells combination therapy was efficacious in treating NSCLC and improved
overall survival. Further analysis of trials having adequate information and data
need to be done to confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.4103/0971-5916.191738 
PMCID: PMC5080917
PMID: 27748271  [PubMed - in process]


39. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Oct 8. pii: S1556-0864(16)31142-X. doi:
10.1016/j.jtho.2016.10.003. [Epub ahead of print]

The potential of combined immunotherapy and antiangiogenesis for the synergistic 
treatment of advanced NSCLC.

Manegold C(1), Dingemans AC(2), Gray JE(3), Nakagawa K(4), Nicolson M(5), Peters 
S(6), Reck M(7), Wu YL(8), Brustugun OT(9), Crino L(10), Felip E(11), Fennell
D(12), Garrido P(13), Huber RM(14), Marabelle A(15), Moniuszko M(16), Mornex
F(17), Novello S(18), Papotti M(18), Pérol M(19), Smit EF(20), Syrigos K(21), van
Meerbeeck JP(22), van Zandwijk N(23), Chih-Hsin Yang J(24), Zhou C(25), Vokes
E(26).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Faculty Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
Electronic address: prof.manegold@t-online.de. (2)Department of Pulmonary
Diseases, GROW - School for Oncology and Developmental Biology, Maastricht
University Medical Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Thoracic
Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Kindai University Faculty of Medicine, Osaka, 
Japan. (5)Oncology Department, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen, UK.
(6)Department of Oncology, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois (CHUV),
Lausanne, Switzerland. (7)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Lung Clinic
Grosshansdorf, Airway Research Center North (ARCN), Grosshansdorf, Germany
(Member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL, CPC-M)). (8)Guangdong Lung
Cancer Institute, Guangdong General Hospital and Guangdong Academy of Medical
Sciences, Guangzhou, PR China. (9)Department of Oncology, Oslo University
Hospital, The Norwegian Radium Hospital, Oslo, Norway. (10)Medical Oncology
Department, Perugia University Medical School, Perugia, Italy. (11)Vall d'Hebron 
University Hospital and Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Department of Oncology, University of Leicester & Leicester University
Hospitals, Leicester, UK. (13)Servicio de Oncología Médica, IRYCIS Hospital
Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, Spain. (14)Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität
München, University Hospital, Division of Respiratory Medicine and Thoracic
Oncology, München, Germany (Member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL,
CPC-M)). (15)Gustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay, Département d'Innovation
Thérapeutique et d'Essais Précoces, INSERM U1015, Villejuif, France.
(16)Department of Regenerative Medicine and Immune Regulation, Medical University
of Bialystok, Bialystok, Poland. (17)Department of Radiation Oncology, Centre
Hospitalier Lyon Sud, Université Claude Bernard, Lyon, France. (18)Department of 
Oncology, University of Turin, Turin, Italy. (19)Département de Cancérologie,
Médicale Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France. (20)Department of Pulmonary Diseases
and Department of Thoracic Oncology, VU University Medical Centre, Netherlands
Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (21)Oncology Unit GPP, Sotiria
General Hospital, Athens University School of Medicine, Greece. (22)Thoracic
Oncology, Antwerp University Hospital and Ghent University, Edegem, Belgium.
(23)Asbestos Diseases Research Institute, University of Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia. (24)Department of Oncology, National Taiwan University Hospital and
National Taiwan University Cancer Center, Taipei, Taiwan. (25)Department of
Oncology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Shanghai, China. (26)Department of
Medicine, University of Chicago Medical Center, Chicago, USA.

Over the past few years, there have been considerable advances in the treatments 
available to patients with metastatic or locally advanced non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC), particularly those who have progressed on or during first-line
treatment. Some of the treatment options available to patients are discussed
here, with a focus on checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapies (nivolumab and
pembrolizumab) and antiangiogenic agents (bevacizumab, ramucirumab and
nintedanib). It is hypothesised that combining immunotherapy with antiangiogenic 
treatment may have a synergistic effect and enhance the efficacy of both
treatments. In this review, we explore the theory and potential of this novel
treatment option for patients with advanced NSCLC. We discuss the growing body of
evidence that pro-angiogenic factors can modulate the immune response (both by
reducing T-cell infiltration into the tumour microenvironment, and through
systemic effects on immune-regulatory cell function) and examine the preclinical 
evidence for combining these treatments. Potential challenges are also
considered, and we review the preliminary evidence of clinical efficacy and
safety with this novel combination in a variety of solid tumour types.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.10.003 
PMID: 27729297  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


40. Onco Targets Ther. 2016 Sep 23;9:5855-5866. eCollection 2016.

Spotlight on pembrolizumab in non-small cell lung cancer: the evidence to date.

Vachhani P(1), Chen H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA.

Immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors has opened a new arena in cancer 
therapeutics. Pembrolizumab is a highly selective anti-programmed cell death
protein 1 (PD-1) antibody that has shown efficacy, leading to survival benefit
and durable responses, in some patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 
It has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of 
patients with metastatic NSCLC, whose tumors express PD-1 ligand 1 (PD-L1), with 
disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. Here, we
briefly discuss the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway and pembrolizumab before delving into the 
clinical trials that have led to its just-mentioned approval in NSCLC and ongoing
clinical trials. Finally, we discuss the use of biomarkers, primarily PD-L1, in
the context of pembrolizumab and NSCLC.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S97746 
PMCID: PMC5045223
PMID: 27713639  [PubMed - in process]


41. J Cancer. 2016 Jul 18;7(12):1599-1604. eCollection 2016.

Current Status and Perspective of Immunotherapy in Gastrointestinal Cancers.

Kim JH(1), Kim BJ(1), Kim HS(1), Kim JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hemato-Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Hallym
University Medical Center, Hallym University College of Medicine, Chuncheon,
South Korea.

Cancer immunotherapy is at dawn of the Renaissance after the Medieval Dark Ages. 
Recent advances of understanding tumor immunology and molecular drug development 
are leading us to the epoch of cancer immunotherapy. Some types of immunotherapy 
have shown to provide survival benefit for patients with solid tumors such as
malignant melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, or non-small cell lung cancer. Several 
studies have suggested that immune checkpoint inhibition might be effective in
some patients with gastrointestinal cancers. However, the era of cancer
immunotherapy in gastrointestinal cancers is still in an inchoate stage. Here we 
briefly review the current status and perspective of immunotherapeutic approaches
in patients with gastrointestinal cancers.

DOI: 10.7150/jca.16208 
PMCID: PMC5039380
PMID: 27698896  [PubMed - in process]


42. J Chin Med Assoc. 2017 Jan;80(1):7-14. doi: 10.1016/j.jcma.2016.08.005. Epub 2016
Sep 29.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors for nonsmall cell lung cancer treatment.

Chen YM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Chest Medicine, Department of Chest Medicine, Taipei
Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC; School of Medicine, National
Yang-Ming Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC; School of Medicine, Taipei
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address:
ymchen@vghtpe.gov.tw.

Immune checkpoint inhibition with blocking antibodies that target cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and the programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)
pathway [PD-1/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1)] have demonstrated promise in a
variety of malignancies. While ipilimumab has been approved as a CTLA-4 blocking 
antibody by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of advanced
melanoma, it is still not approved for lung cancer treatment. In contrast,
nivolumab and pembrolizumab, both PD-1 blocking antibodies, have been approved
for second-line treatment of nonsmall cell lung cancer in 2015 because of their
high potency and long-lasting effects in some patient subgroups. Other PD-1 and
PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies are also in active development phase. Treatment with 
such immune checkpoint inhibitors is associated with a unique pattern of
immune-related adverse events or side effects. Combination approaches involving
CTLA-4 and PD-1/PD-L1 blockade or checkpoint inhibitors with chemotherapy or
radiotherapy are being investigated to determine whether they may enhance the
efficacy of treatment. Despite many challenges ahead, immunotherapy with
checkpoint inhibitors has already become a new and important treatment modality
for lung cancer in the last decade following the discovery of targeted therapy.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcma.2016.08.005 
PMID: 27693088  [PubMed - in process]


43. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Sep 29;35(1):157.

Trends and advances in tumor immunology and lung cancer immunotherapy.

Aldarouish M(1), Wang C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Zhongda Hospital, School of Medicine, Southeast
University, 87 Dingjiaqiao Rd, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, People's Republic of
China. imm_moh@yahoo.com. (2)Department of Oncology, Zhongda Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Southeast University, 87 Dingjiaqiao Rd, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province,
People's Republic of China. wangcailian65@hotmail.com.

Among several types of tumor, lung cancer is considered one of the most fatal and
still the main cause of cancer-related deaths. Although chemotherapeutic agents
can improve survival and quality of life compared with symptomatic treatment,
cancers usually still progress after chemotherapy and are often aggravated by
serious side effects. In the last few years there has been a growing interest in 
immunotherapy for lung cancer based on promising preliminary results in achieving
meaningful and durable treatments responses with minimal manageable toxicity.
This article is divided into two parts, the first part discusses the role of
human immune system in controlling and eradicating cancer and the mechanisms of
immune response evasion by tumor. The second part reviews the recent progress
made in immunotherapy for lung cancer with results from trials evaluating
therapeutic vaccines in addition to immune checkpoint blockade, specifically
cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated protein 4, programmed death receptor 1 pathway,
using monoclonal antibodies.

DOI: 10.1186/s13046-016-0439-3 
PMCID: PMC5043622
PMID: 27686848  [PubMed - in process]


44. J Clin Med. 2016 Sep 22;5(10). pii: E84. doi: 10.3390/jcm5100084.

Immunotherapy for Gastroesophageal Cancer.

Goode EF(1), Smyth EC(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Royal Marsden Hospital, NHS Foundation Trust, London SW3 6JJ, UK.
Emily.goode@rmh.nhs.uk. (2)The Royal Marsden Hospital, NHS Foundation Trust,
London SW3 6JJ, UK. Elizabeth.smyth@rmh.nhs.uk.

Survival for patients with advanced oesophageal and stomach cancer is poor;
together these cancers are responsible for more than a million deaths per year
globally. As chemotherapy and targeted therapies such as trastuzumab and
ramucirumab result in modest improvements in survival but not long-term cure for 
such patients, development of alternative treatment approaches is warranted.
Novel immunotherapy drugs such as checkpoint inhibitors have been paradigm
changing in melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer and urothelial cancers. In this 
review, we assess the early evidence for efficacy of immunotherapy in patients
with gastroesophageal cancer in addition to considering biomarkers associated
with response to these treatments. Early results of Anti- Programmed Cell Death
Protein-1 (anti-PD-1), anti-PD-L1 and anti-Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte assosciated
protein-4 (anti-CTLA4) trials are examined, and we conclude with a discussion on 
the future direction for immunotherapy for gastroesophageal cancer patients.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm5100084 
PMCID: PMC5086586
PMID: 27669318  [PubMed]


45. Ann Transl Med. 2016 Aug;4(16):305. doi: 10.21037/atm.2016.08.29.

The emerging role of immunotherapy in colorectal cancer.

Lynch D(1), Murphy A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of North Carolina Hospitals,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA ; (2)Department Medical Oncology, Sidney Kimmel 
Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Modulation of the interaction between the immune system and the tumor
microenvironment has long been a target of cancer research, including colorectal 
cancer (CRC). Approaches explored to date include vaccines (autologous, peptide, 
dendritic cell, viral and bacterial), cytokine therapy, toll-like receptors
(TLRs), autologous cell therapy and checkpoint inhibition. Until recently these
approaches have been shown to have only modest efficacy in reducing tumor burden.
However, significant breakthroughs have been made, with the use of checkpoint
inhibitors targeting programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1), programmed cell
death ligand-1 (PD-L1), and cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4).
Immunotherapy now represents a possible avenue of curative treatment for those
with chemo-otherwise refractory tumors. Success with this approach to
immunotherapy has largely been confined to tumors with high mutational burdens
such as melanoma, renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and non-small cell lung cancer. This
observation led to the exploration and successful use of checkpoint inhibitors in
those with mismatch repair colorectal cancer which have a relatively high
mutational burden. Ongoing trials are focused on further exploring the use of
checkpoint inhibitors in addition to investigating the various combinations of
immunotherapeutic drugs.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2016.08.29 
PMCID: PMC5009029
PMID: 27668225  [PubMed]


46. Front Oncol. 2016 Aug 31;6:199. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2016.00199. eCollection 2016.

Treatment of Elderly Patients with Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck.

Szturz P(1), Vermorken JB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology, and Oncology, University Hospital
Brno, Brno, Czech Republic; School of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech
Republic. (2)Department of Medical Oncology, Antwerp University Hospital, Edegem,
Belgium; Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp,
Belgium.

The demographics of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) is
marked by a growing number of patients aged 65 and over, which is in line with
global projections for other cancer types. In developed countries, more than half
of new SCCHN cases are diagnosed in older people, and in 15 years from now, the
proportion is expected to rise by more than 10%. Still, a high-level
evidence-based consensus to guide the clinical decision process is strikingly
lacking. The available data from retrospective studies and subset analyses of
prospective trials suffer from a considerable underrepresentation of senior
participants. The situation is even more challenging in the recurrent and/or
metastatic setting, where usually only palliative measures are employed.
Nevertheless, it is becoming clear that, if treated irrespective of chronological
age, fit elderly patients in a good general condition and with a low burden of
comorbidities may derive a similar survival advantage as their younger
counterparts. Despite that, undertreatment represents a widespread phenomenon
and, together with competing non-cancer mortality, is suggested to be an
important cause of the worse treatment outcomes observed in this population. Due 
to physiological changes in drug metabolism occurring with advancing age, the
major concerns relate to chemotherapy administration. In locally advanced SCCHN, 
concurrent chemoradiotherapy in patients over 70 years remains a point of
controversy owing to its possibly higher toxicity and questionable benefit.
However, accumulating evidence suggests that it should, indeed, be considered in 
selected cases when biological age is taken into account. Results from a
randomized trial conducted in lung cancer showed that treatment selection based
on a comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) significantly reduced toxicity.
However, a CGA is time-consuming and not necessary for all patients. To overcome 
this hurdle, geriatric screening tools have been introduced to decide who needs
such a full evaluation. Among the various screening instruments, G8 and Flemish
version of the Triage Risk Screening Tool were prospectively verified and found
to have prognostic value. We, therefore, conclude that also in SCCHN, the
application of elderly specific prospective trials and integration of clinical
practice-oriented assessment tools and predictive models should be promoted.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2016.00199 
PMCID: PMC5006317
PMID: 27630826  [PubMed]


47. Annu Rev Med. 2016 Sep 7. [Epub ahead of print]

The End of Nihilism: Systemic Therapy of Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Ernani V(1), Steuer CE(1), Jahanzeb M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Winship Cancer Institute, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 30322.
(2)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami School of Medicine,
Deerfield Beach, FL 33442; email: MJahanzeb@med.miami.edu.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the United States and many
other parts of the world. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) comprises 85-90% of 
lung cancers. Historically, the expected survival of patients with advanced
disease has been estimated in months. In recent years, however, lung cancer has
come to be seen as a treatable disease with multiple therapeutic options.
Enormous advances in the understanding of its pathways and mechanisms have
enabled personalized therapy in NSCLC. The evolving approach to therapy focuses
on genomic profiling of the tumors to find molecular targets and develop specific
agents for individualized therapy. In addition, maintenance therapy has emerged
as a valid approach, and the choice of chemotherapy now varies by histology. Most
recently, immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors has shown promising results,
with impressive durations of response and a tolerable toxicity profile. Together,
these discoveries have improved overall survival substantially in patient
populations that have access to these advancements. We review the clinical data
surrounding these impressive improvements. Expected final online publication date
for the Annual Review of Medicine Volume 68 is January 14, 2017. Please see
http://www.annualreviews.org/page/journal/pubdates for revised estimates.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-med-042915-102442 
PMID: 27618751  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


48. PLoS One. 2016 Sep 12;11(9):e0162630. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162630.
eCollection 2016.

Adoptive Immunotherapy in Postoperative Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Systematic 
Review and Meta-Analysis.

Zeng Y(1), Ruan W(2), He J(1), Zhang J(1), Liang W(1), Chen Y(1), He Q(1), He
J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of
Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Disease & China 
State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, No 151, Yanjiang Rd, Guangzhou,
510120, Guangdong Province, PR China. (2)Guangzhou Zisheng Biotech Company
Limited, No 11, Zhu Jiang East Rd, Guangzhou, 510120, Guangdong Province, PR
China.

BACKGROUND: Adoptive immunotherapy (AI) has been applied in the treatment of
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, but the value of postoperative AI
has been inconclusive largely as a result of the small number of patients
included in each study. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to
address this issue for patients with postoperative NSCLC.
METHODS: Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Library were searched for randomized controlled
trials comparing adoptive immunotherapy with control therapies in postoperative
NSCLC patients. The primary endpoint was overall survival. Hazard ratio (HR) was 
estimated and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using a fixed-effect 
model.
RESULTS: Compared with control therapies, analyses of 4 randomized controlled
trials (472 patients) showed a significant benefit of adoptive immunotherapy on
survival (hazard ratio [HR] 0.61, 95% CI 0.45-0.84, p = 0.002), and a 39%
reduction in the relative risk of death (no evidence of a difference between
trials; p = 0.16, I² = 42%). In subgroup analyses by treatment cycles and
treatment regimen, significant OS benefit was found in combination therapy of AI 
with chemotherapy, regardless of whether or not the treatment cycles were more
than 10 cycles.
CONCLUSION: Adoptive immunotherapy has the potential to improve overall survival 
in postoperative NSCLC. The findings suggest this is a valid treatment option for
these patients. Further randomized clinical trials are urgently needed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162630 
PMCID: PMC5019384
PMID: 27618180  [PubMed - in process]


49. Br J Nurs. 2016 Sep 8;25(16):S12-7. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2016.25.S12.

Understanding immunotherapy for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.

Thomas R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lung Cancer Nurse Specialist, Palliative Care Department, Guy's Hospital,
Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust.

Patients diagnosed with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (either
squamous or non-squamous) have previously had limited treatment options after
progression on chemotherapy. With the emergence of new drugs, particularly in the
immuno-oncology setting, this is now changing. Recent clinical trial evidence
demonstrates that compared with docetaxel, patients who received nivolumab had
better overall survival and also significantly fewer grade 3-4 adverse events.
This article reviews the clinical trial data for nivolumab and provides an
overview of how this drug works. The adverse event profile of nivolumab is
assessed and compared to that of docetaxel. The important role that nurses can
play in supporting patients on nivolumab is also discussed.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2016.25.S12 
PMID: 27615536  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Immunotherapy. 2016 Oct;8(10):1187-92. doi: 10.2217/imt-2016-0055.

DNA-based immunotherapy for HPV-associated head and neck cancer.

Aggarwal C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Assistant Professor, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Medicine,
Hematology-Oncology Division, 624 South Pavilion, Perelman Center for Advanced
Medicine, 3400 Civic Center Boulevard, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) accounts for 3% of all
cancers. Most patients present with locally advanced disease, where multimodality
therapies are used with curative intent. Despite favorable early local treatment 
results, about one third of the patients will eventually develop metastatic
disease. Immunotherapy offers a novel therapeutic strategy beyond cytotoxic
chemotherapy, with initial approvals in melanoma and non-small-cell lung cancer. 
HPV-associated SCCHN is a distinct subset, with unique epidemiology and treatment
outcomes. Both subsets of SCCHN (HPV-related or not) are particularly favorable
for immunotherapy, as immune evasion and dysregulation have been shown to play a 
key role in the initiation and progression of disease. This review focuses on the
latest developments in immunotherapy in SCCHN, with a particular focus on
DNA-based approaches including vaccine and adoptive cellular therapies.

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2016-0055 
PMID: 27605067  [PubMed - in process]


51. Immunol Invest. 2016 Oct;45(7):619-40. doi: 10.1080/08820139.2016.1197241. Epub
2016 Sep 7.

Cancer/Testis Antigens: Expression, Regulation, Tumor Invasion, and Use in
Immunotherapy of Cancers.

Salmaninejad A(1,)(2), Zamani MR(3,)(4), Pourvahedi M(5), Golchehre Z(6),
Hosseini Bereshneh A(6), Rezaei N(3,)(4,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)a Student Research Committee, Medical Genetics Research Center , Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences , Mashhad , Iran. (2)b Cancer Immunology Project
(CIP) , Universal Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN) , Mashhad ,
Iran. (3)c Department of Immunology, School of Medicine , Tehran University of
Medical Sciences , Tehran , Iran. (4)d Network of Immunity in Infection,
Autoimmunity and Malignancy (NIIMA) , Universal Scientific Education and Research
Network (USERN) , Tehran , Iran. (5)e Department of Biology , Faculty of
Sciences, University of Guilan , Rasht , Iran. (6)f Department of Medical
Genetics, School of Medicine , Tehran University of Medical Sciences , Tehran
Iran. (7)g Research Center for Immunodeficiencies, Children's Medical Center ,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences , Tehran , Iran.

Cancer/testis antigens (CTAs) are named based on their expression pattern that is
restricted in a number of normal and abnormal tissues. Tumor cells frequently
express antigens whose expression is typically restricted to germ cells. Their
unique expression pattern is guaranteed by precise epigenetic regulatory
mechanisms. Because of their tumor-limited, high immunogenicity, and biased
expression, discovery of these molecules provides unprecedented opportunities for
further research and clinical development in the field of cancer diagnosis and
immunotherapy. Evolving evidence reveals that a number of CTAs stimulate
epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) and generation of cancer stem-like cells,
intensifying metastasis, invasion, and tumorigenesis. Based on these features,
CTAs attract attention to be considered as ideal targets for developing several
clinical trials, many of them concentrating on CTA vaccine therapy. According to 
recent practical clinical interest, more characterizations of CTA regulation are 
identified. CTA expression has been demonstrated in a variety of human cancer
tissues, and some of them have been found to elicit humoral and/or cellular
immune responses in cancer patients. CTAs are brilliant targets for anticancer
drug discovery, targeted tumor therapy, and diagnostic biomarkers, furthermore,
valued genes in the study of immunotherapy, promoting tumorigenesis, and
malignant progression. This review outlines and categorizes our current
understanding of the complex and biased process of CTAs mRNA and protein
expression in cancer, and supplies the most recent information on their
regulation and function. Besides, a concise synopsis of the major clinical trials
involving CTAs, as therapeutic avenues, is discussed.ABBREVIATIONS: AIRE:
autoimmune regulator; cAMP: cyclic adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate; CEA:
carcinoembryonic antigen; CML: chronic myeloid leukemia; CREB: cyclicamp response
element binding; CSCs: cancer stem cells; CTAs: cancer/testis antigens; CTL:
cytotoxic T lymphocyte; DCs: dendritic cells; EMT: epithelial-mesenchymal
transition; ERK: extracellular signal-regulated kinase; ESCC: esophageal squamous
cell carcinoma; ETS: E26 transformation-specific; His: histidine; HLA: human
leukocyte antigen; HNSCC: head and neck squamous cell carcinoma; IFN-γ:
interferon-γ; IHC: Immunohistochemistry; IL-7: Interleukin7; MHC: major
histocompatibility complex; MMP2: matrix metalloproteinase 2; mTECs: medullary
thymus epithelial cells; MUC1: mucin 1; NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; PRAME:
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma; RDA: representational difference
analysis; SEREX: serological analysis of cDNA expression; SSX: synovial sarcoma X
chromosome; TAAs: tumor-associated antigens; TCR: T-cell receptor; TCGA: The
Cancer Genome Atlas; TGF-β: transforming growth factor-β.

DOI: 10.1080/08820139.2016.1197241 
PMID: 27603913  [PubMed - in process]


52. Radiol Technol. 2016 Sep;88(1):123-8.

Radiation Therapy Plus Anti-Programmed Death Ligand 1 Immunotherapy: A Review on 
Overall Survival.

Krcik EM.

PURPOSE: To analyze current preclinical trials and early clinical trials on the
effects of concomitant anti-programmed death ligand 1 (anti-PD-L1) immunotherapy 
and radiation therapy on progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival
(OS) for advanced melanoma and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
patients.
METHODS: A literature review was conducted to find current articles about
radiation and anti-PD-L1 combinatorial therapy to gain knowledge about
T-lymphocyte (T-cell) mediated immune responses, preclinical mouse tumor trials, 
and early clinical trials.
RESULTS: Several preclinical studies involving mice tumor strains and 2 early
clinical trials observed an increase in PFS and OS when testing radiation therapy
given in combination with anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy. Abscopal effects of tumor
regression and control were notable in some studies.
DISCUSSION: Low doses of radiation enhance the immune system by increasing T-cell
activity. Radiation also increases levels of PD-L1 that inhibit tumor-fighting
capabilities of T-cells. Anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy given in combination with
radiation therapy has been tested in preclinical studies and hypothesized to
increase PFS and OS in patients with advanced melanoma and metastatic NSCLC.
CONCLUSION: Anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy boosts the immune effects of radiation
therapy on tumor regression by eradicating the limiting effects of PD-L1 on the
immune system. The combination therapies have the potential to benefit metastatic
patients who qualify for the treatment.

©2016 American Society of Radiologic Technologists.


PMID: 27601709  [PubMed - in process]


53. Lancet. 2016 Sep 3;388(10048):1002-11. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31340-X. Epub
2016 Sep 1.

Challenges in molecular testing in non-small-cell lung cancer patients with
advanced disease.

Hiley CT(1), Le Quesne J(2), Santis G(3), Sharpe R(4), de Castro DG(5), Middleton
G(6), Swanton C(7).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Cancer Therapeutics Laboratory, The Francis Crick Institute,
London, UK; Division of Cancer Studies, King's College London, London, UK.
(2)Department of Cancer Studies, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Allergy, King's College London, UK.
(4)Cancer Research UK, London, UK. (5)Centre for Molecular Pathology, Royal
Marsden Hospital, Sutton, UK; School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical
Sciences, Queens University Belfast, Belfast, UK. (6)Institute of Immunology and 
Immunotherapy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK; University Hospital
Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham, UK.
(7)Translational Cancer Therapeutics Laboratory, The Francis Crick Institute,
London, UK; CRUK Lung Cancer Centre of Excellence, UCL Cancer Institute, London, 
UK. Electronic address: charles.swanton@crick.ac.uk.

Lung cancer diagnostics have progressed greatly in the previous decade.
Development of molecular testing to identify an increasing number of potentially 
clinically actionable genetic variants, using smaller samples obtained via
minimally invasive techniques, is a huge challenge. Tumour heterogeneity and
cancer evolution in response to therapy means that repeat biopsies or circulating
biomarkers are likely to be increasingly useful to adapt treatment as resistance 
develops. We highlight some of the current challenges faced in clinical practice 
for molecular testing of EGFR, ALK, and new biomarkers such as PDL1.
Implementation of next generation sequencing platforms for molecular diagnostics 
in non-small-cell lung cancer is increasingly common, allowing testing of
multiple genetic variants from a single sample. The use of next generation
sequencing to recruit for molecularly stratified clinical trials is discussed in 
the context of the UK Stratified Medicine Programme and The UK National Lung
Matrix Trial.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31340-X 
PMID: 27598680  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Discov Med. 2016 Aug;22(119):55-65.

Immune checkpoint blockade in lung cancer.

Somasundaram A(1), Socinski MA(1), Villaruz LC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute,
Pittsburgh, PA 15232, USA.

Immunotherapy has revolutionized the therapeutic landscape of advanced lung
cancer. The adaptive immune system has developed a sophisticated method of tumor 
growth control, but T-cell activation is regulated by various checkpoints.
Blockade of the immune checkpoints with therapies targeting the PD-1 pathway,
such as nivolumab and pembrolizumab, has been validated as a therapeutic approach
in non-small cell lung cancer. Newer therapies and novel combinations are also
being evaluated, and the use of biomarkers in conjunction with these drugs is an 
area of active investigation. This review summarizes the current evidence for the
efficacy and safety of the above approaches in the treatment of lung cancer.


PMID: 27585231  [PubMed - in process]


55. Onco Targets Ther. 2016 Aug 16;9:5101-16. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S111209. eCollection
2016.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors: the new frontier in non-small-cell lung cancer
treatment.

El-Osta H(1), Shahid K(1), Mills GM(1), Peddi P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology, Louisiana State
University Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA, USA.

Lung cancer is the major cause for cancer-related death in the US. Although
advances in chemotherapy and targeted therapy have improved the outcome of
metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer, its prognosis remains dismal. A deeper
understanding of the complex interaction between the immune system and tumor
microenvironment has identified immune checkpoint inhibitors as new avenue of
immunotherapy. Rather than acting directly on the tumor, these therapies work by 
removing the inhibition exerted by tumor cell or other immune cells on the immune
system, promoting antitumoral immune response. To date, two programmed death-1
inhibitors, namely nivolumab and pembrolizumab, have received the US Food and
Drug Administration approval for the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung
cancer that failed platinum-based chemotherapy. This manuscript provides a brief 
overview of the pathophysiology of cancer immune evasion, summarizes pertinent
data on completed and ongoing clinical trials involving checkpoint inhibitors,
discusses the different strategies to optimize their function, and outlines
various challenges that are faced in this promising yet evolving field.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S111209 
PMCID: PMC4993420
PMID: 27574451  [PubMed]


56. Onco Targets Ther. 2016 Aug 12;9:5023-39. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S105862. eCollection
2016.

PD-L1 expression in human cancers and its association with clinical outcomes.

Wang X(1), Teng F(2), Kong L(3), Yu J(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine and Life Sciences, University of Jinan - Shandong Academy
of Medical Sciences; Department of Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital
and Institute. (2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and 
Institute; School of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan, People's Republic of
China. (3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and
Institute.

PD-L1 is an immunoinhibitory molecule that suppresses the activation of T cells, 
leading to the progression of tumors. Overexpression of PD-L1 in cancers such as 
gastric cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, esophageal
cancer, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, and bladder cancer is associated with 
poor clinical outcomes. In contrast, PD-L1 expression correlates with better
clinical outcomes in breast cancer and merkel cell carcinoma. The prognostic
value of PD-L1 expression in lung cancer, colorectal cancer, and melanoma is
controversial. Blocking antibodies that target PD-1 and PD-L1 have achieved
remarkable response rates in cancer patients who have PD-L1-overexpressing
tumors. However, using PD-L1 as an exclusive predictive biomarker for cancer
immunotherapy is questionable due to the low accuracy of PD-L1
immunohistochemistry staining. Factors that affect the accuracy of PD-L1
immunohistochemistry staining are as follows. First, antibodies used in different
studies have different sensitivity. Second, in different studies, the cut-off
value of PD-L1 staining positivity is different. Third, PD-L1 expression in
tumors is not uniform, and sampling time and location may affect the results of
PD-L1 staining. Therefore, better understanding of tumor microenvironment and use
of other biomarkers such as gene marker and combined index are necessary to
better identify patients who will benefit from PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoint blockade
therapy.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S105862 
PMCID: PMC4990391
PMID: 27574444  [PubMed]


57. Ann Transl Med. 2016 Jul;4(14):272. doi: 10.21037/atm.2016.07.10.

Toxicity management of immunotherapy for patients with metastatic melanoma.

Linardou H(1), Gogas H(2).

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Medical Oncology, Metropolitan Hospital, Athens, Greece ; 
(2)First Department of Medicine, Laiko General Hospital, National and
Kapodistrian University of Athens School of Medicine, Athens, Greece.

Checkpoint inhibitors have revolutionized the treatment of patients with
metastatic melanoma offering improved responses and significant survival benefit.
These agents are now approved for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, squamous 
and non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and kidney cancer, while they
are now being investigated in a range of other malignancies. In addition, another
anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody (atezolizumab) was recently approved for
urothelial cancer. Ipilimumab, an anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 
4 (CTLA-4) antibody and the anti-PD-1 agents nivolumab and pembrolizumab have
followed large clinical development programs, therefore, information regarding
their safety and toxicity profile is readily available. Unique toxicities have
been observed, which stem from and relate to the immune activation by these
agents and are thus termed as immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Clinicians
and patients should be aware of this different toxicity profile, so as to
promptly recognize, identify and manage symptoms related to irAEs. Indeed,
clinical experience has shown that these immune events, when they are early
recognized and timely managed, are mostly reversible otherwise they can evoke
severe or even life-threatening situations. Several recommendations and
guidelines have been developed for the management of irAEs and algorithms have
been published based primarily on our knowledge from the ipilimumab trials.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2016.07.10 
PMCID: PMC4971373
PMID: 27563659  [PubMed]


58. Ann Transl Med. 2016 Jul;4(14):268. doi: 10.21037/atm.2016.06.24.

Immunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: the clinical impact of immune
response and targeting.

Mountzios G(1), Linardou H(2), Kosmidis P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Athens School of Medicine,
Athens, Greece ; (2)1 Oncology Department, Metropolitan Hospital, Piraeus, Greece
; (3)2 Oncology Department, Hygeia Hospital, Athens, Greece.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains the leading cause of cancer-related
death worldwide. In recent years, through a better understanding of the
interactions between the immune system and tumor cells (TC), immunotherapy has
emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy. Chemotherapy has long been reported 
to interfere with the immune response to the tumor and conversely, anti-tumor
immunity may add to those effects. Anti-tumor vaccines, such as MAGE-A3,
Tecetomide, TG4010, CIMAvax, tumor cell vaccines and dendritic cell (DC) vaccines
emerged as potent inducers of the immune response against the tumor. More
recently the approval of the anti-programmed cell death 1 (anti-PD-1) monoclonal 
antibodies nivolumab and pembrolizumab for previously treated advanced squamous
and non-squamous NSCLC, as well as other immune checkpoint inhibitors delivering 
promising results, has radically transformed the therapeutic landscape of NSCLC. 
Combination strategies now appear as the next step. Notwithstanding these
successes, immunotherapy still holds significant drawbacks and currently several 
improvements are needed before routine use in clinical practice, including
identification of robust biomarkers for optimal patient selection, as well as
defining the best way to evaluate response.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2016.06.24 
PMCID: PMC4971380
PMID: 27563655  [PubMed]


59. Ann Transl Med. 2016 Jul;4(14):266. doi: 10.21037/atm.2016.05.15.

Optimized tumor cryptic peptides: the basis for universal neo-antigen-like tumor 
vaccines.

Menez-Jamet J(1), Gallou C(1), Rougeot A(1), Kosmatopoulos K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vaxon Biotech, 3 rue de l'Arrivée 75015, Paris, France.

The very impressive clinical results recently obtained in cancer patients treated
with immune response checkpoint inhibitors boosted the interest in immunotherapy 
as a therapeutic choice in cancer treatment. However, these inhibitors require a 
pre-existing tumor specific immune response and the presence of tumor
infiltrating T cells to be efficient. This immune response can be triggered by
cancer vaccines. One of the main issues in tumor vaccination is the choice of the
right antigen to target. All vaccines tested to date targeted tumor associated
antigens (TAA) that are self-antigens and failed to show a clinical efficacy
because of the immune self-tolerance to TAA. A new class of tumor antigens has
recently been described, the neo-antigens that are created by point mutations of 
tumor expressing proteins and are recognized by the immune system as non-self.
Neo-antigens exhibit two main properties: they are not involved in the immune
self-tolerance process and are immunogenic. However, the majority of the
neo-antigens are patient specific and their use as cancer vaccines requires their
previous identification in each patient individualy that can be done only in
highly specialized research centers. It is therefore evident that neo-antigens
cannot be used for patient vaccination worldwide. This raises the question of
whether we can find neo-antigen like vaccines, which would not be patient
specific. In this review we show that optimized cryptic peptides from TAA are
neo-antigen like peptides. Optimized cryptic peptides are recognized by the
immune system as non-self because they target self-cryptic peptides that escape
self-tolerance; in addition they are strongly immunogenic because their sequence 
is modified in order to enhance their affinity for the HLA molecule. The first
vaccine based on the optimized cryptic peptide approach, Vx-001, which targets
the widely expressed tumor antigen telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT), has
completed a large phase I clinical study and is currently being tested in a
randomized phase II trial in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2016.05.15 
PMCID: PMC4971378
PMID: 27563653  [PubMed]


60. Ann Transl Med. 2016 Jul;4(14):264. doi: 10.21037/atm.2016.07.11.

DNA damage, tumor mutational load and their impact on immune responses against
cancer.

Liontos M(1), Anastasiou I(2), Bamias A(1), Dimopoulos MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Therapeutics, Alexandra Hospital, School of Medicine,
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece ; (2)1 Department 
of Urology, Laiko Hospital, School of Medicine, National and Kapodistrian
University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

Advances in immunotherapy have changed the therapeutic landscape in many
malignancies. Immune checkpoint inhibitors have already received regulatory
approval in melanomas, lung, renal and bladder carcinomas. A common feature of
these neoplasms is the increased mutational load, related to a possible increase 
number of tumor neoantigens that are recognized by the immune system. The
mechanisms that DNA damage could confer to the mutational load and the formation 
of neoantigens and how this could be exploited to advance our immunotherapeutic
strategies is discussed in this review.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2016.07.11 
PMCID: PMC4971372
PMID: 27563651  [PubMed]


61. Sci Rep. 2016 Aug 25;6:32020. doi: 10.1038/srep32020.

The efficacy and safety of immunotherapy in patients with advanced NSCLC: a
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Zhou L(1), Wang XL(1), Deng QL(1), Du YQ(2), Zhao NQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health and Key Laboratory of
Public Health Safety, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, People's Republic of
China. (2)Department of Preventive Medicine, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032,
People's Republic of China.

Immunotherapy is a novel treatment for advanced non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) patients. Immunotherapy includes two main broad classes of therapeutic
vaccines and immune checkpoint inhibitors, as well as cytokines, biological
response modifiers and cellular therapy. The present systematic review and
meta-analysis aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of different classes of
immunotherapy in patients with advanced NSCLC. Literature search was done on
Medline, Embase and Cochrane Library. The primary endpoints were overall survival
(OS) and grade ≥3 adverse events. Twenty randomized controlled trials were
finally identified in our study. Efficacy analysis indicated an improvement of OS
in advanced NSCLC patients after treating by therapeutic vaccines and immune
checkpoint inhibitors, but not for other immunomodulators. Safety analysis showed
that immunotherapy was well-tolerated. All kinds of grade ≥3 adverse events were 
similar between experimental group and control group except that neutropenia and 
thrombocytopenia had a higher incidence in patients received vaccines. In
conclusion, immunotherapy is a promising treatment for advanced NSCLC patients.
Our findings will be further confirmed and supplemented by several phase II and
phase III RCTs which are going to complete in near future.

DOI: 10.1038/srep32020 
PMCID: PMC4997317
PMID: 27558285  [PubMed - in process]


62. Br J Radiol. 2016 Oct;89(1066):20160472. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20160472. Epub 2016 Sep
14.

Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy and immunotherapy combinations: turning the
future into systemic therapy?

Walshaw RC(1), Honeychurch J(1), Illidge TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cancer Sciences, Manchester Cancer Research Centre, Manchester
Academic Health Sciences Centre, University of Manchester, The Christie Hospital,
Manchester, UK.

Radiotherapy (RT) is effective at cytoreducing tumours and until relatively
recently the focus in radiobiology has been on the direct effects of RT on the
tumour. Increasingly, however, the effect of RT on the tumour vasculature, tumour
stroma and immune system are recognized as important to the overall outcome. RT
is known to lead to the induction of immunogenic cell death (ICD), which can
generate tumour-specific immunity. However, systemic immunity leading to
"abscopal effects" resulting in tumour shrinkage outside of the RT treatment
field is rare, which is thought to be caused by the immunosuppressive nature of
the tumour microenvironment. Recent advances in understanding the nature of this 
immunosuppression and therapeutics targeting immune checkpoints such as
programmed death 1 has led to durable clinical responses in a range of cancer
types including malignant melanoma and non-small-cell lung cancer. The effects of
RT dose and fraction on the generation of ICD and systemic immunity are largely
unknown and are currently under investigation. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy
(SABR) provides an opportunity to deliver single or hypofractionated large doses 
of RT and potentially increase the amount of ICD and the generation of systemic
immunity. Here, we review the interplay of RT and the tumour microenvironment and
the rationale for combining SABR with immunomodulatory agents to generate
systemic immunity and improve outcomes.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20160472 
PMCID: PMC5124813 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27556933  [PubMed - in process]


63. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2016 Oct;12(10):1255-61. doi:
10.1080/17425255.2016.1223047. Epub 2016 Aug 22.

An update on the pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, safety and clinical efficacy
of nivolumab in the treatment of solid cancers.

Wong AC(1), Ma B(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Clinical Oncology , Prince of Wales Hospital , Shatin , Hong
Kong. (2)b State Key Laboratory in Oncology in South China, Sir YK Pao Centre for
Cancer, Department of Clinical Oncology, Hong Kong Cancer Institute , The Chinese
University of Hong Kong , Hong Kong.

INTRODUCTION: Nivolumab is a programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor that has
been approved for treatment of advanced melanoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma, 
renal cell carcinoma and classical Hodgkin's lymphoma.
AREAS COVERED: This review summarizes the latest evidence on nivolumab's
pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, safety and clinical efficacy in different
solid tumors, based on published studies and abstracts from international
conferences.
EXPERT OPINION: Multiple high-level evidence has confirmed the efficacy and
safety of nivolumab in solid tumors. Further studies should focus on the
identification of potential predictive biomarkers and possibility of combining
with other immunotherapeutic or cytotoxic agents. The optimal sequence, treatment
duration and possibility of re-challenging patients who had prior nivolumab are
yet to be defined.

DOI: 10.1080/17425255.2016.1223047 
PMID: 27548326  [PubMed - in process]


64. Oncotarget. 2016 Aug 15. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.11291. [Epub ahead of print]

The efficacy and potential predictive factors of PD-1/PD-L1 blockades in
epithelial carcinoma patients: a systematic review and meta analysis.

Yang Y(1), Pang Z(1), Ding N(1), Dong W(2), Ma W(2), Li Y(2), Du J(1,)(2), Liu
Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Oncology, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong
University, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to
Shandong University, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples's Republic of 
China.

BACKGROUND: This systematic analysis aims to assess the efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1
blockades compared with non-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy and investigate the potential
predictive factors in epithelial carcinoma patients.
RESULTS: A total of 11 trials with 6716 patients of melanoma, non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) were included. The pooled HRs
(95%CI) were 0.67 (0.62, 0.73), p < 0.001 for OS and 0.66 (0.57, 0.76), p < 0.001
for PFS. In subgroup analyses, HRs were 0.58 (0.50, 0.66), p < 0.001 in PD-L1 ≥
1% group, 0.75 (0.63, 0.89), p = 0.001 in PD-L1 < 1% group for OS and 0.59 (0.48,
0.72), p < 0.001 in PD-L1 ≥ 1% group, 0.80 (0.59, 1.07), p = 0.136 in PD-L1 < 1% 
group for PFS. The p values of pooled HRs for OS in different age, sex and ECOG
score groups were less than 0.001. In NSCLC patients, aggregated HRs for OS were 
1.40 (0.92, 2.12), p = 0.114 in EGFR mutant group and 0.88 (0.59, 1.32), p =
0.536 in never smokers.
METHODS: A systematic search from January 2010 to April 2016 was conducted for
eligible clinical trials. Based on the data of hazard ratios (HRs) and 95%
confidence intervals (CIs) for overall survival (OS) and progression-free
survival (PFS), we assessed the pooled HRs and proposed the subgroup analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: PD-1/PD-L1 blockades prolonged OS and PFS in epithelial carcinoma
patients. PD-L1 expression was a predictive factor for PFS but not predictive for
OS. Age, sex and ECOG score were excluded to predict any of the efficacy
endpoints. Smoking history and EGFR wild type were associated with extended OS in
NSCLC patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.11291 
PMID: 27542277  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


65. J Gastrointest Cancer. 2016 Dec;47(4):351-357.

Current Progress in Immunotherapy for the Treatment of Biliary Cancers.

Pauff JM(1), Goff LW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, TN 37232, USA. pauffjm@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, TN 37232, USA.

PURPOSE: Biliary tract cancers (BTC) remain one of the poorest groups of
malignancies in terms of long-term survival, with only limited success in
improvements by the use of systemic chemotherapy and our current repertoire of
molecularly targeted therapies. Treatments that aim to adapt the patient's own
immune system to target cancer cell have shown tremendous promise in treating
solid tumors such as melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer, and there are many 
recently completed and ongoing studies looking to move immunotherapy into the
treatment of BTC. We review here both preclinical and early clinical studies of
immune therapies for BTC, including autologous cell transfer, vaccinations, and
immunomodulatory approaches (e.g., immune checkpoint inhibitors).
METHODS: Published abstracts and articles from peer-reviewed journals as well as 
ongoing trial information were obtained from PubMed, Google Scholar, and
Clinicaltrials.gov.
RESULTS: The use of immune-mediated or immunomodulatory therapies in BTC are
supported by observations that many chronic inflammatory states are associated
with their development. Although success in treating BTC by the active
manipulation of the immune system has been limited to date, we note many recent
and ongoing areas of preclinical and clinical investigation that may translate to
further clinical trials.
CONCLUSIONS: As we continue to follow subgroup analyses and results from specific
studies that include BTC patients, we will hopefully be able to combine these
with focused preclinical investigations providing further rationale for future
trial success in treating BTC.

DOI: 10.1007/s12029-016-9867-8 
PMID: 27538880  [PubMed - in process]


66. Biologics. 2016 Aug 1;10:103-17. doi: 10.2147/BTT.S87878. eCollection 2016.

New targeted treatments for non-small-cell lung cancer - role of nivolumab.

Zago G(1), Muller M(2), van den Heuvel M(2), Baas P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Antoni van 
Leeuwenhoek (NKI-AvL), Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Medical Oncology 2, Istituto
Oncologico Veneto (IOV), Padova, Italy. (2)Department of Thoracic Oncology, The
Netherlands Cancer Institute, Antoni van Leeuwenhoek (NKI-AvL), Amsterdam, the
Netherlands.

Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is often diagnosed at an advanced stage of
disease, where it is no longer amenable to curative treatment. During the last
decades, the survival has only improved significantly for lung cancer patients
who have tumors harboring a driver mutation. Therefore, there is a clear unmet
need for effective therapies for patients with no mutation. Immunotherapy has
emerged as an effective treatment for different cancer types. Nivolumab, a
monoclonal inhibitory antibody against PD-1 receptor, can prolong survival of
NSCLC patients, with a manageable toxicity profile. In two Phase III trials,
nivolumab was compared to docetaxel in patients with, respectively, squamous
(CheckMate 017) and non-squamous NSCLC (CheckMate 057). In both trials, nivolumab
significantly reduced the risk of death compared to docetaxel (41% and 27% lower 
risk of death for squamous and non-squamous NSCLC, respectively). Therefore,
nivolumab has been approved in the US and in Europe as second-line treatment for 
advanced NSCLC. Unfortunately, accurate predictive factors for patient selection 
are lacking, making it difficult to decide who will benefit and who will not.
Currently, there are many ongoing trials that evaluate the efficacy of nivolumab 
in different settings and in combination with other agents. This paper reviews
the present literature about the role of nivolumab in the treatment of NSCLC.
Particular attention has been given to efficacy studies, toxicity profile, and
current and emerging predictive factors.

DOI: 10.2147/BTT.S87878 
PMCID: PMC4975160
PMID: 27536062  [PubMed]


67. Cancer Treat Res. 2016;170:25-46. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-40389-2_2.

Diagnosis and Molecular Classification of Lung Cancer.

Rodriguez-Canales J(1), Parra-Cuentas E(1), Wistuba II(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, Unit 951, The University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 2130 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(2)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, Unit 951, The University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 2130 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
iiwistuba@mdanderson.org.

Lung cancer is a complex disease composed of diverse histological and molecular
types with clinical relevance. The advent of large-scale molecular profiling has 
been helpful to identify novel molecular targets that can be applied to the
treatment of particular lung cancer patients and has helped to reshape the
pathological classification of lung cancer. Novel directions include the
immunotherapy revolution, which has opened the door for new opportunities for
cancer therapy and is also redefining the classification of multiple tumors,
including lung cancer. In the present chapter, we will review the main current
basis of the pathological diagnosis and classification of lung cancer
incorporating the histopathological and molecular dimensions of the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-40389-2_2 
PMID: 27535388  [PubMed - in process]


68. Oncologist. 2016 Aug 17. pii: theoncologist.2016-0189. [Epub ahead of print]

Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Herzberg B(1), Campo MJ(1), Gainor JF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts,
USA. (2)Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA jgainor@partners.org.

: Historically, lung cancer was long considered a poorly immunogenic malignancy. 
In recent years, however, immune checkpoint inhibitors have emerged as promising 
therapeutic agents in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). To date, the best
characterized and most therapeutically relevant immune checkpoints have been
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and the programmed cell
death protein-1 (PD-1) pathway. In early studies, PD-1/programmed cell death
ligand-1 (PD-L1) inhibitors demonstrated promising antitumor activity and durable
clinical responses in a subset of patients. Based on these encouraging results,
multiple different PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors have entered clinical development, and
two agents (nivolumab and pembrolizumab) have gained regulatory approval in the
United States for the treatment of NSCLC. In several large, randomized studies,
PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors have produced significant improvements in overall survival 
compared with single-agent docetaxel delivered in the second-line setting,
effectively establishing a new standard of care in NSCLC. In the present report, 
we provide an overview of the rationale for checkpoint inhibitors in lung cancer,
recent clinical trial data, and the need for predictive biomarkers.IMPLICATIONS
FOR PRACTICE: Strategies targeting negative regulators (i.e., checkpoints) of the
immune system have demonstrated significant antitumor activity across a range of 
solid tumors. In non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), programmed cell death
protein-1 (PD-1) pathway inhibitors have entered routine clinical use because of 
the results from recent randomized studies demonstrating superiority against
single-agent chemotherapy in previously treated patients. The present report
provides an overview of immune checkpoint inhibitors in lung cancer for the
practicing clinician, focusing on the rationale for immunotherapy, recent
clinical trial data, and future directions.

©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2016-0189 
PMID: 27534574  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


69. Oncologist. 2016 Aug 17. pii: theoncologist.2016-0164. [Epub ahead of print]

Monitoring and Management of Immune-Related Adverse Events Associated With
Programmed Cell Death Protein-1 Axis Inhibitors in Lung Cancer.

O'Kane GM(1), Labbé C(1), Doherty MK(1), Young K(1), Albaba H(1), Leighl NB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret Cancer
Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (2)Department of Medical
Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada Natasha.Leighl@uhn.ca.

: Monoclonal antibodies targeting programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1)
represent a new treatment paradigm in non-small cell lung cancer. Three phase III
trials have demonstrated a survival benefit and improved tolerability of
nivolumab and pembrolizumab when compared with standard second-line chemotherapy.
Nevertheless, the adverse events associated with PD-1 inhibitors are unique;
early recognition and treatment are essential. This review summarizes the
required monitoring and appropriate management of immune-related adverse events
in lung cancer patients receiving these agents.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The
potential adverse events of immune checkpoint inhibitors differ from conventional
chemotherapy and can require a multi-disciplinary approach. Continued education
is important for all physicians to ensure optimal care for patients.

©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2016-0164 
PMID: 27534573  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


70. Curr Opin Urol. 2016 Nov;26(6):529-34. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0000000000000334.

Immunotherapy for prostate cancer: is prostate an immune responsive tumor?

Slovin SF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genitourinary Oncology Service, Sidney Kimmel Center for Prostate and Urologic
Cancers, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York City, New York, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review is to identify possible reasons why
prostate cancer suboptimally responds to immune therapies.
RECENT FINDINGS: Interrogation of the intraprostatic milieu suggests that within 
the normal prostate, foci of tumor can be surrounded by inflammatory cells that
may or may not represent foci of immune sensitivity. Whether or not these cells
are specific 'immune responders' depends on a multiplicity of factors within the 
host and intratumoral/stromal milieu. Solid tumors such as kidney and melanoma
can undergo spontaneous regressions alone or upon removal of a primary mass
lesion, suggestive of some sort of immune derepression once the original lesion
is removed. Such observations, though rare, suggest that some unknown immunologic
process may be governing how the tumor behaves. Similarly, in melanoma, there are
rare abscopal effects suggesting that once a primary lesion is radiated, a
secondary lesion afar from the treated lesion could remit.
SUMMARY: Why prostate cancer remains an immunologic conundrum remains a mystery. 
Patients with metastatic prostate cancer have a survival benefit but minimal or
no antitumor response with the autologous cellular product immune therapy,
sipuleucel-T, whereas checkpoint inhibitors, successful in melanoma, renal cell, 
nonsmall cell lung, and urothelial cancers, have little or no activity. This
review serves to bring to the forefront the issues that may underlie why prostate
cancer is not robustly responsive to immune strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0000000000000334 
PMID: 27533500  [PubMed - in process]


71. J Immunother Cancer. 2016 Aug 16;4:48. doi: 10.1186/s40425-016-0153-x.
eCollection 2016.

PD-L1 biomarker testing for non-small cell lung cancer: truth or fiction?

Grigg C(1), Rizvi NA(1).

Author information: 
(1)NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Medical Center, Hematology/Oncology, 
177 Fort Washington Avenue, 6GN-435, New York, NY 10032 USA.

Research in cancer immunology is currently accelerating following a series of
cancer immunotherapy breakthroughs during the last 5 years. Various monoclonal
antibodies which block the interaction between checkpoint molecules PD-1 on
immune cells and PD-L1 on cancer cells have been used to successfully treat
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), including some durable responses lasting
years. Two drugs, nivolumab and pembrolizumab, are now FDA approved for use in
certain patients who have failed or progressed on platinum-based or targeted
therapies while agents targeting PD-L1, atezolizumab and durvalumab, are
approaching the final stages of clinical testing. Despite impressive treatment
outcomes in a subset of patients who receive these immune therapies, many
patients with NSCLC fail to respond to anti-PD-1/PD-L1 and the identification of 
a biomarker to select these patients remains highly sought after. In this review,
we discuss the recent clinical trial results of pembrolizumab, nivolumab, and
atezolizumab for NSCLC, and the significance of companion diagnostic testing for 
tumor PD-L1 expression.

DOI: 10.1186/s40425-016-0153-x 
PMCID: PMC4986262
PMID: 27532023  [PubMed]


72. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016 Oct;17(10):54. doi: 10.1007/s11864-016-0429-x.

Adjuvant Therapy of Resected Non-small Cell Lung Cancer: can We Move Forward?

Buffoni L(1), Vavalà T(2), Novello S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology at San Luigi Hospital, University of Turin, Regione
Gonzole 10, 10043, Orbassano, Torino, Italy. (2)Department of Oncology, ASL CN1, 
Via C. Boggio, 12, 12100, Cuneo, Italy. tvavala@hotmail.it.

OPINION STATEMENT: Twenty years ago, an individual patient data meta-analysis of 
eight cisplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy (AC) studies in completely resected
early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) demonstrated a 13 % reduction of
the risk of death favoring chemotherapy that was of borderline statistical
significance (p = 0.08). This marginal benefit boosted a new generation of
randomized trials to evaluate the role of modern platinum-based regimens in
resectable stages of NSCLC and, although individual studies generated conflicting
results, overall they contributed to confirm the role of AC which is now
recommended for completely resected stage II and III NSCLC, mostly 4 cycles,
while subset analyses suggested a benefit in patients with large IB tumors.
Cisplatin-based therapy was the core regimen of those adjuvant clinical trials
and even if a substitution with other platinum-derived was also suggested, mainly
based on extrapolated data from studies in advanced disease, cisplatin was
confirmed to be slightly superior to carboplatin and is still the drug of choice 
in the adjuvant setting. Currently, any attempt to improve efficacy of
cisplatin-based chemotherapy through antiangiogenic drugs association or
pharmacogenomics approaches have failed, while results of additional studies are 
eagerly awaited. In the context of promising targeted therapies, even if several 
randomized trials in the advanced setting evaluated tyrosine kinase inhibitors
(TKis) versus platinum-based chemotherapy and showed impressive results, clinical
experience with TKIs in the adjuvant setting is still limited and most of the
trials have not required patients to be molecularly tested for the drug-specific 
molecular predictive factor. At the present time, the role of targeted agents as 
adjuvant approaches remains largely not investigated. Finally, with the negative 
experience of the use of vaccines in this setting, the integration of
immunotherapy (mainly immunocheckpoint inhibitors) in platinum-based schedules
has just started to be evaluated, representing a potential future clinical
option, but still far from clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-016-0429-x 
PMID: 27523606  [PubMed - in process]


73. Clin Lung Cancer. 2016 Jul 9. pii: S1525-7304(16)30183-8. doi:
10.1016/j.cllc.2016.07.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Recent Advances and Future Strategies for Immune-Checkpoint Inhibition in
Small-Cell Lung Cancer.

Chae YK(1), Pan A(2), Davis AA(2), Mohindra N(3), Matsangou M(3), Villaflor V(3),
Giles F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Therapeutics Program of the Division of Hematology Oncology,
Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL; Division of
Hematology Oncology, Department of Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine,
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL; The Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer
Center of Northwestern University, Chicago, IL. Electronic address:
young.chae@northwestern.edu. (2)Division of Hematology Oncology, Department of
Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.
(3)Developmental Therapeutics Program of the Division of Hematology Oncology,
Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL; Division of
Hematology Oncology, Department of Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine,
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL; The Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer
Center of Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.

Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) is distinguished from non-small-cell lung cancer by
its rapid growth and more frequent metastases. Although patients with SCLC are
highly responsive to chemotherapy and radiation therapy, long-term prognosis
remains poor, with relapse and disease recurrence occurring in almost all cases. 
Whereas combination chemotherapies continue to be the standard of care in
extensive-stage SCLC, there is value in exploring whether immune-checkpoint
inhibition is an effective treatment strategy, given the durable responses in
non-small-cell lung cancer. Data from SCLC trials have shown clinical activity
and response to cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 protein and programmed cell
death-1 blockade, suggesting that antibodies targeting these pathways may be
effective in improving survival outcome. However, data on clinical activity by
programmed cell death-1 ligand expression in SCLC are not widely available.
Limited data indicate that programmed cell death-1 ligand expression may not be
an ideal biomarker for patient selection. Continued research is necessary to
better optimize patient selection and response to therapy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2016.07.004 
PMID: 27520630  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


74. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2016 Nov;28(11):726-731. doi:
10.1016/j.clon.2016.07.014. Epub 2016 Aug 9.

Radiotherapy and Immunotherapy Combinations in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer: A
Promising Future?

Hanna GG(1), Illidge T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology, Queen's University of Belfast,
Belfast, UK. Electronic address: g.hanna@qub.ac.uk. (2)Institute of Cancer
Sciences, Manchester Cancer Research Centre, Manchester Academic Health Sciences 
Centre, University of Manchester, The Christie Hospital, Manchester, UK.

The goal of re-programming the host immune system to target malignancy with
durable anti-tumour clinical responses has been speculated for decades. In the
last decade such speculation has been transformed into reality with unprecedented
and durable responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors seen in solid tumours. This
mini-review considers the mechanism of action of immune modulating agents and the
potential for combination with radiotherapy in the treatment of non-small cell
lung cancer.

Copyright © 2016 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2016.07.014 
PMID: 27519157  [PubMed - in process]


75. Curr Opin Urol. 2016 Nov;26(6):523-8. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0000000000000336.

Combination immunotherapy in genitourinary malignancies.

Hoffman-Censits J(1), Wilde L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center, Thomas Jefferson 
University Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Combination immunotherapy has already shown promise in several
tumor types, such as melanoma and nonsmall cell lung cancer, and studies are
ongoing to evaluate this approach in other malignancies. Trials such as these
will only continue to expand as additional immune therapies are shown to have
efficacy as single agents in cancer. The purpose of this review is to outline the
current landscape of immunotherapy in genitourinary cancer, and to highlight
ongoing and pending combination immunotherapy trials in bladder, kidney, and
prostate cancers.
RECENT FINDINGS: Immunotherapy agents have long been a part of the treatment
armamentarium for patients with bladder, kidney, and prostate cancers,
contributing to responses with variable toxicities.In the last year, checkpoint
blockade immunotherapy has been Food and Drug Administration approved for renal
and bladder cancer, whereas novel vaccines continue to be tested in prostate
cancer. The efficacy coupled with mostly mild toxicity of modern immunotherapy
make these agents perfect vehicles for combination, sequence, or priming studies 
to maximize benefit. Published and recently presented combination immunotherapy
studies in genitourinary malignancies are summarized.
SUMMARY: Immune therapy strategies are integral to the treatment of bladder,
kidney, and prostate cancers. Though the current experience with combination
immunotherapy in these cancers is limited, ongoing and maturing studies of
combination immunotherapy discussed herein may lead to improved outcomes for
patients and change in standard of care. What is learned from correlative data on
tumor microenvironment and systemic immune response before, during and following 
immunotherapy will be integral to the future design of combination immunotherapy 
trials.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0000000000000336 
PMID: 27517637  [PubMed - in process]


76. J Thorac Dis. 2016 Jul;8(7):E558-63. doi: 10.21037/jtd.2016.05.21.

Immunoproteasomes and immunotherapy-a smoking gun for lung cancer?

Spits M(1), Neefjes J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cell Biology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, NL, The
Netherlands;; Department of Chemical Immunology, Leiden University Medical Center
LUMC, Leiden, NL, The Netherlands.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Mar 15;113(11):E1555-64.

Lung cancer is the second most prevalent cancer in both women and men with some
221,200 new cases and 158,040 deaths reported in 2015. Almost 90% of these are
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and these patients have a very poor prognosis.
Recently a new treatment option for NSCLC appeared that strongly improved
treatment responses-immunotherapy. Here we review the various forms of
immunotherapy and how immune modification of proteasomes in lung cancer may
support the immune system in controlling NSCLC. These immunoproteasomes then
support recognition of NSCLC and may act as a biomarker for selecting responding 
patients to immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.21037/jtd.2016.05.21 
PMCID: PMC4958817
PMID: 27501321  [PubMed]


77. Immunotherapy. 2016 Sep;8(9):1011-9. doi: 10.2217/imt-2016-0032.

A pooled analysis of nivolumab for the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer and the role of PD-L1 as a predictive biomarker.

Aguiar PN Jr(1), Santoro IL(1), Tadokoro H(1), de Lima Lopes G(2), Filardi BA(1),
Oliveira P(3), Castelo-Branco P(4), Mountzios G(5), de Mello RA(4,)(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Federal University of São Paulo, São Paulo,
Brazil. (2)Department of Medical Oncology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
MD 21218, USA. (3)Department of Population Studies, Abel Salazar Biomedical
Institute, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal. (4)Division of Oncology,
Department of Biomedical Sciences & Medicine, University of Algarve, Faro,
Portugal. (5)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Athens Medical School,
Athens, Greece. (6)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Porto, Porto, Portugal. (7)Research Center, Cearense School of Oncology,
Instituto do Câncer do Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies with nivolumab (a monoclonal antibody against
programmed cell death 1 [PD-1] receptor) have shown promise non-small-cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) treatment.
METHODS: To review available clinical trials data in order to assess nivolumab
efficacy and the role of tumoral PDL-1 expression as a biomarker.
RESULTS: Nine eligible studies included 2102 patients. In the second line
setting, nivolumab achieved a 1-year survival rate of 41%; and in the first line,
a 1-year survival rate of 76%. For those with PD-L1 expression <1%, nivolumab
showed a trend for improved survival compared with docetaxel.
CONCLUSIONS: The available data reinforce nivolumab activity against NSCLC in
first-line or subsequent lines. Although PD-L1 expression is related to greater
response, PD-L1 negative patients had also some benefit.

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2016-0032 
PMID: 27485075  [PubMed - in process]


78. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2016 Oct;10(5):444-54. doi: 10.1177/1753465816661091. Epub
2016 Jul 31.

Nivolumab in the treatment of metastatic squamous non-small cell lung cancer: a
review of the evidence.

Lim JS(1), Soo RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Science Institute of Singapore, National University of Singapore,
Singapore. (2)Department of Haematology-Oncology, National University Cancer
Institute, National University Health System, 1E Kent Ridge Road, NUHS Tower
Block Level 7, Singapore 119228 ross_soo@nuhs.edu.sg.

Progress in the treatment of patients with advanced stage squamous cell non-small
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has been limited. An improvement in the understanding of
tumor immunosurveillance has resulted in the development of the immune checkpoint
inhibitors such as nivolumab. Nivolumab (Opdivo(®)), a human immunoglobulin
(Ig)G4 anti-programmed death (PD)-1 monoclonal antibody, was the first PD-1
inhibitor approved in the treatment of patients with advanced stage squamous cell
NSCLC following platinum-based chemotherapy. CHECKMATE 017, a randomized phase
III study of second-line nivolumab versus docetaxel, significantly improved
overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), patient reported outcomes
and the safety and tolerability favored patients treated with nivolumab. The
ligand (PD-L1) expression did not predict for outcome. In this paper, we review
the role of nivolumab in the treatment of NSCLC with particular attention on
recent studies, ongoing combination studies, toxicity profile, current and
potential predictive biomarkers.

© The Author(s), 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/1753465816661091 
PMID: 27480166  [PubMed - in process]


79. Clin Lung Cancer. 2016 Jun 25. pii: S1525-7304(16)30146-2. doi:
10.1016/j.cllc.2016.06.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Immunotherapy Comes of Age in Lung Cancer.

Khanna P(1), Blais N(2), Gaudreau PO(2), Corrales-Rodriguez L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigación y Manejo del Cáncer (CIMCA), San Jose, Costa Rica.
(2)Medical Oncology and Hematology, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de
Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada. (3)Medical Oncology, Centro de Investigación y
Manejo del Cáncer (CIMCA), San Jose, Costa Rica. Electronic address:
corrales@cimcacr.com.

Lung carcinoma is the leading cause of death by cancer worldwide. When possible, 
surgery is the best treatment strategy for patients with non-small-cell lung
cancer. However, even with curative-intent therapy, most patients will develop
local or systemic recurrence and, ultimately, succumb to their disease. In recent
years, evidence on the role of the antitumor activity of the immune system and
the understanding of tumor immunosurveillance have resulted in the emergence of
immunotherapy as a promising therapeutic approach in lung cancer. The main
approaches are immune checkpoint inhibition, such as blockade of the cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte antigen-4 and programmed cell death-1 receptors and the programmed
cell death-1 ligand, and vaccine therapy, which elicits specific antitumor
immunity against relevant tumor-associated antigens. We have reviewed recently
reported results from clinical trials and the possible future role of vaccine
therapy and immune checkpoint inhibition in the treatment of small cell lung
cancer and non-small-cell lung cancer.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2016.06.006 
PMID: 27461776  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


80. J Urol. 2017 Jan;197(1):14-22. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2016.02.3005. Epub 2016 Jul
25.

Immunotherapy for the Treatment of Urothelial Carcinoma.

Donin NM(1), Lenis AT(1), Holden S(1), Drakaki A(1), Pantuck A(1), Belldegrun
A(1), Chamie K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Institute of Urologic Oncology (NMD, SH, AD, AP, AB,
KC), David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California; Department
of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology (AD), David Geffen School of
Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California; Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
(AD, AP, AB, KC), University of California, Los Angeles, California.
(2)Department of Urology, Institute of Urologic Oncology (NMD, SH, AD, AP, AB,
KC), David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California; Department
of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology (AD), David Geffen School of
Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California; Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
(AD, AP, AB, KC), University of California, Los Angeles, California. Electronic
address: kchamie@mednet.ucla.edu.

PURPOSE: We review the biological mechanisms of action, clinical safety and
efficacy of immunotherapies for urothelial carcinoma. We also describe current
areas of research in immunotherapy, and highlight ongoing trials and promising
and novel investigational agents.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data were obtained by a search of PubMed®,
ClinicalTrials.gov and Cochrane databases for English language articles published
through February 2016. Applicable abstracts from recent Society of Urologic
Oncology, European Association of Urology, American Urological Association and
ASCO® meetings were used.
RESULTS: Bacillus Calmette-Guérin is one of the most successful immunotherapies
in cancer treatment and remains the gold standard of care for patients with high 
risk, nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer, with initial response rates of
approximately 70%. However, with the exception of valrubicin and standard
chemotherapeutics there is a paucity of available treatment options for patients 
with recurrence or progression to more advanced disease. Recently there has been 
significant interest in novel immunotherapeutic agents in the management of cases
where bacillus Calmette-Guérin fails, as well as cases of more advanced cancer.
These investigational therapies can generally be classified into several broad
categories, including recombinant bacillus Calmette-Guérin and cell wall derived 
therapies, cytokines, gene therapy, cancer vaccines, immune checkpoint
inhibitors, oncolytic viruses, adoptive immunotherapies and immune agonists, as
well as several additional immunomodulatory agents. The majority of these agents 
are currently under investigation in phase I or II clinical trials. Recently
investigators reported evidence that inhibition of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway has
clinical activity in patients with advanced bladder cancer. These findings, along
with successful phase III trials and U.S. Food and Drug Administration approvals 
of other checkpoint inhibitors in melanoma, nonsmall cell lung cancer and renal
cell carcinoma, ultimately led to Food and Drug Administration approval of
atezolizumab for advanced disease, the first new treatment approved for advanced 
urothelial carcinoma in 20 years.
CONCLUSIONS: While bacillus Calmette-Guérin has demonstrated significant clinical
efficacy in the treatment of patients with bladder cancer, additional therapies
are needed for those in whom bacillus Calmette-Guérin fails, as well as for those
with advanced disease. Immunotherapy for urothelial carcinoma remains a promising
and active area of research, and numerous agents, particularly the monoclonal
antibodies targeting checkpoint inhibition pathways, are showing encouraging
signs of clinical activity.

Copyright Â© 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2016.02.3005 
PMID: 27460757  [PubMed - in process]


81. Ann Oncol. 2016 Oct;27(10):1829-35. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdw271. Epub 2016 Jul 25.

Chemotherapy remains an essential element of personalized care for persons with
lung cancers.

Hellmann MD(1), Li BT(1), Chaft JE(1), Kris MG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Oncology Service, Division of Solid Tumor Oncology, Department of
Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and Weill Cornell Medical
College, New York, USA. (2)Thoracic Oncology Service, Division of Solid Tumor
Oncology, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and
Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, USA krism@mskcc.org.

Molecularly targeted and immunotherapies have improved the care of patients with 
lung cancers. These successes have rallied calls to replace or avoid
chemotherapy. Yet, even in this era of precision medicine and exciting advances, 
cytotoxic chemotherapies remain an essential component of lung cancer treatment. 
In the setting of locoregional disease, chemotherapy is the only systemic therapy
thus far proven to enhance curability when combined with surgery or radiation. In
the metastatic setting, chemotherapy can improve the length and quality of life
in many patients. Chemotherapy remains the mainstay of care for individuals whose
cancers with oncogenic drivers have acquired resistance to targeted agents.
Chemotherapy also has the potential to modulate the immune system to enhance the 
effectiveness of immune checkpoint inhibitors. In this context, chemotherapy
should be framed as a critical component of the armamentarium available for
optimizing cancer care rather than an unfortunate anachronism. We examine the
role of chemotherapy with precision medicine in the current care of patients with
lung cancers, as well as opportunities for future integration in combinations
with targeted agents, angiogenesis inhibitors, immunotherapies, and antibody drug
conjugates.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdw271 
PMCID: PMC5035786 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27456296  [PubMed - in process]


82. Tumori. 2016 Aug 3;102(4):337-51. doi: 10.5301/tj.5000537. Epub 2016 Jul 21.

Current status of immunotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer.

Imbimbo M(1), Lo Russo G(1), Blackhall F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Unit, Department of Medical Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto
Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan - Italy. (2)Institute of Cancer Sciences, Manchester 
University and The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester - UK.

In the last few years, the introduction of novel immunotherapeutic agents has
represented a treatment shift for a subset of patients with non-small-cell lung
cancer (NSCLC). Checkpoint inhibitors have been demonstrated to improve survival 
in advanced stage disease with very good tolerability. This success follows many 
years of scientific effort to manipulate the human immune system to attack cancer
cells. With a variety of approaches ranging from vaccines to administration of
interleukin or interferon-γ, the results in NSCLC were unsuccessful, with the
view that it is a scarcely immunogenic cancer, unlike melanoma or renal cell
carcinoma. The step change has come from understanding of immune checkpoints-cell
surface molecules that regulate immune system activation and mediate coinhibitory
signaling pathways that physiologically protect the body from autoimmunity. These
pathways play an important role in tumors, including NSCLC, and are a mechanism
of escape from immune surveillance. Several monoclonal antibodies have been
developed in order to inhibit these molecules and unleash the brakes of the
immune system. Currently in NSCLC, 7 different checkpoint inhibitors are under
investigation: 2 anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4, 2
anti-programmed death (PD)-1, and 3 anti-PD-ligand 1 antibodies. Here we review
the progress to date in developing immunotherapy for NSCLC, summarize results
from published trials, highlight ongoing trials, and discuss progress in the
question of how best to select patients for this treatment.

DOI: 10.5301/tj.5000537 
PMID: 27443896  [PubMed - in process]


83. Policy Issues in the Clinical Development and Use of Immunotherapy for Cancer
Treatment: Proceedings of a Workshop.

National Cancer Policy Forum; Board on Health Care Services; Health and Medicine 
Division; National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine.
Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2016 Oct.
The National Academies Collection: Reports funded by National Institutes of
Health.

Immunotherapy is a form of cancer therapy that harnesses the body's immune system
to destroy cancer cells. In recent years, immunotherapies have been developed for
several cancers, including advanced melanoma, lung cancer, and kidney cancer. In 
some patients with metastatic cancers who have not responded well to other
treatments, immunotherapy treatment has resulted in complete and durable
responses. Given these promising findings, it is hoped that continued
immunotherapy research and development will produce better cancer treatments that
improve patient outcomes. With this promise, however, there is also recognition
that the clinical and biological landscape for immunotherapies is novel and not
yet well understood. For example, adverse events with immunotherapy treatment are
quite different from those experienced with other types of cancer therapy.
Similarly, immunotherapy dosing, therapeutic responses, and response time lines
are also markedly different from other cancer therapies. To examine these
challenges and explore strategies to overcome them, the National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine held a workshop in February and March of
2016. This report summarizes the presentations and discussions from the workshop.

PMID: 27441330  [PubMed]


84. Ecancermedicalscience. 2016 Jun 23;10:648. doi: 10.3332/ecancer.2016.648.
eCollection 2016.

Targeted therapies and immunotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer.

Cortinovis D(1), Abbate M(1), Bidoli P(1), Capici S(1), Canova S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, AOU San Gerardo, via Giambattista Pergolesi 33, 20900
Monza, Italy.

Non-small-cell lung cancer is still considered a difficult disease to manage
because of its aggressiveness and resistance to common therapies. Chemotherapy
remains the gold standard in nearly 80% of lung cancers, but clinical outcomes
are discouraging, and the impact on median overall survival (OS) barely reaches
12 months. At the end of the last century, the discovery of oncogene-driven
tumours completely changed the therapeutic landscape in lung cancers, harbouring 
specific gene mutations/translocations. Epidermal growth factors receptor (EGFR) 
common mutations first and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) translocations later 
led new insights in lung cancer biology knowledge. The use of specific tyrosine
kinases inhibitors overturned the biological behaviour of EGFR mutation positive 
tumours and became a preclinical model to understand the heterogeneity of lung
cancers and the mechanisms of drug resistance. In this review, we summarise the
employment of targeted agents against the most representative biomolecular
alterations and provide some criticisms of the therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.3332/ecancer.2016.648 
PMCID: PMC4929979
PMID: 27433281  [PubMed]


85. J Clin Oncol. 2016 Sep 10;34(26):3204-12. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2015.66.3955. Epub
2016 Jul 18.

Efficacy of Tumor Vaccines and Cellular Immunotherapies in Non-Small-Cell Lung
Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Dammeijer F(1), Lievense LA(1), Veerman GD(1), Hoogsteden HC(1), Hegmans JP(1),
Arends LR(1), Aerts JG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Floris Dammeijer, Lysanne A. Lievense, G.D. Marijn Veerman, Henk C.
Hoogsteden, Joost P. Hegmans, Joachim G. Aerts, and Lidia R. Arends, Erasmus
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; and Joachim G. Aerts, Amphia
Hospital, Breda, The Netherlands. (2)Floris Dammeijer, Lysanne A. Lievense, G.D. 
Marijn Veerman, Henk C. Hoogsteden, Joost P. Hegmans, Joachim G. Aerts, and Lidia
R. Arends, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; and Joachim G.
Aerts, Amphia Hospital, Breda, The Netherlands. j.aerts@erasmusmc.nl.

Comment in
    Ann Transl Med. 2016 Oct;4(Suppl 1):S24.

PURPOSE: Programmed cell death protein-1- checkpoint blockers have recently been 
approved as second-line treatment for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer
(NSCLC). Unfortunately, only a subgroup of patients responds and shows long-term 
survival to these therapies. Tumor vaccines and cellular immunotherapies could
synergize with checkpoint blockade, but which of these treatments is most
efficacious is unknown. In this meta-analysis, we assessed the efficacy of tumor 
vaccination and cellular immunotherapy in NSCLC.
METHODS: We searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating
cellular immunotherapy or vaccines in NSCLC. We used random effects models to
analyze overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS), expressed as
hazard ratios (HRs), and differences in time (months). The effect of
immunotherapy type, disease stage, tumor histology, and concurrent chemotherapy
was assessed using subgroup analysis and meta-regression. All procedures were
performed according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and
Meta-Analyses guidelines.
RESULTS: We identified 18 RCTs that matched our selection criteria; these
included a total of 6,756 patients. Immunotherapy extended NSCLC survival and
PFS, expressed as HR (OS: HR, 0.81, 95% CI, 0.70 to 0.94, P = .01; PFS: HR, 0.83,
95% CI, 0.72 to 0.95, P = .006) and month difference (OS: difference, 5.43
months, 95% CI, 3.20 to 7.65, P < .005; PFS: difference, 3.24 months, 95% CI,
1.61 to 4.88, P < .005). Cellular therapies outperformed tumor vaccines (OS as
HR: P = .005, month difference: P < .001; PFS as HR: P = .001, month difference: 
P = .004). There was a benefit of immunotherapy in low-stage compared with
high-stage NSCLC and with concurrent administration of chemotherapy only in one
of four outcome measures evaluated (PFS in months: P = .01 and PFS as HR: P =
.031, respectively). There was no significant effect of tumor histology on
survival or PFS.
CONCLUSION: Tumor vaccines and cellular immunotherapies enhanced OS and PFS in
NSCLC. Cellular immunotherapy was found to be more effective than tumor
vaccination. These findings have implications for future studies investigating
combination immunotherapy in NSCLC.

© 2016 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2015.66.3955 
PMID: 27432922  [PubMed - in process]


86. Biochem Pharmacol. 2017 Jan 1;123:8-18. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2016.07.012. Epub 2016
Jul 16.

New therapeutic strategies for malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Bonelli MA(1), Fumarola C(2), La Monica S(3), Alfieri R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Experimental Oncology, Department of Clinical and Experimental
Medicine, University of Parma, Via Volturno 39, 43126 Parma, Italy. Electronic
address: mara.bonelli@unipr.it. (2)Unit of Experimental Oncology, Department of
Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Parma, Via Volturno 39, 43126
Parma, Italy. Electronic address: claudia.fumarola@unipr.it. (3)Unit of
Experimental Oncology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine,
University of Parma, Via Volturno 39, 43126 Parma, Italy. Electronic address:
silvia.lamonica@unipr.it. (4)Unit of Experimental Oncology, Department of
Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Parma, Via Volturno 39, 43126
Parma, Italy. Electronic address: roberta.alfieri@unipr.it.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rare and aggressive malignant disease
affecting the mesothelium, commonly associated to asbestos exposure. Therapeutic 
actions are limited due to the late stage at which most patients are diagnosed
and the intrinsic chemo-resistance of the tumor. The recommended systemic therapy
for MPM is cisplatin/pemetrexed regimen with a mean overall survival of about
12months and a median progression free survival of less than 6months. Considering
that the incidence of this tumor is expected to increase in the next decade and
that its prognosis is poor, novel therapeutic approaches are urgently needed. For
some tumors, such as lung cancer and breast cancer, druggable oncogenic
alterations have been identified and targeted therapy is an important option for 
these patients. For MPM, clinical guidelines do not recommend biological targeted
therapy, mainly because of poor target definition or inappropriate trial design. 
Further studies are required for a full comprehension of the molecular
pathogenesis of MPM and for the development of new target agents. This review
updates pre-clinical and clinical data on the efficacy of targeted therapy and
immune checkpoint inhibition in the treatment of mesothelioma. Finally, future
perspectives in this deadly disease are also discussed.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2016.07.012 
PMID: 27431778  [PubMed - in process]


87. Thorac Surg Clin. 2016 Aug;26(3):287-94. doi: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2016.04.002.

Surgical Management of Oligometastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Lanuti M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General
Hospital, 55 Fruit Street, Blake 1570, Boston, MA 02114, USA. Electronic address:
MLanuti@mgh.harvard.edu.

Patients harboring stage IV non-small cell lung cancer represent a heterogeneous 
population with limited life expectancy. Targeted chemotherapy and immunotherapy 
have improved median survival for a minority of patients. A subset of patients
with solitary foci of metastatic disease appears to have improved survival
compared to others with stage IV NSCLC. The role of aggressive local control with
curative intent for all disease sites in synchronous oligometastatic disease
lacks randomized data; however, published retrospective series from single
institutions suggest improved survival in highly selected patients (11-30%,
5-year survival) with low morbidity and mortality < 2%.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2016.04.002 
PMID: 27427523  [PubMed - in process]


88. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2016 Sep;78:173-9. doi: 10.1016/j.biocel.2016.07.011.
Epub 2016 Jul 15.

Management of non-small cell lung cancer in the era of personalized medicine.

Rocco G(1), Morabito A(2), Leone A(3), Muto P(4), Fiore F(5), Budillon A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Surgery, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori
'Fondazione Giovanni Pascale' - IRCCS, Napoli, Italy. (2)Medical Oncology,
Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori 'Fondazione Giovanni
Pascale' - IRCCS, Napoli, Italy. (3)Experimental Pharmacology, Istituto Nazionale
per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori 'Fondazione Giovanni Pascale' - IRCCS, Napoli,
Italy. (4)Radiation Oncology, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei
Tumori 'Fondazione Giovanni Pascale' - IRCCS, Napoli, Italy. (5)Interventional
Radiology, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori 'Fondazione
Giovanni Pascale' - IRCCS, Napoli, Italy. (6)Experimental Pharmacology, Istituto 
Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori 'Fondazione Giovanni Pascale' -
IRCCS, Napoli, Italy. Electronic address: a.budillon@istitutotumori.na.i.

Despite major advances in the molecular definition of the disease, screening and 
therapy, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is still characterized by a
disappointing overall survival, depending on subtype and tumor stage. To address 
this challenge, in the last years the therapeutic algorithm of NSCLC has become
much more complex and articulated, with different kinds of drugs, including
chemotherapy, targeted-based agents, angiogenesis inhibitors and immunotherapy,
and multiple lines of treatments, for patients with squamous and non-squamous
hystology, EGFR mutation and ALK rearrangement. This short viewpoint describes
the emerging strategies for the management of NSCLC, indicating how a
personalized approach, characterized by a specific multidisciplinary involvement,
implies a process that starts with early detection and includes surgery and
systemic therapy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biocel.2016.07.011 
PMID: 27425397  [PubMed - in process]


89. Cancer Med. 2016 Sep;5(9):2567-78. doi: 10.1002/cam4.819. Epub 2016 Jul 15.

Mechanisms of immune evasion and current status of checkpoint inhibitors in
non-small cell lung cancer.

Qin A(1), Coffey DG(2,)(3), Warren EH(2,)(3), Ramnath N(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. qina@med.umich.edu. (2)Clinical Research Division,
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington. (3)Division of
Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington. (4)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. (5)VA Ann Arbor Health Care System, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan.

In the past several years, immunotherapy has emerged as a viable treatment option
for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) without actionable 
driver mutations that have progressed on standard chemotherapy. We are also
beginning to understand the methods of immune evasion employed by NSCLC which
likely contribute to the 20% response rate to immunotherapy. It is also yet
unclear what tumor or patient factors predict response to immunotherapy. The
objectives of this review are (1) review the immunogenicity of NSCLC (2) describe
the mechanisms of immune evasion (3) summarize efforts to target the anti-program
death-1 (PD-1) and anti-program death-ligand 1(PD-L1) pathway (4) outline
determinants of response to PD-1/PD-L1 therapy and (5) discuss potential future
areas for research.

© 2016 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.819 
PMCID: PMC5055165
PMID: 27416962  [PubMed - in process]


90. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2016 Jun;5(3):288-300. doi: 10.21037/tlcr.2016.06.07.

Non-small cell lung cancer: current treatment and future advances.

Zappa C(1), Mousa SA(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health
Sciences, Rensselaer, New York, USA.

Lung cancer has a poor prognosis; over half of people diagnosed with lung cancer 
die within one year of diagnosis and the 5-year survival is less than 18%.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for the majority of all lung cancer
cases. Risk factors for developing NSCLC have been identified, with cigarette
smoking being a major factor along with other environmental and genetic risk
factors. Depending on the staging of lung cancer, patients are eligible for
certain treatments ranging from surgery to radiation to chemotherapy as well as
targeted therapy. With the advancement of genetics and biomarkers testing,
specific mutations have been identified to better target treatment for individual
patients. This review discusses current treatments including surgery,
chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy as well as how biomarker testing
has helped improve survival in patients with NSCLC.

DOI: 10.21037/tlcr.2016.06.07 
PMCID: PMC4931124
PMID: 27413711  [PubMed]


91. BioDrugs. 2016 Oct;30(5):397-405.

Advances in the Treatment of Non-small Cell Lung Cancer: Focus on Nivolumab,
Pembrolizumab, and Atezolizumab.

Leventakos K(1), Mansfield AS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester,
MN, 55905, USA. (2)Department of Medical Oncology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street 
SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. Mansfield.Aaron@mayo.edu.

Immunotherapy is revolutionizing the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC). Immune checkpoint inhibitors, including programmed cell death protein 1 
(PD-1) and programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) monoclonal antibodies, are
being introduced to routine clinical practice. This review summarizes clinical
trials of nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab in patients with NSCLC.
These agents have efficacy against NSCLC and a unique toxicity profile. The role 
of PD-L1 as a predictive biomarker is still unclear, partially because of the
nuances of PD-L1 testing. These novel therapies also challenge our existing
methodologies of radiologic assessment and efficacy analysis. This new era of
immunotherapy has ushered in as much hope for patients as questions from
physicians that need to be answered to clarify the optimal use of these agents.

DOI: 10.1007/s40259-016-0187-0 
PMID: 27411930  [PubMed - in process]


92. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Sep;11(9):1387-96. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.05.009. Epub
2016 Jul 9.

Clinician Perspectives on Current Issues in Lung Cancer Drug Development.

Waqar SN(1), Bonomi PD(2), Govindan R(1), Hirsch FR(3), Riely GJ(4),
Papadimitrakopoulou V(5), Kazandjian D(6), Khozin S(6), Larkins E(6), Dickson
DJ(7), Malik S(8), Horn L(9), Ferris A(10), Shaw AT(11), Jänne PA(12), Mok
TS(13), Herbst R(14), Keegan P(6), Pazdur R(6), Blumenthal GM(15).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri. (2)Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois. (3)University of 
Colorado Cancer Center, Denver, Colorado. (4)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center, New York, New York. (5)The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, Texas. (6)U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring,
Maryland. (7)Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon. (8)National 
Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland. (9)Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, Tennessee. (10)LUNGevity Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland.
(11)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Boston, Massachusetts. (12)Dana
Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts. (13)The Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. (14)Yale School of Medicine,
New Haven, Connecticut. (15)U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring,
Maryland. Electronic address: Gideon.Blumenthal@fda.hhs.gov.

Recent advances in molecularly targeted therapy and immunotherapy offer a glimmer
of hope for potentially realizing the dream of personalized therapy for lung
cancer. This article highlights current questions in clinical trial design,
enrollment strategies and patient focused drug development, with particular
emphasis on unique issues in trials of targeted therapy and immunotherapy.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.05.009 
PMCID: PMC5131641 [Available on 2017-09-01]
PMID: 27401214  [PubMed - in process]


93. Clin Lung Cancer. 2016 Sep;17(5):325-333. doi: 10.1016/j.cllc.2016.05.014. Epub
2016 Jun 8.

SCLC-State of the Art and What Does the Future Have in Store?

Kahnert K(1), Kauffmann-Guerrero D(2), Huber RM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine V, University of Munich, Comprehensive
Pneumology Center, German Center for Lung Research, Munich, Germany. Electronic
address: kathrin.kahnert@med.uni-muenchen.de. (2)Department of Internal Medicine 
V, University of Munich, Comprehensive Pneumology Center, German Center for Lung 
Research, Munich, Germany.

Worldwide, the total number of diagnosed lung cancer cases amounts to 1.8 million
every year. Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) accounts for about 15% to 17% of all
diagnosed lung cancers. Despite all progress made in the field of non-small-cell 
lung cancer, the prognosis and therapeutic options in SCLC are still limited. The
resistance of SCLC to conventional therapy as well as its high recurrence rate
can be attributed to the heterogeneous genetic structure of SCLC; however, a
targeted therapy approach to SCLC may build on this very heterogeneous genetic
structure. SCLC is by now a well-characterized cancer with various genetic
alterations; for example, mutations in tumor suppressor genes TP53 and RB1,
alterations in chromosome 3p, JAK2, FGFR1, and MYC genes were discovered. Based
on these findings, various treatment options (eg, aurora kinase inhibitors, PARP 
inhibition, immune checkpoint inhibition and vaccine therapy) are currently
evaluated with the goal of determining their clinical effectiveness. In this
article, we review the existing knowledge of SCLC genetics and the current
treatment standards and highlight new approaches of immunotherapy and other
targeted therapies, which may yield new treatment options and improve the outcome
of patients with SCLC.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2016.05.014 
PMID: 27397481  [PubMed - in process]


94. Ann Transl Med. 2016 Jun;4(11):217. doi: 10.21037/atm.2016.05.36.

The implication and potential applications of high-mobility group box 1 protein
in breast cancer.

Sohun M(1), Shen H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, the Affiliated People's Hospital, Jiangsu University, 
Zhenjiang 212013, China.

High-mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1) is a highly conserved, non-histone and 
ubiquitous chromosomal protein found enriched in active chromatin forming part of
the high mobility group family of proteins and is encoded by the HMGB1 gene
(13q12) in human beings. It has various intranuclear and extracellular functions.
It plays an important role in the pathogenesis of many diseases including cancer.
In 2012, there was approximately 1.67 million new breast cancer cases diagnosed
which makes it the second most frequent cancer in the world after lung cancer
(25% of all cancers) and the commonest cancer among women. Both pre-clinical and 
clinical studies have suggested that HMGB1 might be a useful target in the
management of breast cancer. This review summarises the structure and functions
of HMGB1 and its dual role in carcinogenesis both as a pro-tumorigenic and
anti-tumorigenic factor. It also sums up evidence from in vitro and in vivo
studies using breast cancer cell lines and samples which demonstrate its
influence in radiotherapy, chemotherapy and hormonal therapy in breast cancer. It
may have particular importance in HER2 positive and metastatic breast cancer. It 
might pave the way for new breast cancer treatments through development of novel 
drugs, use of microRNAs (miRNAs), targeting breast cancer stem cells (CSCs) and
breast cancer immunotherapy. It may also play a role in determining breast cancer
prognosis. Thus HMGB1 may open up novel avenues in breast cancer management.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2016.05.36 
PMCID: PMC4916368
PMID: 27386491  [PubMed]


95. Ann Transl Med. 2016 Jun;4(11):215. doi: 10.21037/atm.2016.05.64.

The role of pembrolizumab in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung
cancer.

Santabarbara G(1), Maione P(1), Rossi A(1), Palazzolo G(1), Gridelli C(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Division of Medical Oncology, "S. G. Moscati" Hospital, Contrada Amoretta
83100, Avellino, Italy ; 2 Division of Medical Oncology, "ULSS 15 Cittadella",
via Casa di ricovero, 40 35013 Cittadella, Padova, Italy.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of death cancer related worldwide. The standard 
therapies have unmet medical needs both due to the limited activity and relevant 
toxicity of platinum-based chemotherapy and to the low frequency of specific
alterations required to use targeted therapies. Immune checkpoint inhibition due 
to restoring the immune system's capacity to eradicate tumors is undergoing in
extensive investigation in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) as a new treatment 
approach. Programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) and its ligand, programmed cell 
death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) have recently led to significantly and durable
improvements in the clinical outcome of several kind of tumors including lung
cancer. Pembrolizumab, approved by the U.S. FDA for the treatment of advanced
NSCLC progressed after other therapies and with expression of PD-L1, has
demonstrated durable response and prolonged overall survival (OS) especially in
patients with high PD-L1 expression. Further investigation are needed to improve 
treatment outcomes through combination of immunotherapy or combined with other
targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2016.05.64 
PMCID: PMC4916358
PMID: 27386489  [PubMed]


96. Cancer Treat Rev. 2016 Jul;48:61-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2016.06.008. Epub 2016
Jun 18.

Tumor genotype and immune microenvironment in POLE-ultramutated and
MSI-hypermutated Endometrial Cancers: New candidates for checkpoint blockade
immunotherapy?

Gargiulo P(1), Della Pepa C(2), Berardi S(3), Califano D(4), Scala S(5),
Buonaguro L(6), Ciliberto G(7), Brauchli P(8), Pignata S(9).

Author information: 
(1)Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK) Coordinating Center,
Effingerstrasse 33, CH-3008 Bern, Switzerland; Department of Urology and
Gynecology, Istituto Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G. Pascale", IRCCS, Via Mariano
Semmola 52, 80131 Naples, Italy. Electronic address: pieragargiulo@hotmail.it.
(2)Department of Urology and Gynecology, Istituto Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G.
Pascale", IRCCS, Via Mariano Semmola 52, 80131 Naples, Italy. Electronic address:
chiaradellapepa@hotmail.it. (3)Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK)
Coordinating Center, Effingerstrasse 33, CH-3008 Bern, Switzerland. Electronic
address: Simona.Berardi@sakk.ch. (4)Department of Research-Functional Genomics,
Istituto Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G. Pascale", IRCCS, Via Mariano Semmola 52,
80131 Naples, Italy. Electronic address: d.califano@istitutotumori.na.it.
(5)Department of Research-Functional Genomics, Istituto Nazionale Tumori
"Fondazione G. Pascale", IRCCS, Via Mariano Semmola 52, 80131 Naples, Italy.
Electronic address: s.scala@istitutotumori.na.it. (6)Molecular Biology and Viral 
Oncogenesis Unit, Istituto Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G. Pascale", IRCCS, Via
Mariano Semmola 52, 80131 Naples, Italy. Electronic address:
l.buonaguro@istitutotumori.na.it. (7)Scientific Directorate, Istituto Nazionale
Tumori "Fondazione G. Pascale", IRCCS, Via Mariano Semmola 52, 80131 Naples,
Italy. Electronic address: g.ciliberto@istitutotumori.na.it. (8)Swiss Group for
Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK) Coordinating Center, Effingerstrasse 33, CH-3008 
Bern, Switzerland. Electronic address: peter.brauchli@sakk.ch. (9)Department of
Urology and Gynecology, Istituto Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G. Pascale", IRCCS,
Via Mariano Semmola 52, 80131 Naples, Italy. Electronic address:
s.pignata@istitutotumori.na.it.

Endometrial Cancer (EC) is still a challenge for gynecological oncologists
because the treatment of the advanced disease remains an unmet need for patients.
The Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network (TCGA) recently provided a comprehensive
genomic and transcriptomic analysis of EC, offering a new classification of the
disease, based on genetic features, which defines four subgroups of cancer rather
than the two traditionally recognized. In the molecular classification two types 
of EC, the polymerase epsilon (POLE)-ultramutated and the microsatellite
instability (MSI)-hypermutated, seem to present an enhanced immune
microenvironment and a high mutation burden. The blockade of the immune
checkpoints is an innovative approach that has largely demonstrated to be
effective in solid malignancies, such as lung, renal and melanoma; it acts by
reducing the cancer-induced immune-suppression through inhibition of the
PD-1/PD-L1 (Programmed Death and PD-Ligand) axis. All available evidence
supporting an over-expression of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway in EC has been reviewed. 
In particular in the POLE and MSI ECs an up-regulation of this pathway was found,
aiming to suggest a rationale for testing the PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy in these
cancer subgroups.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2016.06.008 
PMID: 27362548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Oncologist. 2016 Aug;21(8):910-21. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0523. Epub
2016 Jun 27.

The Future of Immunotherapy in the Treatment of Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Horn L(1), Reck M(2), Spigel DR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine,
Nashville, Tennessee, USA leora.horn@vanderbilt.edu. (2)Thoracic Oncology
Department, LungenClinic Grosshansdorf, Airway Research Center North, a member of
the German Center for Lung Research, Grosshansdorf, Germany. (3)Sarah Cannon
Research Institute, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.

: Small cell lung cancer (SCLC), which accounts for 10%-15% of lung cancer cases,
is an aggressive disease characterized by rapid growth and early widespread
metastasis. Although up to 80% of patients respond to first-line chemotherapy,
most eventually relapse, and there are no approved agents beyond the second line.
Despite the high incidence of mutations in SCLC, to date no targeted therapy has 
shown a benefit for this patient population, and systemic treatment has not
changed significantly during the past 3 decades. Given that extensive-stage SCLC 
has a 5-year survival rate of only 1%-2%, novel therapies are desperately needed.
Recent evidence shows that the immune system is capable of generating antitumor
responses against various tumors, including lung cancer, suggesting that
immunotherapy may be a viable therapeutic approach to the treatment of patients
with SCLC. Of the immunotherapies being investigated for patients with SCLC,
antibodies that target the programmed cell death protein-1 (nivolumab and
pembrolizumab) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (ipilimumab) immune
checkpoint pathways are perhaps the most promising. Because these immune
checkpoint pathways, which under normal circumstances function to protect healthy
tissues from damage during inflammatory responses and maintain self-tolerance,
can help tumor cells evade elimination by the immune system, they represent
potential therapeutic targets. This review discusses the rationale for
immunotherapy and the early clinical results of immunotherapeutic agents being
investigated in SCLC.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is 
an aggressive lung cancer subtype. Despite sensitivity to first-line
chemotherapy, SCLC has high recurrence rates, and responses to second-line
treatments are poor. Recent evidence shows that the immune system is capable of
generating responses against various tumors, including lung cancer, suggesting
that immunotherapy may be a viable approach for patients with SCLC. Of several
immunotherapies being investigated, antibodies that target the programmed cell
death protein-1 (nivolumab and pembrolizumab) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
antigen-4 (ipilimumab) immune checkpoint pathways are among the most promising
for patients with SCLC and are the focus of this review.

©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0523 
PMCID: PMC4978554 [Available on 2017-08-01]
PMID: 27354668  [PubMed - in process]


98. Clin Chim Acta. 2016 Sep 1;460:78-87. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2016.06.027. Epub 2016
Jun 24.

Immunotherapy in colorectal cancer: What have we learned so far?

Sanchez-Castañón M(1), Er TK(2), Bujanda L(3), Herreros-Villanueva M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Immunology Department, Marqués de Valdecilla Hospital-IDIBAL, Santander,
Spain. (2)Department of Health and Nutrition Biotechnology, Asian University,
Taichung, Taiwan. (3)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Donostia/Instituto 
Biodonostia, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y
Digestivas (CIBERehd) Universidad del País Vasco UPV/EHU, San Sebastián, Spain.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Donostia/Instituto Biodonostia,
Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas
(CIBERehd) Universidad del País Vasco UPV/EHU, San Sebastián, Spain; Division of 
Oncology Research, Schulze Center for Novel Therapeutics, College of Medicine,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, United States. Electronic address:
martahvh1978@hotmail.com.

After decades of progress based on chemotherapy and targeted agents, patients
with metastatic colorectal cancer still have low long-term survival, with more
than 500,000 deaths occurring worldwide every year. Recent results showing
clinical evidence of efficacy using immunotherapy in other types of tumors, such 
as melanoma and lung cancer, have also made this a viable therapy for evaluation 
in colorectal cancer in clinical trials. The development of cancer
immunotherapies is progressing quickly, with a variety of technological
approaches. This review summarizes the current status of clinical trials testing 
immunotherapy in colorectal cancer and discusses what has been learned based on
previous results. Immunotherapy strategies, such as various models of vaccines,
effector-cell therapy and checkpoint inhibitor antibodies, provide protection
against progression for a limited subset of patients diagnosed with colorectal
cancer. A better understanding of particular immune cell types and pathways in
each patient is still needed. These findings will enable the development of novel
biomarkers to select the appropriate subset of patients to be treated with a
particular immunotherapy, and the tendencies determined from recent results can
guide clinical practice for oncologists in this new therapeutic area and in the
design of the next round of clinical trials.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2016.06.027 
PMID: 27350293  [PubMed - in process]


99. Immunotherapy. 2016 Jun;8(7):809-19. doi: 10.2217/imt-2016-0001.

Immune checkpoint blockade in human cancer therapy: lung cancer and hematologic
malignancies.

Janakiram M(1,)(2,)(3), Pareek V(1,)(2), Cheng H(1,)(2), Narasimhulu DM(2), Zang 
X(1,)(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. (2)Oncology, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert
Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. (3)Microbiology & Immunology,
Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, 
USA. (4)Urology, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 
Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

Tumor immune evasion is one of the hallmarks of cancer, and expression of the B7 
family of immune checkpoints (PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H3, B7x and HHLA2) is one
mechanism of immune evasion by tumors to suppress T-cell function. Antibodies
blocking these interactions of B7-1/B7-2/CTLA-4 and PD-L1/PD-L2/PD-1 have had
remarkable clinical success in several cancers and are less toxic than
traditional chemotherapy. Even though only a small proportion of patients respond
to checkpoint blockade, the duration of such responders due to immunological
memory is remarkable and is longer than would be expected with any other agent in
refractory disease. In this article, we review the therapeutic trials of blocking
these pathways in human lung cancer and hematological malignancies.

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2016-0001 
PMID: 27349980  [PubMed - in process]


100. J Geriatr Oncol. 2016 Sep;7(5):325-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2016.05.007. Epub 2016 
Jun 16.

The development of immunotherapy in older adults: New treatments, new toxicities?

Helissey C(1), Vicier C(2), Champiat S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology - Clinical Research Unit, Military Hospital
Begin, Saint-Mandé, France. (2)Inserm U981, Univ. Paris-Sud, Université
Paris-Saclay, Villejuif, France. (3)Inserm U981, Univ. Paris-Sud, Université
Paris-Saclay, Villejuif, France; Drug Development Department (DITEP), Gustave
Roussy, Univ. Paris-Sud, Université Paris-Saclay, Villejuif, France. Electronic
address: stephane.champiat@gustaveroussy.fr.

Monoclonal antibodies targeting immune checkpoint molecules CTLA-4, PD-1 or PD-L1
are emerging as promising anticancer therapeutics in multiple cancer subtypes
resulting in remarkable and long-lasting clinical responses. These immune
checkpoint blockers (ICBs) have already obtained approval for the treatment of
patients with metastatic melanoma, advanced/refractory non-small cell lung cancer
and renal cell cancer. ICBs enhance immune responses against cancer cells but can
also lead to inflammatory side effects called immune-related adverse events
(irAEs). Such toxicities are distinct from those associated with traditional
chemotherapeutic agents or molecularly targeted therapies. Although severe irAEs 
remain rare (~10% of cases under monotherapy), they can become life-threatening
if not anticipated and managed appropriately. As malignancies are frequently
diagnosed in older patients, ICB treatment of elderly presents a unique
challenge. However, the knowledge about efficacy and toxicity of these molecules 
in this specific population is limited, as most of the studies have involved a
low number of older patients. In this review, we will discuss about the different
ICB efficacy data available for older patients. We will then highlight the
specific spectrum of immunotherapy toxicities and talk about their management in 
the context of older adults.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2016.05.007 
PMID: 27318796  [PubMed - in process]


101. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016 Aug;17(8):40. doi: 10.1007/s11864-016-0419-z.

Checkpoint Inhibitors in Head and Neck Cancer: Rationale, Clinical Activity, and 
Potential Biomarkers.

Economopoulou P(1), Kotsantis I(2), Psyrri A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Medical Oncology, Attikon
University Hospital, National Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of
Medicine, 1St Rimini St, 12462, Haidari, Athens, Greece.
panagiota_oiko@hotmail.com. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of
Medical Oncology, Attikon University Hospital, National Kapodistrian University
of Athens, School of Medicine, 1St Rimini St, 12462, Haidari, Athens, Greece.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Medical Oncology, Attikon
University Hospital, National Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of
Medicine, 1St Rimini St, 12462, Haidari, Athens, Greece. dpsyrri@med.uoa.gr.

OPINION STATEMENT: The discovery and antibody targeting of immune regulatory
molecules such as programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and cytotoxic T
lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) pathways have led to clinically meaningful
anti-cancer results. Rapid advances are being made in a variety of tumor types
resulting in regulatory approvals in melanoma, non small cell lung cancer, and
renal cell cancer. Numerous ongoing studies are expected to establish the worth
of PD-1 pathway inhibitors in other tumor types as well as in combinations with
approved agents. Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) represents a
complex group of malignancies characterized by profound immunosuppression and is 
an excellent candidate for investigation in this exciting field. However, given
the fact that a subset of patients will likely benefit, it is critical to focus
on biomarker development for appropriate patient selection and facilitation of
trial design. As immunotherapy is settling in cancer treatment, immune checkpoint
inhibitors are emerging as one of the most promising agents.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-016-0419-z 
PMID: 27315066  [PubMed - in process]


102. Onco Targets Ther. 2016 May 30;9:3187-95. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S84356. eCollection
2016.

Profile of nivolumab in the treatment of metastatic squamous non-small-cell lung 
cancer.

Ang YL(1), Lim JS(2), Soo RA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology-Oncology, National University Cancer Institute,
National University Health System, Singapore. (2)Department of
Haematology-Oncology, National University Cancer Institute, National University
Health System, Singapore; Cancer Science Institute of Singapore, National
University of Singapore, Singapore. (3)Department of Haematology-Oncology,
National University Cancer Institute, National University Health System,
Singapore; Cancer Science Institute of Singapore, National University of
Singapore, Singapore; Department of Surgery, University of Western Australia,
Perth, WA, Australia.

Until recently, the prognosis and treatment of patients with advanced-stage
squamous cell lung cancers have been limited. An improvement in the understanding
of the role of the immune system in tumor immunosurveillance has led to the
development of the programmed death-1 (PD-1) immune checkpoint inhibitor
nivolumab (Opdivo). Nivolumab is the first PD-1 inhibitor approved for the
treatment of advanced-stage squamous cell non-small-cell lung cancer following
platinum-based chemotherapy. In the key Phase III trial CHECKMATE 017, a better
overall survival and progression-free survival were seen in patients treated with
second-line nivolumab compared with docetaxel. Programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) 
expression did not predict for outcome. In addition, nivolumab had better safety 
and tolerability, and led to better patient reported outcomes. Further research
on the role of PD-L1 expression as a predictive biomarker should be performed,
and other biomarkers that can predict the efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors
should also be pursued. Further studies on the combination treatment are ongoing 
to determine the optimal role of nivolumab as monotherapy or nivolumab with other
agents in non-small-cell lung cancer.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S84356 
PMCID: PMC4892831
PMID: 27313464  [PubMed]


103. Cancer Treat Rev. 2016 Jul;48:20-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2016.06.002. Epub 2016
Jun 7.

Economic sustainability of anti-PD-1 agents nivolumab and pembrolizumab in cancer
patients: Recent insights and future challenges.

Tartari F(1), Santoni M(2), Burattini L(3), Mazzanti P(3), Onofri A(3), Berardi
R(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Economics, University of Macerata, Macerata, Italy. (2)Medical
Oncology, Università Politecnica delle Marche, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria 
Ospedali Riuniti Umberto I, GM Lancisi, G Salesi, Ancona, Italy. Electronic
address: mattymo@alice.it. (3)Medical Oncology, Università Politecnica delle
Marche, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Ospedali Riuniti Umberto I, GM Lancisi,
G Salesi, Ancona, Italy.

Anti-programmed death (PD)-1 agents pembrolizumab and nivolumab have recently
obtained enthusiastic results in terms of progression-free survival (PFS),
overall survival (OS) and tolerability in cancer patients. Despite these
promising data, the high cost of these agents needs careful consideration.
Indeed, the evaluation of cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) and quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY), as well as different drug reimbursement modalities, will
represent fundamental tools in order to guarantee the economic sustainability of 
health system and the access to care for all cancer patients. In this review, we 
discussed the recent results obtained by immunotherapy in cancer patients and we 
evaluated the economic impact of recently approved nivolumab and pembrolizumab in
patients with advanced melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and renal
cell carcinoma (RCC).

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2016.06.002 
PMID: 27310708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Oncologist. 2016 Jul;21(7):804-16. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0509. Epub
2016 Jun 15.

Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors: Review and Management of Endocrine Adverse Events.

González-Rodríguez E(1), Rodríguez-Abreu D(2); Spanish Group for Cancer
Immuno-Biotherapy (GETICA).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Hospital Universitario de Gran Canaria
Doctor Negrín, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain elisaglezrguez@gmail.com.
(2)Section of Medical Oncology, Hospital Universitario Insular de Gran Canaria,
Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain.

: In recent years, immune checkpoint inhibitors have emerged as effective
therapies for advanced neoplasias. As new checkpoint target blockers become
available and additional tumor locations tested, their use is expected to
increase within a short time. Immune-related adverse events (irAEs) affecting the
endocrine system are among the most frequent and complex toxicities. Some may be 
life-threatening if not recognized; hence, appropriate guidance for oncologists
is needed. Despite their high incidence, endocrine irAEs have not been fully
described for all immunotherapy agents available. This article is a narrative
review of endocrinopathies associated with cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated
antigen-4, blockade of programmed death receptor 1 and its ligand inhibitors, and
their combination. Thyroid dysfunction is the most frequent irAE reported, and
hypophysitis is characteristic of ipilimumab. Incidence, timing patterns, and
clinical presentation are discussed, and practical recommendations for clinical
management are suggested. Heterogeneous terminology and lack of appropriate
resolution criteria in clinical trials make adequate evaluation of endocrine AEs 
difficult. It is necessary to standardize definitions to contrast incidences and 
characterize toxicity patterns. To provide optimal care, a multidisciplinary team
that includes endocrinology specialists is recommended.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE:
Immune checkpoint inhibitors are already part of oncologists' therapeutic arsenal
as effective therapies for otherwise untreatable neoplasias, such as metastatic
melanoma or lung cancer. Their use is expected to increase exponentially in the
near future as additional agents become available and their approval is extended 
to different tumor types. Adverse events affecting the endocrine system are among
the most frequent and complex toxicities oncologists may face, and some may be
life-threatening if not recognized. This study reviews endocrinopathies
associated to immune checkpoint inhibitors available to date. Incidence, timing
patterns, and clinical presentation are discussed, and practical recommendations 
for management are proposed.

©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0509 
PMCID: PMC4943391 [Available on 2017-07-01]
PMID: 27306911  [PubMed - in process]


105. Cancer Sci. 2016 Sep;107(9):1193-7. doi: 10.1111/cas.12986. Epub 2016 Aug 25.

Lymphocyte-activation gene-3, an important immune checkpoint in cancer.

He Y(1,)(2), Rivard CJ(2), Rozeboom L(2), Yu H(2), Ellison K(2), Kowalewski A(2),
Zhou C(3), Hirsch FR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji University
Medical School Cancer Institute, Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 
China. (2)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of
Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, Colorado, USA. (3)Department of Medical
Oncology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji University Medical School Cancer
Institute, Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
caicunzhoudr@163.com. (4)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine,
University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, Colorado, USA.
Fred.hirsch@ucdenver.edu.

Immunotherapy has recently become widely used in lung cancer. Many oncologists
are focused on cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4), programmed cell death
ligand-1 (PD-L1) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1). Immunotherapy targeting the 
PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoints has shown promising efficacy in non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC), but questions remain to be answered. Among them is whether the
simultaneous inhibition of other checkpoints could improve outcomes.
Lymphocyte-activation gene-3 (LAG-3) is another vital checkpoint that may have a 
synergistic interaction with PD-1/PD-L1. Here we review the LAG-3 function in
cancer, clinical trials with agents targeting LAG-3 and the correlation of LAG-3 
with other checkpoints.

© 2016 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd 
on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.12986 
PMCID: PMC5021038
PMID: 27297395  [PubMed - in process]


106. Acta Anaesthesiol Taiwan. 2016 Jun;54(2):70-4. doi: 10.1016/j.aat.2016.05.003.
Epub 2016 Jun 8.

A review of nationwide population study of organ transplantation in Taiwan.

Tsai HI(1), Yu HP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan;
College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Graduate Institute
of Clinical Medical Sciences, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan;
College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
yuhp2001@adm.cgmh.org.tw.

Comment on
    Eur J Intern Med. 2015 Jul;26(6):433-8.
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2012 Feb;27(2):833-9.
    Transplantation. 2015 Apr;99(4):818-22.
    Medicine (Baltimore). 2014 Dec;93(29):e344.
    Transplantation. 2014 Jul 15;98(1):79-87.
    Transplantation. 2014 Oct 15;98(7):e71-3.
    BMC Surg. 2015 Mar 18;15:28.

Solid organ transplantation has become the therapy of choice for patients with
end-stage organ disease. The frequently transplanted organs in Taiwan include
liver, kidney, heart, and lung, and the success rate has improved significantly
worldwide for the past decades. However, organ recipients are known to be at a
higher risk of post-transplant infections and de novo cancer due to
immunosuppression and oncogenic viral infections. Organ recipients are known to
be at a two- to fourfold increased risk of cancer and the risks are particularly 
high for malignancies caused by viral infections, including post-transplant
lymphoproliferative disorders via Epstein-Barr virus, Kaposi sarcoma via Kaposi
sarcoma herpesvirus, anogenital cancers via human papillomavirus, and
hepatocellular carcinoma via hepatitis B and C virus. Population-based cohort
studies may help better understand the pattern of infection and cancer risk in
transplant recipients and clarify the role of the immune system, infection, and
risk factors in the development of malignancy. Improvement of surgical
techniques, advancement of immunosuppressant therapy in addition to early
detection and prevention of infection, and regular surveillance of de novo cancer
after transplantation have become the mainstay of successful organ
transplantation.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aat.2016.05.003 
PMID: 27289565  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Curr Oncol Rep. 2016 Aug;18(8):47. doi: 10.1007/s11912-016-0534-9.

Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in Older Adults.

Elias R(1), Morales J(2), Rehman Y(3), Khurshid H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology and Department of Geriatrics, Boston
University Medical Center, 820 Harrison Ave, Boston, MA, 02118, USA.
raelias@bu.edu. (2)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Virginia Commonwealth
University, 1200 East Broad Street, Richmond, VA, 23298, USA. (3)Department of
Hematology-Oncology and Department of Geriatrics, Boston University Medical
Center, 820 Harrison Ave, Boston, MA, 02118, USA. (4)Division of
Hematology-Oncology, Rhode Island Hospital, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI, 02903,
USA.

Cancer is primarily a disease of older adults. The treatment of advanced stage
tumors usually involves the use of systemic agents that may be associated with
significant risk of toxicity, especially in older patients. Immune checkpoint
inhibitors are newcomers to the oncology world with improved efficacy and better 
safety profiles when compared to traditional cytotoxic drugs. This makes them an 
attractive treatment option. While there are no elderly specific trials, this
review attempts to look at the current available data from a geriatric oncology
perspective. We reviewed data from phase III studies that led to newly approved
indications of checkpoint inhibitors in non-small cell lung cancer, melanoma, and
renal cell cancer. Data were reviewed with respect to response, survival, and
toxicity according to three groups: <65 years, 65-75 years, and >75 years.
Current literature does not allow one to draw definitive conclusions regarding
the role of immune checkpoint inhibitors in older adults. However, they may offer
a potentially less toxic but equally efficacious treatment option for the senior 
adult oncology patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s11912-016-0534-9 
PMID: 27287329  [PubMed - in process]


108. Surg Oncol Clin N Am. 2016 Jul;25(3):601-9. doi: 10.1016/j.soc.2016.02.011.

Targeted Therapy and Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer.

Naylor EC(1), Desani JK(2), Chung PK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology and Oncology, Southern Ocean Medical Center, Meridian Cancer Care, 
1140 Route 72 West, Manahawkin, NJ 08050, USA. Electronic address:
enaylor@meridianhealth.com. (2)Hematology and Oncology, Southern Ocean Medical
Center, Meridian Cancer Care, 1140 Route 72 West, Manahawkin, NJ 08050, USA.

Targeted therapy and immunotherapy have changed the treatment paradigm of
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Distinct molecular subtypes of NSCLC have
been described over the past 20 years, enabling the emergence of treatments
specific to that subtype. Agents targeting the driver mutations in NSCLC have
revolutionized the approach to patients with metastatic disease, because
oncologists now select a treatment based on the profile of that particular tumor.
More recently, an understanding of immune checkpoints has led to the development 
of checkpoint inhibitors that enable the host immune system to better recognize
tumor cells as foreign and to destroy them.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soc.2016.02.011 
PMID: 27261918  [PubMed - in process]


109. Oncol Res Treat. 2016;39(6):335-45. doi: 10.1159/000446340. Epub 2016 May 25.

Immunotherapy in Breast Cancer.

Marmé F(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Tumour Diseases and Department of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology, University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.

The importance of the tumor microenvironment including immune cell infiltrates in
breast cancer has long been recognized. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes are
prognostic and predictive; however, their prevalence as well as their prognostic 
and predictive power are subtype-dependent and appear most prominent in
aggressive subtypes like triple-negative and HER2-positive disease. The immune
responses observed in many cancers are attracted by tumor-associated antigens
and, as suggested by recent research, by neoantigens - immunogenic antigens
encoded for by non-synonymous mutations. The appealing promise of cancer vaccines
has been pursued in breast cancer for over 2 decades; however, despite much
effort having been put into vaccine trials, their clinical benefit, with the
exception of some encouraging preliminary results, remains disappointing. The
main hurdles compromising the efficacy of these vaccination strategies are the
difficulties to generate broad and robust immune responses as well as to overcome
immune escape mechanisms. The remarkable efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors
in melanoma and lung cancer has set the ground for a race in the clinical
development of numerous agents targeting these immune escape mechanisms in many
tumor entities. Early clinical data in metastatic breast cancer suggests at least
some clinical activity. This review discusses the current status and future
perspectives of immunotherapy in breast cancer.

© 2016 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg.

DOI: 10.1159/000446340 
PMID: 27260697  [PubMed - in process]


110. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Aug 1;22(15):3713-7. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-2998.
Epub 2016 Jun 1.

Nivolumab and Pembrolizumab for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Morgensztern D(1), Herbst RS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri. dmorgens@dom.wustl.edu. (2)Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center, Yale
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.

The outcomes for patients with previously treated advanced stage non-small lung
cancer (NSCLC) are very poor, with a modest benefit from chemotherapy over best
supportive care. Immunotherapy offers a novel approach for the treatment of these
patients, with two anti-programmed death 1 (PD-1) checkpoint inhibitors,
nivolumab and pembrolizumab, recently approved by the FDA based on large
randomized clinical trials showing increased overall survival compared with
standard second-line docetaxel. Although only a subset of patients benefit from
these drugs, the treatment is usually well tolerated and the responses are often 
durable, with an unprecedented number of survivors 3 years after starting the
therapy. The next steps should be the identification of reliable predictors for
benefit from immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors and the pursuit of
well-designed combination therapies. In this article, we review the rationale for
the use of checkpoint inhibitors in NSCLC, the data from phase I and randomized
clinical trials, and future directions. Clin Cancer Res; 22(15); 3713-7. ©2016
AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-2998 
PMID: 27252413  [PubMed - in process]


111. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2016;35:e450-8. doi: 10.14694/EDBK_158712.

Immunotherapy: Beyond Anti-PD-1 and Anti-PD-L1 Therapies.

Antonia SJ(1), Vansteenkiste JF(1), Moon E(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Thoracic Oncology Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL;
Respiratory Oncology Unit, University Hospital KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium;
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.

Advanced-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer are 
cancers in which chemotherapy produces a survival benefit, although it is small. 
We now know that anti-PD-1/PD-L1 has substantial clinical activity in both of
these diseases, with an overall response rate (ORR) of 15%-20%. These responses
are frequently rapid and durable, increase median overall survival (OS) compared 
with chemotherapy, and produce long-term survivors. Despite these very
significant results, many patients do not benefit from anti-PD-1/PD-L1. This is
because of the potential for malignancies to co-opt myriad immunosuppressive
mechanisms other than aberrant expression of PD-L1. Conceptually, these can be
divided into three categories. First, for some patients there is likely a failure
to generate sufficient functional tumor antigen-specific T cells. Second, for
others, tumor antigen-specific T cells may be generated but fail to enter into
the tumor parenchyma. Finally, there are a large number of immunosuppressive
mechanisms that have the potential to be operational within the tumor
microenvironment: surface membrane immune checkpoint proteins PD-1, CTLA-4, LAG3,
TIM3, BTLA, and adenosine A2AR; soluble factors and metabolic alterations
interleukin (IL)-10, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, adenosine, IDO, and
arginase; and inhibitory cells, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), regulatory 
T cells, myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), and tumor-associated
macrophages. In this article, we discuss three strategies to generate more
tumor-reactive T cells for patients: anti-CTLA-4, therapeutic tumor vaccination, 
and adoptive cellular therapy, with T cells redirected to tumor antigens using
T-cell receptor (TCR) or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) gene modification. We
also review some of the various strategies in development to thwart tumor
microenvironment immunosuppressive mechanisms. Strategies to drive more T cells
into tumors remain a significant challenge.

DOI: 10.14694/EDBK_158712 
PMID: 27249753  [PubMed - in process]


112. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2016;35:e116-22. doi: 10.14694/EDBK_100005.

Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in Brain Metastases: From Biology to Treatment.

Berghoff AS(1), Venur VA(1), Preusser M(1), Ahluwalia MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the German Cancer Research Center, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 
Germany; Department of Medicine I, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria;
Comprehensive Cancer Center Vienna CNS Unit, Vienna, Austria; Division of
Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa
Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; Burkhardt Brain Tumor and Neuro-Oncology
Center, Neurologic Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH; Taussig Cancer
Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH.

Cancer immunotherapy has been a subject of intense research over the last several
years, leading to new approaches for modulation of the immune system to treat
malignancies. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti-CLTA-4 antibodies and
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies) potentiate the host's own antitumor immune response. 
These immune checkpoint inhibitors have shown impressive clinical efficacy in
advanced melanoma, metastatic kidney cancer, and metastatic non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC)-all malignancies that frequently cause brain metastases. The
immune response in the brain is highly regulated, challenging the treatment of
brain metastases with immune-modulatory therapies. The immune microenvironment in
brain metastases is active with a high density of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes 
in certain patients and, therefore, may serve as a potential treatment target.
However, clinical data of the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors in brain
metastases compared with extracranial metastases are limited, as most clinical
trials with these new agents excluded patients with active brain metastases. In
this article, we review the current scientific evidence of brain metastases
biology with specific emphasis on inflammatory tumor microenvironment and the
evolving state of clinical application of immune checkpoint inhibitors for
patients with brain metastases.

DOI: 10.14694/EDBK_100005 
PMID: 27249713  [PubMed - in process]


113. Oncotarget. 2016 Aug 9;7(32):52553-52574. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.9651.

Targeting folate receptor alpha for cancer treatment.

Cheung A(1,)(2), Bax HJ(1,)(3), Josephs DH(1,)(3), Ilieva KM(1,)(2), Pellizzari
G(1), Opzoomer J(1), Bloomfield J(1), Fittall M(1,)(2), Grigoriadis A(2), Figini 
M(4), Canevari S(4), Spicer JF(3), Tutt AN(2), Karagiannis SN(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)St. John's Institute of Dermatology, Division of Genetics and Molecular
Medicine, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London & NIHR
Biomedical Research Centre at Guy's and St. Thomas' Hospitals and King's College 
London, Guy's Hospital, London, United Kingdom. (2)Breast Cancer Now Research
Unit, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, Guy's Hospital, King's College
London, London, United Kingdom. (3)Division of Cancer Studies, Faculty of Life
Sciences and Medicine, Guy's Hospital, King's College London, London, United
Kingdom. (4)Unit of Molecular Therapies, Department of Experimental Oncology and 
Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.

Promising targeted treatments and immunotherapy strategies in oncology and
advancements in our understanding of molecular pathways that underpin cancer
development have reignited interest in the tumor-associated antigen Folate
Receptor alpha (FRα). FRα is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored
membrane protein. Its overexpression in tumors such as ovarian, breast and lung
cancers, low and restricted distribution in normal tissues, alongside emerging
insights into tumor-promoting functions and association of expression with
patient prognosis, together render FRα an attractive therapeutic target. In this 
review, we summarize the role of FRα in cancer development, we consider FRα as a 
potential diagnostic and prognostic tool, and we discuss different targeted
treatment approaches with a specific focus on monoclonal antibodies. Renewed
attention to FRα may point to novel individualized treatment approaches to
improve the clinical management of patient groups that do not adequately benefit 
from current conventional therapies.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.9651 
PMID: 27248175  [PubMed - in process]


114. Breast Care (Basel). 2016 Apr;11(2):108-15. doi: 10.1159/000445335. Epub 2016 Apr
26.

Checkpoint Inhibitors and Their Application in Breast Cancer.

Bedognetti D(1), Maccalli C(1), Bader SB(2), Marincola FM(3), Seliger B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Tumor Biology, Immunology, and Therapy Section, Division of Translational
Medicine, Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar. (2)National Center for 
Cancer Care and Research (NCCCR), and Hamad General Hospital, Doha, Qatar.
(3)Office of the Chief Research Officer (CRO), Sidra Medical and Research Center,
Doha, Qatar. (4)Institute of Medical Immunology, Martin Luther University
Halle-Wittenberg, Halle/Saale, Germany.

Immune checkpoints are crucial for the maintenance of self-tolerance and for the 
modulation of immune responses in order to minimize tissue damage. Tumor cells
take advantage of these mechanisms to evade immune recognition. A significant
proportion of tumors, including breast cancers, can express co-inhibitory
molecules that are important formediating the escape from T cell-mediated immune 
surveillance. The interaction of inhibitory receptors with their ligands can be
blocked by specific molecules. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) directed against the 
cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA4) and, more recently, against
the programmed cell death protein 1 (PD1), have been approved for the therapy of 
melanoma (anti-CTLA4 and anti-PD1 mAbs) and non-small cell lung cancer (anti-PD1 
mAbs). Moreover, inhibition of PD1 signaling has shown extremely promising signs 
of activity in breast cancer. An increasing number of molecules directed against 
other immune checkpoints are currently under clinical development. In this
review, we summarize the evidence supporting the implementation of checkpoint
inhibition in breast cancer by reviewing in detail data on PD-L1 expression and
its regulation. In addition, opportunities to boost anti-tumor immunity in breast
cancer with checkpoint inhibitor-based immunotherapies alone and in combination
with other treatment options will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1159/000445335 
PMCID: PMC4881248 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 27239172  [PubMed]


115. J Hematol Oncol. 2016 May 27;9(1):47. doi: 10.1186/s13045-016-0277-y.

Current status and perspectives in translational biomarker research for
PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint blockade therapy.

Ma W(1,)(2), Gilligan BM(1), Yuan J(3,)(4), Li T(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology & Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, University
of California Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, Davis,
School of Medicine, 4501 X Street, Suite 3016, Sacramento, CA, 95817, USA.
(2)Former visiting medical student from School of Medicine, Peking University
Health Science Center, No. 38 Xueyuan Road, Beijing, 100191, China. (3)Immune
Monitoring Core, Ludwig Center for Cancer Immunotherapy, Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, 1275 York Ave, Box 386, New York, NY10065, USA. (4)Present
address: Oncology Clinical Research, Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway,
NJ07065, USA. (5)Division of Hematology & Oncology, Department of Internal
Medicine, University of California Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center, University 
of California, Davis, School of Medicine, 4501 X Street, Suite 3016, Sacramento, 
CA, 95817, USA. thli@ucdavis.edu. (6)VA Northern California Health Care System,
10535 Hospital Way, Mather, CA, 95655, USA. thli@ucdavis.edu.

Modulating immune inhibitory pathways has been a major recent breakthrough in
cancer treatment. Checkpoint blockade antibodies targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programed cell-death protein 1 (PD-1) have demonstrated
acceptable toxicity, promising clinical responses, durable disease control, and
improved survival in some patients with advanced melanoma, non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC), and other tumor types. About 20 % of advanced NSCLC patients and 
30 % of advanced melanoma patients experience tumor responses from checkpoint
blockade monotherapy, with better clinical responses seen with the combination of
anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4 antibodies. Given the power of these new therapies, it 
is important to understand the complex and dynamic nature of host immune
responses and the regulation of additional molecules in the tumor
microenvironment and normal organs in response to the checkpoint blockade
therapies. In this era of precision oncology, there remains a largely unmet need 
to identify the patients who are most likely to benefit from immunotherapy, to
optimize the monitoring assays for tumor-specific immune responses, to develop
strategies to improve clinical efficacy, and to identify biomarkers so that
immune-related adverse events can be avoided. At this time, PD-L1
immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining using 22C3 antibody is the only FDA-approved 
companion diagnostic for patients with NSCLC-treated pembrolizumab, but more are 
expected to come to market. We here summarize the current knowledge, clinical
efficacy, potential immune biomarkers, and associated assays for immune
checkpoint blockade therapies in advanced solid tumors.

DOI: 10.1186/s13045-016-0277-y 
PMCID: PMC4884396
PMID: 27234522  [PubMed - in process]


116. Immunotherapy. 2016 Jun;8(6):747-58. doi: 10.2217/imt-2016-0012.

Targeting PD-L1 for non-small-cell lung cancer.

Feld E(1), Horn L(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center,
Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, TN, USA. (2)2220 Pierce 
Avenue, 777 Preston Research Building, Nashville, TN 37232, USA.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. For decades, 
cytotoxic chemotherapy has been the mainstay of treatment for the majority of
patients, yet median survival remains poor and side effects from chemotherapy are
not trivial. Immune checkpoint inhibitors, which exert antitumor effects by
inhibiting negative T-cell regulators, are changing the landscape of treatment
options for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The anti-PD-1
antibodies nivolumab and pembrolizumab are approved by the US FDA for treatment
of patients with NSCLC and other tumor types. Additional agents are in clinical
development. This review provides an update on the PD-1 and PD-L1 immune
checkpoint inhibitors currently being evaluated in NSCLC patients.

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2016-0012 
PMID: 27197542  [PubMed - in process]


117. Histopathology. 2016 Aug;69(2):177-86. doi: 10.1111/his.12996. Epub 2016 Jun 30.

PD-L1 testing for lung cancer in the UK: recognizing the challenges for
implementation.

Cree IA(1), Booton R(2), Cane P(3), Gosney J(4), Ibrahim M(5), Kerr K(6), Lal
R(7), Lewanski C(8), Navani N(9), Nicholson AG(10), Nicolson M(11), Summers
Y(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS
Trust, Coventry, UK. (2)Respiratory and Allergy Research Group, Institute of
Inflammation & Repair, North West Lung Centre, University of Manchester,
University Hospital of South Manchester NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(3)Department of Histopathology, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust,
London, UK. (4)Department of Pathology, Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University
Hospitals NHS Trust, Liverpool, UK. (5)UK National External Quality Assessment
Service for Immunocytochemistry and In Situ Hybridisation, London, UK.
(6)Department of Pathology, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary/Aberdeen University Medical 
School, Aberdeen, UK. (7)Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(8)Oncology Department, Charing Cross Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare NHS
Trust, London, UK. (9)Lungs for Living Research Centre, UCL Respiratory,
University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK. (10)Royal
Brompton and Harefield Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and National Heart and Lung
Division, Imperial College, London, UK. (11)Department of Oncology, NHS Grampian,
Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen, UK. (12)The Christie Hospital NHS Foundation 
Trust, Manchester, UK.

Erratum in
    Histopathology. 2017 Jan;70(2):318.

A new approach to the management of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has
recently emerged that works by manipulating the immune checkpoint controlled by
programmed death receptor 1 (PD-1) and its ligand programmed death ligand 1
(PD-L1). Several drugs targeting PD-1 (pembrolizumab and nivolumab) or PD-L1
(atezolizumab, durvalumab, and avelumab) have been approved or are in the late
stages of development. Inevitably, the introduction of these drugs will put
pressure on healthcare systems, and there is a need to stratify patients to
identify those who are most likely to benefit from such treatment. There is
evidence that responsiveness to PD-1 inhibitors may be predicted by expression of
PD-L1 on neoplastic cells. Hence, there is considerable interest in using PD-L1
immunohistochemical staining to guide the use of PD-1-targeted treatments in
patients with NSCLC. This article reviews the current knowledge about PD-L1
testing, and identifies current research requirements. Key factors to consider
include the source and timing of sample collection, pre-analytical steps (sample 
tracking, fixation, tissue processing, sectioning, and tissue prioritization),
analytical decisions (choice of biomarker assay/kit and automated staining
platform, with verification of standardized assays or validation of
laboratory-devised techniques, internal and external quality assurance, and
audit), and reporting and interpretation of the results. This review addresses
the need for integration of PD-L1 immunohistochemistry with other tests as part
of locally agreed pathways and protocols. There remain areas of uncertainty, and 
guidance should be updated regularly as new information becomes available.

© 2016 The Authors. Histopathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.12996 
PMID: 27196116  [PubMed - in process]


118. Anticancer Drugs. 2016 Aug;27(7):585-99. doi: 10.1097/CAD.0000000000000376.

Immunotherapy for genitourinary cancer: state of the art and new perspectives.

Cattrini C(1), Dellepiane C, Cavo A, Buzzatti G, Tolomeo F, Messina C, Boccardo
F.

Author information: 
(1)aAcademic Unit of Medical Oncology, IRCCS San Martino University Hospital, IST
National Cancer Research Institute bDepartment of Internal Medicine, School of
Medicine, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.

In the last few years, cancer immunotherapy has changed the natural history and
treatment strategies of a number of solid tumors, including melanoma and lung
cancer. The anti-PD-1 nivolumab showed a survival benefit compared with
everolimus in the second-line treatment of renal cell carcinoma, resulting in a
radical shift in perspective in the treatment of this neoplasia and suggesting a 
new scenario beyond tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Checkpoint inhibitors might also 
improve the treatment of urothelial cancer, considering the promising results
achieved so far and the relatively low efficacy of currently available
treatments. Sipuleucel-T was the first approved immunotherapy for prostate
cancer, showing a clear benefit in overall survival, and paved the way for the
clinical testing of other novel cancer vaccines. This review provides a
comprehensive overview of the current knowledge and new perspectives of
immunotherapy in the treatment of urogenital malignancies.

DOI: 10.1097/CAD.0000000000000376 
PMID: 27183027  [PubMed - in process]


119. Am J Clin Exp Immunol. 2016 Mar 23;5(1):1-20. eCollection 2016.

Immunotherapy for lung cancer: advances and prospects.

Yang L(1), Wang L(2), Zhang Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Biotherapy Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou
UniversityZhengzhou, Henan 450052, P.R. China; Department of Oncology, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou UniversityZhengzhou, Henan 450052, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University 
Zhengzhou, Henan 450052, P.R. China. (3)Biotherapy Center, The First Affiliated
Hospital of Zhengzhou UniversityZhengzhou, Henan 450052, P.R. China; Department
of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou UniversityZhengzhou,
Henan 450052, P.R. China; School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou UniversityZhengzhou,
Henan 450001, P.R. China.

Lung cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer as well as the leading cause of
cancer-related deaths worldwide. To date, surgery is the first choice treatment, 
but most clinically diagnosed cases are inoperable. While chemotherapy and/or
radiotherapy are the next considered options for such cases, these treatment
modalities have adverse effects and are sometimes lethal to patients. Thus, new
effective strategies with minimal side effects are urgently needed. Cancer
immunotherapy provides either active or passive immunity to target tumors.
Multiple immunotherapy agents have been proposed and tested for potential
therapeutic benefit against lung cancer, and some pose fewer side effects as
compared to conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy. In this article, we
discuss studies focusing on interactions between lung cancer and the immune
system, and we place an emphasis on outcome evidence in order to create a
knowledge base well-grounded in clinical reality. Overall, this review highlights
the need for new lung cancer treatment options, with much ground to be paved for 
future advances in the field. We believe that immunotherapy agents alone or with 
other forms of treatment can be recognized as next modality of lung cancer
treatment.


PMCID: PMC4858602
PMID: 27168951  [PubMed]


120. N Engl J Med. 2016 May 12;374(19):1864-73. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra1504688.

Clinical Implications of Genomic Discoveries in Lung Cancer.

Swanton C(1), Govindan R(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Translational Cancer Therapeutics Laboratory, Francis Crick
Institute, and the Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Lung Cancer Centre of Excellence,
University College London Hospitals and Cancer Institute, London (C.S.); and the 
Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, and the Alvin J. Siteman Cancer
Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis (R.G.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMra1504688 
PMID: 27168435  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Clin Ther. 2016 Jul;38(7):1551-66. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2016.03.026. Epub
2016 May 2.

Current Challenges in Cancer Treatment.

Zugazagoitia J(1), Guedes C(2), Ponce S(1), Ferrer I(3), Molina-Pinelo S(3),
Paz-Ares L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid,
Spain; Instituto de Investigación I+12. Lung Cancer Clinical Research Unit CNIO, 
I+12, Madrid, Spain. (2)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario 12 de
Octubre, Madrid, Spain. (3)Instituto de Investigación I+12. Lung Cancer Clinical 
Research Unit CNIO, I+12, Madrid, Spain. (4)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital
Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain; Instituto de Investigación I+12. Lung
Cancer Clinical Research Unit CNIO, I+12, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
lpazaresr@seom.org.

PURPOSE: In this review, we highlight the current concepts and discuss some of
the current challenges and future prospects in cancer therapy. We frequently use 
the example of lung cancer.
METHODS: We conducted a nonsystematic PubMed search, selecting the most
comprehensive and relevant research articles, clinical trials, translational
papers, and review articles on precision oncology and immuno-oncology. Papers
were prioritized and selected based on their originality and potential clinical
applicability.
FINDINGS: Two major revolutions have changed cancer treatment paradigms in the
past few years: targeting actionable alterations in oncogene-driven cancers and
immuno-oncology. Important challenges are still ongoing in both fields of cancer 
therapy. On the one hand, druggable genomic alterations are diverse and represent
only small subsets of patients in certain tumor types, which limits testing their
clinical impact in biomarker-driven clinical trials. Next-generation sequencing
technologies are increasingly being implemented for molecular prescreening in
clinical research, but issues regarding clinical interpretation of large genomic 
data make their wide clinical use difficult. Further, dealing with tumor
heterogeneity and acquired resistance is probably the main limitation for the
success of precision oncology. On the other hand, long-term survival benefits
with immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti-programmed death cell
protein-1/programmed death cell ligand-1[PD-1/L1] and anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte
antigen-4 monoclonal antibodies) are restricted to a minority of patients, and no
predictive markers are yet robustly validated that could help us recognize these 
subsets and optimize treatment delivery and selection. To achieve long-term
survival benefits, drug combinations targeting several molecular alterations or
cancer hallmarks might be needed. This will probably be one of the most
challenging but promising precision cancer treatment strategies in the future.
IMPLICATIONS: Targeting single molecular abnormalities or cancer pathways has
achieved good clinical responses that have modestly affected survival in some
cancers. However, this approach to cancer treatment is still reductionist, and
many challenges need to be met to improve treatment outcomes with our patients.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2016.03.026 
PMID: 27158009  [PubMed - in process]


122. Pharmacol Res. 2016 Aug;110:25-34. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2016.05.007. Epub 2016 May
6.

Implications of MDSCs-targeting in lung cancer chemo-immunotherapeutics.

Adah D(1), Hussain M(2), Qin L(3), Qin L(3), Zhang J(4), Chen X(5).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Center for Infection and
Immunity, Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and Heath, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 190 Kaiyuan Avenue, Science Park, Guangzhou 510530, PR China;
University of Chinese, Academy of Sciences, No. 19 Yuquan Road, Beijing 100049,
PR China. (2)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Institute of Chemical
Biology, Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and Heath, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 190 Kaiyuan Avenue, Science Park, Guangzhou 510530, PR China;
University of Chinese, Academy of Sciences, No. 19 Yuquan Road, Beijing 100049,
PR China. (3)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Center for Infection
and Immunity, Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and Heath, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 190 Kaiyuan Avenue, Science Park, Guangzhou 510530, PR China. (4)State 
Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Institute of Chemical Biology, Guangzhou
Institutes of Biomedicine and Heath, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 190 Kaiyuan
Avenue, Science Park, Guangzhou 510530, PR China. (5)State Key Laboratory of
Respiratory Disease, Center for Infection and Immunity, Guangzhou Institutes of
Biomedicine and Heath, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 190 Kaiyuan Avenue, Science
Park, Guangzhou 510530, PR China. Electronic address: chen_xiaoping@gibh.ac.cn.

Despite advances in chemotherapy and immunotherapy, advanced lung cancer remains 
an incurable disease. Novel trends in anticancer therapeutics focus on harnessing
the therapeutically-targeted tumor-related immune suppression. In this respect,
myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) have captured considerable attention in 
the last few years, as they are vividly implicated in tumor immune escape
mechanisms. In this review, we specifically discuss the multifaceted roles of
MDSCs in lung tumor microenvironment, encompassing lung tumor growth and
progression via suppression of anti-tumor immunity, association with worse
prognosis, and hampering the efficacy of lung cancer chemotherapy and
immunotherapy. In addition, we also discuss that therapeutic manipulation of
MDSCs-targeting, either alone or in combination with chemo- and/or
immune-therapeutic regimens, may not only have tumor growth inhibition,
anti-angiogenesis and anti-metastasis effects, but may also have the potential to
enhance the efficacy of lung cancer chemotherapy and immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2016.05.007 
PMID: 27157248  [PubMed - in process]


123. Expert Rev Respir Med. 2016 Jul;10(7):781-98. doi: 10.1080/17476348.2016.1182866.
Epub 2016 May 13.

Recent developments in the use of immunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer.

Santarpia M(1), Giovannetti E(2,)(3), Rolfo C(4), Karachaliou N(5), González-Cao 
M(5), Altavilla G(1), Rosell R(5,)(6,)(7,)(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)a Medical Oncology Unit, Department of Human Pathology 'G. Barresi' ,
University of Messina , Messina , Italy. (2)b Department of Medical Oncology , VU
University Medical Center , Amsterdam , The Netherlands. (3)c Cancer Pharmacology
Lab, AIRC Start-Up Unit , University of Pisa , Pisa , Italy. (4)d Phase I - Early
Clinical Trials Unit, Oncology Department , Antwerp University Hospital & Center 
for Oncological Research (CORE) Antwerp University , Edegem , Belgium. (5)e Dr
Rosell Oncology Institute , Quirón Dexeus University Hospital , Barcelona ,
Spain. (6)f Pangaea Biotech , Barcelona , Spain. (7)g Cancer Biology and
Precision Medicine Program , Catalan Institute of Oncology, Hospital Germans
Trias i Pujol , Badalona , Spain. (8)h Germans Trias i Pujol Health Sciences
Institute and Hospital , Campus Can Ruti, Badalona , Spain. (9)i Molecular
Oncology Research (MORe) Foundation , Barcelona , Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Targeted therapies have significantly improved the prognosis of
subsets of patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring
somatically activated oncogenes, such as mutant EGFR and rearranged ALK. However,
the efficacy of these agents is limited by the development of acquired resistance
which occurs after variable periods of time. Therefore, there is an urgent need
for novel therapeutic strategies to achieve long lasting disease control, as well
as new therapies for those patients without targetable driver mutations. A deeper
understanding of interactions between the immune system and tumor cells has led
to the development of a number of immunotherapeutic agents.
AREAS COVERED: We review current data on immunotherapy for lung cancer treatment,
with a focus on checkpoint inhibitors and therapeutic vaccines. References for
this review were identified through searches of PubMed, congress proceedings and 
reference lists from key original and review papers. Expert commentary: While
most vaccines have been unsuccessful, inhibitors of specific immune checkpoints, 
including CTLA-4 and PD-1/PD-L1 pathway, have shown significant clinical activity
and manageable toxicities and recently, two anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibodies have 
been approved by the FDA for treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC.
Identification of reliable predictive biomarkers for patient selection and novel 
rational combinations are currently active areas of research to further improve
the efficacy of immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1080/17476348.2016.1182866 
PMID: 27148808  [PubMed - in process]


124. J Transl Med. 2016 May 3;14(1):113. doi: 10.1186/s12967-016-0857-1.

Metronomic temozolomide as second line treatment for metastatic poorly
differentiated pancreatic neuroendocrine carcinoma.

De Divitiis C(1), von Arx C(2), Grimaldi AM(3), Cicala D(4), Tatangelo F(5),
Arcella A(6), Romano GM(1), Simeone E(3), Iaffaioli RV(1), Ascierto PA(3), Tafuto
S(7); European Neuroendocrine Tumor Society (ENETS) Center of
Excellence-Multidisciplinary Group for Neuroendocrine Tumors in Naples (Italy).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Abdominal Oncology, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, IRCCS-Fondazione 
"G. Pascale", Naples, Italy. (2)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery,
University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy. (3)Melanoma, Cancer
Immunotherapy, and Innovative Therapy Unit, Istituto Nazionale Tumori,
IRCCS-Fondazione "G. Pascale", Naples, Italy. (4)Unit of Interventional
Neuroradiology, Department of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, "Federico II"
University, Naples, Italy. (5)Department of Diagnostic Pathology and Laboratory, 
Istituto Nazionale Tumori, IRCCS-Fondazione "G. Pascale", Naples, Italy. (6)IRCCS
Neuromed, Località Camerelle, Pozzilli-Isernia, Italy. (7)Department of Abdominal
Oncology, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, IRCCS-Fondazione "G. Pascale", Naples,
Italy. salvatore.tafuto@libero.it.

Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (NEN) are a group of heterogeneous malignancies derived 
from neuroendocrine cell compartment, with different roles in both endocrine and 
nervous system. Most NETs have gastroentero-pancreatic (GEP) origin, arising in
the foregut, midgut, or hindgut. The 2010 WHO classification divides GEP-NETs
into two main subgroups, neuroendocrine tumors (NET) and neuroendocrine
carcinomas (NEC), according with Ki-67 levels. NET are tumors with low (<20 %)
Ki-67 value, and NECs, including small cell lung carcinomas and Merkel Cell
carcinomas, are all NETs with high Ki-67 levels (>20 %-G3). Poorly differentiated
neuroendocrine carcinomas (NEC) are usually treated with cisplatin-based
chemotherapy regimens. Here we present a case of a patient with pancreatic NEC
progressing after cisplatin and etoposide, treated with temozolomide as
palliative, second line treatment. According with the poor Performance Status
(PS = 2) and to reduce the toxicity of the treatment was chosen an intermittent
dosing regimen of metronomic temozolomide
(75 mg/m(2)/day-one-week-on/on-week-off). MGMT resulted methylated. On July 2014 
the patient started the treatment. On August 2014 the patient obtained a
significant clinical benefit (PS = 0) and the total body CT scan performed on
October 2014 showed a RECIST partial response on all the sites of disease. No
drug-related side effects were reported by the patient. After 18 months of
therapy the treatment continues without significant toxicity, and with further
remission of the metastases. Treatment with metronomic "one-week-on/on-week-off" 
Temozolomide can be considered a good treatment option in patients with poor
performance status, affected by pNEC with MGMT methylation.

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-016-0857-1 
PMCID: PMC4855772
PMID: 27142424  [PubMed - in process]


125. Immunotherapy. 2016 May;8(5):583-600. doi: 10.2217/imt-2015-0029.

Beyond melanoma: inhibiting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway in solid tumors.

Gentzler R(1), Hall R(1), Kunk PR(1), Gaughan E(1), Dillon P(1), Slingluff CL
Jr(2), Rahma OE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of
Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, VA, USA. (2)Departement of Surgery,
University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors have been identified as breakthrough treatment in
melanoma given its dramatic response to PD-1/PD-L1 blockade. This is likely to
extend to many other cancers as hundreds of clinical trials are being conducted
or proposed using this exciting modality of therapy in a variety of malignancies.
While immune checkpoint inhibitors have been extensively studied in melanoma and 
more recently in lung cancer, little is known regarding immune checkpoint
blockade in other cancers. This review will focus on the tumor immune
microenvironment, the expression of PD-1/PD-L1 and the effect of immune
modulation using PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors in patients with head and neck,
prostate, urothelial, renal, breast, gastrointestinal and lung cancers.

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2015-0029 
PMID: 27140411  [PubMed - in process]


126. Clin Lung Cancer. 2016 Sep;17(5):350-361. doi: 10.1016/j.cllc.2016.03.011. Epub
2016 Apr 6.

Biomarkers for PD-1/PD-L1 Blockade Therapy in Non-Small-cell Lung Cancer: Is
PD-L1 Expression a Good Marker for Patient Selection?

Chae YK(1), Pan A(2), Davis AA(2), Raparia K(3), Mohindra NA(4), Matsangou M(4), 
Giles FJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Therapeutics Program of the Division of Hematology Oncology,
Department of Medicine, Northwestern Medicine Developmental Therapeutics
Institute, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL; Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive
Cancer Center of Northwestern University, Chicago, IL; Northwestern University
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL. Electronic address:
young.chae@northwestern.edu. (2)Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine, Chicago, IL. (3)Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center of
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL; Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL. (4)Developmental Therapeutics Program of the Division of
Hematology Oncology, Department of Medicine, Northwestern Medicine Developmental 
Therapeutics Institute, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL; Robert H. Lurie
Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University, Chicago, IL; Northwestern
University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL.

Immunotherapy has emerged as a promising treatment modality in cancer therapy.
With improved understanding of how to tip the balance of immune homeostasis,
novel therapeutics targeting immune checkpoints have been developed, with durable
responses observed in multiple solid tumors, including melanoma, renal cell
carcinoma, and non-small-cell lung cancer. Clinical trials have reported
favorable responses using programmed cell death-1 protein receptor
(PD-1)/programmed cell death-1 protein ligand (PD-L1) blockade as monotherapy and
most impressively in combinatorial trials with cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4
protein blockade. Nonetheless, a clinical benefit has not been observed in all
patients. Therefore, identifying the ideal biomarkers for patient selection would
be of great value in optimizing and personalizing immunotherapy. The utility of
PD-L1 expression as a biomarker has varied in different clinical trials and
immunohistochemistry assays. In addition, the response to immune checkpoint
inhibition has been complicated by PD-L1 expression as a marker influenced by the
dynamic tumor microenvironment. No consensus has yet been reached on whether
PD-L1 expression is an ideal marker for patient selection. Recent research has
shown promise for alternative markers, including T-cell immunohistochemistry,
other immunologic markers, T-cell receptor clonality, and somatic mutational
burden. However, additional studies are needed to assess the value of these as
practical predictive biomarkers for patient selection and treatment response.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2016.03.011 
PMID: 27137346  [PubMed - in process]


127. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2016 Sep;12(9):2219-31. doi:
10.1080/21645515.2016.1175694. Epub 2016 May 2.

Nivolumab, anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1) monoclonal antibody immunotherapy: Role
in advanced cancers.

Rajan A(1), Kim C(1), Heery CR(2), Guha U(1), Gulley JL(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Thoracic and Gastrointestinal Oncology Branch, Center for Cancer Research,
National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health , Bethesda , MD , USA.
(2)b Laboratory of Tumor Immunology and Biology, Center for Cancer Research,
National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health , Bethesda , MD , USA.
(3)c Genitourinary Malignancies Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National
Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health , Bethesda , MD , USA.

The development of immune checkpoint inhibitors has altered the landscape of
treatment of advanced cancers. These drugs are well tolerated and have shown
clinical activity against a wide variety of solid tumors and hematological
malignancies. The durability of response is particularly impressive when compared
to other forms of systemic therapy. Nivolumab (Opdivo) is an IgG4 antibody that
causes immune checkpoint blockade by diminishing inhibitory signaling through the
programmed death receptor-1 pathway. It is approved for treatment of recurrent
non-small cell lung cancer, melanoma, and renal cell carcinoma. Efforts to
identify biomarkers of response to nivolumab are ongoing. Clinical trials are
also being conducted to determine the benefits of combining nivolumab with other 
forms of treatment including chemotherapy, molecular-targeted therapy, radiation 
therapy, and other forms of immune therapy. This review outlines the clinical
trials that have led to the emergence of nivolumab as a treatment option for
patients with advanced cancers.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2016.1175694 
PMCID: PMC5027703 [Available on 2017-05-02]
PMID: 27135835  [PubMed - in process]


128. Expert Opin Emerg Drugs. 2016 Jun;21(2):147-55. doi:
10.1080/14728214.2016.1183642. Epub 2016 May 21.

Emerging treatment for ALK-positive lung cancer.

Sharma J(1), Pareek V(1), Liu H(1), Cheng H(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Medical Oncology , Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein
College of Medicine , Bronx , NY , USA.

INTRODUCTION: Lung cancer is associated with poor prognosis and limited benefit
from chemotherapy. The treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has been
revolutionized by the discovery of targetable genetic alterations, including the 
ALK fusion oncogene.
AREAS COVERED: Three drugs have been approved for clinical use in ALK-positive
patients - crizotinib, ceritinib and alectinib. Unfortunately, treatment
resistance inevitably develops. Several mechanisms of acquired resistance are
reported. In this review, we will discuss emerging treatment options in
ALK-positive advanced NSCLC and strategies to overcome resistance mechanisms,
including newer generation of ALK inhibitors, Hsp90 inhibitors and immunotherapy.
EXPERT OPINION: Tremendous advances have been made in the treatment of
ALK-positive lung cancers, but management hurdles still exist, including
universal development of resistance to ALK inhibitors and limited CNS activity.
Given that specific treatment strategies target distinct patterns of resistance, 
re-biopsy at the time of progression appears necessary to optimize management.
However, there remain many issues in routine clinical application including the
burden placed on the patients by serial biopsies and the risks of repeat invasive
procedures. Future studies are needed to validate the usage of non- or minimally 
invasive tests and to determine the optimal orders of utilizing different ALK
inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1080/14728214.2016.1183642 
PMID: 27122312  [PubMed - in process]


129. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Jul;11(7):964-75. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.04.014. Epub 2016
Apr 23.

PD-L1 Expression in Lung Cancer.

Yu H(1), Boyle TA(2), Zhou C(3), Rimm DL(4), Hirsch FR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine/Medical Oncology, University of Colorado Cancer Center,
University of Colorado, Denver, Colorado. (2)Department of Medicine/Medical
Oncology, University of Colorado Cancer Center, University of Colorado, Denver,
Colorado; Department of Pathology, University of Colorado, Denver, Colorado;
Department of Pathology, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, Florida; Department of
Thoracic Oncology, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, Florida. (3)Department of
Oncology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.
(5)Department of Medicine/Medical Oncology, University of Colorado Cancer Center,
University of Colorado, Denver, Colorado; Department of Pathology, University of 
Colorado, Denver, Colorado. Electronic address: Fred.Hirsch@ucdenver.edu.

Immunotherapies targeted against programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and its
receptor (PD-1) have improved survival in a subset of patients with advanced lung
cancer. PD-L1 protein expression has emerged as a biomarker that predicts which
patients are more likely to respond to immunotherapy. The understanding of PD-L1 
as a biomarker is complicated by the history of use of different
immunohistochemistry platforms with different PD-L1 antibodies, scoring systems, 
and positivity cut-offs for immunotherapy clinical trials with different
anti-PD-L1 and anti-PD-1 drugs. Herein, we summarize the brief history of PD-L1
as a biomarker and describe the challenges remaining to harmonize PD-L1 detection
and interpretation for best patient care.

Copyright © 2016 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.04.014 
PMID: 27117833  [PubMed - in process]


130. Oncotarget. 2016 Jul 19;7(29):46734-46749. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.8774.

The challenge of developmental therapeutics for adrenocortical carcinoma.

Costa R(1,)(2), Carneiro BA(1,)(2), Tavora F(3), Pai SG(1,)(2), Kaplan JB(1,)(2),
Chae YK(1,)(2), Chandra S(1,)(2), Kopp PA(4), Giles FJ(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern Medicine Developmental Therapeutics Institute, Robert H. Lurie
Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University, Chicago, IL, USA. (3)Department of Pathology, Messejana Heart and
Lung Hospital, Fortaleza, Brazil. (4)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism, and
Molecular Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University,
Chicago, IL, USA.

Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare disease with an estimated incidence of
only 0.7 new cases per million per year. Approximately 30-70% of the patients
present with advanced disease with very poor prognosis and without effective
therapeutic options. In the recent years, unprecedented progresses in cancer
biology and genomics have fostered the development of numerous targeted therapies
for various malignancies. Immunotherapy has also transformed the treatment
landscape of malignancies such as melanoma, among others. However, these advances
have not brought meaningful benefits for patients with ACC. Extensive genomic
analyses of ACC have revealed numerous signal transduction pathway aberrations
(e.g., insulin growth factor receptor and Wnt/β-catenin pathways) that play a
central role in pathophysiology. These molecular alterations have been explored
as potential therapeutic targets for drug development. This manuscript summarizes
recent discoveries in ACC biology, reviews the results of early clinical studies 
with targeted therapies, and provides the rationale for emerging treatment
strategies such as immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.8774 
PMID: 27102148  [PubMed - in process]


131. Respirology. 2016 Jul;21(5):821-33. doi: 10.1111/resp.12789. Epub 2016 Apr 21.

Immunotherapy for lung cancer.

Steven A(1,)(2), Fisher SA(1,)(2), Robinson BW(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Crawley,
Western Australia, Australia. (2)National Centre for Asbestos Related Diseases
(NCARD), Perth, Western Australia, Australia.

Treatment of lung cancer remains a challenge, and lung cancer is still the
leading cause of cancer-related mortality. Immunotherapy has previously failed in
lung cancer but has recently emerged as a very effective new therapy, and there
is now growing worldwide enthusiasm in cancer immunotherapy. We summarize why
immune checkpoint blockade therapies have generated efficacious and durable
responses in clinical trials and why this has reignited interest in this field.
Cancer vaccines have also been explored in the past with marginal success.
Identification of optimal candidate neoantigens may improve cancer vaccine
efficacy and may pave the way to personalized immunotherapy, alone or in
combination with other immunotherapy such as immune checkpoint blockade.
Understanding the steps in immune recognition and eradication of cancer cells is 
vital to understanding why previous immunotherapies failed and how current
therapies can be used optimally. We hold an optimistic view for the future
prospect in lung cancer immunotherapy.

© 2016 Asian Pacific Society of Respirology.

DOI: 10.1111/resp.12789 
PMID: 27101251  [PubMed - in process]


132. Recenti Prog Med. 2016 Apr;107(4):186-92. doi: 10.1701/2218.23930.

[Immunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: evolution of knowledge and clinical
advances].

[Article in Italian]

Pochesci A(1), Passaro A(2), Catania C(2), Noberasco C(2), Del Signore E(2),
Spitaleri G(2), De Marinis F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Toracica, Istituto Europeo di Oncologia, Milano -
Divisione di Oncologia Medica, Sapienza Università di Roma. (2)Divisione di
Oncologia Toracica, Istituto Europeo di Oncologia, Milano.

Lung cancer represent the leading cause of cancer related-death worldwide.
Although cytotoxic chemotherapy and targeted agents improved survival, the median
overall survival for patients with metastatic disease remains poor. Docetaxel is 
still the corner stone of the second-line treatment, although associated with an 
unfavourable safety profile. Recent advances in the understanding of cancer
immune escape system lead to the development of novel immunotherapies agent that 
can restore patient's immune response to cancer cells. Unlike vaccines, immune
checkpoints inhibitors have shown promising results in non-small cell lung cancer
patients. Especially, nivolumab and pembrolizumab, monoclonal antibodies against 
PD-1, provides as single agent therapy in chemotherapy refractory patients
objective response rates ranging from 15%-25%, the majority of which arose
quickly and were ongoing 1 year after starting treatment. Furthermore, the
toxicity profile differs from that of cytotoxic chemotherapy and is much better
tolerated. PD-L1 expression is a promising biomarker for selection and
stratification of patients, although its prognostic and predictive role remains
to be defined. Several trials are currently ongoing to define the role of immune 
checkpoint inhibitors in the treatment of patients with non-small cell lung
cancer, their combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy or targeted agents and the 
efficacy and safety of double blockage of PD-1/PD-L1 and CTLA4. We report a
review based on a MEDLINE/PubMed, searched for randomized phase II or III trials 
evaluating immune checkpoint inhibitors and NSCLC, considering the measured
outcomes as progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and the
overall response rate (ORR).

DOI: 10.1701/2218.23930 
PMID: 27093328  [PubMed - in process]


133. Immunol Rev. 2016 May;271(1):260-75. doi: 10.1111/imr.12405.

Tertiary lymphoid structures, drivers of the anti-tumor responses in human
cancers.

Dieu-Nosjean MC(1,)(2,)(3), Giraldo NA(1,)(2,)(3), Kaplon H(1,)(2,)(3), Germain
C(1,)(2,)(3), Fridman WH(1,)(2,)(3), Sautès-Fridman C(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, UMR_S 1138, Cordeliers Research Center, Team 13 Cancer, Immune Control
and Escape, Paris, France. (2)Sorbonne Paris Cité, UMR_S 1138, Cordeliers
Research Center, University Paris Descartes, Paris, France. (3)Sorbonne
Universités, UMR_S 1138, Cordeliers Research Center, UPMC University Paris 06,
Paris, France.

The characterization of the microenvironment of human tumors led to the
description of tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) characterized by mature
dendritic cells in a T-cell zone adjacent to B-cell follicle including a germinal
center. TLS represent sites of lymphoid neogenesis that develop in most solid
cancers. Analysis of the current literature shows that the TLS presence is
associated with a favorable clinical outcome for cancer patients, regardless of
the approach used to quantify TLS and the stage of the disease. Using several
approaches that combine immunohistochemistry, gene expression assays, and flow
cytometry on large series of lung tumors, our work demonstrated that TLS are
important sites for the initiation and/or maintenance of the local and systemic
T- and B-cell responses against tumors. Surrounded by high endothelial venules,
they represent a privileged area for the recruitment of lymphocytes into tumors
and generation of central-memory T and B cells that circulate and limit cancer
progression. TLS can be considered as a novel biomarker to stratify the overall
survival risk of untreated cancer patients and as a marker of efficient
immunotherapies. The induction and manipulation of cancer-associated TLS using
drug agonists and/or biotherapies should open new avenues to treat cancer
patients.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imr.12405 
PMID: 27088920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016 May;17(5):25. doi: 10.1007/s11864-016-0400-x.

Novel Treatment Strategies for Brain Metastases in Non-small-cell Lung Cancer.

Bui N(1), Woodward B(2), Johnson A(2), Husain H(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of California, San Diego
School of Medicine, UCSD Moores Cancer Center, San Diego, CA, USA. (2)Center for 
Personalized Cancer Therapy, UCSD Moores Cancer Center, San Diego, CA, USA.
(3)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of California, San Diego
School of Medicine, UCSD Moores Cancer Center, San Diego, CA, USA.
hhusain@ucsd.edu. (4)Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy, UCSD Moores Cancer
Center, San Diego, CA, USA. hhusain@ucsd.edu. (5), 3855 Health Sciences Dr.
#0987, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA. hhusain@ucsd.edu.

OPINION STATEMENT: Brain metastases are common in patients with non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC), and due to associated poor prognosis, this field is an
important area of need for the development of innovative medical therapies.
Therapies including local approaches through surgical intervention and/or
radiation and evolving systemic therapies have led to improvements in the
treatment of brain metastases in patients with lung cancer. Strategies that
consider applying advanced radiation techniques to minimize toxicity, intervening
early with effective systemic therapies to spare radiation/surgery, testing
radiosensitization combinations, and developing drug penetrant molecules have and
will continue to define new practice patterns. We believe that in carefully
considered asymptomatic patients, first-line systemic therapy may be considered
before radiation therapy and small-molecule targeted therapy may provide an
opportunity to defer radiation therapy for recurrence or progression of disease. 
The next several years in oncology drug development will see the reporting on of 
brain penetrant molecules in oncogene-defined non-small cell lung cancer. Ongoing
studies will evaluate immunotherapies in patients with brain metastases with
associated endpoints. We hope that continued drug development and carefully
designed clinical trials may afford an opportunity to improve the lives of
patients with brain metastases.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-016-0400-x 
PMID: 27085533  [PubMed - in process]


135. Tumour Biol. 2016 Jul;37(7):8515-28. doi: 10.1007/s13277-016-5016-z. Epub 2016
Apr 14.

Oncogenic roles and drug target of CXCR4/CXCL12 axis in lung cancer and cancer
stem cell.

Wang Z(1), Sun J(2), Feng Y(3), Tian X(4), Wang B(1), Zhou Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Oncology Department, Eighth Hospital of Changsha, No. 22, Xingsha Avenue,
Changsha, 410100, Hunan Province, China. (2)Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center,
State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Guangzhou, 510060, Guangdong
Province, China. (3)Department of Oncology, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Cental
South University, Changsha, 410011, Hunan Province, China. (4)Oncology
Department, Hunan Province Geriatric Hospital, Changsha, 410016, Hunan Province, 
China. (5)The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, 138 Tongzipo
Road, Changsha, 410013, Hunan Province, People's Republic of China.
Yongzhoumd@yeah.net.

Although the great progress has been made in diagnosis and therapeutic in lung
cancer, it induces the most cancer death worldwide in both males and females.
Chemokines, which have chemotactic abilities, contain up to 50 family members. By
binding to G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR), holding seven-transmembrane
domain, they function in immune cell trafficking and regulation of cell
proliferation, differentiation, activation, and migration, homing under both
physiologic and pathologic conditions. The alpha-chemokine receptor CXCR4 for the
alpha-chemokine stromal cell-derived-factor-1 (SDF-1) is most widely expressed by
tumors. In addition to human tissues of the bone marrow, liver, adrenal glands,
and brain, the CXC chemokine SDF-1 or CXCL12 is also highly expressed in lung
cancer tissues and is associated with lung metastasis. Lung cancer cells have the
capabilities to utilize and manipulate the CXCL12/CXCR system to benefit growth
and distant spread. CXCL12/CXCR4 axis is a major culprit for lung cancer and has 
a crucial role in lung cancer initiation and progression by activating cancer
stem cell. This review provides an evaluation of CXCL12/CXCR4 as the potential
therapeutic target for lung cancers; it also focuses on the synergistic effects
of inhibition of CXCL12/CXCR4 axis and immunotherapy as well as chemotherapy.
Together, CXCL12/CXCR4 axis can be a potential therapeutic target for lung
cancers and has additive effects with immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-016-5016-z 
PMID: 27079871  [PubMed - in process]


136. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):349-55. doi: 10.1042/BST20150249.

The integrin αvβ6: a novel target for CAR T-cell immunotherapy?

Whilding LM(1), Vallath S(2), Maher J(3).

Author information: 
(1)King's College London, King's Health Partners Integrated Cancer Centre,
Department of Research Oncology, Guy's Hospital, Great Maze Pond, London SE1 9RT,
U.K. lynsey.whilding@kcl.ac.uk. (2)Centre for Tumour Biology, John Vane Science
Centre, Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary University of London, Charterhouse
Square, London EC1M 6BQ, U.K. (3)King's College London, King's Health Partners
Integrated Cancer Centre, Department of Research Oncology, Guy's Hospital, Great 
Maze Pond, London SE1 9RT, U.K. Department of Immunology, Barnet Hospital, Royal 
Free London NHS Foundation Trust, Barnet EN5 3DJ, U.K. Department of Clinical
Immunology and Allergy, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Denmark
Hill, London SE5 9RS, U.K.

Immunotherapy of cancer using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells is a
rapidly expanding field. CARs are fusion molecules that couple the binding of a
tumour-associated cell surface target to the delivery of a tailored T-cell
activating signal. Re-infusion of such genetically engineered T-cells to patients
with haematological disease has demonstrated unprecedented response rates in
Phase I clinical trials. However, such successes have not yet been observed using
CAR T-cells against solid malignancies and this is, in part, due to a lack of
safe tumour-specific targets. The αvβ6 integrin is strongly up-regulated in
multiple solid tumours including those derived from colon, lung, breast, cervix, 
ovaries/fallopian tube, pancreas and head and neck. It is associated with poorer 
prognosis in several cancers and exerts pro-tumorigenic activities including
promotion of tumour growth, migration and invasion. By contrast, physiologic
expression of αvβ6 is largely restricted to wound healing. These attributes
render this epithelial-specific integrin a highly attractive candidate for
targeting using immunotherapeutic strategies such as CAR T-cell adoptive
immunotherapy. This mini-review will discuss the role and expression of αvβ6 in
cancer, as well as its potential as a therapeutic target.

© 2016 Authors; published by Portland Press Limited.

DOI: 10.1042/BST20150249 
PMID: 27068939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2015 Dec;13(12):858-68.

Programmed death 1 immune checkpoint inhibitors.

Trivedi MS(1), Hoffner B(2), Winkelmann JL(1), Abbott ME(1), Hamid O(2), Carvajal
RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York. (2)The Angeles Clinic 
and Research Institute, Los Angeles, California.

Programmed death 1 (PD-1) is an immune checkpoint that provides inhibitory
signals to the immune system in order to modulate the activity of T cells in
peripheral tissues and maintain self-tolerance in the setting of infection and
inflammation. In cancer, the immune checkpoints are exploited so that the tumor
cells are able to evade the immune system. Immune checkpoint inhibitors are a
type of cancer immunotherapy that targets pathways such as PD-1 in order to
reinvigorate and enhance the immune response against tumor cells. The US Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) has approved 2 PD-1 inhibitors, nivolumab and
pembrolizumab, and several others are under investigation. Although PD-1
inhibitors have demonstrated activity in many different types of malignancies,
FDA approval has been granted only in melanoma and in non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC). Identifying biomarkers that can predict response to PD-1 inhibitors is
critical to maximizing the benefit of these agents. Future directions for PD-1
inhibitors include investigation of combination therapies, use in malignancies
other than melanoma and NSCLC, and refinement of biomarkers.


PMID: 27058852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2015 Dec;13(12):847-53.

Advances in immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer.

Reckamp KL(1).

Author information: 
(1)City of Hope Comprehensive Cancer Center, Duarte, California.

In most patients, lung cancer presents as advanced disease with metastases to
lymph nodes and/or distant organs, and survival is poor. Lung cancer is also a
highly immune-suppressing malignancy with numerous methods to evade antitumor
immune responses, including deficiencies in antigen processing and presentation, 
release of immunomodulatory cytokines, and inhibition of T-cell activation.
Advances in understanding the complex interactions of the immune system and
cancer have led to novel therapies that promote T-cell activation at the tumor
site, resulting in prolonged clinical benefit. Immune checkpoint inhibitors,
specifically programmed death receptor 1 pathway antibodies, have demonstrated
impressively durable responses and improved survival in patients with non-small
cell lung cancer. This article will review the recent progress made in
immunotherapy for lung cancer with data from trials evaluating programmed death
receptor 1 and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 monoclonal antibodies 
in addition to cancer vaccines. The review will focus on studies that have been
published and the latest randomized trials exploring immune therapy in lung
cancer. These results form the framework for a new direction in the treatment of 
lung cancer toward immunotherapy.


PMID: 27058851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2015 Oct;13(10):676-83.

PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint blockade in non-small cell lung cancer.

Bagley SJ(1), Bauml JM(1), Langer CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Abramson Cancer Center and the Hospital of
the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

The programmed death 1 (PD-1) pathway is an immune checkpoint that has been
implicated in tumoral immune escape, and has emerged as a major focus of
immunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Multiple agents have
progressed through clinical development in recent years, including antibodies
targeting both PD-1 and its key ligand, programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1). This
article reviews PD-1/PD-L1 blockade in NSCLC, including completed clinical
trials, ongoing studies, future directions, and challenges.


PMID: 27058572  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Int Immunol. 2016 Jul;28(7):339-48. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxw020. Epub 2016 Apr 7.

Immune checkpoint inhibition in ovarian cancer.

Hamanishi J(1), Mandai M(2), Konishi I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Kyoto University Graduate School of
Medicine, 54 Shogoinkawahara-cho, Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan
jnkhmns@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp. (2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Kinki
University, Higashiosaka, Osaka, 577-8502, Japan. (3)Department of Gynecology and
Obstetrics, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 54 Shogoinkawahara-cho,
Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.

Recent studies have shown that tumor cells acquire escape mechanisms to evade
host immunity in the tumor microenvironment. Two key immune checkpoint pathways
mediated by immunosuppressive co-signaling, the first via programmed cell death 1
(PD-1) and PD-1 ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) and the second via CTLA-4 and B7
(CTLA-4/B7), have been previously described. Several clinical trials have
revealed an outstanding anti-tumor efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors
(anti-CTLA-4 antibody, anti-PD-1 antibody and/or anti-PD-L1 antibody) in patients
with various types of solid malignancies, including non-small cell lung cancer,
melanoma, renal cell cancer and ovarian cancer. In this review, we examine
pre-clinical studies that described the local immune status and immune checkpoint
signals in ovarian cancer, highlight recent clinical trials that evaluated immune
checkpoint inhibitors against ovarian cancer and discuss the clinical issues
regarding immune checkpoint inhibitors.

© The Japanese Society for Immunology. 2016. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxw020 
PMID: 27055470  [PubMed - in process]


141. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2016 Jul;65(7):835-45. doi: 10.1007/s00262-016-1822-9.
Epub 2016 Mar 31.

Adoptive transfer of osteoclast-expanded natural killer cells for immunotherapy
targeting cancer stem-like cells in humanized mice.

Kozlowska AK(1,)(2), Kaur K(1), Topchyan P(1), Jewett A(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oral Biology and Oral Medicine, The Jane and Jerry Weintraub
Center for Reconstructive Biotechnology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Tumor Immunology, Chair of Medical Biotechnology, Poznan
University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland. (3)Division of Oral Biology and
Oral Medicine, The Jane and Jerry Weintraub Center for Reconstructive
Biotechnology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA, USA. ajewett@ucla.edu. (4)The Jonsson
Comprehensive Cancer Center, UCLA School of Dentistry and Medicine, 10833 Le
Conte Ave, Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA. ajewett@ucla.edu.

Based on data obtained from oral, pancreatic and lung cancers, glioblastoma, and 
melanoma, we have established that natural killer (NK) cells target cancer
stem-like cells (CSCs). CSCs displaying low MHC class I, CD54, and PD-L1 are
killed by cytotoxic NK cells and are differentiated by split anergized NK cells
through both membrane bound and secreted forms of TNF-α and IFN-γ. NK cells
select and differentiate both healthy and transformed stem-like cells, resulting 
in target cell maturation and shaping of their microenvironment. In our recent
studies, we have observed that oral, pancreatic, and melanoma CSCs were capable
of forming large tumors in humanized bone marrow, liver, thymus (hu-BLT) mice
with fully reconstituted human immune system. In addition, major human immune
subsets including NK cells, T cells, B cells, and monocytes were present in the
spleen, bone marrow, peripheral blood, and tumor microenvironment. Similar to our
previously published in vitro data, CSCs differentiated with split anergized NK
cells prior to implantation in mice formed smaller tumors. Intravenous injection 
of functionally potent osteoclast-expanded NK cells inhibited tumor growth
through differentiation of CSCs in humanized mice. In this review, we present
current approaches, advances, and existing limitations in studying interactions
of the immune system with the tumor, in particular NK cells with CSCs, using in
vivo preclinical hu-BLT mouse model. In addition, we discuss the use of
osteoclast-expanded NK cells in targeting cancer stem-like tumors in humanized
mice-a strategy that provides a much-needed platform to develop effective cancer 
immunotherapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-016-1822-9 
PMCID: PMC4958457 [Available on 2017-07-01]
PMID: 27034236  [PubMed - in process]


142. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2016;11(2):87-92.

Immunotherapy for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer - Finally a Hint of Hope.

Recondo G, Recondo G, Galanternik F, Greco M, de la Vega M, E Diaz Cantón,
Valsecchi ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)5170 U.S. Route 60 East, Huntington, WV 25705, USA. meval78@yahoo.com.

Lung cancer is a major public health problem worldwide and the leading cause of
cancerrelated mortality in developed countries. Significant advances have been
made especially with the discovery of targeted agents. However, only a small
proportion of patients carry activating mutations; until recently conventional
chemotherapy and angiogenesis inhibitors were the preferred treatment for the
vast majority of patients. Now, the successful experience of anti-PD-1 agents may
have opened the door to a novel and previously unexplored dimension in the
treatment of lung cancer: immunotherapy. In this mini-review we will discuss the 
current applications and future consequences related this topic, paying special
attention to the clinical studies that constitute the scientific evidence to
supports its use.


PMID: 27028969  [PubMed - in process]


143. Future Oncol. 2016 May;12(9):1151-63. doi: 10.2217/fon.16.20. Epub 2016 Mar 29.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors in lung cancer: past, present and future.

Seetharamu N(1), Budman DR(1), Sullivan KM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Monter Cancer Center, Northwell Health, Lake Success, NY 11042, USA.

Inhibitory ligands on tumor cells and their corresponding receptors on T cells
are collectively called immune checkpoint molecules and have emerged as druggable
targets that harness endogenous immunity to fight cancer. Immune checkpoint
inhibitors targeting CTLA-4, PD-1 and PD-L1 have been developed for the treatment
of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer and other malignancies, with
impressive clinical activity, durable responses and a favorable toxicity profile.
This article reviews the development, current status and future directions for
some of these agents. The efficacy and safety data for drugs such as ipilimumab, 
nivolumab, pembrolizumab, atezolizumab and durvalumab are reviewed, along with
combination strategies and response evaluation criteria. The toxicity profiles
and predictive biomarkers of response are also discussed.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.16.20 
PMID: 27019997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


144. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 May;11(5):613-38. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.03.012. Epub 2016
Mar 22.

Scientific Advances in Lung Cancer 2015.

Tsao AS(1), Scagliotti GV(2), Bunn PA Jr(3), Carbone DP(4), Warren GW(5), Bai
C(6), de Koning HJ(7), Yousaf-Khan AU(7), McWilliams A(8), Tsao MS(9), Adusumilli
PS(10), Rami-Porta R(11), Asamura H(12), Van Schil PE(13), Darling GE(14),
Ramalingam SS(15), Gomez DR(16), Rosenzweig KE(17), Zimmermann S(18), Peters
S(19), Ignatius Ou SH(20), Reungwetwattana T(21), Jänne PA(22), Mok TS(23),
Wakelee HA(24), Pirker R(25), Mazières J(26), Brahmer JR(27), Zhou Y(28), Herbst 
RS(29), Papadimitrakopoulou VA(1), Redman MW(30), Wynes MW(31), Gandara DR(32),
Kelly RJ(33), Hirsch FR(34), Pass HI(35).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, University of Texas M. 
D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas. (2)San Luigi Hospital, University of
Turin, Orbassano, Italy. (3)Division of Medical Oncology, University of Colorado 
Cancer Center, Aurora, Colorado. (4)Division of Medical Oncology, The Ohio State 
University, Columbus, Ohio. (5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Department of
Cell and Molecular Pharmacology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, South Carolina. (6)Shanghai Respiratory Research Institute,
Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, People's 
Republic of China. (7)Erasmus Medical Center, University Medical Center
Rotterdam, Department of Public Health, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (8)Fiona
Stanley Hospital, Murdoch, Western Australia and University of Western Australia,
Perth, Western Australia, Australia. (9)Department of Laboratory Medicine and
Pathobiology, University Health Network and Princess Margaret Cancer Centre,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. (10)Thoracic Service, Department of
Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York; Center for
Cell Engineering, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York.
(11)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Hospital Universitari Mutua Terrassa,
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Centros de Investigación Biomédica en 
Red de Enfermedades Respiratorias (CIBERES) Lung Cancer Group, Terrassa,
Barcelona, Spain. (12)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Keio University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (13)Department of Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Antwerp 
University Hospital, Edegem (Antwerp), Belgium. (14)Division of Thoracic Surgery 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. (15)Department of Hematology & Medical
Oncology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia. (16)Department
of Radiation Oncology, Division of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas M.
D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas. (17)Department of Radiation Oncology
at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York. (18)Department of
Oncology, HFR Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland. (19)Department of Oncology,
University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland. (20)Chao Family Comprehensive
Cancer Center, Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine,
University of California Irvine School of Medicine, Orange, California.
(21)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine,
Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand. (22)Dana Farber
Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. (23)Department
of Clinical Oncology, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, 
Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. (24)Department of Medicine, Division of
Oncology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
(25)Department of Medicine I, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(26)Larrey Hospital, Paul Sabatier University, Toulouse, France. (27)Johns
Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland. (28)Yale
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
(29)Yale Cancer Center and Smilow Cancer Hospital at Yale-New Haven, New Haven,
Connecticut. (30)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Public Health Sciences
Division Seattle, Washington. (31)International Association for the Study of Lung
Cancer, Aurora, Colorado. (32)Thoracic Oncology Program, UC Davis Comprehensive
Cancer Center, Sacramento, California. (33)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer
Center Johns Hopkins, Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland. (34)Division of Medical
Oncology, University of Colorado Cancer Center, Aurora, Colorado. Electronic
address: Fred.Hirsch@ucdenver.edu. (35)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, New 
York University Langone Medical Center, New York, New York.

Lung cancer continues to be a major global health problem; the disease is
diagnosed in more than 1.6 million new patients each year. However, significant
progress is underway in both the prevention and treatment of lung cancer. Lung
cancer therapy has now emerged as a "role model" for precision cancer medicine,
with several important therapeutic breakthroughs occurring during 2015. These
advances have occurred primarily in the immunotherapy field and in treatments
directed against tumors harboring specific oncogenic drivers. Our knowledge about
molecular mechanisms for oncogene-driven tumors and about resistance to targeted 
therapies has increased quickly over the past year. As a result, several
regulatory approvals of new agents that significantly improve survival and
quality of life for patients with lung cancer who have advanced disease have
occurred. The International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer has gathered
experts in different areas of lung cancer research and management to summarize
the most significant scientific advancements related to prevention and therapy of
lung cancer during the past year.

Copyright © 2016 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.03.012 
PMID: 27013409  [PubMed - in process]


145. Discov Med. 2016 Feb;21(114):125-33.

Advances in cancer immunology and cancer immunotherapy.

Voena C(1), Chiarle R(2,)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biotechnology and Health Sciences, University of
Torino, Torino, Italy. (2)Department of Pathology, Children's Hospital and
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

After decades of setbacks, cancer immunology is living its Golden Age. Recent
advances in cancer immunology have provided new therapeutic approaches to treat
cancer. The objective clinical response observed in patients treated with
antibodies that block the immune checkpoints, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated
protein 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell-death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed
cell-death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) pathways, has led to their FDA approval for the
treatment of melanoma in 2011 and in 2014, respectively. The anti-PD-1 antibody
nivolumab has received the FDA-approval in March 2015 for squamous lung cancer
treatment. In addition, antibodies targeting PD-1 or PD-L1 have demonstrated
their efficacy and safety in additional tumors, including non-small cell lung
carcinoma (NSCLC), renal cell carcinoma (RCC), bladder cancer, and Hodgkin's
lymphoma. Almost at the same time, the field of adoptive cell transfer has
exploded. The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T technology has provided strong
evidence of efficacy in the treatment of B cell malignancies, and different T
cell based treatments are currently under investigation for different types of
tumors. In this review we will discuss the latest advances in cancer immunology
and immunotherapy as well as new treatments now under development in the clinic
and potential strategies that have shown promising results in preclinical models.


PMID: 27011048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Oncologist. 2016 May;21(5):634-42. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0507. Epub
2016 Mar 16.

FDA Approval Summary: Nivolumab for the Treatment of Metastatic Non-Small Cell
Lung Cancer With Progression On or After Platinum-Based Chemotherapy.

Kazandjian D(1), Suzman DL(2), Blumenthal G(2), Mushti S(2), He K(2), Libeg M(2),
Keegan P(2), Pazdur R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Office of Hematology and Oncology Products and Office of Biostatistics, Center
for Drug Evaluation and Research, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Silver
Spring, Maryland, USA Dickran.kazandjian@fda.hhs.gov. (2)Office of Hematology and
Oncology Products and Office of Biostatistics, Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA.

: On October 9, 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration expanded the
nivolumab metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) indication to include
patients with nonsquamous NSCLC after a 3.25-month review timeline. Approval was 
based on demonstration of an improvement in overall survival (OS) in an
international, multicenter, open-label, randomized trial comparing nivolumab to
docetaxel in patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC with progression on or
after platinum-based chemotherapy. The CheckMate 057 trial enrolled 582 patients 
who were randomized (1:1) to receive nivolumab or docetaxel. Nivolumab
demonstrated improved OS compared with docetaxel at the prespecified interim
analysis with a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.73 (p = .0015), and a median OS of 12.2
months (95% CI: 9.7-15.0 months) in patients treated with nivolumab compared with
9.4 months (95% CI: 8.0-10.7 months) in patients treated with docetaxel. A
statistically significant improvement in objective response rate (ORR) was also
observed, with an ORR of 19% (95% CI: 15%-24%) in the nivolumab arm and 12% (95% 
CI: 9%-17%) in the docetaxel arm. The median duration of response was 17 months
in the nivolumab arm and 6 months in the docetaxel arm. Progression-free survival
was not statistically different between arms. A prespecified retrospective
subgroup analysis suggested that patients with programmed cell death ligand
1-negative tumors treated with nivolumab had similar OS to those treated with
docetaxel. The toxicity profile of nivolumab was consistent with the known
immune-mediated adverse event profile except for 1 case of grade 5 limbic
encephalitis, which led to a postmarketing requirement study to better
characterize immune-mediated encephalitis.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Based on the
results from the CheckMate 057 clinical trial, nivolumab represents a new
treatment option for patients requiring second-line treatment for metastatic
non-small cell lung cancer. The role of nivolumab in patients with sensitizing
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)
alterations is less clear. Until dedicated studies are performed to better
characterize the role and sequence of programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) therapy,
patients with EGFR or ALK alterations should have progressed on appropriate
targeted therapy before initiating PD-1 inhibitor therapy. Some patients whose
tumors lack programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression also appear to have
durable responses. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted approval to
Dako's PD-L1 test, PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx, which the applicant claimed as a
nonessential complementary diagnostic for nivolumab use.

©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0507 
PMCID: PMC4861371
PMID: 26984449  [PubMed - in process]


147. Immunotherapy. 2016;8(4):479-88. doi: 10.2217/imt-2015-0002.

The role of PD-L1 expression as a predictive biomarker in advanced non-small-cell
lung cancer: a network meta-analysis.

Aguiar PN Jr(1), Santoro IL(1), Tadokoro H(1), de Lima Lopes G(2,)(3), Filardi
BA(1), Oliveira P(4), Mountzios G(5), de Mello RA(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Federal University of São Paulo, São Paulo,
Brazil. (2)Oncoclínicas do Brasil group, São Paulo, Brazil. (3)Department of
Medical Oncology, Johns Hopkins University, Singapore. (4)Department of
Population Studies, Abel Salazar Biomedical Institute, University of Porto,
Porto, Portugal. (5)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Athens School
of Medicine, Athens, Greece. (6)Department of Biomedical Sciences & Medicine,
University of Algarve, Faro, Portugal. (7)Faculty of Medicine, University of
Porto, Porto, Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Tumor programmed death ligand one (PD-L1) expression has been studied
in several trials in non-small-cell lung cancer.
METHODS: We assessed the potential role of PD-L1 expression according to Cochrane
Collaboration's Guidelines.
RESULTS: 13 studies with 1979 patients were included. Among 915 PD-L1 negative
patients this rate was 13% (RR 2.08; 95% CI: 1.49-2.91; p < 0.01). The response
rate has increased concurrent to the PD-L1 expression (Pearson's correlation, r =
0.43). PD-L1 expression was also related to better 24-weeks progression-free rate
(RR 0.79; 95% CI: 0.71-0.89) and a trend toward better 1-year overall survival
rate (RR 0.96; 95% CI: 0.87-1.06).
CONCLUSION: Taking this data in account, PD-L1 overexpression could not be
currently considered a robust biomarker to tailor the immune checkpoint
inhibitors treatment.

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2015-0002 
PMID: 26973128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Allergy. 2016 Aug;71(8):1086-94. doi: 10.1111/all.12878. Epub 2016 May 25.

T follicular helper (Tfh ) cells in normal immune responses and in allergic
disorders.

Varricchi G(1,)(2), Harker J(3,)(4), Borriello F(5), Marone G(5,)(6), Durham
SR(1,)(2), Shamji MH(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Immunomodulation and Tolerance Group, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(2)Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(3)Inflammation, Repair & Development Section, Faculty of Medicine, National
Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK. (4)MRC & Asthma UK
Centre in Allergic Mechanisms of Asthma, London, UK. (5)Department of
Translational Medical Sciences and Center for Basic and Clinical Immunology
Research (CISI), School of Medicine, University of Naples Federico II, Naples,
Italy. (6)CNR Institute of Experimental Endocrinology and Oncology 'G.
Salvatore', Naples, Italy.

Follicular helper T cells (Tfh ) are located within germinal centers of lymph
nodes. Cognate interaction between Tfh , B cells, and IL-21 drives B cells to
proliferate and differentiate into plasma cells thereby leading to antibody
production. Tfh cells and IL-21 are involved in infectious and autoimmune
diseases, immunodeficiencies, vaccination, and cancer. Human peripheral blood
CXCR5(+) CD4(+) T cells comprise different subsets of Tfh -like cells. Despite
the importance of the IgE response in the pathogenesis of allergic disorders,
little is known about the role of follicular and blood Tfh cells and IL-21 in
human and experimental allergic disease. Here, we review recent advances
regarding the phenotypic and functional characteristics of both follicular and
blood Tfh cells and of the IL-21/IL-21R system in the context of allergic
disorders.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/all.12878 
PMID: 26970097  [PubMed - in process]


149. Cancer Lett. 2016 Oct 10;381(1):259-68. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2016.02.057. Epub
2016 Mar 8.

Prevailing over T cell exhaustion: New developments in the immunotherapy of
pancreatic cancer.

Bauer C(1), Kühnemuth B(2), Duewell P(2), Ormanns S(3), Gress T(4), Schnurr M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Endocrinology, Infectiology and Metabolism,
University Hospital Giessen and Marburg, Campus Marburg, Philipps University
Marburg, Baldingerstraße, Marburg 35043, Germany. (2)Division of Clinical
Pharmacology & Center for Integrated Protein Science Munich (CIPSM), Klinikum der
Universität München, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Lindwurmstraße 2a, Munich
80337, Germany. (3)Institute of Pathology, Ludwig-Maximilians-University,
Thalkirchner Strasse 36, Munich 80337, Germany. (4)Division of Gastroenterology, 
Endocrinology, Infectiology and Metabolism, University Hospital Giessen and
Marburg, Campus Marburg, Philipps University Marburg, Baldingerstraße, Marburg
35043, Germany. Electronic address: gress@med.uni-marburg.de.

Pancreatic cancer is one of the most aggressive malignancies and has been
considered poorly immunogenic for decades. However, this characterization might
be over-simplistic. A more sophisticated approach is needed in order to develop
new treatment strategies. In this review, we will focus on T cell exhaustion as a
phenomenon of immune failure that is a useful paradigm to characterize
immunosuppressive effects. Cancer creates an environment of constant antigen
exposure and inflammation. In this setting, T cells transform into a
differentiation state that has been termed T cell exhaustion, which is
characterized by upregulation of inhibitory receptors, resulting in loss of
effector function. The discovery of receptor-mediated immune checkpoints, which
prevent uncontrolled T cell reactions, led to the development of a new class of
antibodies termed checkpoint inhibitors. Unprecedented results in patients with
metastatic melanoma and lung cancer have renewed interest in the immunotherapy of
other solid tumor entities, including pancreatic cancer. Data on the efficacy of 
checkpoint inhibitors in pancreatic cancer are still sparse and indicate limited 
efficacy as single agents. Combination of checkpoint inhibitors with other
immune-activating strategies or cytotoxic drugs might be a way to overcome
therapy resistance in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2016.02.057 
PMID: 26968250  [PubMed - in process]


150. F1000Res. 2016 Feb 26;5. pii: F1000 Faculty Rev-224. doi:
10.12688/f1000research.7634.1. eCollection 2016.

IL-21 Signaling in Immunity.

Leonard WJ(1), Wan CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology and the Immunology Center, National Heart, 
Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethseda, Maryland,
20892, USA.

IL-21 is a type I cytokine produced by T cells and natural killer T cells that
has pleiotropic actions on a wide range of immune and non-immune cell types.
Since its discovery in 2000, extensive studies on the biological actions of IL-21
have been performed in vitro and in vivo. Recent reports describing patients with
primary immunodeficiency caused by mutations of IL21 or IL21R have further
deepened our knowledge of the role of this cytokine in host defense. Elucidation 
of the molecular mechanisms that mediate IL-21's actions has provided the
rationale for targeting IL-21 and IL-21 downstream mediators for therapeutic
purposes. The use of next-generation sequencing technology has provided further
insights into the complexity of IL-21 signaling and has identified transcription 
factors and co-factors involved in mediating the actions of this cytokine. In
this review, we discuss recent advances in the biology and signaling of IL-21 and
how this knowledge can be potentially translated into clinical settings.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.7634.1 
PMCID: PMC4770986
PMID: 26966515  [PubMed]


151. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016 Apr;17(4):18. doi: 10.1007/s11864-016-0394-4.

The Use of EGFR Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors in EGFR Wild-Type Non-Small-Cell Lung 
Cancer.

Stinchcombe TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 170 Manning Drive, Physicians'
Office Building 3rd floor, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA.
thomas_stinchcombe@med.unc.edu.

The objective response rate and progression-free survival observed with epidermal
growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR TKIs) in patients with
metastatic epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) wild-type non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) are modest. The adverse events associated with EGFR TKIs are
manageable but they must be considered in the context of the limited efficacy.
The development of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy as second-line therapy has reduced the
role of EGFR TKIs in EGFR wild-type NSCLC. Recently, there has been increased
recognition of the benefit of the earlier integration of palliative care and
symptom management, and this is reasonable alternative to treatment with an EGFR 
TKI for many patients. My practice pattern for patients with EGFR wild-type NSCLC
is platinum-based chemotherapy as first-line therapy, immunotherapy as
second-line therapy, and single-agent chemotherapy as third-line therapy for
patients with preserved performance status who want to pursue further therapy.
Only a small proportion of patients are eligible for fourth-line therapy, and I
prefer to enroll them in clinical trials rather than use EGFR TKIs. I suspect
that the use of EGFR TKIs in clinical use and as a comparator arm for clinical
trials will continue to decline over the next several years.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-016-0394-4 
PMID: 26961971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2016 Feb;5(1):39-50. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2016.01.03.

Small cell lung cancer (SCLC): no treatment advances in recent years.

Koinis F(1), Kotsakis A(1), Georgoulias V(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Hellenic Oncology Research Group (HORG), Athens, Greece ; 2 Laboratory of
Tumor Cell Biology, School of Medicine, University of Crete, Crete, Greece ; 3
Department of Medical Oncology, University General Hospital of Heraklion, Crete, 
Greece.

Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive malignancy with a distinct natural
history and dismal prognosis. Given its predisposition for early dissemination,
patients are commonly diagnosed with metastatic disease and chemotherapy is
regarded as the cornerstone of approved treatment strategies. However, over the
last 30 years there has been a distinct paucity of significant breakthroughs in
SCLC therapy. Thus, SCLC is characterized as a recalcitrant neoplasm with limited
therapeutic options. By employing well-established research approaches, proven to
be efficacious in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), a growing amount of data
has shed light on the molecular biology of SCLC and enhanced our knowledge of the
"drivers" of tumor cell survival and proliferation. New therapeutic targets have 
emerged, but no significant improvement in patients' survival has been
demonstrated thus far. In a sense, the more we know, the more we fail. Nowadays
this is starting to change and methodical research efforts are underway. It is
anticipated that the next decade will see a revolution in the treatment of SCLC
patients with the application of effective precision medicine and immunotherapy
strategies.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2016.01.03 
PMCID: PMC4758968
PMID: 26958492  [PubMed]


153. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2016 Feb;5(1):16-25. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2016.01.01.

Cancer stem cells in small cell lung cancer.

Codony-Servat J(1), Verlicchi A(1), Rosell R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Pangaea Biotech S.L, Quirón Dexeus University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain ; 2
Santa Maria delle Croci City Hospital, Ravenna, Italy ; 3 Cancer Biology and
Precision Medicine Program, Catalan Institute of Oncology, Hospital Germans Trias
i Pujol, Badalona, Spain ; 4 Instituto Oncológico Dr Rosell, Quirón Dexeus
University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain ; 5 Fundación Molecular Oncology Research, 
Barcelona, Spain.

Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is one of the most aggressive lung tumors, with
poor survival rates. Although patients may initially respond to treatment, this
is followed by rapid development of drug resistance and disease progression. SCLC
patients often present with metastasis at time of diagnosis, ruling out surgery
as a treatment option. Currently, treatment options for this disease remain
limited and platinum-based chemotherapy is the treatment of choice. A better
understanding of the biology of SCLC could allow us to identify new therapeutic
targets. Cancer stem cell (CSC) theory is currently crucial in cancer research
and could provide a viable explanation for the heterogeneity, drug resistance,
recurrence and metastasis of several types of tumors. Some characteristics of
SCLC, such as aggressiveness, suggest that this kind of tumor could be enriched
in CSCs, and drug resistance in SCLC could be attributable to the existence of a 
CSC subpopulation in SCLC. Herein we summarize current understanding of CSC in
SCLC, including the evidence for CSC markers and signaling pathways involved in
stemness. We also discuss potential ongoing strategies and areas of active
research in SCLC, such as immunotherapy, that focus on inhibition of signaling
pathways and targeting molecules driving stemness. Understanding of signaling
pathways and the discovery of new therapeutic markers specific to CSCs will lead 
to new advances in therapy and improvements in prognosis of SCLC patients.
Therefore, evaluation of these CSC-specific molecules and pathways may become a
routine part of SCLC diagnosis and therapy.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2016.01.01 
PMCID: PMC4758966
PMID: 26958490  [PubMed]


154. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Jul;11(7):976-88. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.02.015. Epub 2016
Mar 2.

Predictive Markers for the Efficacy of Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Antibodies in Lung Cancer.

Shukuya T(1), Carbone DP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, The Ohio State 
University, Columbus, Ohio. (2)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of
Internal Medicine, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. Electronic address:
david.carbone@osumc.edu.

Blockade of the programmed death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed death ligand 1
(PD-L1) axis using antibodies against the associated receptors and ligands has
yielded good clinical responses and improved overall survival in patients with
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Once patients show a response to
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibody, the median duration of response is often longer than
that achieved using existing cytotoxic agents and even some molecular targeted
agents. However, the response rates to these antibodies are only 15% to 20% in
unselected patients with NSCLC and the cost of this therapy is high. Therefore,
there is an urgent need for effective predictive biomarkers to identify patients 
likely to benefit. PD-L1 expression, which can be detected by immunohistochemical
analysis, is a rational biomarker for selecting responders to anti-PD-1/PD-L1
antibody treatments, and this selection method has been introduced into clinical 
practice. However, the response rate to anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibody in
PD-L1-expressing patients with NSCLC is only 15% to 45%, response can occur in
PD-L1-negative patients, and predictability based on PD-L1 expression may differ 
between nonsquamous NSCLC and squamous cell NSCLC. In addition, the methods of
immunohistochemical analysis and evaluation of its results differ for different
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents. This article reviews the existing data on predictive
markers for the efficacy of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies in NSCLC.

Copyright © 2016 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.02.015 
PMID: 26944305  [PubMed - in process]


155. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2016;16(4):455-63. doi:
10.1586/14737140.2016.1162100.

A catalogue of treatment and technologies for malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Schunselaar LM(1), Quispel-Janssen JM(2), Neefjes JJ(1), Baas P(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Cell Biology II , The Netherlands Cancer Institute , Amsterdam ,
The Netherlands. (2)b Thoraxoncology , The Netherlands Cancer Institute ,
Amsterdam , The Netherlands.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma is an aggressive fatal malignancy with a prognosis
that has not significantly improved in the last decades. This review summarizes
the current state of treatment and the various attempts that are made to improve 
overall survival for patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. It also
discusses technologies and protocols to test new and hopefully more effective
compounds in a more individualized manner. These developments are expected to
improve the prognosis for this group of patients.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.2016.1162100 
PMID: 26943000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Eur Respir Rev. 2016 Mar;25(139):71-6. doi: 10.1183/16000617.0071-2015.

KRAS oncogene in lung cancer: focus on molecularly driven clinical trials.

Kempf E(1), Rousseau B(2), Besse B(3), Paz-Ares L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Medical Oncology, Virgen del Rocio Teaching Hospital, Instituto de
Biomedicina de Sevilla - IBIS, Seville, Spain Dept of Medical Oncology,
Pharmacology Unit, AP-HP, Henri Mondor Teaching Hospital, Créteil, France
emma@kempf.pro. (2)Dept of Medical Oncology, Pharmacology Unit, AP-HP, Henri
Mondor Teaching Hospital, Créteil, France Université Paris-Est, VIC DHU, Inserm U
955, Team 18, UPEC, Créteil, France. (3)Dept of Cancer Medicine, Gustave Roussy
Cancer Campus, Villejuif, France Paris-Sud University, Inserm U981, Paris,
France. (4)Dept of Medical Oncology, Virgen del Rocio Teaching Hospital,
Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla - IBIS, Seville, Spain.

KRAS mutations are the most frequent molecular abnormalities found in one out of 
four nonsmall cell lung cancers (NSCLC). Their incidence increases in cases of
adenocarcinoma, smokers and Caucasian patients. Their negative value in terms of 
prognosis and responsiveness to both standard chemotherapy and targeted therapies
remains under debate. Many drugs have been developed specifically for
KRAS-mutated NSCLC patients. Direct inhibition of RAS activation failed to show
any clinical efficacy. Inhibition of downstream targets of the mitogen-activated 
protein kinase (MEK) pathway is a promising strategy: phase II combinations of
MEK 1/2 kinase inhibitors with chemotherapy doubled patients' clinical outcomes. 
One phase III trial in such a setting is ongoing. Double inhibition of MEK and
epidermal growth factor receptor proteins is currently being assessed in
early-phase trials. The association with mammalian target of rapamycin pathway
inhibition leads to non-manageable toxicity. Other strategies, such as inhibition
of molecular heat-shock proteins 90 or focal adhesion kinase are currently
assessed. Abemaciclib, a cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitor, showed promising 
results in a phase I trial, with a 54% disease control rate. Results of an
ongoing phase III trial are warranted. Immunotherapy might be the next relevant
step in KRAS-mutated NSCLC management due to the high burden of associated
mutations and neo-antigens.

Copyright ©ERS 2016.

DOI: 10.1183/16000617.0071-2015 
PMID: 26929424  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2016 Mar;140(3):245-8. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2015-0287-SA.

Next-Generation Sequencing and Immunotherapy Biomarkers: A Medical Oncology
Perspective.

Bernicker E(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Cancer Center, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, Texas.

The two most important scientific developments of the past decade regarding
therapies for patients with non-small cell lung cancer are the ability to exploit
particular genetic mutations with targeted therapies and the discovery of drugs
that can help the patient's own immune system attack the cancer. Despite these
advances, many patients do not yet benefit from either approach. To maximize
patient benefit, clinicians and pathologists will need to rationally apply the
growing scientific knowledge to best characterize a patient's tumor and possible 
driver mutations. A growing understanding of host-tumor immune interactions will 
hopefully help expand our therapeutic options. Lastly, the still elusive
identification of immunotherapy biomarkers will hopefully help identify patients 
most likely to derive a therapeutic response to immune checkpoint inhibitors, and
promises to be an important field of study for years to come.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2015-0287-SA 
PMID: 26927719  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Feb 25;17(3):286. doi: 10.3390/ijms17030286.

The Utilization of the Immune System in Lung Cancer Treatment: Beyond
Chemotherapy.

Chan CW(1), Tsui SK(2), Law BM(3), So WK(4), Tang FW(5), Wong CL(6).

Author information: 
(1)The Nethersole School of Nursing, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin,
the New Territories, Hong Kong, China. whchan@cuhk.edu.hk. (2)School of
Biomedical Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, the New
Territories, Hong Kong, China. kwtsui@cuhk.edu.hk. (3)The Nethersole School of
Nursing, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, the New Territories, Hong
Kong, China. bernardlaw@cuhk.edu.hk. (4)The Nethersole School of Nursing, The
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, the New Territories, Hong Kong, China.
winnieso@cuhk.edu.hk. (5)The Nethersole School of Nursing, The Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Shatin, the New Territories, Hong Kong, China. wktang@cuhk.edu.hk. 
(6)The Nethersole School of Nursing, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin,
the New Territories, Hong Kong, China. jojowong@cuhk.edu.hk.

Lung cancer is ranked first worldwide as one of the main cancers in terms of
prevalence and mortality rate. The development of effective treatment strategies 
against lung cancer is therefore of paramount importance. Traditionally,
chemotherapy was employed in the treatment of various cancers. However, the
non-specific nature of the actions of chemotherapeutic drugs and the potential
for tumors to develop resistance to these drugs may render chemotherapy a less
favorable option for cancer treatment. Immunotherapy provides an alternative
strategy for this purpose. It involves the utilization of the immune system and
the immune effector cells to elicit an immune response to the tumors, thereby
eliminating them. Strategies include the administration of pro-inflammatory
cytokines for immune stimulation, the removal of immunological checkpoints using 
monoclonal antibodies, and the use of cancer vaccines to enhance immunity against
tumors. This article summarizes the above strategies, highlights the reasons why 
immunotherapy is superior to chemotherapy for the purpose of tumor removal, and
reviews the recent clinical studies comparing the clinical outcomes of patients
undergoing immunotherapy and chemotherapy. The article also describes advances in
immunotherapeutic strategies for the treatment of lung cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17030286 
PMCID: PMC4813150
PMID: 26927069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Neoplasma. 2016;63(3):342-50. doi: 10.4149/302_151001N511.

A new hope: the immunotherapy in small cell lung cancer.

Li Q, Yuan D, Ma C, Liu Y, Ma L, Lv T, Song Y.

Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is of a high-grade malignancy with a high
metastatic potential and poor clinical prognosis. Unfortunately, SCLC initially
exhibits a good response to chemotherapy and radiation therapy, but inevitably,
relapses decrease patients' chance of survival. Despite tremendous advances on
the development of new chemotherapeutic agents, the prognosis of this disease
remains poor. Immunotherapy plays a role in eliciting an anticancer response by
modulating the patient's immune response of the tumor. Several studies have
demonstrated that abnormal autoimmune regulation has a close relationship with
SCLC. Thus, several immunotherapy trials are focused on SCLC treatment, including
such approaches as immune checkpoints blockers, tumor vaccine, antigenic targets 
and adoptive cellular immunotherapy to benefit patients with SCLC. To date, the
results from immunotherapy in SCLC have not been promising. For example, tumor
vaccines have not been demonstrated to have a significant survival benefit.
However, there have been many promising advances with immune checkpoints
blockers. This review will provide a general overview of immunotherapy in SCLC.
The landmark clinical trials in previous successful immunotherapy studies are
summarized here. Finally, the challenges of immunotherapy in SCLC are discussed
to facilitate the prediction of possible and valuable strategies for future
therapy.

DOI: 10.4149/302_151001N511 
PMID: 26925794  [PubMed - in process]


160. Bull Cancer. 2016 Apr;103(4):368-80. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2016.01.014. Epub 2016
Feb 23.

[Issues and current limits for immunohistochemical assessment of PD-L1 status in 
bronchial biopsies].

[Article in French]

Hofman V(1), Ilie M(1), Long E(1), Butori C(1), Lassalle S(1), Washetine K(1),
Lalve S(1), Marquette CH(2), Soria JC(3), Hofman P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Nice Sophia Antipolis, CHU de Nice, hôpital Pasteur, laboratoire
de pathologie clinique et expérimentale et biobanque (BB-0033-00025), 30, avenue 
de la voie Romaine, 06002 Nice cedex 01, France. (2)CHU de Nice, hôpital Pasteur,
service de pneumologie, 30, avenue de la voie Romaine, 06002 Nice cedex 01,
France. (3)University Paris Sud, Institut Gustave-Roussy, Inserm U981, 114, rue
Edouard-Vaillant, 94800 Villejuif, France. (4)Université de Nice Sophia
Antipolis, CHU de Nice, hôpital Pasteur, laboratoire de pathologie clinique et
expérimentale et biobanque (BB-0033-00025), 30, avenue de la voie Romaine, 06002 
Nice cedex 01, France. Electronic address: hofman.p@chu-nice.fr.

Immunotherapy targeting the PD-L1/PD-1 axis has shown recently some promising
results in metastatic lung cancer patients. This treatment seems to be more
effective when a high expression of PD-L1 is detected by immunohistochemistry in 
bronchial biopsies. In this regard, this targeted therapy will be proposed soon
in metastatic lung cancer patients. This immunotherapy could be dependent to the 
immunohistochemical (IHC) assessment of PD-L1 expression, thus considered as a
companion diagnostic test. This near perspective poses challenges with regard to 
the positivity threshold value for PD-L1 expression before therapy
administration, the positive cellular compartment (tumour cells and/or immune
cells), the percentage of positive cells and the clone which is used. A couple of
patients have a good response to treatment targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis despite 
the absence or a weak PD-L1 expression. However the assessment of
PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry will be the only mandatory approach
before therapeutic strategies targeting the PD1/PD-L1 axis for lung cancer
patients. In this review, the main challenges of using PD-L1 immunohistochemistry
as a potential companion diagnostic tool for metastatic lung cancer patient
immunotherapy will be discussed.

Copyright © 2016 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2016.01.014 
PMID: 26920041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Virchows Arch. 2016 May;468(5):511-25. doi: 10.1007/s00428-016-1910-4. Epub 2016 
Feb 25.

Assessment of the PD-L1 status by immunohistochemistry: challenges and
perspectives for therapeutic strategies in lung cancer patients.

Ilie M(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Hofman V(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Dietel M(5,)(6), Soria JC(7,)(8),
Hofman P(9,)(10,)(11,)(12).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, Pasteur Hospital,
University of Nice Sophia Antipolis, 30 avenue de la voie romaine, 06002, Nice,
France. (2)Institute for Research on Cancer and Ageing, Nice (IRCAN), INSERM
U1081 and UMR CNRS 7284, Team 3, CLCC Antoine Lacassagne, Nice, France.
(3)Hospital-Integrated Biobank BB-0033-00025, Pasteur Hospital, Nice, France.
(4)University Hospital Federation OncoAge, CHU de Nice, University of Nice Sophia
Antipolis, Nice, France. (5)Institute of Pathology, Humboldt University of
Berlin, Berlin, Germany. (6)Campus Charité Mitte, Charité Universitätsmedizin,
Berlin, Germany. (7)Drug Development Department (DITEP), Gustave Roussy,
Villejuif, France. (8)INSERM U981, Predictive Biomarkers and New Therapeutic
Strategies in Oncology, University Paris Sud, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France. 
(9)Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, Pasteur Hospital,
University of Nice Sophia Antipolis, 30 avenue de la voie romaine, 06002, Nice,
France. hofman.p@chu-nice.fr. (10)Institute for Research on Cancer and Ageing,
Nice (IRCAN), INSERM U1081 and UMR CNRS 7284, Team 3, CLCC Antoine Lacassagne,
Nice, France. hofman.p@chu-nice.fr. (11)Hospital-Integrated Biobank
BB-0033-00025, Pasteur Hospital, Nice, France. hofman.p@chu-nice.fr.
(12)University Hospital Federation OncoAge, CHU de Nice, University of Nice
Sophia Antipolis, Nice, France. hofman.p@chu-nice.fr.

Immunotherapy targeting the PD-L1/PD-1 axis has recently shown spectacular
efficacy and promise for the future of patients with metastatic lung cancer. In
the setting of second-line treatment of metastatic disease, this therapy has
increased overall survival of patients by several months when compared to
chemotherapy, both for squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and adenocarcinoma (ADC) of 
the lung. Clinical trials targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis have shown a tendency
towards higher efficacy if expression of PD-L1 is relatively high, as evaluated
by immunohistochemistry (IHC) of tumour samples. Targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis is
of crucial importance not only for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
but probably also for patients with small cell lung cancer. Nivolumab, an
antibody targeting PD-1, has recently received FDA and EMA approval for NSCLC,
regardless of the PDL1 expression status (for both tumour types in the USA and
for only SCC in EU). However, the need for a biomarker that allows better
selection of patients is essential, to improve treatment efficacy and to manage
cost of these therapies. Assessment of PD-L1 expression through
immunohistochemical staining is advocated by many as one such potential
biomarker. This prospect raises several questions, in particular how to define a 
threshold for positive PD-L1 labelling on biopsy tissue samples, taking into
account that certain patients respond to treatment targeting PD-L1/PD-1, despite 
low or absent immunoreactivity of this biomarker. This review discusses major
challenges related to detection of PD-L1 by immunohistochemistry as a companion
diagnostic test, along with immune checkpoint blockade treatment of lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-016-1910-4 
PMID: 26915032  [PubMed - in process]


162. Clin Lung Cancer. 2016 May;17(3):161-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cllc.2016.01.004. Epub
2016 Jan 28.

The Evolving Role of Nivolumab in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer for Second-Line
Treatment: A New Cornerstone for Our Treatment Algorithms. Results From an
International Experts Panel Meeting of the Italian Association of Thoracic
Oncology.

Gridelli C(1), Besse B(2), Brahmer JR(3), Crinò L(4), Felip E(5), de Marinis
F(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, S.G. Moscati Hospital, Avellino, Italy.
Electronic address: cgridelli@libero.it. (2)Department of Cancer Medicine,
Gustave-Roussy, Villejuif, Université Paris Sud, Paris, France. (3)Sidney Kimmel 
Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, MD. (4)Division of
Medical Oncology, Santa Maria della Misericordia Hospital, Perugia, Italy.
(5)Institut d'Oncologia, Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Division of Thoracic Oncology, European Insitute of Oncology, Milan, Italy.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of death from cancer worldwide that currently
has only a few available treatment options in patients with no driver mutations. 
The therapeutic options for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who 
progress after first-line chemotherapy have been limited from a long time.
Docetaxel has remained a cornerstone of second-line treatment for more than 20
years, but it is associated with an unfavorable safety profile. Recently, the
results from immunotherapy treatment with anti-PD1 and PD-L1 inhibitors has
changed our current knowledge base and increased therapeutic options for patients
with NSCLC in the second-line setting. The results of 2 randomized phase III
trials assessing nivolumab in lung cancer, Check-Mate-017 and Check-Mate-057,
have deeply changed our current clinical practice and raised several discussion
points. This paper explores the recent findings about nivolumab for the treatment
of NSCLC in the second-line setting by analyzing recent trial findings and
discussing their implications in clinical practice and future directions. The
paper also summarizes the conclusions from an International Experts Panel Meeting
of the Italian Association of Thoracic Oncology.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2016.01.004 
PMID: 26908078  [PubMed - in process]


163. Int Immunopharmacol. 2016 May;34:1-15. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2016.02.007. Epub
2016 Feb 22.

Tissue-resident dendritic cells and diseases involving dendritic cell
malfunction.

Chen K(1), Wang JM(2), Yuan R(3), Yi X(4), Li L(4), Gong W(5), Yang T(6), Li
L(3), Su S(6).

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji University School of Medicine,
Shanghai 200072, China; Cancer and Inflammation Program, Center for Cancer
Research, National Cancer Institute at Frederick, Frederick, MD 21702, USA;
Laboratory of Inflammation Biology, Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA 24061-0910, USA.
Electronic address: keqiangc8@gmail.com. (2)Cancer and Inflammation Program,
Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute at Frederick, Frederick, MD
21702, USA. Electronic address: wangji@mail.nih.gov. (3)Laboratory of
Inflammation Biology, Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA 24061-0910, USA. (4)Cancer and
Inflammation Program, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute at
Frederick, Frederick, MD 21702, USA. (5)Cancer and Inflammation Program, Center
for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute at Frederick, Frederick, MD 21702,
USA; Basic Research Program, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc., Frederick, MD
21702, USA. (6)Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Shanghai 200072, China.

Dendritic cells (DCs) control immune responses and are central to the development
of immune memory and tolerance. DCs initiate and orchestrate immune responses in 
a manner that depends on signals they receive from microbes and cellular
environment. Although DCs consist mainly of bone marrow-derived and resident
populations, a third tissue-derived population resides the spleen and lymph nodes
(LNs), different subsets of tissue-derived DCs have been identified in the blood,
spleen, lymph nodes, skin, lung, liver, gut and kidney to maintain the tolerance 
and control immune responses. Tissue-resident DCs express different receptors for
microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs) and damage-associated molecular
patterns (DAMPs), which were activated to promote the production of pro- or
anti-inflammatory cytokines. Malfunction of DCs contributes to diseases such as
autoimmunity, allergy, and cancer. It is therefore important to update the
knowledge about resident DC subsets and diseases associated with DC malfunction.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2016.02.007 
PMCID: PMC4818737 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 26906720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2016;16(4):573-8. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2016.1157579.

Racotumomab for treating lung cancer and pediatric refractory malignancies.

Gabri MR(1), Cacciavillano W(2), Chantada GL(2), Alonso DF(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratory of Molecular Oncology , National University of Quilmes , Buenos
Aires , Argentina. (2)b Hematology-Oncology Service , Pediatric Hospital
Professor Dr. Juan P. Garrahan , Buenos Aires , Argentina.

INTRODUCTION: Racotumomab (originally known as 1E10 mAb) is an anti-idiotype
murine IgG1 directed to membrane glycoconjugates expressed in aggressive solid
tumors. It was developed as a mirror image of the idiotype of another antibody
against N-glycolyl-containing molecules, such as the NeuGcGM3 ganglioside. After 
a successful phase II/III study, racotumomab formulated in alum was conditionally
approved in Latin American countries as maintenance therapy for advanced
non-small cell lung cancer.
AREAS COVERED: This review analyzes the biology of the target antigen, summarizes
preclinical studies and discusses clinical trials in adults and the pediatric
experience with racotumomab.
EXPERT OPINION: Proper patient selection and combination with chemotherapy,
radiotherapy or checkpoint inhibitors appear to be critical issues to maximize
the effects of racotumomab vaccination in lung cancer. In a recent phase I
clinical trial in children with relapsed or resistant neuroectodermal
malignancies, racotumomab was well tolerated and immunogenic, and its evaluation 
as immunotherapy for high-risk neuroblastoma is warranted.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2016.1157579 
PMID: 26903265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2016 Apr;100:88-98. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2016.02.001. Epub 2016 Feb 10.

PD-L1 expression in cancer patients receiving anti PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies: A
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Gandini S(1), Massi D(2), Mandalà M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, European Institute of Oncology,
Milan, Italy. (2)Division of Pathological Anatomy, Department of Surgery and
Translational Medicine, University of Florence, Italy. (3)Unit of Medical
Oncology, Department of Oncology and Hematology, Papa Giovanni XXIII Hospital,
Bergamo, Italy. Electronic address: mariomandala@tin.it.

BACKGROUND: Despite the success of immunotherapy directed at inhibiting of
programmed death-1 (PD-1)/PD-ligand (L)1 signaling, it is not established whether
PD-L1 expression correlates with the clinical response and outcome in different
tumors. The present meta-analysis investigates whether the PD-L1 status, detected
by immunohistochemistry, is associated with clinical response and mortality in
patients treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy.
METHODS: A systematic literature search and quantitative analysis were planned,
conducted and reported following CONSORT and QUORUM checklists, up to December
2015, to identify clinical trials with information on cancer outcome by PD-L1
immunohistochemical expression in tumor tissues. We used random effects models to
estimate Summary Objective Response Rates (SORRs) and Summary Odd Ratio (SOR) for
the comparison of PD-L1 positive and negative patients.
RESULTS: We summarized 20 trials carried out in metastatic melanoma (MM),
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients
receiving anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies (4230 MM, 1417 NSCLC and 312 RCC patients). 
Positive PD-L1 MM patients showed a significant decrease (53%) in the risk of
mortality vs. negative cases with no heterogeneity. Furthermore, SORRs were 45%
and 27% in PD-L1 positive and negative patients, respectively, and SOR indicates 
a significant difference in term of responses: 2.14 (95% CI: 1.65, 2.77), with
low between-study heterogeneity (I(2)=35%). Furthermore, results from randomized 
clinical trials on MM showed that PD-L1 expression is significantly associated
with greater clinical response rates to anti-PD1 treatments (SOR 1.89; 95%CI:
1.35, 2.64) but not to other treatments (SOR 0.96; 95%CI: 0.5, 1.87). In
non-squamous NSCLC SORRs were 29% and 11% in PD-L1 positive and negative
patients, respectively, and SOR indicates a significant difference between
responses: 3.78 (1.54, 9.24), with no between-study heterogeneity. Squamous NSCLC
and RCC did not show any significant difference in response according to the
PD-L1 status.
CONCLUSION: PD-L1 expression is significantly associated with mortality and
clinical response to anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies in MM patients and with clinical 
response in patients with non-squamous NSCLC.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2016.02.001 
PMID: 26895815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Onco Targets Ther. 2016 Jan 25;9:489-502. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S94993. eCollection
2016.

PD-1/PD-L1 blockades in non-small-cell lung cancer therapy.

Jing W(1), Li M(2), Zhang Y(3), Teng F(3), Han A(3), Kong L(3), Zhu H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Weifang Medical University, Weifang, Shandong Province, People's Republic of
China; Department of Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, 
Jinan, Shandong Province, People's Republic of China. (2)Shandong Medical
College, Jinan, Shandong Province, People's Republic of China. (3)Department of
Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, Jinan, Shandong
Province, People's Republic of China.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in males and the second leading 
cause of death in females worldwide. Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the
main pathological type of lung cancer, and most newly diagnosed NSCLC patients
cannot undergo surgery because the disease is already locally advanced or
metastatic. Despite chemoradiotherapy and targeted therapy improving clinical
outcomes, overall survival remains poor. Immune checkpoint blockade, especially
blockade of programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor and its ligand PD-L1, achieved
robust responses and improved survival for patients with locally
advanced/metastatic NSCLC in preclinical and clinical studies. However, with
regard to PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoint blockade as monotherapy or in combination with
other antitumor therapies, such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy (including
conventional irradiation and stereotactic body radiotherapy), and target therapy,
there are still many unknowns in treating patients with NSCLC. Despite this
limited understanding, checkpoint blockade as a novel therapeutic approach may
change the treatment paradigm of NSCLC in the future. Here we review the main
results from completed and ongoing studies to investigate the feasibility of
PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, as monotherapy or combinatorial agents in patients with
locally advanced and metastatic NSCLC, and explore optimal strategy in such
patients.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S94993 
PMCID: PMC4741366
PMID: 26889087  [PubMed]


167. Future Oncol. 2016;12(8):1045-58. doi: 10.2217/fon.16.17. Epub 2016 Feb 18.

Systemic therapies in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer brain
metastases.

Lukas RV(1), Kumthekar P(2), Rizvi S, Salgia R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology & Therapeutics Research, City of Hope, Duarte, 
CA, USA.

Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) brain metastases are common. Even though there
are various subsets of NSCLC with molecular alterations, there is a common theme 
of brain metastases. Current treatment modalities are suboptimal. Systemic
therapies for the treatment of NSCLC brain metastases have been explored and
recent advances may pave the way for their successful employment in this patient 
population. While no specific agents have been associated with a marked benefit, 
stability of disease as well as radiographic responses have been noted in some
patients. Biological activity of systemic therapies in some patients with NSCLC
brain metastases raises hope for future advances and supports further
investigation for this patient population with limited treatment options.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.16.17 
PMID: 26888310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Future Oncol. 2016 Apr;12(7):931-43. doi: 10.2217/fon-2015-0012. Epub 2016 Feb
17.

Immunotherapy for small-cell lung cancer: emerging evidence.

Reck M(1), Heigener D(1), Reinmuth N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Oncology & Clinical Trial Departments, Lung Clinic, Airway Research
Center North (ARCN), Members of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL),
Grosshansdorf, Germany.

Treatment for small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) has changed little over the past few 
decades; available therapies have failed to extend survival in advanced disease. 
In recent years, immunotherapy with treatments such as interferons, TNFs,
vaccines and immune checkpoint inhibitors has advanced and shown promise in the
treatment of several tumor types. Immune checkpoint inhibitors such as
ipilimumab, nivolumab, pembrolizumab, durvalumab, tremelimumab and ulocuplumab
are at the forefront of immunotherapy and have achieved approvals for certain
cancer types, including melanoma (ipilimumab, nivolumab and pembrolizumab),
non-SCLC (nivolumab and pembrolizumab) and renal cell carcinoma (nivolumab).
Clinical trials are investigating different immunotherapies in patients with
other solid and hematologic malignancies, including SCLC. We review emerging
evidence supporting the use of immunotherapy in SCLC patients.

DOI: 10.2217/fon-2015-0012 
PMID: 26882955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Future Oncol. 2016 Mar;12(5):659-67. doi: 10.2217/fon.15.358. Epub 2016 Feb 1.

Novel therapies for advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the lung.

Koutsoukos K(1), Mountzios G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Alexandra Hospital, University of Athens School
of Medicine, Athens, Greece. (2)Department of Medical Oncology, 251 Airforce
General Hospital, 115 25, Athens, Greece.

Advanced squamous non-small-cell lung carcinoma (SqCC) has traditionally been
considered the 'neglected sibling' compared with lung adenocarcinoma due to lack 
of effective targeted treatment options. Currently, limited progress has been
made in the systemic treatment of advanced disease and combination chemotherapy
remains the gold standard. However, the recent completion of the molecular
characterization of SqCC revealed an interestingly complex genomic profile,
comprising various genetic alterations that can potentially function as molecular
targets for the development of novel targeted agents. Recent encouraging results 
of the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors in several neoplasms has emerged as a 
promising novel treatment option for advanced SqCC. Future personalized studies, 
enrolling SqCC patients according to specific driving mutations are underway.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.15.358 
PMID: 26880383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2016;17(7):969-76. doi: 10.1517/14656566.2016.1154539. 
Epub 2016 Feb 29.

Optimal drugs for second-line treatment of patients with small-cell lung cancer.

Rossi A(1), Sacco PC(1), Sgambato A(2), Casaluce F(2), Santabarbara G(1),
Palazzolo G(3), Maione P(1), Gridelli C(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Medical Oncology , 'S.G. Moscati' Hospital , Avellino , Italy.
(2)b Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine , Second University of
Naples , Naples , Italy. (3)c Division of Medical Oncology , USLL5 , Cittadella
(Pd) , Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Despite the high response rate to chemotherapy, there have been few
advances in the treatment of small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) in the last decades.
The state-of-the-art second-line therapy and future research developments in
relapsed SCLC are reviewed.
AREAS COVERED: There are no optimal drugs for second-line treatment of recurrent 
SCLC but only agents registered for this use. Topotecan remains the
standard-of-care for the treatment of second-line platinum-sensitive SCLC
patients worldwide, while amrubicin is another option, but registered only in
Japan. To date, no targeted agents reporting interesting results in second-line
SCLC treatment are available. The next-generation DNA sequencing should discover 
somatic gene alterations and their roles in SCLC to help in selecting patients
who could benefit from a targeted agent. Two immunotherapeutics, ipilimumab and
nivolumab, have shown promising preliminary results and are being investigated in
ongoing trials.
EXPERT OPINION: Second-line treatment is not an option for most SCLC patients.
Given the evidence up to now, the potentials for immuno-oncology in SCLC are
high. The hope is that these expectations are met, and that all drugs being
developed will offer new and improved treatment options for SCLC patients.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2016.1154539 
PMID: 26878692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Front Oncol. 2016 Feb 1;6:18. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2016.00018. eCollection 2016.

Validation of Claims Algorithms for Progression to Metastatic Cancer in Patients 
with Breast, Non-small Cell Lung, and Colorectal Cancer.

Nordstrom BL(1), Simeone JC(1), Malley KG(1), Fraeman KH(1), Klippel Z(2), Durst 
M(2), Page JH(2), Xu H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Evidera , Lexington, MA , USA. (2)Amgen, Inc. , Thousand Oaks, CA , USA.

BACKGROUND: Validated algorithms for identifying progression to metastatic cancer
could permit the use of administrative claims databases for research in this
area.
OBJECTIVE: To identify simple algorithms that could accurately detect cancer
progression to metastatic breast, non-small cell lung, and colorectal cancer
(CRC) using medical and pharmacy claims data.
METHODS: Adults with stage I-III breast, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), or
CRC in the Geisinger Health System from 2004 to 2011 were selected. Evidence of
progression was extracted via manual chart review as the reference standard. In
addition to secondary malignancy diagnosis (ICD-9 code for metastases),
diagnoses, procedures, and treatments were selected with clinician input as
indicators of cancer progression. Random forests models provided variable
importance scores. In addition to codes for secondary malignancy, several more
complex algorithms were constructed and performance measures calculated.
RESULTS: Among those with breast cancer [17/502 (3.4%) progressed], the
performance of a secondary malignancy code was suboptimal [sensitivity: 64.7%;
specificity: 86.0%; positive predictive value (PPV): 13.9; negative predictive
value (NPV): 98.6%]; requiring malignancy at another site or initiation of
immunotherapy increased PPV and specificity but decreased sensitivity. For NSCLC 
[61/236 (25.8%) progressed], codes for secondary malignancy alone (PPV: 47.4%;
NPV: 84.8%; sensitivity: 60.7%; specificity: 76.6%) performed similarly or better
than more complex algorithms. For CRC [33/276 (12.0%) progressed], secondary
malignancy codes had good specificity (92.7%) and NPV (92.3%) but low sensitivity
(42.4%) and PPV (43.8%); an algorithm with change in chemotherapy increased
sensitivity but decreased other metrics.
CONCLUSION: Selected algorithms performed similarly to the presence of a
secondary tumor diagnosis code, with low sensitivity/PPV and higher
specificity/NPV. Accurate identification of cancer progression likely requires
verification through chart review.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2016.00018 
PMCID: PMC4733924
PMID: 26870695  [PubMed]


172. Postepy Hig Med Dosw (Online). 2016 Jan 26;70:25-42. doi:
10.5604/17322693.1192926.

[Immune checkpoint‑targeted cancer immunotherapies].

[Article in Polish]

Swatler J(1), Kozłowska E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Zakład Immunologii, Instytut Zoologii, Wydział Biologii Uniwersytetu
Warszawskiego.

Tumor cells may express on their surface various characteristic antigens that can
induce antitumor immunity. However, cancer in human body may induce an
immunosuppressive microenvironment that limits immune response to its antigens.
For many years scientists have tried to develop an immunotherapy which would
induce a potent antitumor immune response and lead to an elimination of the
disease. One of the most promising immunotherapies is blockade of immune
checkpoints, i.e. a group of costimulatory molecules negatively regulating the
immune system. Their blockade would overcome immune tolerance in the tumor
microenvironment and amplify antitumor immunity. What's more, immune checkpoint
blockade may turn out even more profitable, as some of immune checkpoints and
their ligands are expressed on tumor surface and on tumor infiltrating
lymphocytes, contributing to the immunosuppressive cancer microenvironment. Phase
III clinical trials have confirmed efficacy of an anti‑CTLA‑4 antibody
ipilimumab, thereby leading to its acceptance for the treatment of advanced
melanoma. Thanks to promising results of the phase I clinical trials, a
breakthrough therapy designation and an early approval for the treatment have
been granted to anti‑PD‑1 antibodies ‑ nivolumab (for the treatment of advanced
melanoma and advanced non‑small cell lung cancer) and pembrolizumab (for the
treatment of advanced melanoma) and, in the treatment of advanced bladder cancer,
an anti‑PD‑L1 antibody ‑ MPDL3280A as well. Other immune checkpoints, such as
LAG‑3, TIM‑3, BTLA, B7‑H3 and B7‑H4, are also under early evaluation.

DOI: 10.5604/17322693.1192926 
PMID: 26864062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Immunotherapy. 2016;8(3):279-98. doi: 10.2217/imt.15.123. Epub 2016 Feb 9.

Immune checkpoint therapy for non-small-cell lung cancer: an update.

Xia B(1), Herbst RS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center, Yale School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street
WWW221, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.

The role of immunotherapy in treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has 
been gaining interest over the past few years. This has been driven primarily by 
promising results from trials evaluating antagonist antibodies that target
co-inhibitory immune checkpoints expressed on tumor cells and immune cells within
the tumor microenvironment. Immune checkpoints exist to dampen or terminate
immune activity to guard against autoimmunity and allow for self-tolerance.
However, tumors can take advantage of these immune checkpoint pathways to evade
destruction. Antibodies that block inhibitory checkpoints, such as anti-CTLA-4,
anti-PD1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies have demonstrated delayed tumor growth and
increased survival. Novel therapies are now investigating combining checkpoint
inhibitors with chemotherapy, targeted therapy, radiation and vaccines to produce
synergistic antitumor activity.

DOI: 10.2217/imt.15.123 
PMID: 26860624  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Diagn Interv Imaging. 2016 Mar;97(3):287-96. doi: 10.1016/j.diii.2015.11.013.
Epub 2016 Feb 5.

Personalized chemotherapy of lung cancer: What the radiologist should know.

Ferretti GR(1), Reymond E(2), Delouche A(3), Sakhri L(4), Jankowski A(3),
Moro-Sibilot D(5), Lantuejoul S(6), Toffart AC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Clinique universitaire de radiologie et imagerie médicale, CHU A.-Michallon,
BP 217, 38043 Grenoble cedex 9, France; Inserm U 823, institut A.-Bonniot, 38000 
Grenoble, France; Université Grenoble-Alpes, 38000 Grenoble, France. Electronic
address: GFerretti@chu-grenoble.fr. (2)Clinique universitaire de radiologie et
imagerie médicale, CHU A.-Michallon, BP 217, 38043 Grenoble cedex 9, France;
Inserm U 823, institut A.-Bonniot, 38000 Grenoble, France; Université
Grenoble-Alpes, 38000 Grenoble, France. (3)Clinique universitaire de radiologie
et imagerie médicale, CHU A.-Michallon, BP 217, 38043 Grenoble cedex 9, France.
(4)Clinique universitaire de pneumologie, pôle d'oncologie, CHU A.-Michallon,
38043 Grenoble, France. (5)Inserm U 823, institut A.-Bonniot, 38000 Grenoble,
France; Université Grenoble-Alpes, 38000 Grenoble, France; Clinique universitaire
de pneumologie, pôle d'oncologie, CHU A.-Michallon, 38043 Grenoble, France.
(6)Inserm U 823, institut A.-Bonniot, 38000 Grenoble, France; Université
Grenoble-Alpes, 38000 Grenoble, France; Département d'anatomo-cytologie
pathologie, CHU A.-Michallon, 38043 Grenoble, France.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of deaths due to cancer in France. More than
half of lung cancers are discovered at an advanced-stage. New anticancer
treatment strategies (i.e., the so-called personalized or targeted therapy) have 
recently been introduced and validated for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), in
addition to or in association with standard chemotherapy. Personalized therapy
includes tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), antiangiogenic treatments and
immunotherapy. Because these treatments may be responsible for atypical thoracic 
adverse effects and responses as compared to standard chemotherapy, RECIST 1.1
criteria may be inadequate to evaluate the responses to these agents. The goal of
this article was to review personalized treatment strategies for NSCLC, to
consider the therapy-specific responses and thoracic complications induced by
these new therapeutic agents and finally to discuss future directions for the
personalized assessment of tumor response.

Copyright © 2016 Éditions françaises de radiologie. Published by Elsevier Masson 
SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diii.2015.11.013 
PMID: 26857787  [PubMed - in process]


175. Curr Opin Oncol. 2016 Mar;28(2):104-9. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000265.

Chemoradiotherapy of locally advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer: state of the art
and perspectives.

Antoni D(1), Mornex F.

Author information: 
(1)aDépartement universitaire de radiothérapie, Centre Paul Strauss, UNICANCER,
3, rue de la porte de l'hôpitalbEA 3430, Fédération de Médecine Translationnelle 
de Strasbourg (FMTS), Université de Strasbourg, StrasbourgcDépartement de
radiothérapie oncologique, centre hospitalier Lyon Sud, 165, chemin du
Grand-Revoyet, Pierre-BénitedEA 3738, Université Claude Bernard Lyon-1, domaine
Rockefeller, 8, avenue Rockefeller, Lyon, France.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The treatment of locally advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) is becoming a significant challenge because of a growing proportion of
patients with unresectable or potentially eligible for surgery after a
multimodality treatment, stage II to III disease. Despite a multimodality
approach consisting in concurrent chemoradiotherapy, the prognosis remains poor.
RECENT FINDINGS: Different strategies, including induction and consolidation
chemotherapy, chemotherapy regimens, fractionation and radiation doses have been 
evaluated in phase II and III trials, as well as new therapeutic approaches such 
as immunotherapy. For patients with resectable stage III disease the optimal
strategy remains unclear. The American Society for Radiation and Clinical
Oncology and the European Society for Medical Oncology published recent
guidelines in 2015.
SUMMARY: Concurrent chemoradiotherapy improves overall survival compared with
sequential chemotherapy followed by radiation. Adding induction or consolidation 
chemotherapy to chemoradiotherapy does not appear to improve the outcome.
Chemotherapy based on cisplatin combined with radiation is recommended in stage
III NSCLC. The standard dose and fractionation of radiotherapy are 60 Gy, one
daily fraction of 2 Gy over 6 weeks. Targeted therapies and immunotherapy may
improve the management of locally advanced NSCLC in the future.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000265 
PMID: 26848885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Feb;11(2):174-86. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2015.10.002. Epub 2015
Dec 19.

Strategies to Improve Outcomes of Patients with EGRF-Mutant Non-Small Cell Lung
Cancer: Review of the Literature.

Zhou C(1), Yao LD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, People's Republic of China. Electronic address:
caicunzhoudr@163.com. (2)Lilly China Drug Development and Medical Affairs Center,
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR TKI) monotherapy
has been regarded as the standard first-line treatment of advanced non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients with sensitive epidermal growth factor receptor
gene (EGFR) mutations. Acquired resistance is inevitable, however, which presents
a challenge in the management of patients with such mutations. Here, we summarize
the clinical evidence on treatment strategies for both EGFR TKI-naive and
acquired EGFR TKI-resistant NSCLC. We reviewed the published literature and
abstracts of oral and poster presentations from international conferences
addressing treatment strategies that are in use or in clinical development to
improve the survival of patients who are EGFR TKI naive and EGFR TKI resistant.
Various strategies have been explored to manage EGFR TKI resistance with the aim 
of prolonging the survival of patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC. Combination
strategies in the first-line treatment have been studied most to improve the
benefit from EGFR TKI monotherapy and delay the occurrence of resistance. After
failure of EGFR TKI monotherapy, continuation of EGFR TKI therapy combined with
chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or targeted agents has been used to overcome the
development of resistance. In addition, novel compounds designed to act on
specific targets associated with EGFR TKI resistance have been in continued
clinical development. Treatment regimens that are superior to EGFR TKI
monotherapy in the first-line or to overcome acquired EGFR TKI resistance in
patients with NSCLC and EGFR mutations still need to be developed. Results of
ongoing studies will provide more insight into effective treatment strategies for
patients with EGFR mutations.

Copyright © 2015 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2015.10.002 
PMID: 26845114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Curr Opin Oncol. 2016 Mar;28(2):97-103. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000264.

New and emerging developments in extensive-stage small cell lung cancer
therapeutics.

Parikh M(1), Riess J, Lara PN Jr.

Author information: 
(1)aDivision of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, University 
of California Davis School of Medicine bUniversity of California Davis
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Sacramento, California, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) remains a
disease with a dismal prognosis, with median survival of approximately 8-10
months. Despite many attempts to develop effective systemic therapies, very
little progress has been made in the last several decades. Platinum-based
combination chemotherapy remains the standard of care in the first-line setting
and is associated with high response rates albeit short-lived. However, there
have been recent advances in the use of radiation therapy, as well as new
insights into the biology of SCLC.
RECENT FINDINGS: Some of the most appreciable advances in the last decade have
involved the use of local radiation therapy. With the use of new laboratory
techniques such as genomic sequencing, there remains promise of rationally
targeted drug development. Circulating tumor cell research may also provide
insights to SCLC biology and further refine treatment.
SUMMARY: Systemic therapy for SCLC has changed little over the past 30 years with
the most significant advances in ES-SCLC relating to radiotherapy rather than
systemic therapy. The effectiveness of prophylactic cranial irradiation and
thoracic radiotherapy has renewed interest in therapeutics focused on the
modulation of DNA damage or repair. Recent developments in genomic sequencing and
immunotherapy may translate to new treatment paradigms for SCLC.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000264 
PMCID: PMC5139911
PMID: 26844984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Z Rheumatol. 2016 Feb;75(1):47-53. doi: 10.1007/s00393-016-0043-0.

[Lung cancer and rheumatoid arthritis. An interdisciplinary challenge].

[Article in German]

Rubbert-Roth A(1), Zander T(2), Kneitz C(3), Baerwald C(4), Wirtz H(5), Witt
C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik I für Innere Medizin, Universitätsklinik Köln, Kerpenerstr. 62, 50924, 
Köln, Deutschland. andrea.rubbert@uk-koeln.de. (2)Klinik I für Innere Medizin,
Universitätsklinik Köln, Kerpenerstr. 62, 50924, Köln, Deutschland.
(3)Südstadtklinikum Rostock, Rostock, Deutschland. (4)Sektion Rheumatologie,
Universitätsklinikum Leipzig, Leipzig, Deutschland. (5)Abteilung Pneumologie,
Universitätsklinikum Leipzig, Leipzig, Deutschland. (6)Arbeitsbereich
Pneumologische Onkologie, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin,
Deutschland.

Lung cancer is a frequently occurring disease, particularly in the elderly;
however, within the last 10 years the pharmaceutical treatment of lung cancer has
been significantly improved. Due to a better understanding of the
pathophysiological events and the identification of molecular subgroups of lung
tumors, new therapeutic drugs have been developed that significantly prolong
survival of patients with the respective molecular pattern. In particular
immunotherapeutic agents, such as programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and
programmed death 1 (PD1) antibodies have shown promising clinical results in a
subgroup of lung cancer patients. Due to the high incidence of both lung cancer
and rheumatic diseases they often occur together, which necessitates an
interdisciplinary management. The success of improved therapy of lung cancer has 
led to a greater focus on the treatment of comorbidities; however, interventions 
into the immune system by immune checkpoint inhibitors can lead to new challenges
when an autoimmune disease is simultaneously present. The possibility of an
effective screening for lung cancer in the future also presents the prospect of
an improvement in mortality, which raises the question of the optimal monitoring 
of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) under immunosuppressive therapy. The
aim of this review is to discuss the interaction between lung cancer and RA with 
respect to the currently available data.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-016-0043-0 
PMID: 26838521  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


179. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Apr;11(4):453-74. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.01.012. Epub 2016
Jan 30.

Small Cell Lung Cancer: Can Recent Advances in Biology and Molecular Biology Be
Translated into Improved Outcomes?

Bunn PA Jr(1), Minna JD(2), Augustyn A(2), Gazdar AF(2), Ouadah Y(3), Krasnow
MA(3), Berns A(4), Brambilla E(5), Rekhtman N(6), Massion PP(7), Niederst M(8),
Peifer M(9), Yokota J(10), Govindan R(11), Poirier JT(6), Byers LA(12), Wynes
MW(13), McFadden DG(2), MacPherson D(14), Hann CL(15), Farago AF(8), Dive C(16), 
Teicher BA(17), Peacock CD(18), Johnson JE(2), Cobb MH(2), Wendel HG(6), Spigel
D(19), Sage J(3), Yang P(20), Pietanza MC(6), Krug LM(6), Heymach J(12), Ujhazy
P(20), Zhou C(21), Goto K(22), Dowlati A(23), Christensen CL(24), Park K(25),
Einhorn LH(26), Edelman MJ(27), Giaccone G(28), Gerber DE(2), Salgia R(29),
Owonikoko T(30), Malik S(17), Karachaliou N(31), Gandara DR(32), Slotman BJ(33), 
Blackhall F(34), Goss G(35), Thomas R(9), Rudin CM(6), Hirsch FR(36).

Author information: 
(1)University of Colorado Cancer Center, Aurora, Colorado. (2)University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas. (3)Stanford University, Stanford,
California. (4)Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Grenoble University Hospital Center, Grenoble, France. (6)Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. (7)Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee. (8)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(9)University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. (10)Institute of Predictive and
Personalized Medicine of Cancer, Barcelona, Spain; National Cancer Center
Research Institute, Tokyo, Japan. (11)Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.
(12)University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(13)International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer, Aurora, Colorado.
(14)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington. (15)Johns
Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. (16)Cancer Research UK
Manchester Institute, Manchester, United Kingdom. (17)National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, Maryland. (18)Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio. (19)Sara Cannon
Research Institute, Nashville, Tennessee. (20)Mayo Clinic Cancer Center,
Rochester, Minnesota. (21)Cancer Institute of Tongji University Medical School,
Shanghai, China. (22)National Cancer Center Hospital East, Chiba, Japan. (23)Case
Western Reserve University and University Hospitals Case Medical Center,
Cleveland, Ohio. (24)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
(25)Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea. (26)Indiana University, Indianapolis, Indiana. (27)University of Maryland,
Greenebaum Cancer Center, Baltimore, Maryland. (28)Georgetown University,
Washington, District of Columbia. (29)University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(30)Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia. (31)Quiron Dexeus University Hospital,
Barcelona, Spain. (32)University of California Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center,
Davis, California. (33)Vrije Universiteit Medical Center, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(34)University Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom. (35)University of Ottawa, 
Ottawa, Canada. (36)University of Colorado Cancer Center, Aurora, Colorado.
Electronic address: Fred.Hirsch@ucdenver.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.01.012 
PMCID: PMC4836290 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 26829312  [PubMed - in process]


180. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2016 Mar;46(3):191-203. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyv201. Epub 2016 Jan
26.

Current status of immunotherapy.

Suzuki S(1), Ishida T(2), Yoshikawa K(3), Ueda R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tumor Immunology, Aichi Medical University School of Medicine,
Nagakute suzukis@aichi-med-u.ac.jp. (2)Department of Hematology and Oncology,
Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya.
(3)Center for Advanced Medical Research, Aichi Medical University School of
Medicine, Nagakute, Aichi, Japan. (4)Department of Tumor Immunology, Aichi
Medical University School of Medicine, Nagakute.

The successful use of immune checkpoint inhibitors has been big breakthrough in
the development of cancer immunotherapy. Anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody,
ipilimumab, is the first-approved immune checkpoint inhibitor and has shown
durable objective responses for advanced melanoma beyond the effect of
dacarbazine. Anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibodies, nivolumab and pembrolizumab, are
other immune checkpoint inhibitors that have demonstrated more effective results 
than conventional drugs in clinical trials for a variety of advanced solid tumors
including melanoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma and renal carcinoma. These
studies have indicated that the enhancement of anti-cancer immunity by
controlling the immune suppressive environment in cancer tissues is an important 
issue for the development of cancer immune-therapy. Accordingly, in recent years,
the enthusiasm for research of cancer immunology has shifted to studies regarding
the formation of the immune suppressive environment, immune suppression
mechanisms in cancer tissues and the molecules and cells involved in these
pathways. Novel findings from these studies might lead to the development of
cancer immunotherapy based on control of the immune suppressive environment.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyv201 
PMID: 26819277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Curr Opin Oncol. 2016 Mar;28(2):150-8. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000269.

Adjuvant therapy for nonsmall cell lung cancer: recent advances and future
perspectives.

Pakkala S(1), Ramalingam SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Emory University School of
Medicine, Winship Cancer Institute, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In this article, we discuss the emergence of adjuvant
chemotherapy as the standard of care, the potential role of targeted and immune
therapy in resected nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, and the
importance of ongoing clinical trials to further define the use of these agents
as adjuvant therapy.
RECENT FINDINGS: Adjuvant chemotherapy after surgical resection provides modest
improvements in cure rate, though recurrence of disease still occurs in a
substantial proportion of patients. The advent of targeted and immune therapies
has improved outcomes for patients with advanced stage NSCLC. Recent studies have
explored the role of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors, epidermal
growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors, vaccine therapy, and
predictive biomarkers in the adjuvant setting.
SUMMARY: Platinum doublet chemotherapy remains the standard adjuvant therapy for 
resected stage II, IIIA, and high-risk stage IB NSCLC. Ongoing clinical trials
are evaluating emerging therapies to improve efficacy and reduce toxicity while
aiming to improve patient selection for such therapies.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000269 
PMID: 26809014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Orv Hetil. 2016 Jan 31;157(5):163-73. doi: 10.1556/650.2016.30351.

[Pulmonary alterations in Hodgkin lymphoma].

[Article in Hungarian]

Jóna Á(1), Illés Á(1), Szemes K(1), Miltényi Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Belgyógyászati Intézet, Hematológiai Tanszék, Debreceni Egyetem, Általános
Orvostudományi Kar Debrecen, Nagyerdei krt. 98., 4032.

Most of Hodgkin lymphoma patients survive due to combined chemo/radiotherapy.
Improved survival brings long-term side effects to the front, which may determine
the patients' subsequent quality of life and expected lifetime. This manuscript
aims to analyze lung manifestations of Hodgkin lymphoma and treatment related
pulmonary complications, demonstrated with own cases. The lung involvement in
Hodgkin lymphoma is often secondary, and primary pulmonary involvement is very
rare. The authors found 8-12% of lung involvement among their patients. Side
effects of treatment consist of pulmonary infections in conjuction with
immunosuppression, while on the other hand bleomycin and chest irradiation as
part of current standard of care induced pneumonitis and fibrosis are reported.
The pulmonary involvement in Hodgkin lymphoma may cause differential diagnostic
difficulty. Lung involvement could modify stage and consequently treatment, and
the development of side effects might determine later quality of life and
expected lifetime. Therefore, identification of lung involvement is crucial.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2016.30351 
PMID: 26801361  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Dec;4(6):752-5. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.12.05.

Immunotherapy meets targeted therapy: will this team end the war against cancer?

Morales-Espinosa D(1), García-Román S(1), Teixidó C(1), Karachaliou N(1), Rosell 
R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Rosell Oncology Institute, Quirón-Dexeus University Hospital, Barcelona,
Spain ; 2 Pangaea Biotech, Barcelona, Spain ; 3 Institut Quimic de Sarriá,
Barcelona, Spain ; 4 Institut Catalá d'Oncologia, Badalona, Spain.

Cancer treatment as we know it today has dramatically changed over the last
couple of decades. It has moved from non-specific treatment to personalized
approaches. As oncologist, we now have further understanding of the processes
leading to carcinogenesis; this has led to develop new therapeutic options. We
have cytotoxic treatments, targeted therapy and in recent years, immunotherapy;
the time to "mix and match" has begun.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.12.05 
PMCID: PMC4700229
PMID: 26798584  [PubMed]


184. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Dec;4(6):743-51. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.12.10.

Predictive factors of activity of anti-programmed death-1/programmed death
ligand-1 drugs: immunohistochemistry analysis.

Chakravarti N(1), Prieto VG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, Texas, USA.

Anti-programmed death-1 (anti-PD1)/programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) therapeutic 
antibodies targeting regulatory pathways in T cells have recently shown to
promising clinical effectiveness in several solid tumors by enhancing antitumor
immune response. Immune checkpoint therapy has propelled therapeutic efforts
opening a new field in cancer treatment. However, durable clinical response has
been educed only in a fraction of patients, underlining the need to predictively 
select those patients most likely to respond, e.g., by detecting predictive
biomarkers. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) detection of PD-L1 in tumor cells has been
used in various trials of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents to try to select those patients 
most likely to respond. However, since there are different techniques and scoring
systems, results have not been conclusive. Thus efforts are needed to develop
standardized IHC assays as well as to explore additional biomarkers to evaluate
and predict immune responses elicited by anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapies.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.12.10 
PMCID: PMC4700222
PMID: 26798583  [PubMed]


185. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Dec;4(6):728-42. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.12.04.

Programmed cell death protein-1/programmed cell death ligand-1 pathway inhibition
and predictive biomarkers: understanding transforming growth factor-beta role.

Santarpia M(1), González-Cao M(1), Viteri S(1), Karachaliou N(1), Altavilla G(1),
Rosell R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Medical Oncology Unit, Human Pathology Department, University of Messina,
Messina, Italy ; 2 Dr Rosell Oncology Institute, Quirón Dexeus University
Hospital, Barcelona, Spain ; 3 Pangaea Biotech, Barcelona, Spain ; 4 Cancer
Biology and Precision Medicine Program, Catalan Institute of Oncology, Hospital
Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Barcelona, Spain ; 5 Germans Trias i Pujol
Health Sciences Institute and Hospital, Campus Can Ruti, Badalona, Barcelona,
Spain ; 6 Molecular Oncology Research (MORe) Foundation, Barcelona, Spain.

A deeper understanding of the key role of the immune system in regulating tumor
growth and progression has led to the development of a number of immunotherapies,
including cancer vaccines and immune checkpoint inhibitors. Immune checkpoint
inhibitors target molecular pathways involved in immunosuppression, such as
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death
protein-1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) pathway, with the goal to
enhance the host's own immune anticancer response. In phase I-III trials,
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies have demonstrated to be effective treatment strategies
by inducing significant durable tumor responses, with manageable toxicities, in
patients with various malignancies, including those traditionally considered
non-immunogenic, such as non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Identification of
predictive biomarkers to select patients for immune therapies is currently being 
investigated to improve their therapeutic efficacy. Transforming growth factor-β 
(TGF-β), a pleiotropic cytokine with immunosuppressive effects on multiple cell
types of the innate and adaptive immune system, has emerged as one of the
potential key factors modulating response to immune checkpoint inhibitors.
However, due to the complexity of the anti-cancer immune response, the predictive
value of many other factors related to cancer cells or tumor microenvironment
needs to be further explored.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.12.04 
PMCID: PMC4700220
PMID: 26798582  [PubMed]


186. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Dec;4(6):721-7. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.10.11.

Integrating the molecular background of targeted therapy and immunotherapy in
lung cancer: a way to explore the impact of mutational landscape on tumor
immunogenicity.

Pilotto S(1), Molina-Vila MA(1), Karachaliou N(1), Carbognin L(1), Viteri S(1),
González-Cao M(1), Bria E(1), Tortora G(1), Rosell R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Verona, Azienda
Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata, Verona, Italy ; 2 Pangaea Biotech,
Barcelona, Spain ; 3 Instituto Oncológico Dr Rosell, Quiron-Dexeus University
Hospital, Barcelona, Spain ; 4 Catalan Institute of Oncology, Hospital Germans
Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Spain ; 5 Molecular Oncology Research (MORe) Foundation,
Barcelona, Spain ; 6 Germans Trias i Pujol Health Sciences Institute and
Hospital, Campus Can Ruti, Badalona, Spain.

The results of randomized clinical trials employing immune checkpoint inhibitors 
for pre-treated advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) have recently
revolutionised the standard available option for this disease setting.
Nevertheless, the validation of reliable predictive biomarkers, able to define
that proportion of patients most likely to benefit from immunotherapy, represents
a crucial and still unsolved issue. This intensive research aimed at selecting
potentially predictive biomarkers for immunotherapy is developed together with a 
wide range of analyses investigating the molecular profiling of lung cancer,
leading to the spontaneous question of how these two parallel aspects of the same
disease may coexist and influence one another. The potential impact of the
mutational landscape of lung cancer on tumor immunogenicity (in both
oncogene-addicted and molecularly unselected disease) will be explored and
discussed in this review in order to begin to answer the unsolved questions.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.10.11 
PMCID: PMC4700230
PMID: 26798581  [PubMed]


187. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Dec;4(6):713-20. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.10.09.

Platelets and their role in cancer evolution and immune system.

Karachaliou N(1), Pilotto S(1), Bria E(1), Rosell R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Instituto Oncológico Dr Rosell, Quiron-Dexeus University Hospital,
Barcelona, Spain ; 2 Department of Medical Oncology, University of Verona,
Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata, Verona, Italy ; 3 Pangaea Biotech,
Barcelona, Spain ; 4 Catalan Institute of Oncology, Hospital Germans Trias i
Pujol, Badalona, Spain ; 5 Molecular Oncology Research (MORe) Foundation,
Barcelona, Spain ; 6 Germans Trias i Pujol Health Sciences Institute and
Hospital, Campus Can Ruti, Badalona, Spain.

Retraction in
    Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2016 Apr;5(2):213.

Platelets are anucleate fragments formed from the cytoplasm of megakaryocytes and
represent the smallest circulating hematopoietic cells. Thought for almost a
century to possess solely hemostatic potentials, platelets actually play a much
wider role in tissue regeneration and repair and interact intimately with tumor
cells. On the one hand, tumor cells induce platelet aggregation, known to act as 
the trigger of cancer-associated thrombosis and on the other hand, platelets
recruited to the tumor microenvironment interact directly with tumor cells
favoring proliferation, and indirectly through the release of angiogenic and
mitogenic proteins. Furthermore, platelets are immunosuppressive cells that
protect metastatic cancer cells from surveillance by killer cells, nullifying the
effects of immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.10.09 
PMCID: PMC4700232
PMID: 26798580  [PubMed]


188. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Dec;4(6):704-12. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.10.08.

Moving towards a customized approach for drug development: lessons from clinical 
trials with immune checkpoint inhibitors in lung cancer.

Pilotto S(1), Carbognin L(1), Karachaliou N(1), Garassino M(1), Cuppone F(1),
Petraglia S(1), Rosell R(1), Tortora G(1), Bria E(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Medical Oncology, University of Verona, Azienda Ospedaliera
Universitaria Integrata, Verona, Italy ; 2 Instituto Oncológico Dr Rosell,
Quiron-Dexeus University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain ; 3 Istituto Nazionale
Tumori, Milano, Italy ; 4 Italian Medicines Agency, Roma, Italy ; 5 Pangaea
Biotech, Barcelona, Spain ; 6 Catalan Institute of Oncology, Hospital Germans
Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Spain ; 7 Molecular Oncology Research (MORe) Foundation,
Barcelona, Spain ; 8 Germans Trias i Pujol Health Sciences Institute and
Hospital, Campus Can Ruti, Barcelona, Spain.

Lung cancer has recently been discovered to be an immunological targetable
disease, on the basis of the exciting results of the randomized trials with
immune checkpoint inhibitors. Nevertheless, the survival benefit appears to not
be entirely captured by the usual outcome measures, thus requiring a deep
reflection about the appropriateness of the traditional statistical methodologies
in this context. The intrinsic biological differences existing both in terms of
mechanism of action and kinetic between immunotherapy and chemotherapy or
targeted therapy, impact on patients' outcome, requiring a global revolution in
the way to design clinical studies with the ideal aim to evolve towards trials
carefully 'customized' on the basis of the investigational drug, the specific
disease and the biological background. The exciting data recently obtained with
immune checkpoint inhibitors, offer an ideal context and background to explore
the major questions and future perspectives about the development of
immunotherapeutic agents. In this regard, the choice of adequate endpoints, the
use of modified statistical methods and the potential introduction of predictive 
biomarkers for immunotherapy clinical trials, will be discuss in this review in
order to provide practical and rationale suggestions aimed to improve the
existing model for cancer immunotherapy investigation.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.10.08 
PMCID: PMC4700216
PMID: 26798579  [PubMed]


189. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Dec;4(6):689-703. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.12.11.

Cancer stem cells and immunoresistance: clinical implications and solutions.

Codony-Servat J(1), Rosell R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Pangaea Biotech S.L., Quirón-Dexeus University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain ; 
2 Cancer Biology and Precision Medicine Program, Catalan Institute of Oncology,
Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Spain ; 3 Instituto Oncológico Dr
Rosell, Quirón-Dexeus University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain ; 4 Fundación
Molecular Oncology Research, Barcelona, Spain.

Tumor cells can be contained, but not eliminated, by traditional cancer
therapies. A cell minor subpopulation is able to evade attack from therapies and 
may have cancer stem cell (CSC) characteristics, including self-renewal, multiple
differentiation and tumor initiation (tumor initiating cells, or TICs). Thus,
CSCs/TICs, aided by the microenvironment, produce more differentiated, metastatic
cancer cells which the immune system detects and interacts with. There are three 
phases to this process: elimination, equilibrium and escape. In the elimination
phase the immune system recognizes and destroys most of the tumor cells. Then the
latency phase begins, consisting of equilibrium between immunological elimination
and tumor cell growth. Finally, a minor attack-resistant subpopulation escapes
and forms a clinically detectable tumor mass. Herein we review current knowledge 
of immunological characterization of CSCs/TICs. Due to the correlation between
CTCs/TICs and drug resistance and metastasis, we also comment on the crucial role
of key molecules involved in controlling CSCs/TICs properties; such molecules are
essential to detect and destroy CSCs/TICs. Monoclonal antibodies, antibody
constructs and vaccines have been designed to act against CSCs/TICs, with
demonstrated efficacy in human cancer xenografts and some antitumor activity in
human clinical studies. Therefore, therapeutic strategies that selectively target
CSCs/TICs warrant further investigation. Better understanding of the interaction 
between CSCs and tumor immunology may help to identify strategies to eradicate
the minor subpopulation that escapes conventional therapy attack, thus providing 
a solution to the problem of drug resistance and metastasis.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.12.11 
PMCID: PMC4700228
PMID: 26798578  [PubMed]


190. Tumour Biol. 2016 Apr;37(4):4251-61. doi: 10.1007/s13277-016-4812-9. Epub 2016
Jan 16.

Potential biomarker for checkpoint blockade immunotherapy and treatment strategy.

Dong ZY(1,)(2), Wu SP(1), Liao RQ(1), Huang SM(1,)(2), Wu YL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Lung Cancer Institute, Guangdong General Hospital and Guangdong
Academy of Medical Sciences, 106 Zhongshan Er Rd, Guangzhou, 510080, China.
(2)Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China. (3)Guangdong Lung Cancer
Institute, Guangdong General Hospital and Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, 
106 Zhongshan Er Rd, Guangzhou, 510080, China. syylwu@live.cn.

Programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) and ligand (PD-L1) provide an important
escape mechanism from immune attack, and blockade therapy of these proteins show 
promising clinical benefits in many types of cancer. PD-L1 can be induced by
interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), hypoxia, or toll-like receptor (TLR)-mediated pathways 
that confer adaptive immune resistance, or upregulated by oncogenic signals
leading to constitutive expression and resulting in intrinsic immune resistance. 
The PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoint blockade, which targets regulatory pathways in T cells 
to overcome immune resistance, is correlated to PD-L1 expression pattern and the 
presence of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). Meanwhile, immunogenic
mutation loads show significant response to checkpoint blockade, which is
probably due to PD-1/L1 status and TIL content. Finally, the clinical strategies 
to design effective checkpoint-targeting immunotherapies are based on the
classification of inducible/constitutive expression of PD-L1 and the presence of 
TILs.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-016-4812-9 
PMID: 26779629  [PubMed - in process]


191. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2016 May;28(5):327-33. doi:
10.1016/j.clon.2015.11.015. Epub 2016 Jan 6.

Improving Therapeutic Outcomes in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer not Suitable for
Curative Intent Therapy - A Review of the Role of Radiation Therapy in an Era of 
Increasing Systemic Therapy Options.

Lehman M(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia; Department 
of Radiation Oncology, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Australia.
Electronic address: Margot.Lehman@health.qld.gov.au.

Lung cancer is the highest cause of mortality from cancer worldwide. Most
patients present with disease not suitable for curative therapeutic options. In
these patients, radiation therapy provides durable palliation of symptoms due to 
intrathoracic disease, whereas systemic chemotherapy improves survival compared
with best supportive care. Over recent years the systemic therapeutic options
available for the non-curative management of advanced lung cancer, particularly
non-small cell lung cancer, have expanded to include molecularly targeted agents 
and immune modulating agents. The aim of this overview is to review the role and 
future of radiation therapy in this era of increasing systemic therapy options
with particular emphasis on how radiation therapy can be used to improve
therapeutic outcomes.

Copyright © 2015 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2015.11.015 
PMID: 26777130  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Future Oncol. 2016 Feb;12(4):551-64. doi: 10.2217/fon.15.309. Epub 2016 Jan 18.

Immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors for lung cancer: novel agents,
biomarkers and paradigms.

Monteiro ID(1), Califano R(2,)(3), Mountzios G(4), de Mello RA(1,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto,
Portugal. (2)Cancer Research UK Department of Medical Oncology, The Christie NHS 
Foundation Trust, Manchester, M20 4BX, UK. (3)Department of Medical Oncology,
University Hospital of South Manchester NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, M23
9LT, UK. (4)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Athens Medical School, 
Athens, Greece. (5)Department of Biomedical Sciences & Medicine, Division of
Oncology, University of Algarve, Faro, Portugal. (6)Division of Clinical Research
& Medical Oncology, Centro Oncológico São Mateus, Ceará Cancer Institute, Rua
Papi Junior, 1222, Rodolfo Teófilo, CEP 60430-235, Fortaleza, Brazil.

Despite recent advances, prognosis of patients with advanced lung cancer remains 
dismal. Owing to a better understanding of the interactions between immune system
and tumor cells, immunotherapy has emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy.
After the recent approval of nivolumab and the promising results with other
immune checkpoint inhibitors, combination strategies are now subject of intensive
research. Notwithstanding these successes, immunotherapy still holds significant 
drawbacks. As the target shifts from tumor cells to the tumor microenvironment,
treatment paradigms are changing and several improvements are needed for optimal 
use in clinical practice. Robust biomarkers for patient selection and a reliable 
way of evaluating treatment response are high priorities. Herein we review
current data on immune checkpoint inhibitors for lung cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.15.309 
PMID: 26776915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Eur J Cancer. 2016 Feb;54:139-48. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2015.11.016. Epub 2016 Jan 
5.

Immune-related adverse events with immune checkpoint blockade: a comprehensive
review.

Michot JM(1), Bigenwald C(2), Champiat S(3), Collins M(4), Carbonnel F(4),
Postel-Vinay S(3), Berdelou A(2), Varga A(3), Bahleda R(3), Hollebecque A(3),
Massard C(3), Fuerea A(5), Ribrag V(5), Gazzah A(3), Armand JP(3), Amellal N(3), 
Angevin E(3), Noel N(6), Boutros C(7), Mateus C(7), Robert C(7), Soria JC(3),
Marabelle A(3), Lambotte O(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine Oncology, Gustave Roussy Comprehensive Cancer Center,
F-94805 Villejuif, France; Drug Development Department, Gustave Roussy
Comprehensive Cancer Center, F-94805 Villejuif, France; Internal Medicine and
Clinical Immunology Department, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital
Universitaire Bicêtre, F-94275 Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France. Electronic address:
jean-marie.michot@gustaveroussy.fr. (2)Department of Medicine Oncology, Gustave
Roussy Comprehensive Cancer Center, F-94805 Villejuif, France. (3)Drug
Development Department, Gustave Roussy Comprehensive Cancer Center, F-94805
Villejuif, France. (4)Gastroenterology Department, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux
de Paris, Hôpital Universitaire Bicêtre, F-94275 Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France;
Université Paris Sud 11, F-94275 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France. (5)Department of
Medicine Oncology, Gustave Roussy Comprehensive Cancer Center, F-94805 Villejuif,
France; Drug Development Department, Gustave Roussy Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
F-94805 Villejuif, France. (6)Internal Medicine and Clinical Immunology
Department, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Universitaire Bicêtre,
F-94275 Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France; Université Paris Sud 11, F-94275 Le
Kremlin-Bicêtre, France; CEA, DSV/iMETI, Division of Immunovirology, IDMIT,
F-92265 Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; INSERM, U1184, Center for Immunology of Viral
Infections and Autoimmune Diseases, F-94276 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(7)Department of Medicine Oncology, Gustave Roussy Comprehensive Cancer Center,
F-94805 Villejuif, France; Drug Development Department, Gustave Roussy
Comprehensive Cancer Center, F-94805 Villejuif, France; Internal Medicine and
Clinical Immunology Department, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital
Universitaire Bicêtre, F-94275 Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France.

Cancer immunotherapy is coming of age; it has prompted a paradigm shift in
oncology, in which therapeutic agents are used to target immune cells rather than
cancer cells. The first generation of new immunotherapies corresponds to
antagonistic antibodies that block specific immune checkpoint molecules cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4), programmed cell death protein (PD-1) 
and its ligand PD-L1. Targeting these checkpoints in patients living with cancer 
had led to long-lasting tumour responses. By unbalancing the immune system, these
new immunotherapies also generate dysimmune toxicities, called immune-related
adverse events (IRAEs) that mainly involve the gut, skin, endocrine glands,
liver, and lung but can potentially affect any tissue. In view of their
undisputed clinical efficacy, anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1 antibodies are entering
in the routine oncological practice, and the number of patients exposed to these 
drugs will increase dramatically in the near future. Although steroids can be
used to treat these IRAEs, the associated immunosuppression may compromise the
antitumour response. Oncologists must be ready to detect and manage these new
types of adverse events. This review focuses on the mechanisms of IRAE
generation, putative relationship between dysimmune toxicity and antitumour
efficacy, as a basis for management guidelines.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2015.11.016 
PMID: 26765102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Curr Opin Oncol. 2016 Mar;28(2):122-9. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000263.

Predictive biomarkers for programmed death-1/programmed death ligand immune
checkpoint inhibitors in nonsmall cell lung cancer.

Remon J(1), Chaput N, Planchard D.

Author information: 
(1)aMedical Oncology DepartmentbLaboratoire d'immunomonitoring en Oncologie UMS
3655 CNRS/US 23 INSERM, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Immune checkpoint inhibitors, antiprogrammed death receptor 1 
(anti-PD-1)/antiprogrammed death-ligand 1 (anti-PD-L1), are new therapeutic
regimens for managing advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer patients, giving an
overall response rate of approximately 20% as monotherapy in second-line
treatment. The use of predictive biomarkers for identifying patients suitable for
these therapies is an important issue not only for making treatment decisions,
but also from a medical economic point of view.
RECENT FINDINGS: Among potential predictive biomarker candidates for
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 treatments in nonsmall cell lung cancer, the expression of PD-L1 
(as determined by immunohistochemistry) is currently the most studied. PD-L1
positivity has been associated with higher response rate to anti-PD-1/PD-L1
therapies. However, several observations suggest that the predictive value of
PD-L1 expression is not clear-cut. We review other potential predictive
biomarkers, including programmed death-ligand 2, IFN-γ, and genetic signatures.
SUMMARY: Standardized techniques and conditions for evaluating PD-L1 expression
(tissue quality and age, percentage positivity threshold, managing heterogeneous 
and dynamic expression) are critical for establishing the use of this protein as 
a predictive marker. Care should be also taken when using anti-PD-1/PD-L1
therapies in combination with other therapies, which may impact the predictive
value of PD-L1 expression.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000263 
PMID: 26756384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Chin Clin Oncol. 2015 Dec;4(4):48. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2304-3865.2015.12.06.

Upcoming innovations in lung cancer immunotherapy: focus on immune checkpoint
inhibitors.

Aspeslagh S(1), Marabelle A(2), Soria JC(3), Armand JP(3).

Author information: 
(1)114 Rue Edouard Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif Cedex, France.
sandrine.aspeslagh@gustaveroussy.fr. (2)IGustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay,
F-94805 Villejuif, France; INSERM U1015, GRCC, F-94805 Villejuif, France.
(3)IGustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay, F-94805 Villejuif, France.

For decades, immunotherapy strategies have failed to succeed in lung cancer.
However, the recent success of immune checkpoint inhibitors and the progress in
the understanding of the immunobiology of lung cancer have changed this paradigm.
Here we review ongoing clinical trials and recent results obtained with these
novel lung cancer immunotherapies.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2304-3865.2015.12.06 
PMID: 26730760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Ann Oncol. 2016 Apr;27(4):559-74. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdv623. Epub 2015 Dec 28.

Management of immune checkpoint blockade dysimmune toxicities: a collaborative
position paper.

Champiat S(1), Lambotte O(2), Barreau E(3), Belkhir R(4), Berdelou A(5),
Carbonnel F(6), Cauquil C(7), Chanson P(8), Collins M(6), Durrbach A(9), Ederhy
S(10), Feuillet S(11), François H(9), Lazarovici J(12), Le Pavec J(13), De Martin
E(14), Mateus C(15), Michot JM(16), Samuel D(14), Soria JC(1), Robert C(17),
Eggermont A(18), Marabelle A(19).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Drug Development (DITEP), Gustave Roussy Inserm U981, Univ.
Paris-Sud, Université Paris-Saclay, Villejuif. (2)Department of Internal Medicine
and Clinical Immunology, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital
Universitaire Bicêtre, Le Kremlin Bicêtre Université Paris Sud 11, Le
Kremlin-Bicêtre CEA, DSV/iMETI, Division of Immuno-Virology, IDMIT,
Fontenay-aux-Roses INSERM, U1184, Center for Immunology of Viral Infections and
Autoimmune Diseases, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Hôpital 
Universitaire Bicêtre, Le Kremlin Bicêtre. (4)Department of Rheumatology,
Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris-Sud, Hôpital Bicêtre, AP-HP, Le Kremlin Bicêtre.
(5)Department of Nuclear Medicine and Endocrine Tumors, Gustave Roussy, Univ.
Paris-Sud, Université Paris-Saclay, Villejuif. (6)Gastroenterology Unit,
Université Paris-Sud, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpitaux
Universitaires Paris Sud, Le Kremlin Bicêtre. (7)Division of Adult Neurology,
Hôpital Universitaire Bicêtre, Le Kremlin Bicêtre. (8)Faculty of Medicine,
Université Paris-Saclay, Univ Paris-Sud, Paris-Sud, UMR-S1185, Le Kremlin Bicêtre
Unit of Endocrinology and reproductive Health, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de
Paris, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris-Sud, Hôpital de Bicêtre, Le Kremlin Bicêtre 
Unit of Gastroenterology, Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche
Médicale U1185 (P.C.), Le Kremlin Bicêtre. (9)Department of Nephrology and
Transplantation, Bicêtre Hospital, Paris Saclay University, INSERM 1197, Le
Kremlin Bicêtre. (10)Department of Cardiology, Saint-Antoine Hospital, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Pierre et Marie Curie University [UPMC],
Paris-Sorbonne, Paris. (11)Department of Thoracic and cardiovascular, and
transplantation cardio-pulmonary, Hôpital Marie-Lannelongue, Le Plessis-Robinson 
Univ. Paris-Sud, Faculté de Médecine, Université Paris-Saclay, Le Kremlin
Bicêtre. (12)Hematology Unit, Department of Medical Oncology, Gustave Roussy,
Univ. Paris-Sud, Université Paris-Saclay, Villejuif. (13)Department of Thoracic
and cardiovascular, and transplantation cardio-pulmonary, Hôpital
Marie-Lannelongue, Le Plessis-Robinson Univ. Paris-Sud, Faculté de Médecine,
Université Paris-Saclay, Le Kremlin Bicêtre UMR_S 999, Univ. Paris-Sud; INSERM;
Hôpital Marie Lannelongue, Le Plessis Robinson. (14)Centre Hépato-Biliaire,
AP-HP, Hôpital Universitaire Paul Brousse Inserm U1193. (15)Dermatology Unit,
Department of Medical Oncology, Gustave Roussy, Univ. Paris-Sud, Université
Paris-Saclay, Villejuif. (16)Department of Drug Development (DITEP), Gustave
Roussy. (17)Inserm U981, Univ. Paris-Sud, Université Paris-Saclay, Villejuif
Dermatology Unit, Department of Medical Oncology, Gustave Roussy, Univ.
Paris-Sud, Université Paris-Saclay, Villejuif. (18)Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus, 
Villejuif. (19)Department of Drug Development (DITEP), Gustave Roussy Gustave
Roussy Cancer Campus, Villejuif Inserm 1015, Univ. Paris-Sud, Université
Paris-Saclay, Villejuif, France aurelien.marabelle@gustaveroussy.fr.

Monoclonal antibodies targeted against the immune checkpoint molecules CTLA-4 and
PD-1 have recently obtained approval for the treatment of metastatic melanoma and
advanced/refractory non small-cell lung cancers. Therefore, their use will not be
limited anymore to selected hospitals involved in clinical trials. Indeed, they
will be routinely prescribed in many cancer centers across the world. Besides
their efficacy profile, these immune targeted agents also generate immune-related
adverse events (irAEs). This new family of dysimmune toxicities remains largely
unknown to the broad oncology community. Although severe irAEs remain rare (∼10% 
of cases under monotherapy), they can become life-threatening if not anticipated 
and managed appropriately. Over the last 5 years, Gustave Roussy has accumulated 
a significant experience in the prescription of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) 
antibodies and the management of their toxicities. Together with the
collaboration of Gustave Roussy's network of organ specialists with expertise in 
irAEs, we propose here some practical guidelines for the oncologist to help in
the clinical care of patients under ICB immunotherapy.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdv623 
PMID: 26715621  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


197. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2016 Jan;14(1):28-37. doi: 10.1111/ddg.12819.

Immunotherapy of melanoma: efficacy and mode of action.

[Article in English, German]

Wieder T(1), Brenner E(1), Braumüller H(1), Röcken M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Eberhard Karls University, Tübingen, Germany.

Forty years of research have brought about the development of antibodies that
induce effective antitumor immune responses through sustained activation of the
immune system. These "immune checkpoint inhibitors" are directed against immune
inhibitory molecules, such as cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4),
programmed death 1 (PD-1) or programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1). Disruption of the
PD-1/PD-L1 interaction improves the intermediate-term prognosis even in patients 
with advanced stage IV melanoma. One and a half years after treatment initiation,
30-60 % of these patients are still alive. While cancer immunotherapies usually
do not eradicate metastases completely, they do cause a regression by 20-80 %. It
is well established that the immune system is able to kill tumor cells, and this 
has also been demonstrated for immunotherapies. Preclinical data, however, has
shown that anti-cancer immunity is not limited to killing cancer cells. Thus,
through interferon gamma and tumor necrosis factor, the immune system is able to 
induce stable tumor growth arrest, referred to as senescence. Ensuring patient
survival by long-term stabilization of metastatic growth will therefore become a 
central goal of antitumor immunotherapies. This therapeutic approach is effective
in melanoma and non-small-cell lung cancer. Once immunotherapies also have an
indication for common cancer types, drug prices will have to drop considerably in
order to be able to keep them available to those dependent on such therapies.

© 2015 Deutsche Dermatologische Gesellschaft (DDG). Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ddg.12819 
PMID: 26713633  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Ann Oncol. 2016 Apr;27(4):590-9. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdv621. Epub 2015 Dec 27.

Pathways to improving combined modality therapy for stage III nonsmall-cell lung 
cancer.

Schild SE(1), Vokes EE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale sschild@mayo.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine and Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Chicago 
Medicine and Biologic Sciences, Chicago, USA.

BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths, having caused an
estimated 1.6 million deaths worldwide in 2012 [Ferlay J, Soerjomataram I,
Dikshit R et al. Cancer incidence and mortality worldwide: sources, methods and
major patterns in GLOBOCAN 2012. Int J Cancer 2015; 136: E359-E386].
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Although the majority of patients are not cured with
currently available therapies, there have been significant improvements in
stage-specific outcomes over time [Videtic G, Vokes E, Turrisi A et al. The
survival of patients treated for stage III non-small cell lung cancer in North
America has increased during the past 25 years. In The 39th Annual Meeting of the
American Society of Clinical Oncology, ASCO 2003, Chicago, IL. Abstract 2557. p. 
291]. This review focuses on past progress and ongoing research in the treatment 
of locally advanced, inoperable nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
RESULTS: In the past, randomized trials revealed advantages to the use of
thoracic radiotherapy (TRT) and then, the addition of induction chemotherapy.
This was followed by studies that determined concurrent chemoradiotherapy to be
superior to sequential therapy. A recent large phase III trial found that the
administration of 74 Gy of conventionally fractionated photon-based TRT provided 
poorer survival than did the standard 60 Gy. However, further research on other
methods of applying radiotherapy (hypofractionation, adaptive TRT, proton
therapy, and stereotactic TRT boosting) is proceeding and may improve outcomes.
The molecular characterization of tumors has provided more effective and less
toxic targeted treatments in the stage IV setting and these agents are currently 
under investigation for earlier stage disease. Similarly, immune-enhancing
therapies have shown promise in stage IV disease and are also being tested in the
locally advanced setting.
CONCLUSION: For locally advanced, inoperable NSCLC, standard therapy has evolved 
from TRT alone to combined modality therapy. We summarize the recent clinical
trial experience and outline promising areas of investigation in an era of
greater molecular and immunologic understanding of cancer care.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdv621 
PMID: 26712904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Front Biosci (Elite Ed). 2016 Jan 1;8:219-32.

Treatment of brain metastases of lung cancer in the era of precision medicine.

Haughton ME(1), Chan MD(2), Watabe K(3), Bonomi M(1), Debinski W(4), Lesser
GJ(1), Ruiz J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, Wake Forest School of
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA. (2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Wake
Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA. (3)Department of Cancer
Biology, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Medical Center Blvd, Winston Salem, NC, 
27157. (4)Brain Tumor Center of Excellence, Wake Forest School of Medicine,
Winston-Salem, NC, USA. (5)Department of Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, Wake 
Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA, jruiz@wakehealth.edu.

Common and deadly complications of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are brain
metastases (BM). BM portends a poorer prognosis with limited effective treatment 
options and current management strategies present several challenges from
iatrogenic complications of supportive medications, optimal delivery of drug
across the blood-brain barrier, and preservation of neurocognitive function. Long
term side effects and survivorship issues have become more evident in the era of 
targeted therapy where a systemic disease is much better controlled. Targeted
therapies and immunotherapy are beginning to provide improvements in responses
and survival rates. With further advancements and experience, our knowledge in
this era of precision medicine will likely lead to strides in improving the
quality of life and overall survival of patients with BM from NSCLC. In this
review, we present the most recent updates in treatment of BM in NSCLC in regards
to targeted and immunotherapy.


PMID: 26709658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016;890:149-74. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-24932-2_9.

Personalized Therapy of Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Schneider BJ(1), Kalemkerian GP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Michigan, C411 Med Inn-SPC
5848, 1500 E. Medical Center Dr., Ann Arbor, MI, 48109-5848, USA.
bryansch@umich.edu. (2)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Michigan,
C350 Med Inn-SPC 5848, 1500 E. Medical Center Dr., Ann Arbor, MI, 48109-5848,
USA. kalemker@umich.edu.

Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive, poorly differentiated
neuroendocrine carcinoma with distinct clinical, pathological and molecular
characteristics. Despite robust responses to initial chemotherapy and radiation, 
the prognosis of patients with SCLC remains poor with an overall 5-year survival 
rate of less than 10 %. Despite the fact that numerous molecularly targeted
approaches have thus far failed to demonstrate clinical utility in SCLC, further 
advances will rely on better definition of the biological pathways that drive
survival, proliferation and metastasis. Recent next-generation, molecular
profiling studies have identified many new therapeutic targets in SCLC, as well
as extreme genomic instability which explains the high degree of resistance. A
wide variety of anti-angiogenic agents, growth factor inhibitors, pro-apoptotic
agents, and epigenetic modulators have been evaluated in SCLC and many studies of
these strategies are on-going. Perhaps the most promising approaches involve
agents targeting cancer stem cell pathways and immunomodulatory drugs that
interfere with the PD1 and CTLA-4 pathways. SCLC offers many barriers to the
development of successful therapy, including limited tumor samples, inadequate
preclinical models, high mutational burden, and aggressive tumor growth which
impairs functional status and hampers enrollment on clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-24932-2_9 
PMID: 26703804  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016;890:75-110. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-24932-2_5.

The Microenvironment of Lung Cancer and Therapeutic Implications.

Mittal V(1,)(2,)(3), El Rayes T(4,)(5,)(6,)(7), Narula N(8), McGraw
TE(5,)(6,)(9), Altorki NK(5,)(6), Barcellos-Hoff MH(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, 1300 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065, USA. vim2010@med.cornell.edu. 
(2)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, 1300 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065, USA. vim2010@med.cornell.edu. 
(3)Neuberger Berman Lung Cancer Research Center, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, 1300 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065, USA. vim2010@med.cornell.edu. 
(4)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, 1300 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065, USA. (5)Department of
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, 1300 York
Avenue, New York, NY, 10065, USA. (6)Neuberger Berman Lung Cancer Research
Center, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, 1300 York Avenue, New York, 
NY, 10065, USA. (7)Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Weill
Medical College of Cornell University, 1300 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065,
USA. (8)Department of Pathology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University,
1300 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065, USA. (9)Department of Biochemistry, Weill 
Medical College of Cornell University, 1300 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065,
USA. (10)Department of Radiation Oncology, New York University School of
Medicine, 566 First Avenue, New York, NY, 10016, USA. MHBarcellos-Hoff@nyumc.org.

The tumor microenvironment (TME) represents a milieu that enables tumor cells to 
acquire the hallmarks of cancer. The TME is heterogeneous in composition and
consists of cellular components, growth factors, proteases, and extracellular
matrix. Concerted interactions between genetically altered tumor cells and
genetically stable intratumoral stromal cells result in an
"activated/reprogramed" stroma that promotes carcinogenesis by contributing to
inflammation, immune suppression, therapeutic resistance, and generating
premetastatic niches that support the initiation and establishment of distant
metastasis. The lungs present a unique milieu in which tumors progress in
collusion with the TME, as evidenced by regions of aberrant angiogenesis,
acidosis and hypoxia. Inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of
lung cancer, and pulmonary disorders in lung cancer patients such as chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and emphysema, constitute comorbid
conditions and are independent risk factors for lung cancer. The TME also
contributes to immune suppression, induces epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition
(EMT) and diminishes efficacy of chemotherapies. Thus, the TME has begun to
emerge as the "Achilles heel" of the disease, and constitutes an attractive
target for anti-cancer therapy. Drugs targeting the components of the TME are
making their way into clinical trials. Here, we will focus on recent advances and
emerging concepts regarding the intriguing role of the TME in lung cancer
progression, and discuss future directions in the context of novel diagnostic and
therapeutic opportunities.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-24932-2_5 
PMID: 26703800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2016;9(3):419-28. doi: 10.1586/17512433.2016.1133289. 
Epub 2016 Feb 6.

Endocrinopathies induced by immune-checkpoint inhibitors in advanced non-small
cell lung cancer.

Rossi E(1), Sgambato A(2), De Chiara G(3), Casaluce F(2), Losanno T(4), Sacco
PC(1), Santabarbara G(1), Gridelli C(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Medical Oncology , "S. G. Moscati" Hospital , Avellino , Italy. 
(2)b Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine , Second University of
Naples , Naples , Italy. (3)c Division of Pathologic Anatomy , "S. G. Moscati"
Hospital , Avellino , Italy. (4)d Department of Experimental Medicine ,
"Sapienza" University , Rome , Italy.

The advent of immunotherapy has recently expanded the therapeutic options in
advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In these patients, the recent
efficacy demonstration of antibodies against immune checkpoints: the
anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1) and anti-programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1), has
led to approval of nivolumab and pembrolizumab (anti-PD-1) in the treatment of
advanced NSCLC. The mechanism of action of checkpoint inhibitors explains the
development of autoimmune diseases as a side-effect of these medications. Among
these, a spectrum of endocrine disorders has been also reported. This manuscript 
focuses particularly on endocrine disorders induced by immuno-checkpoint
inhibitors employed in NSCLC, in order to suggest the strategies for their
diagnosis and effective management.

DOI: 10.1586/17512433.2016.1133289 
PMID: 26681547  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Oncology (Williston Park). 2015 Dec;29(12). pii: 214814.

Propelling Immunotherapy Combinations Into the Clinic.

Tchekmedyian N, Gray JE, Creelan BC, Chiappori AA, Beg AA, Soliman H, Perez BA,
Antonia SJ.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors produce durable long-term survival in some patients 
with advanced melanoma and lung cancer. Better immune targets and combination
strategies can harness the immune system by supporting the three elements of a
successful T-cell antitumor response: (A) generation of sufficient numbers of
antitumor T cells within the lymphoid compartment; (B) effective T-cell
trafficking and extravasation out of the lymphoid compartment, through the
bloodstream, and into the tumor microenvironment; and (C) T-cell effector
function within the tumor microenvironment that is characterized by the ability
to bypass immune checkpoints, soluble and metabolic inhibitory factors, and
inhibitory cells. Strategies that hold promise include dual immune checkpoint
blockade, as well as the combination of immune checkpoint blockade with
costimulatory receptor agonists, enhancers of innate immunity, inhibition of
indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, adoptive T-cell transfer/T-cell engineering,
therapeutic vaccines, small-molecule inhibitors, and radiation therapy. Novel,
rational clinical trial designs seek to combine targeted agents and one or more
immune checkpoint inhibitors, with the goal of producing deep and durable
antitumor responses, which thus far have been observed in only a minority of
patients.


PMID: 26680224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2015 Nov 27;112(48):809-15. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2015.0809.

Immunotherapy in Tumors.

Kobold S(1), Duewell P, Schnurr M, Subklewe M, Rothenfusser S, Endres S.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Integrated Protein Science Munich (CIPS-M) and Division of Clinical 
Pharmacology, Department of Internal Medicine IV, Klinikum der Universität
München, Department of Internal Medicine III, Klinikum der Universität München,
München.

BACKGROUND: A number of new drugs for tumor immunotherapy have been approved in
the past few years. They work by activating T cells to combat tumors.
METHODS: This review is based on publications on recently approved
T-cell-activating drugs that were retrieved by a selective search in PubMed.
RESULTS: Randomized, controlled trials of "checkpoint" inhibitors, i.e.,
inhibitory antibodies for use against tumors, have shown that the cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) inhibitor ipilimumab can prolong the survival of 
patients with advanced melanoma by 2 to 4 months. No data on median overall
survival are yet available for the two programmed-death-1 (PD-1) inhibitors
pembrolizumab und nivolumab; the endpoint "tumor response" was achieved in 24%
and 32% of patients receiving these drugs, respectively. Grade 3 or 4 adverse
effects occurred in 50% of patients receiving ipilimumab and in 12 to 13% of
those taking either of the two PD-1-inhibitors. Nivolumab prolonged the median
survival of patients with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer from 6 to 9
months. In refractory or recurrent Philadelphia-chromosome-negative pre-B acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (pre-B-ALL), treatment with the bispecific antibody
construct blinatumomab led to complete remission in 43% of the patients, while
grade 3, 4 or 5 toxicities occurred in 83%.
CONCLUSION: T-cell-directed strategies have been established as a new pillar of
treatment in medical oncology. As these drugs have frequent and severe adverse
effects, therapeutic decision-making will have to take account not only of the
predicted prolongation of survival, but also of the potential for an impaired
quality of life while the patient is under treatment.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2015.0809 
PMCID: PMC4709658
PMID: 26667979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016;893:59-90. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-24223-1_4.

Immune Therapy.

Lievense L(1), Aerts J(1), Hegmans J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Dr.
Molewaterplein 50, Rotterdam, 3015 GD, The Netherlands. (2)Department of
Pulmonary Medicine, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Dr. Molewaterplein 50,
Rotterdam, 3015 GD, The Netherlands. j.hegmans@erasmusmc.nl.

Lung cancer has long been considered an unsuitable target for immunotherapy due
to its proposed immunoresistant properties. However, recent evidence has shown
that anti-tumor immune responses can occur in lung cancer patients, paving the
way for lung cancer as a novel target for immunotherapy. In order to take full
advantage of the potential of immunotherapy, research is focusing on the presence
and function of various immunological cell types in the tumor microenvironment.
Immune cells which facilitate or inhibit antitumor responses have been identified
and their prognostic value in lung cancer has been established. Knowledge
regarding these pro- and anti-tumor immune cells and their mechanisms of action
has facilitated the identification of numerous potential immunotherapeutic
strategies and opportunities for intervention. A plethora of immunotherapeutic
approaches is currently being developed and studied in lung cancer patients and
phase 3 clinical trials are ongoing. Many different immunotherapies have shown
promising clinical effects in patients with limited and advanced stage lung
cancer, however, future years will have to tell whether immunotherapy will earn
its place in the standard treatment of lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-24223-1_4 
PMID: 26667339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Nanomedicine (Lond). 2016 Jan;11(2):103-6. doi: 10.2217/nnm.15.166. Epub 2015 Dec
11.

Nanoparticle systems reduce systemic toxicity in cancer treatment.

Wang H(1,)(2,)(3), Yu J(3,)(4), Lu X(5), He X(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 
43210, USA. (2)Davis Heart & Lung Research Institute, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH 43210, USA. (3)Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. (4)Division of Hematology, Department of
Internal medicine, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
(5)Department of Cancer Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

DOI: 10.2217/nnm.15.166 
PMID: 26653177  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Klin Onkol. 2015;28 Suppl 4:4S77-81.

[Immunotherapy of Bronchogenic Carcinoma and Its Perspectives].

[Article in Czech]

Koubková L.

Immunotherapy is becoming another possible alternative in the treatment of lung
cancer. It is a completely different method of treating cancer which is not
directed to the tumor itself, but to the immune system. Surface antigens present 
on tumor cells may be an effective and specific therapeutic targets and
strategies based on antibodies inhibiting immune check-points significantly
improves the antitumor immune response. Monoclonal antibody blocking CTLA 4
(cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen) and PD 1 receptor (protein programmed cell
death) and its ligand PD L1 showed clinical efficacy and nivolumab (antiPD 1) was
approved in 2nd line treatment squamous nonsmall cell lung cancer.


PMID: 26647894  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Klin Onkol. 2015;28 Suppl 4:4S73-6.

[Present Experience and Perspectives of Immunotherapy of Lung Cancer].

[Article in Czech]

Havel L.

Lung cancer is the most common cancer in the world. Lung cancer is also the most 
common cause of death caused by cancer worldwide with fatality rate (the overall 
ratio of mortality to incidence) of 0.87. Nowadays, cure can be achieved only in 
early disease stages using surgical resection or radical radiotherapy. This
approach can be considered only in 20% of patients. Outcome of therapy of
loco-regionally advanced or metastatic lung cancer are unsatisfactory. Despite
improvement of radiotherapy techniques, despite introduction of new cytostatics
and new targeted therapies, long-term disease control could be achieved only in
minority of patients. Immunotherapy is a therapeutic approach which uses the
immune system itself against cancer. This article is a summary of the authors
17-year experience with different immunotherapeutic agents. It will be focused on
big anti-cancer vaccines trials START and MAGRIT, and especially trials in the
upcoming era of checkpoint inhibitors. Future perspectives of immunotherapy and
its combination of recent therapeutic approaches will be considered.


PMID: 26647893  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2016 Jul;65(7):787-96. doi: 10.1007/s00262-015-1776-3.
Epub 2015 Dec 8.

Improving cancer immunotherapy with DNA methyltransferase inhibitors.

Saleh MH(1), Wang L(1), Goldberg MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Immunology and Virology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, MA, USA. (2)Department of Cancer Immunology and Virology, Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA. michael_goldberg1@dfci.harvard.edu.

Immunotherapy confers durable clinical benefit to melanoma, lung, and kidney
cancer patients. Challengingly, most other solid tumors, including ovarian
carcinoma, are not particularly responsive to immunotherapy, so combination with 
a complementary therapy may be beneficial. Recent findings suggest that
epigenetic modifying drugs can prime antitumor immunity by increasing expression 
of tumor-associated antigens, chemokines, and activating ligands by cancer cells 
as well as cytokines by immune cells. This review, drawing from both preclinical 
and clinical data, describes some of the mechanisms of action that enable DNA
methyltransferase inhibitors to facilitate the establishment of antitumor
immunity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-015-1776-3 
PMID: 26646852  [PubMed - in process]


210. Future Oncol. 2016 Jan;12(1):9-23. doi: 10.2217/fon.15.294. Epub 2015 Dec 3.

Pembrolizumab for the treatment of thoracic malignancies: current landscape and
future directions.

Karim S(1), Leighl N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Princess Margaret Cancer Center/University
Health Network, 5-105 610 University Avenue, Toronto, ON, M5G 2M9, Canada.

New insights into the interaction between the immune system and the tumor
microenvironment have led to the development of checkpoint inhibitors that target
the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway. Pembrolizumab (MK-3475, lambrolizumab, Keytruda(®)) is a 
PD-1 inhibitor that has shown clinical activity in a variety of solid tumors and 
is currently approved for the second-line treatment of PD-L1-positive
non-small-cell lung cancer and for unresectable/metastatic melanoma. This article
will discuss the results of early-phase trials of pembrolizumab in thoracic
malignancies as well as ongoing studies aimed to confirm clinical benefit.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.15.294 
PMID: 26631501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Oct;4(5):560-75. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.06.06.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors in clinical practice: update on management of
immune-related toxicities.

Villadolid J(1), Amin A(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Pharmacy, 2 Divisions of Immunotherapy and Medical Oncology,
Carolinas HealthCare System, Levine Cancer Institute, Charlotte, NC 28204, USA.

Immune checkpoint blockade using inhibitors of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated 
antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) has shown clinically
significant antitumor response and has been approved for the treatment of
malignant melanoma and squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). These
immunotherapies are associated with unique set of toxicities termed
immune-related adverse events (irAEs) that are very different from toxicities
observed with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy. Prompt recognition and
initiation of appropriate management, usually in the form of immunosuppression,
usually results in complete reversibility, but failing to do so can lead to
severe toxicity or even death. Clinical algorithms describing the management of
common irAEs have been published based on clinical trial information and
experience in metastatic melanoma with ipilimumab, a human IgG1 monoclonal
antibody that binds to CTLA-4 and blocks T cell inhibition. The most common irAEs
reported with ipilimumab are dermatologic toxicity, diarrhea/colitis,
hepatotoxicity, and endocrinopathies, although other sites can also be affected. 
Similar irAEs have been observed with agents targeting PD-1. Nivolumab and
pembrolizumab are humanized monoclonal antibodies that bind to PD-1 and prevent T
cell inactivation. Ipilimumab, pembrolizumab, and nivolumab are approved by the
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of advanced melanoma;
nivolumab was also recently approved for metastatic squamous NSCLC. This review
describes the optimal management of toxicities related to immune checkpoint
inhibition from FDA-approved agents targeting CTLA-4 and PD-1.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.06.06 
PMCID: PMC4630514
PMID: 26629425  [PubMed]


212. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Oct;4(5):553-9. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.06.05.

New strategies in immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer.

Carrizosa DR(1), Gold KA(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Levine Cancer Institute, Carolinas HealthCare System, Charlotte, NC, USA ; 2
The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.

Treatment for the most common form of cancer (lung cancer) has historically
involved use of cytotoxic chemotherapy. With the advent of mutation analysis,
more therapies beyond traditional cytotoxics have been discovered. Most recently,
the use of immunotherapy has entered the treatment arsenal of non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC). This review aims to summarize the current and future use of
immunotherapy in the treatment of NSCLC.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.06.05 
PMCID: PMC4630527
PMID: 26629424  [PubMed]


213. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Oct;4(5):545-52. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.10.05.

Novel radiotherapy approaches for lung cancer: combining radiation therapy with
targeted and immunotherapies.

Simone CB 2nd(1), Burri SH(1), Heinzerling JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital of the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA ; 2 Department of Radiation Oncology, Levine 
Cancer Institute, Carolinas HealthCare System, Charlotte, NC, USA.

Targeted therapies and immunotherapies have quickly become fixtures in the
treatment armamentarium for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Targeted therapies directed against epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
mutations, anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) translocations, and ROS-1
rearrangements have demonstrated improved progression free survival (PFS) and, in
selected populations, improved overall survival (OS) compared with cytotoxic
chemotherapy. Immunotherapies, including checkpoint inhibitor monoclonal
antibodies against programmed death receptor 1 (PD-1) and programmed death ligand
1 (PD-L1), have now also demonstrated improved survival compared with
chemotherapy. The use of these novel systemic agents in non-metastatic patient
populations and in combination with radiation therapy is not well defined. As
radiation therapy has become more effective and more conformal with fewer
toxicities, it has increasingly been used in the oligometastatic or
oligoprogression setting. This has allowed improvement in PFS and potentially OS,
and in the oligoprogressive setting may overcome acquired drug resistance of a
specific lesion(s) to allow patients to remain on their targeted therapies.
Molecularly targeted therapies and immunotherapies for patients with metastatic
NSCLC have demonstrated much success. Advances in radiation therapy and
stereotactic body radiotherapy, radiation therapy have led to combination
strategies with targeted therapies among patients with lung cancer. Radiation
therapy has also been combined with immunotherapies predominantly in the
metastatic setting. In the metastatic population, radiation therapy has the
ability to provide durable local control and also augment the immune response of 
systemic agents, which may lead to an abscopal effect of immune-mediated tumor
response in disease sites outside of the radiation field in select patients.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.10.05 
PMCID: PMC4630515
PMID: 26629423  [PubMed]


214. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Oct;4(5):524-32. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.06.07.

Treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the lung: a review.

Derman BA(1), Mileham KF(1), Bonomi PD(1), Batus M(1), Fidler MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Internal Medicine, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago,
IL, USA ; 2 Levine Cancer Institute, Carolinas HealthCare System, Charlotte, NC, 
USA ; 3 Section of Medical Oncology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL,
USA.

Lung cancer remains the single deadliest cancer both in the US and worldwide. The
great majority of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is attributed to cigarette
smoking, which fortunately is declining alongside cancer incidence. While we have
been at a therapeutic plateau for advanced squamous cell lung cancer patients for
several decades, recent observations suggest that we are on the verge of seeing
incremental survival improvements for this relatively large group of patients.
Current studies have confirmed an expanding role for immunotherapy [including
programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) inhibition], a potential
opportunity for VEGFR inhibition, and even future targets in fibroblast growth
factor receptor (FGFR) and PI3K-AKT that collectively should improve survival as 
well as quality of life for those affected by squamous cell lung cancer over the 
next decade.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.06.07 
PMCID: PMC4630512
PMID: 26629421  [PubMed]


215. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2015 Dec;140(24):1835-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0041-107770. Epub
2015 Dec 1.

[Immunotherapy in lung cancer: checkpoint inhibitors].

[Article in German]

Wehler T(1), Wehler B(2), Stehle I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Thoraxonkologie, Klinik für Innere Medizin V, Pneumologie, Allergologie,
Beatmungs- und Umweltmedizin, Universitätsklinikum des Saarlandes. (2)III.
Medizinsche Klinik und Poliklinik, Schwerpunkt Hämatologie, Internistische
Onkologie und Pneumologie, Universitätsmedizin Mainz und Universitäres Centrum
für Tumorerkrankungen (UCT) Mainz. (3)Onkologische Gemeinschaftspraxis,
Schneiderstr. 12, 67655 Kaiserslautern.

Monoclonal antibodies against the PD-1 receptor or its ligands result in a
recovery of T cell responses against tumor antigens. Nivolumab is the first
antibody that has been approved in lung cancer. This mode of action is very
intersting, especially because of long term responses and the moderate toxicity.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0041-107770 
PMID: 26625234  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Semin Oncol. 2015 Dec;42(6):896-908. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.09.028. Epub 
2015 Sep 25.

Overcoming Resistance to Targeted Therapies in Cancer.

Redmond KL(1), Papafili A(1), Lawler M(1), Van Schaeybroeck S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology, School of Medicine, Dentistry and
Biomedical Science, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, United Kingdom.
(2)Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology, School of Medicine, Dentistry and
Biomedical Science, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, United Kingdom.
Electronic address: s.vanschaeybroeck@qub.ac.uk.

The recent discovery of oncogenic drivers and subsequent development of novel
targeted strategies has significantly added to the therapeutic armamentarium of
anti-cancer therapies. Targeting BCR-ABL in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) or
HER2 in breast cancer has led to practice-changing clinical benefits, while
promising therapeutic responses have been achieved by precision medicine
approaches in EGFR mutant lung cancer, colorectal cancer and BRAF mutant
melanoma. However, although initial therapeutic responses to targeted therapies
can be substantial, many patients will develop disease progression within 6-12
months. An increasing application of powerful omics-based approaches and
improving preclinical models have enabled the rapid identification of secondary
resistance mechanisms. Herein, we discuss how this knowledge has translated into 
rational, novel treatment strategies for relapsed patients in genomically
selected cancer populations.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.09.028 
PMID: 26615134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Thorac Surg Clin. 2016 Feb;26(1):69-78. doi: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2015.09.009.

Immunotherapy for Resected Pulmonary Metastases.

Morse MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Duke University Medical Center, MSRB Room 403,
Box 3233, Research Drive, Durham, NC 27710, USA. Electronic address:
mihael.morse@duke.edu.

Micrometastatic disease following pulmonary metastasectomy is an ideal setting to
test adjuvant immunotherapy, as the efficacy of immunotherapy in experimental
models is greatest with the smallest tumor burdens. Although there is not a
standard-of-care adjuvant immunotherapy for resected pulmonary metastases, there 
have been several studies using cytokines and other immunostimulatory molecules
in conjunction with metastasectomies in patients with melanoma, renal cell
carcinoma, sarcoma, and colorectal cancer, which have provided preliminary data
that such adjuvant therapy is feasible and safe and may be useful in the future, 
following more rigorous testing, as routine therapy to prevent recurrences.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2015.09.009 
PMID: 26611512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Cancer J. 2015 Nov-Dec;21(6):480-5. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000160.

T-Cell Receptor-Transduced T Cells: Clinical Experience.

Robbins PF(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the National Institutes of Health, National Cancer Institute, Surgery
Branch, Bethesda, MD.

The large number of T-cell epitopes that have been found to be processed and
presented on human tumors, now numbering in the hundreds, provides a rich source 
of targets for therapeutic interventions aimed at inducing durable tumor
regression. Vaccination strategies aimed at inducing responses to these antigens 
have been largely ineffective, and it has been challenging to generate large
numbers of T cells with the functional capacity to mediate durable tumor
regressions in adoptive immunotherapy strategies in patients who have common
epithelial malignancies. The ability to generate T-cell receptors that recognize 
shared as well as unique antigens expressed in a wide variety of common tumor
types that include lung, breast, ovarian, gastrointestinal, urothelial, and
genitourinary cancers provides an opportunity to develop widely applicable
therapies based on the adoptive transfer of autologous T cells transduced with
those receptors.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000160 
PMID: 26588680  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Cancer J. 2015 Nov-Dec;21(6):450-64. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000162.

Tumor-Infiltrating Lymphocyte Therapy: Addressing Prevailing Questions.

Radvanyi LG(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Immunology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center; and Lion
Biotechnologies, Tampa, FL.

Autologous adoptive T-cell therapies have made tremendous strides over the last
few years with excitement currently being generated by technologies that can
reprogram T-cell specificities toward any desired antigen including chimeric
antigen receptors and recombinant T-cell receptors. Time will tell whether these 
new genetically engineered T-cell technologies will be effective as advertised,
especially in solid tumors, considering the limited availability of specific
antigens and the difficulty in managing the unpredictable on-target, off-tissue
toxicities. However, a form of T-cell therapy that has been utilized in patients 
more than any other and has left a lasting mark in the field is
tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). Tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte therapy has 
consistently yielded durable clinical responses in selected patients with
metastatic melanoma and is now being increasingly applied to treat other solid
tumors, including head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, cervical cancer, breast 
cancer, and lung cancer. Despite its long history in the clinic and key
developments over the last few decades that have augmented response rates and
have made TIL manufacturing more streamlined, a number of key outstanding
conceptual questions remain to be answered in the TIL therapy field. In this
review, we address critical questions, including the mechanism of action of TILs 
and active T-cell subsets, the current need for lymphoablative preconditioning,
predictive biomarkers, the role of combination therapy such as checkpoint
blockade, new excitement over the recognition of mutated antigens (the
"mutanome") by TILs, and issues in developing TILs for nonmelanoma indications.
In each case, we will critically discuss the main issues and concerns and how
they can affect the eventual positioning of TIL therapy in the mainstream of
cancer care.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000162 
PMID: 26588676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Bull Cancer. 2015 Dec;102(12):1046-52. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2015.10.005. Epub
2015 Nov 14.

[Nivolumab, a new hope in non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in French]

Flippot R(1), Fallet V(2), Besse B(1), Massard C(1), Wislez M(2), Vignot S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Gustave-Roussy Cancer Campus, département d'oncologie médicale, 94800
Villejuif, France. (2)Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, hôpital Tenon,
service de pneumologie, 75020 Paris, France. (3)Hôpital Louis-Pasteur, service
d'oncologie et hématologie, 28630 Chartres-Le-Coudray, France. Electronic
address: svignot@ch-chartres.fr.

Lung cancer accounts for 10% of cancer cases, but leads to 20% of cancer-specific
mortality. Therapeutic options are limited, especially in tumors, which do not
harbour druggable oncogenic alterations, and overall survival falls short of
twoyears in the metastatic setting. The arrival of immunotherapy is a new hope
for the achievement of an improved and sustainable survival in lung cancer
patients. The approval of Nivolumab in this setting will lead to drastic changes 
in clinical practice. For optimal patient care, it will be essential to integrate
the benefits and risks of such treatment. This review aims at discussing the role
of nivolumab in lung cancer, in consideration of updated clinical data for safety
and efficacy.

Copyright © 2015 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2015.10.005 
PMID: 26585939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2016;16(1):5-12. doi: 10.1586/14737140.2016.1121812. 
Epub 2015 Dec 7.

Nivolumab for the treatment of classical Hodgkin lymphoma after failure of
autologous stem cell transplant and brentuximab.

Villasboas JC(1), Ansell SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Medicine/Division of Hematology , Mayo Clinic , Rochester , MN
, USA.

Cancer cells are able to escape surveillance from the immune system by co-opting 
physiologic mechanisms such as the programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) receptor
pathway. Agents able to block the interaction between the PD-1 receptor and its
ligands have the potential to release T cells from tumor-induced suppression and 
eradicate malignant cells. Nivolumab - a PD-1 inhibitor - is approved for the
treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma and lung cancer. This agent has
been tested in patients with advanced Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and showed impressive
results in a phase I trial. Here we review the profile of Nivolumab including its
pharmacological properties, clinical efficacy and safety in patients with
advanced classical HL.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.2016.1121812 
PMID: 26577822  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Drugs Context. 2015 Oct 14;4:212289. doi: 10.7573/dic.212289. eCollection 2015.

Metastatic squamous cell non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC): disrupting the drug 
treatment paradigm with immunotherapies.

Scarpace SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Albany, NY 12208, USA; ; St.
Peter's Health Partners Cancer Care Center, Albany, NY, USA.

Lung cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer and the leading cause of 
cancer-related death in the United States. Unlike non-squamous NSCLC, squamous
NSCLC rarely harbor epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and anaplastic
lymphoma kinase (ALK) mutations for which there are directed therapies, and until
the recent approval of immunotherapies for squamous NSCLC, a limited number of
traditional cytotoxic chemotherapy drugs have been FDA-approved for use in the
treatment of advanced and metastatic squamous NSCLC. Immunotherapies directed at 
the programmed cell death-1 receptor (PD-1) or its ligand (PD-L1) (nivolumab and 
pembrolizumab) have demonstrated efficacy in both nonsquamous and squamous cell
NSCLC. Because of their similar mechanism of action against the PD-L1/PD-1
pathway, both drugs have similar toxicity profiles related to immune-mediated
adverse reactions that can generally be monitored and managed with oral
corticosteroids. This paper provides an overview of drug therapy options for
squamous cell NSCLC with a focus on the evidence and clinical application of the 
anti-PD1 therapies. A comparison of the dosing, administration, indications, and 
differences in the measurement of PD-L1 expression in the clinical trials of
nivolumab and pembrolizumab is also provided.

DOI: 10.7573/dic.212289 
PMCID: PMC4630973
PMID: 26576187  [PubMed]


223. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015;15(12):1789-97. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1114097.
Epub 2015 Nov 16.

Nivolumab for treating non-small cell lung cancer.

Guibert N(1), Mazières J(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Thoracic Oncology Unit, Respiratory
Disease Department , Hôpital Larrey, Université Paul Sabatier , CHU Toulouse,
Chemin de Pouvourville, Toulouse , Toulouse Cedex 31059 , France. (2)b Hôpital
Larrey , Institut Universitaire du Cancer , Toulouse , Toulouse Cedex 31059 ,
France.

INTRODUCTION: Diversion of the immune checkpoint PD-1/PD-L1 by a tumor in order
to escape antitumor immunity is a hallmark of NSCLC, but offers promising new
strategies. Nivolumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody, is the first PD-1
inhibitor to be approved to treat metastatic NSCLC after exciting results
obtained from clinical trials.
AREAS COVERED: This review aims to:) clarify the mechanism of action and
toxicities of PD-1 inhibitors; recapitulate the results from various clinical
trials that have evaluated nivolumab as a monotherapy for metastatic NSCLC;
discuss the clinical and translational research axes to better use this molecule;
and summarize the therapeutic combinations currently under evaluation.
EXPERT OPINION: The contribution of this molecule to treat NSCLC is undeniable,
making it a new standard of care after prior chemotherapy. Its toxicity profile
is favorable but a good knowledge of new and potentially severe immune-related
adverse effects such as endocrinopathy or interstitial pneumonitis is essential
for its early detection and management. Better selection of patients is needed,
particularly based on the discovery of predictive biomarkers, such as PD-L1
expression. Multiple associations with other checkpoint inhibitors, chemotherapy 
and targeted therapies are currently being studied and should pave the way toward
new uses for this drug.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1114097 
PMID: 26574148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015;15(12):1819-29. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1116515.

Tremelimumab for the treatment of malignant mesothelioma.

Guazzelli A(1), Hussain M(1), Krstic-Demonacos M(1), Mutti L(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Biomedical Research Centre, School of Environment and Life Sciences ,
University of Salford , Salford M5 4WT , UK.

INTRODUCTION: Tremelimumab demonstrated therapeutic activity in different
malignancies, including malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM); however, continued 
research could improve the therapeutic index of this agent.
AREAS COVERED: This review describes tremelimumab's clinical efficacy,
administration and safety in patients affected with MPM and reports the state of 
the art clinical trials of tremelimumab. A literature search using the PubMed
database was conducted using the search terms tremelimumab, MPM, current therapy,
immune checkpoint blockage and cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4. Data 
was also obtained from meeting abstracts and clinical trial registries.
EXPERT OPINION: The use of immunotherapy has been extended from melanoma to
thoracic malignancies or lung cancer and MPM. The first clinical trials for MPM
with drugs modulating immune checkpoints have been tested or are currently being 
tested with the first results now under critical consideration. Among these
drugs, tremelimumab has been attracting attention as a potential new treatment
for MPM. Nevertheless, even though clinical efficacy has been preliminarily
demonstrated, the cost/benefit ratio of this drug for this neoplasm is yet to be 
ascertained.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1116515 
PMID: 26560442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2016 Apr;65(4):485-92. doi: 10.1007/s00262-015-1761-x.
Epub 2015 Nov 11.

NK-92: an 'off-the-shelf therapeutic' for adoptive natural killer cell-based
cancer immunotherapy.

Suck G(1), Odendahl M(2), Nowakowska P(3), Seidl C(3), Wels WS(4), Klingemann
HG(5), Tonn T(6,)(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, German Red Cross Blood Donation Service
North-East, Berlin, Germany. (2)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, German Red
Cross Blood Donation Service North-East, Blasewitzer Strasse 68/70, 01307,
Dresden, Germany. (3)Institute for Transfusion Medicine and Immunohematology,
German Red Cross Blood Donation Service Baden-Württemberg-Hessen, Frankfurt am
Main, Germany. (4)Institute for Tumor Biology and Experimental Therapy,
Georg-Speyer-Haus, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. (5)NantKwest Inc, Culver City, CA,
USA. (6)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, German Red Cross Blood Donation
Service North-East, Blasewitzer Strasse 68/70, 01307, Dresden, Germany.
t.tonn@blutspende.de. (7)Institute for Transfusion Medicine and Immunohematology,
German Red Cross Blood Donation Service Baden-Württemberg-Hessen, Frankfurt am
Main, Germany. t.tonn@blutspende.de. (8)Medical Faculty Carl Gustav Carus,
Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany. t.tonn@blutspende.de.

Natural killer (NK) cells are increasingly considered as immunotherapeutic agents
in particular in the fight against cancers. NK cell therapies are potentially
broadly applicable and, different from their T cell counterparts, do not cause
graft-versus-host disease. Efficacy and clinical in vitro or in vivo expansion of
primary NK cells will however always remain variable due to individual
differences of donors or patients. Long-term storage of clinical NK cell lots to 
allow repeated clinical applications remains an additional challenge. In
contrast, the established and well-characterized cell line NK-92 can be easily
and reproducibly expanded from a good manufacturing practice (GMP)-compliant
cryopreserved master cell bank. Moreover, no cost-intensive cell purification
methods are required. To date, NK-92 has been intensively studied. The cells
displayed superior cytotoxicity against a number of tumor types tested, which was
confirmed in preclinical mouse studies. Subsequent clinical testing demonstrated 
safety of NK-92 infusions even at high doses. Despite the phase I nature of the
trials conducted so far, some efficacy was noted, particularly against lung
tumors. Furthermore, to overcome tumor resistance and for specific targeting,
NK-92 has been engineered to express a number of different chimeric antigen
receptors (CARs), including targeting, for example, CD19 or CD20 (anti-B cell
malignancies), CD38 (anti-myeloma) or human epidermal growth factor receptor 2
(HER2; ErbB2; anti-epithelial cancers). The concept of an NK cell line as an
allogeneic cell therapeutic produced 'off-the-shelf' on demand holds great
promise for the development of effective treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-015-1761-x 
PMID: 26559813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Am J Clin Oncol. 2016 Feb;39(1):98-106. doi: 10.1097/COC.0000000000000239.

CTLA-4 and PD-1 Pathways: Similarities, Differences, and Implications of Their
Inhibition.

Buchbinder EI(1), Desai A.

Author information: 
(1)*Melanoma Disease Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical
School †Biologic Therapy Program, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

The cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed death 1
(PD-1) immune checkpoints are negative regulators of T-cell immune function.
Inhibition of these targets, resulting in increased activation of the immune
system, has led to new immunotherapies for melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer, 
and other cancers. Ipilimumab, an inhibitor of CTLA-4, is approved for the
treatment of advanced or unresectable melanoma. Nivolumab and pembrolizumab, both
PD-1 inhibitors, are approved to treat patients with advanced or metastatic
melanoma and patients with metastatic, refractory non-small cell lung cancer. In 
addition the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab has been approved in
patients with BRAF WT metastatic or unresectable melanoma. The roles of CTLA-4
and PD-1 in inhibiting immune responses, including antitumor responses, are
largely distinct. CTLA-4 is thought to regulate T-cell proliferation early in an 
immune response, primarily in lymph nodes, whereas PD-1 suppresses T cells later 
in an immune response, primarily in peripheral tissues. The clinical profiles of 
immuno-oncology agents inhibiting these 2 checkpoints may vary based on their
mechanistic differences. This article provides an overview of the CTLA-4 and PD-1
pathways and implications of their inhibition in cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0000000000000239 
PMCID: PMC4892769
PMID: 26558876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Vet J. 2016 Jan;207:20-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2015.10.008. Epub 2015 Oct 13.

Cancer immunotherapy in veterinary medicine: Current options and new
developments.

Regan D(1), Guth A(1), Coy J(1), Dow S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Cancer Center, Department of Clinical Sciences, Colorado State
University, Ft. Collins, CO 80523, USA. (2)Animal Cancer Center, Department of
Clinical Sciences, Colorado State University, Ft. Collins, CO 80523, USA.
Electronic address: sdow@colostate.edu.

Excitement in the field of tumor immunotherapy is being driven by several
remarkable breakthroughs in recent years. This review will cover recent advances 
in cancer immunotherapy, including the use of T cell checkpoint inhibitors,
engineered T cells, cancer vaccines, and anti-B cell and T cell antibodies.
Inhibition of T cell checkpoint molecules such as PD-1 and CTLA-4 using
monoclonal antibodies has achieved notable success against advanced tumors in
humans, including melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, and non-small cell lung cancer.
Therapy with engineered T cells has also demonstrated remarkable tumor control
and regression in human trials. Autologous cancer vaccines have recently
demonstrated impressive prolongation of disease-free intervals and survival times
in dogs with lymphoma. In addition, caninized monoclonal antibodies targeting
CD20 and CD52 just recently received either full (CD20) or conditional (CD52)
licensing by the United States Department of Agriculture for clinical use in the 
treatment of canine B-cell and T-cell lymphomas, respectively. Thus,
immunotherapy for cancer is rapidly moving to the forefront of cancer treatment
options in veterinary medicine as well as human medicine.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2015.10.008 
PMID: 26545847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2016 Jan;1865(1):83-9. doi: 10.1016/j.bbcan.2015.10.004.
Epub 2015 Nov 2.

Tumor antigens in human cancer control.

Kelderman S(1), Kvistborg P(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Division of Immunology, Plesmanlaan 121,
1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (2)The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Division
of Immunology, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic
address: p.kvistborg@nki.nl.

The body of evidence that is supporting the role of T cells in human tumor
control is substantial and it is now beyond doubt that T cells can be crucial in 
the clinical response to cancer immunotherapies such as adoptive T cell therapy
and checkpoint blockade. This has been proven in particular for melanoma and
non-small cell lung cancer. Strikingly, while clinical experience with these
therapies is extensive, what these T cells detect on the tumors remains largely
unknown. An extensive effort has been put into the characterization of tumor
antigens and based on the recent successes of immunotherapies Cancer/Germline,
mutated and viral antigens appear rather promising targets for tumor control.
Furthermore, it is becoming evident that the most potent antigen in tumor control
is highly dependent on the type of malignancy and may also vary even within
malignancies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbcan.2015.10.004 
PMID: 26542849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Dec 15;21(24):5427-33. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0420. 
Epub 2015 Oct 30.

Molecular Pathways: Targeting IDO1 and Other Tryptophan Dioxygenases for Cancer
Immunotherapy.

Zhai L(1), Spranger S(2), Binder DC(3), Gritsina G(1), Lauing KL(1), Giles FJ(4),
Wainwright DA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine, Chicago, Illinois. (2)Department of Pathology, The University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. (3)Department of Pathology, The University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Committee on Cancer Biology, The University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. (4)Northwestern Medicine Developmental Therapeutics
Institute, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois. Division of Hematology and
Oncology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois. Robert H. Lurie
Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.
(5)Department of Neurological Surgery, Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine, Chicago, Illinois. Northwestern Brain Tumor Institute, Northwestern
University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.
derekwainwright@northwestern.edu.

Indoleamine 2, 3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), IDO2, and tryptophan 2, 3-dioxygenase
(TDO) comprise a family of enzymes that catalyze the first- and rate-limiting
step associated with the catabolic conversion of tryptophan (Trp) into kynurenine
(Kyn). Through subsequent enzymatic and spontaneous reactions, Kyn is further
converted into the energetic substrates, NAD(+) and ATP, to fuel cellular
metabolic functions. Coincidently, the depletion of Trp and accumulation of Kyn
has been demonstrated to induce effector T-cell apoptosis/dysfunction and
immunosuppressive regulatory T-cell induction, respectively. Similar to other
immune checkpoints, IDO1 and TDO are suggested to be important targets for
immunotherapeutic intervention. This is represented by the recent growth of
efforts to inhibit the Trp-to-Kyn pathway as a means to control
immunosuppression. Inhibitors currently in clinical trials, INCB024360, GDC-0919,
indoximod, and an IDO1 peptide-based vaccine, are being evaluated for their
efficacy against a wide range of cancers including melanoma, glioblastoma,
non-small cell lung, pancreatic, and/or breast cancer, as well as metastatic
disease. Despite the rapid development of potent clinical grade inhibitors,
strategic questions remain. Here, we review the state of the literature with
respect to current therapeutic inhibitors of tryptophan catabolism, evaluation of
those efforts preclinically and clinically, compensatory changes that occur with 
therapeutic targeting, as well as newly recognized signaling features that raise 
critical questions to the field. Given the rapidly evolving interest in
determining how IDO1/TDO, and to an unknown extent, IDO2, can be targeted for
increasing cancer immunotherapeutic efficacy, we present a brief but
comprehensive analysis that addresses critical questions, while highlighting the 
mechanics that remain to be explored.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0420 
PMCID: PMC4681601
PMID: 26519060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2016 May;49(5):1324-33. doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezv371. Epub 
2015 Oct 29.

Immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer: current concepts and clinical
trials.

Mayor M(1), Yang N(1), Sterman D(2), Jones DR(1), Adusumilli PS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Service, Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center, New York, NY, USA. (2)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine,
Department of Medicine, New York University, New York, NY, USA. (3)Thoracic
Service, Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York,
NY, USA Center for Cell Engineering, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA adusumip@mskcc.org.

Recent successes in immunotherapeutic strategies are being investigated to combat
cancers that have less than ideal responses to standard of care treatment, such
as non-small-cell lung cancer. In this paper, we summarize concepts and the
current status of immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer, including salient
features of the major categories of immunotherapy-monoclonal antibody therapy,
immune checkpoint blockade, immunotoxins, anticancer vaccines, and adoptive cell 
therapy.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezv371 
PMCID: PMC4851162 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 26516195  [PubMed - in process]


231. Anticancer Res. 2015 Nov;35(11):5745-57.

Immunotherapies for NSCLC: Are We Cutting the Gordian Helix?

Dempke WC(1), Sellmann L(2), Fenchel K(3), Edvardsen K(4).

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital of Grosshadern (LMU Munich, Haematology and Oncology),
Munich, Germany AstraZeneca Global Medical Oncology, Cambridge, U.K. (2)Medical
Oncology Unit, Mönchengladbach, Germany lsellmann@gmx.de. (3)Medical School
Hamburg (MSH), Hamburg, Germany. (4)AstraZeneca Global Medical Oncology,
Cambridge, U.K.

Chemotherapy is currently the standard-of-care for non-oncogene-driven advanced
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Due to improvements in chemotherapeutic
choices and supportive care, patients currently typically undergo multiple lines 
of chemotherapy as their disease progresses. Although treatments have improved
over recent years, limited benefits are seen, especially in patients receiving
later-line chemotherapy, as response rates can be low, response duration short
and survival poor. Molecular-targeted therapies have provided improvement in
outcomes. However, these treatments only offer a clear benefit in subsets of
tumors harbouring the appropriate genomic alteration (mutation, amplification,
translocation). Recent advances in immunotherapy have highlighted the potential
of immuno-oncology-based treatments for NSCLC, offering the potential to provide 
durable responses and outcomes regardless of histology or mutation status.
Blocking inhibitory pathways such as the cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) 
and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) checkpoint pathways with monoclonal antibodies
has generated antitumor immune responses that are transforming cancer
therapeutics. PD-1 and programmed cell death ligand-1(PD-L1) antibodies have
shown durable responses in NSCLC, with a favourable safety profile and manageable
side-effects. The activity of immune checkpoint inhibitors is currently been
assessed in treatment-naïve patients with PD-L1-positive advanced NSCLC.
Combinatorial approaches with other immune checkpoint inhibitors, chemotherapy,
or targeted-agents are being explored in ongoing clinical trials, and may improve
outcome in NSCLC. The emerging data not only offer the hope of a better cancer
therapy but also provide evidence that changes our understanding on how the host 
immune system interacts with human cancer. It is therefore conceivable that
agents blocking the CTLA-4/PD-1/PD-L1 axis will provide valuable additions to the
growing armamentarium of targeted-agents.

Copyright© 2015 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G.
Delinassios), All rights reserved.


PMID: 26503995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Cancer Discov. 2016 Feb;6(2):133-46. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-15-0583. Epub 2015
Oct 26.

Mesothelin-Targeted CARs: Driving T Cells to Solid Tumors.

Morello A(1), Sadelain M(1), Adusumilli PS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cell Engineering, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York,
New York. (2)Center for Cell Engineering, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
New York, New York. Thoracic Service, Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. adusumip@mskcc.org.

Chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) are synthetic receptors that target T cells to
cell-surface antigens and augment T-cell function and persistence. Mesothelin is 
a cell-surface antigen implicated in tumor invasion, which is highly expressed in
mesothelioma and lung, pancreas, breast, ovarian, and other cancers. Its
low-level expression in mesothelia, however, commands thoughtful therapeutic
interventions. Encouragingly, recent clinical trials evaluating active
immunization or immunoconjugates in patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma or
mesothelioma have shown responses without toxicity. Altogether, these findings
and preclinical CAR therapy models using either systemic or regional T-cell
delivery argue favorably for mesothelin CAR therapy in multiple solid
tumors.SIGNIFICANCE: Recent success obtained with adoptive transfer of CAR T
cells targeting CD19 in patients with refractory hematologic malignancies has
generated much enthusiasm for T-cell engineering and raises the prospect of
implementing similar strategies for solid tumors. Mesothelin is expressed in a
wide range and a high percentage of solid tumors, which we review here in detail.
Mesothelin CAR therapy has the potential to treat multiple solid malignancies.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-15-0583 
PMCID: PMC4744527
PMID: 26503962  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Feb 1;22(3):546-52. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-1100.
Epub 2015 Oct 26.

Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase as a Cancer Target in Pediatric Malignancies.

Mossé YP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology and Center for Childhood Cancer Research, The Children's 
Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Pediatrics,
University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. mosse@chop.edu.

In this era of more rational therapies, substantial efforts are being made to
identify optimal targets. The discovery of translocations involving the
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) receptor tyrosine kinase in a subset of
non-small cell lung cancers has become a paradigm for precision medicine.
Notably, ALK was initially discovered as the fusion gene in anaplastic large cell
non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a disease predominantly of childhood. The discovery of
activating kinase domain mutations of the full-length ALK receptor as the major
cause of hereditary neuroblastoma, and that somatically acquired mutations and
amplification events often drive the malignant process in a subset of sporadic
tumors, has established ALK as a tractable molecular target across histologically
diverse tumors in which ALK is a critical mediator of oncogenesis. We are now
uncovering the reexpression of this developmentally regulated protein in a
broader subset of pediatric cancers, providing therapeutic targeting
opportunities for diseases with shared molecular etiology. This review focuses on
the role of ALK in pediatric malignancies, alongside the prospects and challenges
associated with the development of effective ALK-inhibition strategies.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-1100 
PMCID: PMC4738092 [Available on 2017-02-01]
PMID: 26503946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Pharmacotherapy. 2015 Oct;35(10):963-76. doi: 10.1002/phar.1643.

Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors: New Insights and Current Place in Cancer Therapy.

La-Beck NM(1), Jean GW(2), Huynh C(1), Alzghari SK(1), Lowe DB(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunotherapeutics and Biotechnology, Texas Tech University
Health Sciences Center School of Pharmacy, Abilene, Texas. (2)Department of
Pharmacy Practice, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center School of
Pharmacy, Dallas, Texas. (3)Experimmune, A Center for Immunotherapeutic
Development, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Abilene, Texas.

Erratum in
    Pharmacotherapy. 2015 Dec;35(12):1205.

The treatment of cancer has largely relied on killing tumor cells with
nonspecific cytotoxic therapies and radiotherapy. This approach, however, has
limitations including severe systemic toxicities, bystander effects on normal
cells, recurrence of drug-resistant tumor cells, and the inability to target
micrometastases or subclinical disease. An increased understanding of the
critical role of the immune system in cancer development and progression has led 
to new treatment strategies using various immunotherapies. It is now recognized
that established tumors have numerous mechanisms of suppressing the antitumor
immune response including production of inhibitory cytokines, recruitment of
immunosuppressive immune cells, and upregulation of coinhibitory receptors known 
as immune checkpoints. This review focuses on the immune checkpoint inhibitors, a
novel class of immunotherapy first approved in 2011. Our objective is to
highlight similarities and differences among the three immune checkpoint
inhibitors approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration-ipilimumab,
pembrolizumab, and nivolumab-to facilitate therapeutic decision making. We
conducted a review of the published literature and conference proceedings and
present a critical appraisal of the clinical evidence supporting their use in the
treatment of metastatic melanoma and advanced squamous non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC). We also compare and contrast their current place in cancer therapy and
patterns of immune-related toxicities, and discuss the role of dual immune
checkpoint inhibition and strategies for the management of immune-related adverse
events. The immune checkpoint inhibitors have demonstrated a dramatic improvement
in overall survival in patients with advanced melanoma and squamous NSCLC, along 
with acceptable toxicity profiles. These agents have a clear role in the
first-line treatment of advanced melanoma and in the second-line treatment of
advanced squamous NSCLC.

© 2015 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/phar.1643 
PMID: 26497482  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2015 Nov 1;72(21):1851-5. doi: 10.2146/ajhp150235.

Nivolumab for second-line treatment of metastatic squamous non-small-cell lung
cancer.

Rounds A(1), Kolesar J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Amanda Rounds is a Pharm.D. student, School of Pharmacy, University of
Wisconsin (UW), Madison. Jill Kolesar, Pharm.D., BCPS, FCCP, is Professor, School
of Pharmacy, UW, and Faculty Supervisor, Analytical Laboratory for
Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics and Pharmacogenomics, UW Carbone Comprehensive
Cancer Center, Madison. (2)Amanda Rounds is a Pharm.D. student, School of
Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin (UW), Madison. Jill Kolesar, Pharm.D., BCPS,
FCCP, is Professor, School of Pharmacy, UW, and Faculty Supervisor, Analytical
Laboratory for Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics and Pharmacogenomics, UW
Carbone Comprehensive Cancer Center, Madison. jill.kolesar@wisc.edu.

PURPOSE: The pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, efficacy, toxicity, and place in
therapy of nivolumab, a novel immunotherapy agent for the treatment of advanced
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) of the squamous cell subtype are reviewed.
SUMMARY: Nivolumab is a novel programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) immune checkpoint
inhibitor indicated as a second-line treatment for patients with NSCLC whose
tumors exhibit squamous cell histology. Nivolumab has high affinity for the PD-1 
receptor, and durable responses to treatment have been reported in clinical
trials. In a Phase II study evaluating the drug's safety and efficacy in patients
who had disease progression despite treatment with platinum-based doublet
chemotherapy and at least one additional systemic therapy, nivolumab-treated
patients had an objective response rate of 14.5%, with a 17% rate of grade 3 or 4
treatment-related adverse events; overall survival at one year was 40.8%. A
head-to-head comparison of docetaxel and nivolumab for second-line treatment of
squamous cell NSCLC demonstrated superior overall survival and reduced grade 3 or
4 adverse effects in nivolumab-treated patients.
CONCLUSION: Nivolumab is a novel PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor that is
effective for treating advanced squamous NSCLC in patients previously treated
with platinum-based doublet chemotherapy or alternative first-line agents. Based 
on its improved efficacy and lower toxicity relative to docetaxel, nivolumab
should be considered standard second-line therapy for this population.

Copyright © 2015 by the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp150235 
PMID: 26490818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Cancer Biol Med. 2015 Sep;12(3):209-22. doi: 10.7497/j.issn.2095-3941.2015.0032.

Advances in immunotherapy for treatment of lung cancer.

Bustamante Alvarez JG(1), González-Cao M(1), Karachaliou N(1), Santarpia M(1),
Viteri S(1), Teixidó C(1), Rosell R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Albert Einstein Medical Center, Philadelphia 19141, USA ; 2 Translational
Cancer Research Unit, Instituto Oncológico Dr Rosell, Quirón Dexeus University
Hospital, Barcelona 08028, Spain ; 3 Medical Oncology Unit, Human Pathology
Department, University of Messina, Messina 98100, Italy ; 4 Pangaea Biotech S.L, 
Barcelona 08028, Spain ; 5 Cancer Biology & Precision Medicine Program, Catalan
Institute of Oncology, Germans Trias i Pujol Health Sciences Institute and
Hospital, Campus Can Ruti, Badalona, Barcelona 08916, Spain ; 6 Fundación
Molecular Oncology Research, Barcelona 08028, Spain.

Different approaches for treating lung cancer have been developed over time,
including chemotherapy, radiotherapy and targeted therapies against activating
mutations. Lately, better understanding of the role of the immunological system
in tumor control has opened multiple doors to implement different strategies to
enhance immune response against cancer cells. It is known that tumor cells elude 
immune response by several mechanisms. The development of monoclonal antibodies
against the checkpoint inhibitor programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and its
ligand (PD-L1), on T cells, has led to high activity in cancer patients with long
lasting responses. Nivolumab, an anti PD-1 inhibitor, has been recently approved 
for the treatment of squamous cell lung cancer patients, given the survival
advantage demonstrated in a phase III trial. Pembrolizumab, another anti PD-1
antibody, has received FDA breakthrough therapy designation for treatment of
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), supported by data from a phase I trial.
Clinical trials with anti PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies in NSCLC have demonstrated very
good tolerability and activity, with response rates around 20% and a median
duration of response of 18 months.

DOI: 10.7497/j.issn.2095-3941.2015.0032 
PMCID: PMC4607819
PMID: 26487966  [PubMed]


237. J Thorac Oncol. 2015 Dec;10(12):1685-93. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000686.

Clinical Trials Integrating Immunotherapy and Radiation for Non-Small-Cell Lung
Cancer.

Daly ME(1), Monjazeb AM, Kelly K.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Radiation Oncology, and †Division of Medical Oncology,
Department of Medicine, University of California Davis Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Sacramento, California.

Methods of harnessing the immune system to treat cancer have been investigated
for decades, but yielded little clinical progress. However, in recent years,
novel drugs that allow immune recognition and destruction of tumor cells are
emerging as potent cancer therapies. Building upon previous immunotherapy
strategies that included therapeutic vaccines, recombinant cytokines, and other
immunostimulatory agents, newer immunotherapy agents targeting immune checkpoints
including programmed cell death 1, programmed cell death ligand-1, and cytotoxic 
T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4, among others, have garnered substantial
enthusiasm after demonstrating clinical activity in a broad spectrum of tumor
types. Trials evaluating immune checkpoint inhibitors in metastatic
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) demonstrate robust and durable responses in a 
subset of patients. However, with overall response rates less than 20%,
combinatorial strategies that extend the benefit of these agents to more patients
are desirable. The integration of radiotherapy with immunotherapy is a
conceptually promising strategy, as radiotherapy has potent immunomodulatory
effects and may contribute not only to local control but may also augment
systemic antitumor immune response. Preclinical data and case reports suggest the
potential for robust clinical responses in metastatic NSCLC patients using this
strategy, but prospective clinical trials evaluating the integration of radiation
and immunotherapy are limited. The use of immunotherapy in nonmetastatic settings
is also intriguing but understudied. We review the potential clinical settings of
interest for the partnering of immunotherapy and radiation in NSCLC, including
early stage, locally advanced, and metastatic disease, and review completed,
accruing, and developing clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000686 
PMID: 26484629  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Tumori. 2016 Jan-Feb;102(1):18-30. doi: 10.5301/tj.5000436. Epub 2015 Oct 14.

Systemic approach to malignant pleural mesothelioma: what news of chemotherapy,
targeted agents and immunotherapy?

Signorelli D(1), Macerelli M(1), Proto C(1), Vitali M(1), Cona MS(1), Agustoni
F(1), Zilembo N(1), Platania M(1), Trama A(2), Gallucci R(1), Ganzinelli M(1),
Pelosi G(3), Pastorino U(4), de Braud F(1), Garassino MC(1), Lo Russo G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei
Tumori, Milan - Italy. (2)Department of Preventive and Predictive Medicine,
Fondazione IRCSS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan - Italy. (3)Department of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei
Tumori, Milan - Italy. (4)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto
Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan - Italy.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma is a rare cancer with a cause-effect relationship 
to asbestos exposure. The prognosis is poor and chemotherapy seems the best
treatment option. In the last two decades a deeper understanding of mesothelioma 
carcinogenesis and invasiveness mechanisms has prompted research efforts to test 
new agents in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma, but the results have 
been modest. Attractive preclinical data disappointed in subsequent experimental 
phases. Other promising agents failed to improve patient outcomes due to high
toxicity. Interesting suggestions have come from preliminary data on
immunotherapy. Several trials are ongoing and the results are eagerly awaited.
The aim of this review is to discuss the most recent news on systemic therapy for
advanced malignant pleural mesothelioma.

DOI: 10.5301/tj.5000436 
PMID: 26481865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Semin Oncol. 2015 Oct;42 Suppl 2:S3-10. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.09.016.
Epub 2015 Sep 11.

Understanding the Rationale for Immunotherapy in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Pennell NA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Associate Professor, Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland, OH.
Electronic address: penneln@ccf.org.

Although immunotherapy has been used for decades in immunogenic tumor types, such
as melanoma and renal cell carcinoma, historically immunotherapeutic approaches
in other tumor types, including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), have met with
failure. Nonetheless, evidence exists supporting the role of the immune system in
tumor suppression, even in tumor types believed to be non-immunogenic. In NSCLC, 
immune checkpoint molecules have recently proven to be successful targets, with
nivolumab, the first immune checkpoint inhibitor indicated for NSCLC, approved by
the US Food and Drug Administration in March 2015. Several other immune
checkpoint inhibitors are currently in phase III development in NSCLC.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.09.016 
PMID: 26477472  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Semin Oncol. 2015 Oct;42 Suppl 2:S19-28. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.09.017.
Epub 2015 Sep 11.

Incorporating Immunotherapy Into the Treatment of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer:
Practical Guidance for the Clinic.

Socinski MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Co-Leader, UPCI Lung Cancer Program, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Pittsburgh, PA. Electronic address: socinskima@upmc.edu.

Immunotherapy provides unique challenges in the clinic, as nivolumab is a
first-in-class agent for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Unlike other NSCLC
therapies, immunotherapy cannot currently be selected based on a patient's
clinical characteristics or a tumor's molecular characteristics, although some
evidence suggests that programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) may be useful as a
molecular biomarker in the future. Histology is currently important to the use of
nivolumab because it is only approved in squamous cell NSCLC. However, recent
evidence shows a similar survival benefit of nivolumab in nonsquamous disease, so
histology will likely not be a distinguishing factor in the future. It has been
discovered that immunotherapy often has delayed response kinetics, leading to the
development of immune-related response criteria (irRC) in 2009. The irRC have
distinguishing characteristics from traditional Response Evaluation Criteria in
Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria that prevent physicians from prematurely
discontinuing immunotherapy. In addition to these differences in response
criteria, the safety profiles of immunotherapeutic agents are distinct from other
NSCLC therapies. The toxicities frequently associated with immunotherapies are
unlike common chemotherapy toxicities because they are autoimmune in nature.
Thus, physicians are presented with the challenge of appropriately identifying
and managing these unfamiliar immune-related adverse events.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.09.017 
PMID: 26477471  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Semin Oncol. 2015 Oct;42 Suppl 2:S11-8. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.09.019.
Epub 2015 Sep 11.

Current Perspectives in Immunotherapy for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Garon EB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Director of Thoracic Oncology Program, Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center,
University of California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA. Electronic address:
egaron@mednet.ucla.edu.

In non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the first immune checkpoint inhibitor to
be approved by the US Food and Drug Administration was nivolumab, based on a
survival advantage over docetaxel in recurrent squamous NSCLC, a
difficult-to-treat histology. In addition, several other immune checkpoint
inhibitors are also in late-stage development. Most of these agents inhibit the
programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) pathway, targeting either the PD-1
receptor or its ligand, programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1). In addition to
nivolumab, pembrolizumab is a PD-1 inhibitor under investigation in NSCLC, and
atezolizumab (MPDL3280A), durvalumab (MEDI4736), and avelumab (MSB0010718C) are
PD-L1 inhibitors under investigation. The cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated
antigen 4 (CTLA-4) immune checkpoint inhibitors ipilimumab and tremelimumab are
also under investigation in NSCLC, largely as part of combination approaches
rather than as monotherapy. PD-L1 expression as a potential biomarker to select
patients most likely to respond to inhibitors of the PD-1 pathway has been widely
studied.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.09.019 
PMID: 26477470  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Oct;16(13):e498-509. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00007-8.

Radiation and checkpoint blockade immunotherapy: radiosensitisation and potential
mechanisms of synergy.

Sharabi AB(1), Lim M(2), DeWeese TL(3), Drake CG(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Diego, Department of Radiation Medicine and
Applied Sciences, La Jolla, CA, USA; Department of Radiation Oncology and
Molecular Radiation Sciences, Johns Hopkins Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Baltimore, MD, USA. Electronic address: sharabi@ucsd.edu. (2)Department
of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, Johns Hopkins Sidney
Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD, USA; Department of
Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, Johns
Hopkins Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD, USA; Department
of Oncology, Johns Hopkins Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, 
MD, USA; The Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (4)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins Sidney
Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD, USA; The Brady Urological
Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2016 Jan;17(1):e3-4.

Checkpoint blockade immunotherapy has received mainstream attention as a result
of striking and durable clinical responses in some patients with metastatic
disease and a reasonable response rate in many tumour types. The activity of
checkpoint blockade immunotherapy is not restricted to melanoma or lung cancer,
and additional indications are expected in the future, with responses already
reported in renal cancer, bladder cancer, and Hodgkin's lymphoma among many
others. Additionally, the interactions between radiation and the immune system
have been investigated, with several studies describing the synergistic effects
on local and distant tumour control when radiation therapy is combined with
immunotherapy. Clinical enthusiasm for this approach is strengthened by the many 
ongoing trials combining immunotherapy with definitive and palliative radiation. 
Herein, we discuss the biological and mechanistic rationale behind combining
radiation with checkpoint blockade immunotherapy, with a focus on the preclinical
data supporting this potentially synergistic combination. We explore potential
hypotheses and important considerations for clinical trial designs. Finally, we
reintroduce the notion of radiosensitising immunotherapy, akin to
radiosensitising chemotherapy, as a potential definitive therapeutic modality.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00007-8 
PMID: 26433823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Cancer Treat Rev. 2015 Dec;41(10):914-24. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2015.09.006. Epub
2015 Sep 28.

Targeting immune checkpoints: New opportunity for mesothelioma treatment?

Marcq E(1), Pauwels P(2), van Meerbeeck JP(3), Smits EL(4).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Oncological Research (CORE), University of Antwerp,
Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium. Electronic address:
Elly.Marcq@uantwerp.be. (2)Center for Oncological Research (CORE), University of 
Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium; Laboratory of Pathology,
Antwerp University Hospital, Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650 Antwerp, Belgium. Electronic 
address: Patrick.Pauwels@uza.be. (3)Center for Oncological Research (CORE),
University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium; Thoracic
Oncology/MOCA, Antwerp University Hospital, Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650 Antwerp,
Belgium. Electronic address: Jan.VanMeerbeeck@uza.be. (4)Center for Oncological
Research (CORE), University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp,
Belgium; Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, University of Antwerp,
Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium. Electronic address:
Evelien.Smits@uza.be.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma is an aggressive cancer linked to asbestos
exposure in most patients. Due to the long latency between exposure and
presentation, incidence is expected to further increase in the next decade,
despite the ban on asbestos import which occurred at the end of last century in
industrialized countries. Platinum-based palliative chemotherapy is the only
treatment with proven benefit on outcome, resulting in selected patients in a
median overall survival of about 1 year. Therefore, there is room for therapeutic
improvement using a new strategy to prolong survival. Dealing with cancer cell
induced immunosuppression is a promising approach. Reactivating immune responses 
that are silenced by immune checkpoints recently gained a lot of interest.
Checkpoint blockade has already shown promising preclinical and clinical results 
in several cancer types and is currently also being investigated in mesothelioma.
Here, we discuss the expression patterns and mechanisms of action of CTLA-4 and
PD-1 as the two most studied and of TIM-3 and LAG-3 as two interesting upcoming
immune checkpoints. Furthermore, we review the clinical results of molecules
blocking these immune checkpoints and point out their future opportunities with a
special focus on mesothelioma.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2015.09.006 
PMID: 26433514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2015 Nov;96(2):274-307. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.05.017. Epub 2015 Jul 3.

Cancer modelling in the NGS era - Part I: Emerging technology and initial
modelling.

Rovigatti U(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pisa Medical School, Oncology Department, via Roma 55, 56127
Pisa, Italy. Electronic address: profrovigatti@gmail.com.

It is today indisputable that great progresses have been made in our molecular
understanding of cancer cells, but an effective implementation of such knowledge 
into dramatic cancer-cures is still belated and yet desperately needed. This
review gives a snapshot at where we stand today in this search for cancer
understanding and definitive treatments, how far we have progressed and what are 
the major obstacles we will have to overcome both technologically and for disease
modelling. In the first part, promising 3rd/4th Generation Sequencing
Technologies will be summarized (particularly IonTorrent and OxfordNanopore
technologies). Cancer modelling will be then reviewed from its origin in XIX
Century Germany to today's NGS applications for cancer understanding and
therapeutic interventions. Developments after Molecular Biology revolution (1953)
are discussed as successions of three phases. The first, PH1, labelled "Clonal
Outgrowth" (from 1960s to mid 1980s) was characterized by discoveries in
cytogenetics (Nowell, Rowley) and viral oncology (Dulbecco, Bishop, Varmus),
which demonstrated clonality. Treatments were consequently dominated by a
"cytotoxic eradication" strategy with chemotherapeutic agents. In PH2, (from the 
mid 1980s to our days) the description of cancer as "Gene Networks" led to
targeted-gene-therapies (TGTs). TGTs are the focus of Section 3: in view of their
apparent failing (Ephemeral Therapies), alternative strategies will be discussed 
in review part II (particularly cancer immunotherapy, CIT). Additional Pitfalls
impinge on the concepts of tumour heterogeneity (inter/intra; ITH). The described
pitfalls set the basis for a new phase, PH3, which is called "NGS Era" and will
be also discussed with ten emerging cancer models in the Review 2nd part.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.05.017 
PMID: 26427785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Curr Oncol Rep. 2015 Nov;17(11):52. doi: 10.1007/s11912-015-0476-7.

Immunotherapy in Sarcoma: Future Horizons.

Burgess M(1,)(2), Gorantla V(3), Weiss K(4,)(5), Tawbi H(6,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine,
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. burgessma@upmc.edu. (2)Sarcoma
Program, University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, 5150 Centre Avenue, Fifth
Floor, Pittsburgh, PA, 15232, USA. burgessma@upmc.edu. (3)Medical Oncology,
American Oncology Institute, Serilingampally, Hyderabad, TS, India. (4)Division
of Musculoskeletal Oncology, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (5)Sarcoma Program, University of Pittsburgh
Cancer Institute, 5150 Centre Avenue, Fifth Floor, Pittsburgh, PA, 15232, USA.
(6)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine,
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Immunologic approaches to cancer are over a century old. Over the years, the
strategy has been fine-tuned from inciting infections in subjects to inhibiting
negative regulatory signals from the innate immune system. Sarcomas are among the
first tumors to be considered for immune interventions. From Coley's toxin to
cytokine-based therapies to adoptive cell therapy, there have been numerous
immunotherapeutic investigations in this patient population. A promising strategy
includes adoptive T cell therapy which has been studied in small cohorts of
synovial sarcoma, a subtype that is known to widely express the cancer testis
antigen, NY-ESO-1. Additionally, recent data in metastatic melanoma and renal
cell carcinoma demonstrate the utility and tremendous efficacy of immune
checkpoint blockade with increased rates of durable responses compared to
standard therapies. Responses in traditionally "non-immunogenic" tumors, such as 
lung and bladder cancers, provide ample rationale for the study of immune
checkpoint inhibitors in sarcoma. While immunotherapy has induced some responses 
in sarcomas, further research will help clarify optimal patient selection for
future clinical trials and new combinatorial immunotherapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11912-015-0476-7 
PMID: 26423769  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Curr Opin Oncol. 2015 Nov;27(6):433-44. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000234.

Prognostic and predictive immune gene signatures in breast cancer.

Bedognetti D(1), Hendrickx W, Marincola FM, Miller LD.

Author information: 
(1)aTumor Biology, Immunology and Therapy Section, Division of Translational
Medicine, Research Branch bOffice of the Chief Research Officer (CRO), Research
Branch, Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar cDepartment of Cancer
Biology, Wake Forest School of Medicine dThe Comprehensive Cancer Center of Wake 
Forest University, Winston Salem, North Carolina, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Here, we focus on molecular biomarkers derived from
transcriptomic studies to summarize the recent advances in our understanding of
the mechanisms associated with differential prognosis and treatment outcome in
breast cancer.
RECENT FINDINGS: Breast cancer is certainly immunogenic; yet it has been
historically resistant to immunotherapy. In the past few years, refined
immunotherapeutic manipulations have been shown to be effective in a significant 
proportion of cancer patients. For example, drugs targeting the PD-1 immune
checkpoint have been proven to be an effective therapeutic approach in several
solid tumors including melanoma and lung cancer. Very recently, the activity of
such therapeutics has also been demonstrated in breast cancer patients. Pari
passu with the development of novel immune modulators, the transcriptomic
analysis of human tumors unveiled unexpected and paradoxical relationships
between cancer cells and immune cells.
SUMMARY: This review examines our understanding of the molecular pathways
associated with intratumoral immune response, which represents a critical step
for the implementation of stratification strategies toward the development of
personalized immunotherapy of breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000234 
PMID: 26418235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Curr Drug Saf. 2016;11(1):62-8.

Anti PD-1 and PDL-1 Immunotherapy in the Treatment of Advanced Non- Small Cell
Lung Cancer (NSCLC): A Review on Toxicity Profile and its Management.

Sgambato A, Casaluce F, Sacco PC, Palazzolo G, Maione P, Rossi A, Ciardiello F,
Gridelli C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, "S. G. Moscati" Hospital, Avellino, Italy.
cgridelli@libero.it.

The better understanding of immunology and antitumor immune responses have
prompted the development of novel immunotherapy agents like PD-1 checkpoint
inhibitors (anti-PD-1 and anti- PDL-1 antibodies) that improve the capacity of
the immune system to acknowledge and delete tumors, including lung cancer.
Currently, two anti-PD-1 (nivolumab and pembrolizumab) and one anti- PD-L1
(MPDL-3280A) agents are in advanced stages of development in advanced or
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Among these, nivolumab
demonstrated a survival benefit versus docetaxel in refractory squamous NSCLC,
reporting 41% reduction in risk of death (median overall survival: 9.2 versus 6.0
months; objective response rate: 20% versus 9%), and better safety profile than
standard-of-care chemotherapy (grade 3-4 adverse events: 7% versus 55%). However,
the enhancement of immune response to cancer targeting specific immune regulatory
checkpoints is associated with a toxicity profile different from that related to 
traditional chemotherapeutic agents and molecularly targeted therapies. The
success of immunotherapy is related to ongoing evaluation/identification and
treatment of these immunerelated side effects. Herein, first clinical results of 
PD-1 agents in lung cancer are reviewed, focusing on toxicity profile and its
management.


PMID: 26412670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Cancer J. 2015 Sep-Oct;21(5):398-403. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000146.

Lung Cancer Brain Metastases.

Goldberg SB(1), Contessa JN, Omay SB, Chiang V.

Author information: 
(1)From Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT.

Brain metastases are common among patients with lung cancer and have been
associated with significant morbidity and limited survival. However, the
treatment of brain metastases has evolved as the field has advanced in terms of
central nervous system imaging, surgical technique, and radiotherapy technology. 
This has allowed patients to receive improved treatment with less toxicity and
more durable benefit. In addition, there have been significant advances in
systemic therapy for lung cancer in recent years, and several treatments
including chemotherapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy exhibit activity in
the central nervous system. Utilizing systemic therapy for treating brain
metastases can avoid or delay local therapy and often allows patients to receive 
effective treatment for both intracranial and extracranial disease. Determining
the appropriate treatment for patients with lung cancer brain metastases
therefore requires a clear understanding of intracranial disease burden, tumor
histology, molecular characteristics, and overall cancer prognosis. This review
provides updates on the current state of surgery and radiotherapy for the
treatment of brain metastases, as well as an overview of systemic therapy options
that may be effective in select patients with intracranial metastases from lung
cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000146 
PMID: 26389765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Cancer J. 2015 Sep-Oct;21(5):383-91. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000151.

Immunotherapy for Advanced Lung Cancer.

Asmar R(1), Rizvi NA.

Author information: 
(1)From the *Division of Hematology/Oncology, Columbia University Medical Center;
and †Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY.

Lung cancers are immunogenic tumors that manage to evade the immune system by
exploiting checkpoint pathways that render effector T cells anergic. Inhibition
of these checkpoints can restore and invigorate endogenous antitumor T-cell
responses. The immunotherapeutic approach of checkpoint inhibition has become an 
important treatment option for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer,
playing a role that will continue to evolve over the coming years. The programmed
death 1 inhibitors nivolumab and pembrolizumab have both been shown to induce
durable responses and improve survival in a subset of patients with
platinum-refractory metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Nivolumab has recently
earned Food and Drug Administration approval for progressive squamous cell lung
cancer. Optimization and validation of a pretreatment biomarker to predict
response is a key area of ongoing research. Combination therapy is now being
investigated in an effort to improve response rates.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000151 
PMID: 26389763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Prog Tumor Res. 2015;42:79-94. doi: 10.1159/000437186. Epub 2015 Sep 4.

Combinations Therapies.

Reinmuth N, Reck M.

Immunotherapy of cancer encompasses different strategies that elicit or enhance
the immune response against tumors. The first results from clinical studies have 
provided promising data for the treatment of lung cancer patients with
immunomodulating monotherapies. To improve the potential benefit of cancer
immunotherapy, synergistic combinations of the various immunotherapy approaches
or of different elements within each of the immunotherapy approaches are being
explored. The rationale typically involves different but complementary mechanisms
of action, eventually impinging on more than one immune system mechanism. As a
prominent example, the simultaneous blockade of PD-1 and CTLA-4 is giving rise to
therapeutic synergy, while still offering room for efficacy improvement.
Moreover, combinations of immunomodulating agents with chemotherapy or targeted
molecules are being tested. Animal models suggest that immunotherapies in
combination with these various options offer evidence for synergistic effects and
are likely to radically change cancer treatment paradigms. However, data obtained
so far indicate that toxic side effects are also potentiated, which may even
restrict the selection of patients that are suitable for these combinational
approaches. Advancing the field of combinatorial immunotherapy will require
changes in the way investigational agents are clinically developed as well as
novel experimental end-points for efficacy evaluation. However, this combined
therapeutic manipulation of both tumor and stromal cells may lead to a dramatic
change in the therapeutic options of lung cancer patients in any disease stage
that can only grossly be appreciated by the current studies.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000437186 
PMID: 26384009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2015 Sep 20;18(9):559-64. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2015.09.06.

[Research Progression of Maintenance Therapy in Small Cell Lung Cancer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Lu Y(1), Fan Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Zhejiang Provincial Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou 
310053, China.

Lung cancer is one of the common malignant tumors in the world, the incidence of 
small cell lung cancer is about 15% among them. Small cell lung cancer is highly 
sensitive to first-line chemotherapy, but most of the patients relapse after the 
first-line therapy quickly. Despitemany clinical researchof chemotherapy,
biological agents and molecular targeting agents since the 1980s, there still
remains a substantial lack of consensus regarding the appropriate therapeutic
management on maintenance therapy of small cell lung cancer. The review focuses
on maintenance therapy of small cell lung cancer.

Publisher:
肺癌是世界上最常见的恶性肿瘤之一，其中小细胞肺癌发生率约15%。小细胞肺癌对一线化疗高度敏感，但多数患者在一线治疗缓解后很快出现复发进展，因此，自20世纪80年代
起已开展不少小细胞肺癌维持治疗的相关临床研究，涉及到化疗药物、生物制剂及分子靶向药物。但其结果仍存在争论，现对该方面内容综述如下。.
DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2015.09.06 
PMID: 26383980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Prog Tumor Res. 2015;42:95-109. doi: 10.1159/000437179. Epub 2015 Sep 4.

Promise of Immunotherapy in Lung Cancer.

Shanker A, Dikov MM, Carbone DP.

Metastatic lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer mortality globally in
both men and women, with 5-year survival of less than 5%. Standard treatment
approaches for metastatic lung cancer are based on chemotherapy, with radiation
and surgery used for local control, but these rarely result in relapse-free
survivals longer than 2-3 years, although they may provide symptom relief. Thus, 
additional tools are needed to treat this disease. In this chapter, we discuss
the various immune-based cancer treatments for lung cancer patients that are
being developed, and the increasing awareness that therapies targeted at
overcoming immune evasion mechanisms may be essential to clinical efficacy.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000437179 
PMID: 26383097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Int J Dev Biol. 2015;59(1-3):119-29. doi: 10.1387/ijdb.150044bz.

Cell death in cancer therapy of lung adenocarcinoma.

Zagryazhskaya A(1), Gyuraszova K, Zhivotovsky B.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Division of Toxicology, Karolinska
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

Lung cancer is the main cause of all cancer-related deaths in the world, with
lung adenocarcinoma (ADC) being the most common subtype of this fatal disease.
Lung ADC is often diagnosed at advanced stages involving disseminated metastatic 
tumors. This is particularly important for the successful development of new
cancer therapy approaches. The high resistance of lung ADC to conventional radio-
and chemotherapies represents a major challenge to treatment effectiveness. Here 
we discuss recent progress in understanding the mechanisms of ADC's broad
resistance to treatment and its possible therapeutic implications. A number of
driving oncogenic alterations were identified in a subset of lung ADCs, making
them suitable for targeted therapies directed towards specific cancer-associated 
molecular changes. In addition, we discuss the molecular aberrations common in
lung ADC that are currently being exploited or are potentially important for
targeted cancer therapy, as well as limitations of this type of therapy.
Furthermore, we highlight possible treatment modalities that hold promise for
overcoming resistance to targeted therapies as well as alternative treatment
options such as immunotherapies that are potentially promising for improving the 
clinical outcome of lung ADC patients.

DOI: 10.1387/ijdb.150044bz 
PMID: 26374533  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Semin Cancer Biol. 2015 Dec;35:53-61. doi: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2015.09.002. Epub 
2015 Sep 7.

Metronomic reloaded: Theoretical models bringing chemotherapy into the era of
precision medicine.

Benzekry S(1), Pasquier E(2), Barbolosi D(3), Lacarelle B(4), Barlési F(5), André
N(6), Ciccolini J(7).

Author information: 
(1)INRIA, Team MONC, Institut de mathématiques de Bordeaux UMR 5251, Université
de Bordeaux, Talence, France. (2)Metronomics Global Health Initiative, Marseille,
France; INSERM UMR S_911 CRO2, Aix Marseille Univ., Marseille, France; Children's
Cancer Institute, Randwick, Australia. (3)INSERM UMR S_911 CRO2, Aix Marseille
Univ., Marseille, France. (4)INSERM UMR S_911 CRO2, Aix Marseille Univ.,
Marseille, France; Clinical Pharmacokinetics, La Timone University Hospital of
Marseille, Marseille, France. (5)INSERM UMR S_911 CRO2, Aix Marseille Univ.,
Marseille, France; Service d'Oncologie Multidisciplinaire et d'Innovations
Thérapeutiques, Nord University Hospital of Marseille, Marseille, France.
(6)Metronomics Global Health Initiative, Marseille, France; INSERM UMR S_911
CRO2, Aix Marseille Univ., Marseille, France; Service d'Hematologie et Oncologie 
Pediatrique, La Timone Hospital, Marseille, France. (7)Metronomics Global Health 
Initiative, Marseille, France; INSERM UMR S_911 CRO2, Aix Marseille Univ.,
Marseille, France; Clinical Pharmacokinetics, La Timone University Hospital of
Marseille, Marseille, France. Electronic address: joseph.ciccolini@univ-amu.fr.

Oncology has benefited from an increasingly growing number of groundbreaking
innovations over the last decade. Targeted therapies, biotherapies, and the most 
recent immunotherapies all contribute to increase the number of therapeutic
options for cancer patients. Consequently, substantial improvements in clinical
outcomes for some disease with dismal prognosis such as lung carcinoma or
melanoma have been achieved. Of note, the latest innovations in targeted
therapies or biotherapies do not preclude the use of standard cytotoxic agents,
mostly used in combination. Importantly, and despite the rise of bioguided
(a.k.a. precision) medicine, the administration of chemotherapeutic agents still 
relies on the maximum tolerated drug (MTD) paradigm, a concept inherited from
theories conceptualized nearly half a century ago. Alternative dosing schedules
such as metronomic regimens, based upon the repeated and regular administration
of low doses of chemotherapeutic drugs, and adaptive therapy (i.e. modulating the
dose and frequency of cytotoxics administration to control disease progression
rather than eradicate it at all cost) have emerged as possible strategies to
improve response rates while reducing toxicities. The recent changes in paradigm 
in the way we theorize cancer biology and evolution, metastatic spreading and
tumor ecology, alongside the recent advances in the field of immunotherapy, have 
considerably strengthened the interest for these alternative approaches. This
paper aims at reviewing the recent evolutions in the field of theoretical biology
of cancer and computational oncology, with a focus on the consequences these
changes have on the way we administer chemotherapy. Here, we advocate for the
development of model-guided strategies to refine doses and schedules of
chemotherapy administration in order to achieve precision medicine in oncology.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2015.09.002 
PMID: 26361213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015 Aug 31;9:4989-96. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S90670. eCollection
2015.

A current review of folate receptor alpha as a potential tumor target in
non-small-cell lung cancer.

Shi H(1), Guo J(1), Li C(1), Wang Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, Jinan,
Shandong, People's Republic of China.

Lung cancer remains the leading common cause of cancer-related death, with
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounting for 80% of all cases. To date,
platinum-based doublet chemotherapy is the cornerstone of first-line therapy.
However, these agents have limited use in patients who have relapsed and have
metastatic disease. Therefore, novel strategies are required to improve the
clinical outcome. Folate receptor alpha (FRA) is overexpressed in the majority of
NSCLC, particularly in lung adenocarcinomas. FRA is largely absent from normal
tissue, making it an attractive therapeutic target. In this review, we discuss
FRA expression in NSCLC, conjugated FRA agents, monoclonal antibody, and
FRA-specific T-cell-based therapeutic strategies aiming to improve the cure rate 
of FRA-expressing NSCLC.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S90670 
PMCID: PMC4560517
PMID: 26357465  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Asia Pac J Clin Oncol. 2015 Apr;11 Suppl 1:9-15. doi: 10.1111/ajco.12410.

Stimulating immune responses to fight cancer: Basic biology and mechanisms.

O'Byrne K(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. (2)Queensland
University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. (3)Trinity College,
Dublin, Ireland.

Chronic inflammation is now recognized as a major cause of malignant disease. In 
concert with various mechanisms (including DNA instability), hypoxia and
activation of inflammatory bioactive lipid pathways and pro-inflammatory
cytokines open the doorway to malignant transformation and proliferation,
angiogenesis, and metastasis in many cancers. A balance between stimulatory and
inhibitory signals regulates the immune response to cancer. These include
inhibitory checkpoints that modulate the extent and duration of the immune
response and may be activated by tumor cells. This contributes to immune
resistance, especially against tumor antigen-specific T-cells. Targeting these
checkpoints is an evolving approach to cancer immunotherapy, designed to foster
an immune response. The current focus of these trials is on the programmed cell
death protein 1 (PD-1) receptor and its ligands (PD-L1, PD-L2) and cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4). Researchers have developed anti-PD-1 
and anti-PDL-1 antibodies that interfere with the ligands and receptor and allow 
the tumor cell to be recognized and attacked by tumor-infiltrating T-cells. These
are currently being studied in lung cancer. Likewise, CTLA-4 inhibitors, which
have had success treating advanced melanoma, are being studied in lung cancer
with encouraging results.

© 2015 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ajco.12410 
PMID: 26331485  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Semin Oncol. 2015 Aug;42(4):587-600. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.05.013. Epub 
2015 Jun 10.

Antagonists of PD-1 and PD-L1 in Cancer Treatment.

Lipson EJ(1), Forde PM(1), Hammers HJ(1), Emens LA(1), Taube JM(2), Topalian
SL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and
Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD. (2)Department of
Oncology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and Sidney Kimmel
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD; Department of Dermatology, The Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine and Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Baltimore, MD; Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine and Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD. 
(3)Department of Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and
Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD.

The PD-1 pathway, comprising the immune cell co-receptor Programmed Death 1
(PD-1) and its ligands, PD-L1 (B7-H1) and PD-L2 (B7-DC), mediates local
immunosuppression in the tumor microenvironment. Drugs designed to block PD-1 or 
PD-L1 "release the brakes" on anti-tumor immunity and have demonstrated clinical 
activity in several types of advanced cancers, validating this pathway as a
target for cancer therapy. Two such drugs have recently been approved to treat
melanoma and lung cancers, and regulatory approvals in first- and second-line
settings for additional cancer types are anticipated. The manageable safety
profile of PD-1/PD-L1 blocking drugs identifies them as suitable for outpatient
administration and the development of combinatorial therapies. Ongoing studies
aim to identify biomarkers to guide patient selection, which would further
improve the risk:benefit ratio for these drugs.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.05.013 
PMCID: PMC4555873
PMID: 26320063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Immunotherapy. 2015;7(9):967-80. doi: 10.2217/imt.15.65. Epub 2015 Aug 27.

Strategies for combining immunotherapy with radiation for anticancer therapy.

Seyedin SN(1), Schoenhals JE(2), Lee DA(3), Cortez MA(2), Wang X(2), Niknam S(2),
Tang C(1), Hong DS(4), Naing A(4), Sharma P(5), Allison JP(5), Chang JY(1), Gomez
DR(1), Heymach JV(6), Komaki RU(1), Cooper LJ(7), Welsh JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd, Houston, TX 77030, USA. (2)Department of Experimental
Radiation Oncology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, TX, USA.
(3)Faculty, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Texas Health
Sciences Center, Houston, TX, USA. (4)Department of Investigational Cancer
Therapeutics, Division of Cancer Medicine, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, USA. (5)Department of Immunology, Division of Cancer
Medicine, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(6)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, Division of Cancer
Medicine, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Cancer Medicine, University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.

Radiation therapy controls local disease but also prompts the release of
tumor-associated antigens and stress-related danger signals that primes T cells
to promote tumor regression at unirradiated sites known as the abscopal effect.
This may be enhanced by blocking inhibitory immune signals that modulate immune
activity through a variety of mechanisms. Indeed, abscopal responses have
occurred in patients with lung cancer or melanoma when given anti-CTLA4 antibody 
and radiation. Other approaches involve expanding and reinfusing T or NK cells or
engineered T cells to express receptors that target specific tumor peptides.
These approaches may be useful for immunocompromised patients receiving
radiation. Preclinical and clinical studies are testing both immune
checkpoint-based strategies and adoptive immunotherapies with radiation.

DOI: 10.2217/imt.15.65 
PMCID: PMC4825325
PMID: 26310908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Expert Rev Respir Med. 2015 Oct;9(5):633-54. doi: 10.1586/17476348.2015.1081066. 
Epub 2015 Aug 26.

Latest developments in our understanding of the pathogenesis of mesothelioma and 
the design of targeted therapies.

Bononi A(1), Napolitano A(1,)(2), Pass HI(3), Yang H(1), Carbone M(1).

Author information: 
(1)a 1 University of Hawai'i Cancer Center, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa,
Honolulu, Hawai'i, USA. (2)b 2 Molecular Biosciences and Bioengineering,
University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, Honolulu, Hawai'i, USA. (3)c 3 Department of
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Division of Thoracic Surgery, Langone Medical Center, New
York University, New York, USA.

Malignant mesothelioma is an aggressive cancer whose pathogenesis is causally
linked to occupational exposure to asbestos. Familial clusters of mesotheliomas
have been observed in settings of genetic predisposition. Mesothelioma incidence 
is anticipated to increase worldwide in the next two decades. Novel treatments
are needed, as current treatment modalities may improve the quality of life, but 
have shown modest effects in improving overall survival. Increasing knowledge on 
the molecular characteristics of mesothelioma has led to the development of novel
potential therapeutic strategies, including: molecular targeted approaches, that 
is the inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor with bevacizumab;
immunotherapy with chimeric monoclonal antibody, immunotoxin, antibody drug
conjugate, vaccine and viruses; inhibition of asbestos-induced inflammation, that
is aspirin inhibition of HMGB1 activity may decrease or delay mesothelioma onset 
and/or growth. We elaborate on the rationale behind new therapeutic strategies,
and summarize available preclinical and clinical results, as well as efforts
still ongoing.

DOI: 10.1586/17476348.2015.1081066 
PMCID: PMC4887271
PMID: 26308799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Curr Top Med Chem. 2016;16(7):777-87.

Improvement of malignant pleural mesothelioma immunotherapy by epigenetic
modulators.

Hamaidia M, Staumont B, Duysinx B, Louis R, Willems L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of AgroBioChem, University of Liege, 5030, Gembloux, Belgium.
luc.willems@ulg.ac.be.

In the absence of a satisfactory treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma
(MPM), novel therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. Among these,
immunotherapy offers a series of advantages such as tumor specificity and good
tolerability. Unfortunately, MPM immunotherapy is frequently limited by
incomplete cell differentiation or feedback loop regulatory mechanisms. In this
review, we describe different components of the innate immune system and discuss 
strategies to improve MPM immunotherapy by using epigenetic modulators.


PMID: 26303419  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Thorac Oncol. 2015 Oct;10(10):1396-403. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000644.

BRAF Alterations as Therapeutic Targets in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer.

Nguyen-Ngoc T(1), Bouchaab H, Adjei AA, Peters S.

Author information: 
(1)*Service d'oncologie médicale, Département d'oncologie, Centre Hospitalier
Universitaire Vaudois (CHUV), Lausanne, Switzerland; and †Department of Medicine,
Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York.

BACKGROUND: Several subsets of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are defined by 
molecular alterations acting as tumor drivers, some of them being currently
therapeutically actionable. The rat sarcoma (RAS)-rapidly accelerated
fibrosarcoma (RAF)-mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated
kinase kinase (MEK)-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway
constitutes an attractive potential target, as v-Raf murine sarcoma viral
oncogene homolog B (BRAF) mutations occur in 2-4% of NSCLC adenocarcinoma.
METHODS: Here, we review the latest clinical data on BRAF serine/threonine kinase
inhibitors in NSCLC.
RESULTS: Treatment of V600E BRAF-mutated NSCLC with BRAF inhibitor monotherapy
demonstrated encouraging antitumor activity. Combination of BRAF and MEK
inhibitors using dabrafenib and trametinib is under evaluation. Preliminary data 
suggest superior efficacy compared with BRAF inhibitor monotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Targeting BRAF alterations represents a promising new therapeutic
approach for a restricted subset of oncogene-addicted NSCLC. Prospect ive trials 
refining this strategy are ongoing. A next step will probably aim at combining
BRAF inhibitors and immunotherapy or alternatively improve a multilevel
mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway blockade by combining with ERK
inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000644 
PMID: 26301799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Expert Rev Vaccines. 2015;14(10):1303-11. doi: 10.1586/14760584.2015.1079488.
Epub 2015 Aug 20.

CIMAvax EGF (EGF-P64K) vaccine for the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer.

Crombet Ramos T(1), Rodríguez PC(1), Neninger Vinageras E(2), Garcia Verdecia
B(1), Lage Davila A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a 1 Center of Molecular Immunology, Havana, Cuba. (2)b 2 Hermanos Ameijeiras
Hospital, Havana, Cuba.

Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is overexpressed in many epithelial
tumors and its role in the development of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is
widely documented. CIMAvax-EGF is a therapeutic cancer vaccine composed by
recombinant EGF conjugated to a carrier protein and emulsified in Montanide
ISA51. Vaccination induces antibodies against self-EGF that block EGF-EGFR
interaction and inhibit EGFR phosphorylation. Five clinical trials were conducted
to optimize vaccine formulation and schedule. Then, two randomized studies were
completed in advanced NSCLC, where CIMAvax-EGF was administered after
chemotherapy, as 'switch maintenance'. The vaccine was very well tolerated and
the most frequent adverse events consisted of grade 1/2 injection site reactions,
fever, headache, vomiting and chills. CIMAvax was immunogenic and EGF
concentration was reduced after vaccination. Subjects receiving a minimum of 4
vaccine doses had a significant survival advantage. NSCLC patients with high EGF 
concentration at baseline had the largest benefit, comparable with best
maintenance therapies.

DOI: 10.1586/14760584.2015.1079488 
PMID: 26295963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2015 Oct;16(10):47. doi: 10.1007/s11864-015-0364-2.

Locally Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: Optimal Chemotherapeutic Agents and 
Duration.

Mamdani H(1), Jalal SI, Hanna N.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology/Oncology, Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon Cancer Center,
535, Barnhill Dr, Ste 418, Indianapolis, IN, 46202, USA, hmamdani@iu.edu.

OPINION STATEMENT: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the leading cause of
cancer-related mortality in the USA. The treatment of locally advanced NSCLC
(LA-NSCLC) is challenging and must be individualized. For patients with
completely resected stage III NSCLC, adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy for
4 cycles is recommended. For patients with inoperable or unresectable stage III
NSCLC, chemoradiation is the preferred treatment. Patients with a good
performance status, minimal or no weight loss, and adequate pulmonary function
should be offered concurrent chemoradiation. The optimal chemotherapeutic agents 
to be used concurrently with radiation remain undefined. In the USA, cisplatin
plus etoposide or carboplatin plus paclitaxel are the most commonly used
regimens. In addition, the optimal duration of therapy remains undefined,
including the role of consolidation chemotherapy. Thus far, randomized phase III 
trials have failed to identify a survival advantage for administering
chemotherapy beyond that delivered during radiation therapy. Molecularly targeted
agents, angiogenesis inhibitors, and immunotherapy have a defined role for
patients with metastatic disease. The role, if any, of these new classes of
agents is undergoing investigation for patients with earlier stage disease,
including stage III disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-015-0364-2 
PMID: 26233240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Ann Oncol. 2015 Nov;26(11):2213-20. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdv323. Epub 2015 Jul 30.

Why has active immunotherapy not worked in lung cancer?

Thomas A(1), Giaccone G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic and GI Oncology Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda.
(2)Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Georgetown University, Washington, USA
gg496@georgetown.edu.

Vaccines that rely on active specific stimulation of the host immune system have 
the potential to trigger durable antitumor responses with minimal toxicity.
However, in nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), several large phase III trials of 
vaccines reported within the last year have yielded disappointing results.
Compared with placebo, belagenpumatucel-L (an allogenic tumor cell vaccine),
tecemotide (a peptide vaccine targeting MUC-1) and melanoma-associated antigen-A3
(a protein-based vaccine) did not improve outcomes in NSCLC. The lack of
clinically significant outcomes, despite their ability to prime and expand tumor 
antigen-specific T cells could at least partly be attributed to the inability of 
vaccine-induced T-cell responses to overcome the tumoral mechanisms of immune
escape which limit the clonal expansion of T cells following vaccination. A
number of such mechanisms have been recognized including reduced antigen
presentation, antigenic loss, cytokines, immunosuppressive cells and immune
checkpoints. Strategies aimed at modulating the immune checkpoints have shown
promise and are on the verge of revolutionizing the therapeutic landscape of
metastatic NSCLC. Overcoming immune tolerance and improving the activation of
antitumor T cells via combinatorial approaches may represent a new and more
promising therapeutic application for active immunotherapies in NSCLC.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society for
Medical Oncology 2015. This work is written by (a) US Government employee(s) and 
is in the public domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdv323 
PMCID: PMC4621028
PMID: 26232492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Aug 1;192(3):283-94. doi:
10.1164/rccm.201504-0756UP.

Update in Lung Cancer 2014.

Spira A(1), Halmos B(2), Powell CA(3).

Author information: 
(1)1 Division of Computational Biomedicine, Boston University School of Medicine,
Boston, Massachusetts. (2)2 Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical
Center, New York, New York; and. (3)3 Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.

In the past 2 years, lung cancer research and clinical care have advanced
significantly. Advancements in the field have improved outcomes and promise to
lead to further reductions in deaths from lung cancer, the leading cause of
cancer death worldwide. These advances include identification of new molecular
targets for personalized targeted therapy, validation of molecular signatures of 
lung cancer risk in smokers, progress in lung tumor immunotherapy, and
implementation of population-based lung cancer screening with chest computed
tomography in the United States. In this review, we highlight recent research in 
these areas and challenges for the future.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201504-0756UP 
PMCID: PMC4584253
PMID: 26230235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Cancer J. 2015 Jul-Aug;21(4):294-8. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000135.

Targeted Therapy for Cancer in the Genomic Era.

Afghahi A(1), Sledge GW Jr.

Author information: 
(1)From the Division of Medical Oncology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, CA.

The advent of cancer genomics has led to the development of many highly
successful targeted therapies, primarily inhibitors of growth factor receptors
and related kinases, including imatinib for chronic myeloid leukemia and
trastuzumab for HER2-positive breast cancer. This approach has become highly
successful for certain cancers. However, as the list of targeted therapies
expands, their efficacy becomes more limited, and toxicity accumulates. What we
have learned in the past decades is that while the targeted therapeutics approach
may be highly successful in less complex tumors, cancers defined by
carcinogen-induced genomic chaos, such a UV-induced melanoma or tobacco-induced
lung cancer, are driven by a multitude of competing molecular pathways and, as
such, are not as successfully managed by a similar approach. Luckily, in the past
years, the field of cancer immunotherapy has become more fully developed with the
emergence of checkpoint blockade inhibitor therapy. These promising new agents
are particularly well suited for tumors with a high mutational burden due to
underlying genomic disarray. While still in its infancy, we predict that cancer
immunotherapy will offer a better alternative to our current targeted approach
and eagerly await the results of several ongoing clinical trials that will
elucidate this new direction in cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000135 
PMID: 26222081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015;15(9):1371-9. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1073709.
Epub 2015 Jul 27.

Belagenpumatucel-L for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.

Rijavec E(1), Biello F, Genova C, Barletta G, Maggioni C, Dal Bello MG, Coco S,
Truini A, Vanni I, Alama A, Beltramini S, Grassi MA, Boccardo F, Grossi F.

Author information: 
(1)IRCCS AOU San Martino IST- Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro, UOS
Tumori Polmonari , Largo Rosanna Benzi n° 10, 16132 Genova , Italy +39
0105600665; +39 0105600795; ery80x@yahoo.it.

INTRODUCTION: Immunotherapy has become a promising approach for the treatment of 
NSCLC. In order to stimulate the host immune system against tumour antigens,
several cancer vaccines have been generated and evaluated. Belagenpumatucel-L is 
a whole tumour cell vaccine expressing the antisense strand of the TGF-β2 gene.
AREAS COVERED: The purpose of this article is to review the most relevant
findings of clinical trials testing belagenpumatucel-L in advanced NSCLC
patients.
EXPERT OPINION: Although the Phase III trial investigating belagenpumatucel-L in 
stage III/IV patients did not meet its primary end point, a survival benefit was 
observed in several subgroups of patients. Further studies are needed in order to
select patients who may benefit from this vaccine.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1073709 
PMID: 26211534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Jun;4(3):253-64. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.01.06.

The past, present and future of immunotherapy against tumor.

Jiang T(1), Zhou C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai 200433, China.

Tumor is one of the most common lethal diseases in the world. Current progress of
therapy remains insufficient survival benefit. Tumor immunotherapies have been
proposed for more than a century. With the improvement in the understanding of
the role of the immune system in the tumorigenesis and immune response to tumor, 
immunotherapy has obtained a rapid development and plays the significant role in 
tumor therapy nowadays. This review designs to provide a general overview of
immunotherapy in tumors. We will introduce the landmark events in the past
research of immunotherapy and elaborate a range of strategies using different
immune response mechanism, which have been demonstrated successfully and even
some of them have been approved by US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to
certain tumor therapy. Finally, we will discuss the future direction of
immunotherapy so that we can predict the possible and valuable strategies for
future tumor therapy.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.01.06 
PMCID: PMC4483476
PMID: 26207213  [PubMed]


269. Proc Jpn Acad Ser B Phys Biol Sci. 2015;91(7):292-304. doi: 10.2183/pjab.91.292.

Discovery of NKT cells and development of NKT cell-targeted anti-tumor
immunotherapy.

Taniguchi M(1), Harada M, Dashtsoodol N, Kojo S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immune Regulation, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences
(IMS).

Natural Killer T (NKT) cells are unique lymphocytes characterized by their
expression of a single invariant antigen receptor encoded by Vα14Jα18 in mice and
Vα24Jα18 in humans, which recognizes glycolipid antigens in association with the 
monomorphic CD1d molecule. NKT cells mediate adjuvant activity to activate both
CD8T cells to kill MHC-positive tumor cells and NK cells to eliminate
MHC-negative tumor at the same time in patients, resulting in the complete
eradication of tumors without relapse. Therefore, the NKT cell-targeted therapy
can be applied to any type of tumor and also to anyone individual, regardless of 
HLA type.Phase IIa clinical trials on advanced lung cancers and head and neck
tumors have been completed and showed significantly prolonged median survival
times with only the primary treatment. Another potential treatment option for the
future is to use induced pluripotent stem cell (iPS)-derived NKT cells, which
induced adjuvant effects on anti-tumor responses, inhibiting in vivo tumor growth
in a mouse model.

DOI: 10.2183/pjab.91.292 
PMCID: PMC4631895
PMID: 26194854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


270. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Sep;72(9):996-1003. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2015.1207.

Clinical Features and Treatment Outcomes of Necrotizing Autoimmune Myopathy.

Kassardjian CD(1), Lennon VA(2), Alfugham NB(3), Mahler M(4), Milone M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester Minnesota. (2)Department of
Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester Minnesota2Department of Laboratory Medicine and
Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota3Department of Immunology, Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. (3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. (4)Inova Diagnostics, San Diego, California.

Comment in
    JAMA Neurol. 2015 Sep;72(9):977-9.

IMPORTANCE: Necrotizing autoimmune myopathy (NAM) is characterized pathologically
by necrotic muscle fibers with absent or minimal inflammation. It is often
accompanied by statin therapy, connective tissue diseases, cancer, and
autoantibodies specific for signal recognition particle (SRP) or
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR). Data are limited
concerning differences among etiologic subgroups and treatment outcomes in NAM.
OBJECTIVES: To describe the clinical, serologic, and electrophysiologic
characteristics of NAM, compare patient subgroups, and determine clinical outcome
predictors.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: We conducted a retrospective review of medical
records for 63 adult Mayo Clinic patients assigned the clinical and
histopathologic diagnosis of NAM from January 1, 2004, through December 31, 2013.
Patients were stratified by presumed cause and autoantibody status.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic
characteristics were collected and compared among patient subgroups. Predictors
of response to treatment were identified by univariate logistic regression.
RESULTS: Lower extremity weakness predominated (46 [73%]). Distal weakness (26
[41%]), dysphagia (22 [35%]), and dyspnea (23 [37%]) were common. Twenty-two
patients (35%) were receiving a statin medication at onset, 6 had cancer, and 3
had a connective tissue disease. The median creatine kinase level was 5326 U/L.
In 13 patients (24%), SRP-IgG was detected, and in 17 patients (34%), HMGCR-IgG
was detected (one-third of whom had not received statin medication). One patient 
was dual seropositive. Facial weakness was more common in SRP-IgG-positive
patients. Myotonic discharges were more common in statin-associated NAM.
Prednisone monotherapy was insufficient to control disease in most patients; 30
(90%) of 32 patients required 2 or more immunotherapeutic agents. Relapse
occurred in 16 (55%) of 29 patients during immunosuppressant taper or
discontinuation. Predictors of favorable outcome were male sex and use of 2 or
more immunotherapeutic agents within 3 months of onset.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Necrotizing autoimmune myopathy was idiopathic in half
of this cohort with clinical and histopathologically defined disease. In the
remainder, NAM was associated with statin medication, cancer, or connective
tissue disease. One in 4 patients was SRP-IgG positive, and 1 in 3 was HMGCR-IgG 
positive. The disease was usually not controlled by corticosteroid monotherapy.
Presentation, course, and outcomes did not differ significantly in seropositive, 
seronegative, and statin-associated cases. Early aggressive immunosuppressant
therapy improved outcomes, and risk of relapse was high during medication dose
reduction or withdrawal.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2015.1207 
PMID: 26192196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Cancer Biol Med. 2015 Jun;12(2):87-95. doi: 10.7497/j.issn.2095-3941.2015.0019.

Assays for predicting and monitoring responses to lung cancer immunotherapy.

Teixidó C(1), Karachaliou N(1), González-Cao M(1), Morales-Espinosa D(1), Rosell 
R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Pangaea Biotech, Quirón Dexeus University Hospital, Barcelona 08028, Spain ;
2 Dr. Rosell Oncology Institute, Quirón Dexeus University Hospital, Barcelona
08028, Spain ; 3 Cancer Biology and Precision Medicine Program, Catalan Institute
of Oncology, Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona 08916, Spain.

Erratum in
    Cancer Biol Med. 2015 Sep;12(3):259.

Immunotherapy has become a key strategy for cancer treatment, and two immune
checkpoints, namely, programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) and its ligand (PD-L1), have 
recently emerged as important targets. The interaction blockade of PD-1 and PD-L1
demonstrated promising activity and antitumor efficacy in early phase clinical
trials for advanced solid tumors such as non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Many
cell types in multiple tissues express PD-L1 as well as several tumor types,
thereby suggesting that the ligand may play important roles in inhibiting immune 
responses throughout the body. Therefore, PD-L1 is a critical immunomodulating
component within the lung microenvironment, but the correlation between PD-L1
expression and prognosis is controversial. More evidence is required to support
the use of PD-L1 as a potential predictive biomarker. Clinical trials have
measured PD-L1 in tumor tissues by immunohistochemistry (IHC) with different
antibodies, but the assessment of PD-L1 is not yet standardized. Some commercial 
antibodies lack specificity and their reproducibility has not been fully
evaluated. Further studies are required to clarify the optimal IHC assay as well 
as to predict and monitor the immune responses of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway.

DOI: 10.7497/j.issn.2095-3941.2015.0019 
PMCID: PMC4493376
PMID: 26175924  [PubMed]


272. Cancer Biol Med. 2015 Jun;12(2):79-86. doi: 10.7497/j.issn.2095-3941.2015.0029.

Understanding the function and dysfunction of the immune system in lung cancer:
the role of immune checkpoints.

Karachaliou N(1), Cao MG(1), Teixidó C(1), Viteri S(1), Morales-Espinosa D(1),
Santarpia M(1), Rosell R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Instituto Oncológico Dr Rosell, Quiron Dexeus University Hospital, Barcelona
08028, Spain ; 2 Pangaea Biotech, Barcelona 08028, Spain ; 3 Medical Oncology
Unit, Human Pathology Department, University of Messina, Messina 98122, Italy ; 4
Catalan Institute of Oncology, Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona 08916,
Spain ; 5 Molecular Oncology Research (MORe) Foundation, Barcelona 08028, Spain ;
6 Germans Trias i Pujol Health Sciences Institute and Hospital, Campus Can Ruti
08916, Spain.

Survival rates for metastatic lung cancer, including non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer (SCLC), are poor with 5-year survivals of less
than 5%. The immune system has an intricate and complex relationship with
tumorigenesis; a groundswell of research on the immune system is leading to
greater understanding of how cancer progresses and presenting new ways to halt
disease progress. Due to the extraordinary power of the immune system-with its
capacity for memory, exquisite specificity and central and universal role in
human biology-immunotherapy has the potential to achieve complete, long-lasting
remissions and cures, with few side effects for any cancer patient, regardless of
cancer type. As a result, a range of cancer therapies are under development that 
work by turning our own immune cells against tumors. However deeper understanding
of the complexity of immunomodulation by tumors is key to the development of
effective immunotherapies, especially in lung cancer.

DOI: 10.7497/j.issn.2095-3941.2015.0029 
PMCID: PMC4493378
PMID: 26175923  [PubMed]


273. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Aug;3(8):836-43. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-15-0112.
Epub 2015 Jul 8.

Engineering New Approaches to Cancer Vaccines.

Mehta NK(1), Moynihan KD(2), Irvine DJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Department of Biological Engineering,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. (2)Koch
Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts. Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT
and Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts. (3)Koch Institute for Integrative 
Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts. Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard University,
Boston, Massachusetts. Department of Materials Science and Engineering,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland. djirvine@mit.edu.

Recently, a number of promising approaches have been developed using synthetic
chemistry, materials science, and bioengineering-based strategies to address
challenges in the design of more effective cancer vaccines. At the stage of
initial priming, potency can be improved by maximizing vaccine delivery to lymph 
nodes. Because lymphatic uptake from peripheral tissues is strongly size
dependent, antigens and adjuvants packaged into optimally sized nanoparticles
access the lymph node with much greater efficiency than unformulated vaccines.
Once primed, T cells must home to the tumor site. Because T cells acquire the
necessary surface receptors in the local lymph node draining the tissue of
interest, vaccines must be engineered that reach organs, such as the lung and
gut, which are common sites of tumor lesions but inaccessible by traditional
vaccination routes. Particulate vaccine carriers can improve antigen exposure in 
these organs, resulting in greater lymphocyte priming. Immunomodulatory agents
can also be injected directly into the tumor site to stimulate a systemic
response capable of clearing even distal lesions; materials have been designed
that entrap or slowly release immunomodulators at the tumor site, reducing
systemic exposure and improving therapeutic efficacy. Finally, lessons learned
from the design of biomaterial-based scaffolds in regenerative medicine have led 
to the development of implantable vaccines that recruit and activate
antigen-presenting cells to drive antitumor immunity. Overall, these engineering 
strategies represent an expanding toolkit to create safe and effective cancer
vaccines.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-15-0112 
PMCID: PMC4527881
PMID: 26156157  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


274. J Thorac Oncol. 2015 Jul;10(7):974-84. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000551.

Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: Role of the Immune System and Potential for
Immunotherapy.

Carbone DP(1), Gandara DR, Antonia SJ, Zielinski C, Paz-Ares L.

Author information: 
(1)*Ohio State University Medical Center, Columbus, Ohio; †University of
California Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center, Sacramento, California; ‡H. Lee
Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, Tampa, Florida; §Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Medical University of Vienna General Hospital, Vienna, Austria; and
‖Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla, Seville, Spain.

As the leading cause of cancer death worldwide, lung cancer continues to impose a
major burden on healthcare systems and cause significant challenges for
clinicians and patients. Most patients present with advanced disease at the time 
of diagnosis and have a poor prognosis, with the vast majority surviving less
than 5 years. Although new therapies have been introduced in recent years that
target molecular disease drivers present in a subset of patients, there is a
significant need for treatments able to improve response and extend survival
while minimizing effects on quality of life. Recent evidence of clinical efficacy
for immunotherapeutic approaches for lung cancer suggests that they will become
the next major therapeutic advance for this disease. Non-small-cell lung cancer, 
which accounts for approximately 85% of lung cancer cases, has historically been 
considered a nonimmunogenic disease; however, as with several other malignancies,
recent data show that much of this lack of immune responsiveness is functional
rather than structural (i.e., possible to overcome therapeutically). This review 
explores the key elements of the immune system involved in non-small-cell lung
cancer and briefly examines immunotherapeutic strategies in development to shift 
the balance of immune activity away from a tumor-induced immune-suppressive state
toward an active antitumor immune response.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000551 
PMCID: PMC4618296
PMID: 26134219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Front Immunol. 2015 Jun 10;6:266. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2015.00266. eCollection
2015.

Genetic Manipulation of NK Cells for Cancer Immunotherapy: Techniques and
Clinical Implications.

Carlsten M(1), Childs RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health , Bethesda, MD , USA.

Given their rapid and efficient capacity to recognize and kill tumor cells,
natural killer (NK) cells represent a unique immune cell to genetically reprogram
in an effort to improve the outcome of cell-based cancer immunotherapy. However, 
technical and biological challenges associated with gene delivery into NK cells
have significantly tempered this approach. Recent advances in viral transduction 
and electroporation have now allowed detailed characterization of genetically
modified NK cells and provided a better understanding for how these cells can be 
utilized in the clinic to optimize their capacity to induce tumor regression
in vivo. Improving NK cell persistence in vivo via autocrine IL-2 and IL-15
stimulation, enhancing tumor targeting by silencing inhibitory NK cell receptors 
such as NKG2A, and redirecting tumor killing via chimeric antigen receptors, all 
represent approaches that hold promise in preclinical studies. This review
focuses on available methods for genetic reprograming of NK cells and the
advantages and challenges associated with each method. It also gives an overview 
of strategies for genetic reprograming of NK cells that have been evaluated to
date and an outlook on how these strategies may be best utilized in clinical
protocols. With the recent advances in our understanding of the complex
biological networks that regulate the ability of NK cells to target and kill
tumors in vivo, we foresee genetic engineering as an obligatory pathway required 
to exploit the full potential of NK-cell based immunotherapy in the clinic.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2015.00266 
PMCID: PMC4462109
PMID: 26113846  [PubMed]


276. Immunotherapy. 2015;7(6):683-704. doi: 10.2217/imt.15.29. Epub 2015 Jun 23.

MAGE-A3: an immunogenic target used in clinical practice.

Esfandiary A(1), Ghafouri-Fard S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran 19857-17443, Iran.

Melanoma antigen family A, 3 (MAGE-A3) is a cancer-testis antigen whose
expression has been demonstrated in a wide array of malignancies including
melanoma, brain, breast, lung and ovarian cancer. In addition, its ability to
elicit spontaneous humoral and cellular immune responses has been shown in cancer
patients. As antigen-specific immune responses can be stimulated by immunization 
with MAGE-A3, several clinical trials have used MAGE-A3 vaccines to observe
clinical responses. The frequent expressions of this antigen in various tumors
and its immunogenicity in cancer patients have led to application of this antigen
in cancer immunotherapy. However, the results of recent clinical trials indicate 
that there is a need for research in the vaccine design, adjuvant selection as
well as patient selection criteria.

DOI: 10.2217/imt.15.29 
PMID: 26100270  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015;15 Suppl 1:S31-9. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1017466.
Epub 2015 Jun 22.

Historical review on thymosin α1 in oncology: preclinical and clinical
experiences.

Garaci E(1), Pica F, Matteucci C, Gaziano R, D'Agostini C, Miele MT, Camerini R, 
Palamara AT, Favalli C, Mastino A, Serafino A, Sinibaldi Vallebona P.

Author information: 
(1)University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Department of Experimental Medicine and
Surgery , Rome , Italy +39 6 7259 6462 ; +39 6 7259 6550 ; pica@uniroma2.it.

INTRODUCTION: Thymosin α1 (Tα1) is a naturally occurring polypeptide that
regulates immune cell development and function, and is also capable of
interacting with multiple target cells with relevant biological effects. The
rationale of Tα1 use in cancer treatment stems from the consideration that tumor 
progression is favored by a failure of the immune response and in turn induces
immune suppression. This paper will review the historical background of Tα1 use
in oncology, aiming to highlight the importance of Tα1 as an immunotherapeutic
tool to be used in combination with chemotherapy, a concept that is not yet fully
established in clinic.
AREAS COVERED: The efficacy and safety of combining Tα1 with chemotherapy and
cytokines were first evaluated in murine tumor models, providing essential
information about effects, mechanisms of action, doses and treatment protocols.
The therapeutic potential of the chemo-immunotherapy protocol on metastatic
melanoma and lung cancer has been confirmed in controlled clinical trials.
Critical for the efficacy of the chemo-immunotherapy protocol is the dual action 
of Tα1 on immune effector and tumor cells.
EXPERT OPINION: On the basis of the preclinical and clinical results available,
the use of the chemo-immunotherapy protocol, in which the role of Tα1 is central,
is strongly recommended.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1017466 
PMID: 26096345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2015 Nov;96(2):319-27. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.05.020. Epub 2015 Jun 7.

The evolving locally-advanced non-small cell lung cancer landscape: Building on
past evidence and experience.

Méry B(1), Guy JB(2), Swalduz A(1), Vallard A(2), Guibert C(2), Almokhles H(2),
Ben Mrad M(2), Rivoirard R(1), Falk AT(3), Fournel P(1), Magné N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut de cancérologie de la Loire-Lucien
Neuwirth, Saint-Priest en Jarez, France. (2)Department of Radiotherapy, Institut 
de cancérologie de la Loire-Lucien Neuwirth, 108 bis, Avenue Albert Raimond, BP
60008, 42271 Saint-Priest en Jarez, France. (3)Department of Radiotherapy, Centre
Antoine Lacassagne, Nice, France. (4)Department of Radiotherapy, Institut de
cancérologie de la Loire-Lucien Neuwirth, 108 bis, Avenue Albert Raimond, BP
60008, 42271 Saint-Priest en Jarez, France. Electronic address:
nicolas.magne@icloire.fr.

Lung cancer is a major public health concern worldwide. Progress in improving
5-year survival is lagging behind comparable survival rates in other common
cancers. The majority of patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) are not suitable for surgical resection, hence the major role of
radical radiotherapy. Advances in radiotherapy techniques allow targeted
treatment of the disease, whilst minimizing the dose to organs at risk. Recent
research into fractionation schedules, with hyperfractionated and accelerated
radiotherapy regimens has been promising. Platinum-based chemotherapy has long
been the standard of care for the initial treatment of advanced NSCLC. However,
if radical radiotherapy remains the cornerstone of treatment for patients with
unresectable advanced NSCLC either as single modality treatment or with
concomitant chemotherapy, advances in understanding of tumor molecular biology
and targeted drug development should bring targeted agents into the NSCLC
management. The development of numerous therapeutic approaches has made the
locally advanced NSCLC world change. An up-to-date overview of the current
literature on updated chemotherapeutic agents, targeted therapy, immunotherapy,
radiotherapy in stage III NSCLC is provided.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.05.020 
PMID: 26095618  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2015 Nov;96(2):206-19. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.05.007. Epub 2015 Jun 10.

Risk of pruritus in cancer patients treated with biological therapies: A
systematic review and meta-analysis of clinical trials.

Santoni M(1), Conti A(1), Andrikou K(1), Bittoni A(1), Lanese A(1), Pistelli
M(1), Pantano F(2), Vincenzi B(2), Armento G(2), Massari F(3), Tonini G(2),
Cascinu S(1), Santini D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology, Università Politecnica delle Marche, Azienda
Ospedaliero-Universitaria Ospedali Riuniti Umberto I, GM Lancisi, G Salesi,
Ancona, Italy. (2)Medical Oncology Department, University Campus Bio-Medico,
Rome, Italy. (3)Medical Oncology, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata,
University of Verona, Verona, Italy. (4)Medical Oncology Department, University
Campus Bio-Medico, Rome, Italy. Electronic address: d.santini@unicampus.it.

BACKGROUND: Pruritus has been described with targeted therapies in cancer
patients. We performed an up-to-date meta-analysis to determine the incidence and
RR in patients with cancer treated with these agents.
METHODS: PubMed databases were searched for articles published till October 2014.
Eligible studies were selected according to PRISMA statement. Summary incidence, 
RR, and 95% CIs were calculated using random-effects or fixed-effects models
based on the heterogeneity of selected studies.
FINDINGS: A total of 4803 potentially relevant trials were identified; of them,
33 randomized phase III studies were included in this meta-analysis; 20,151
patients treated with 14 distinct targeted agents were available for this
analysis; 8816 (44%) had Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and 12,257 had other 
malignancies. The highest incidences of all-grade pruritus were observed with
panitumumab (56.8) and gefitinib (49.4), while the lowest incidences were
reported by erlotinib (3.6) and sunitinib (5.8). In addition, the highest
incidence of high-grade pruritus was reported by gefitinib (5.9). The summary RR 
of developing all-grade and high-grade pruritus with targeted agents vs. controls
were 2.2 and 2.6, respectively. The highest RRs of all-grade pruritus were
associated with panitumumab (25.6) and ipilimumab (4.5). Grouping by drug
category, the RR of all-grade pruritus with anti-EGFR mAbs was 2.84 (95% CI 2.39 
to 3.37) compared to anti-EGFR/HER2 TKIs and 1.24 (95% CI 1.03 to 1.49) to
immunotherapy.
INTERPRETATION: Treatment with biological therapy in cancer patients is
associated with a significant increase in the risk of pruritus, and frequent
clinical monitoring of pruritus should be emphasized when managing these and
newer targeted agents.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.05.007 
PMID: 26070625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2015;11(8):871-3. doi: 10.1586/1744666X.2015.1054374.
Epub 2015 Jun 7.

Immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer: are we on the cusp of a new era?

Waqar SN(1), Morgensztern D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.

In this editorial, we highlight the exciting advances in immunotherapy for the
treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, with nivolumab being the first
immunotherapeutic agent to be approved by the US FDA for the treatment of
squamous lung cancer and several other promising immune checkpoint inhibitors
currently being evaluated in clinical trials. The next step is to understand the 
mechanisms of resistance and develop rational combinations in an attempt to
further improve the responses and survival in lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1586/1744666X.2015.1054374 
PMID: 26051156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Future Oncol. 2015;11(15):2175-91. Epub 2015 May 18.

Rationale for targeting the ErbB family of receptors in patients with advanced
squamous cell carcinoma of the lung.

Hall PE(1), Spicer J(1,)(2), Popat S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Guy's & St Thomas' NHS Trust, London, UK.
(2)Division of Cancer Studies, King's College London, London, UK. (3)Royal
Marsden Hospital, London, UK.

Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the lung represents around 30% of all
non-small-cell lung cancers. Treatment options for nonsquamous histology have
increased in recent years following the development of pemetrexed chemotherapy
and the identification of activating EGFR mutations and ALK rearrangements as
targets for effective noncytotoxic agents. By contrast, until recently the
development of new therapies for SCC has lagged behind. However, the
identification of important genetic events driving SCC, including a greater
understanding of the role of the ErbB receptor family in SCC pathogenesis, as
well as recent immunotherapy advances, have led to new treatment options for SCC.


PMID: 26039665  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Future Oncol. 2015 May 20:1-15. [Epub ahead of print]

Immunotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer: the past 10 years.

Vansteenkiste J(1), Craps J(1), De Brucker N(1), Wauters I(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Respiratory Oncology Unit, Department of Respiratory Medicine, University
Hospitals KU Leuven, Herestraat 49, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium.

ABSTRACT  In the past decade, the approach to patients with metastatic
non-small-cell lung cancer has relied on chemotherapy and on targeted agents for 
molecularly selected subgroups of patients. Recent work has introduced
immunotherapy as another area of progress, and likely as a new treatment paradigm
in the near future. While the large Phase III studies with cancer vaccination
with the current technologies remain at present disappointing, the
immunomodulation strategies with immune checkpoint inhibitors have delivered
remarkable results in expanded Phase I studies and are now intensively studied in
large Phase III studies. This review summarizes the past decade of immunotherapy 
for non-small-cell lung cancer, gives an updated overview of trials in this
field, and the context of future development in this exciting field.


PMID: 26039564  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


283. Yale J Biol Med. 2015 Jun 1;88(2):157-65. eCollection 2015.

Evolution of multidisciplinary brain metastasis management: case study and
literature review.

Colaco R(1), Martin P(2), Chiang V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale-New Haven Hospital and Yale School
of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut. (2)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale-New
Haven Hospital and Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.

Up to 40 percent of all cancer patients develop brain metastasis (BM) during the 
course of their disease. Despite advances in diagnosis and therapy, prognosis in 
patients with BM remains poor for many patients, but for some, survival can be of
the order of several years in duration. Difficulty in predicting long-term
survivors has created controversy in contemporary management of BM. Minimizing
medical and neurocognitive side effects (disease borne or iatrogenic) to enhance 
functional independence and improving overall quality of life in these
individuals requires a coordinated approach of first-line and salvage surgical,
chemotherapeutic (cytotoxic, targeted, or immune based), and radiation (whole
brain radiotherapy or stereotactic radiosurgery) modalities. This goal needs to
be balanced against the more traditional targets of management such as symptom
relief, reducing tumor burden, and local tumor control, thereby increasing
progression-free survival. This case study and literature review demonstrates the
role of various treatment modalities in the management of BM.


PMCID: PMC4445437
PMID: 26029014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2015;16(10):4147-56.

Current drugs and drug targets in non-small cell lung cancer: limitations and
opportunities.

Daga A(1), Ansari A, Patel S, Mirza S, Rawal R, Umrania V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, MVM Science College, Saurashtra University,
Rajkot, India E-mail : rakeshmrawal@gmail.com.

Lung cancer is a serious health problem and leading cause of death worldwide due 
to its high incidence and mortality. More than 80% of lung cancers feature a
non-small cell histology. Over few decades, systemic chemotherapy and surgery are
the only treatment options in this type of tumor but due to their limited
efficacy and overall poor survival of patients, there is an urge to develop newer
therapeutic strategies which circumvent the problems. Enhanced knowledge of
translational science and molecular biology have revealed that lung tumors carry 
diverse driver gene mutations and adopt different intracellular pathways leading 
to carcinogenesis. Hence, the development of targeted agents against molecular
subgroups harboring critical mutations is an attractive approach for therapeutic 
treatment. Targeted therapies are clearly more preferred nowadays over systemic
therapies because they target tumor specific molecules resulting with enhanced
activity and reduced toxicity to normal tissues. Thus, this review encompasses
comprehensive updates on targeted therapies for the driver mutations in non-small
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and the potential challenges of acquired drug resistance
faced in the field of targeted therapy along with the imminent newer treatment
modalities against lung cancer.


PMID: 26028064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Ann Transl Med. 2015 May;3(7):96. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2305-5839.2015.03.60.

The latest therapeutic strategies after resistance to first generation epidermal 
growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR TKIs) in patients with
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

Xu M(1), Xie Y(1), Ni S(1), Liu H(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Respiratory Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong
University, Nantong 226001, China ; 2 Department of Pulmonary Disease, Rugao
Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, Rugao 226500, China.

First-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors
(EGFR TKIs), gefitinib and erlotinib, produce reliable responses and survival
benefits in selected patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Unfortunately, most patients who initially respond to first-line therapy with
EGFR TKIs will experience disease progression in 1-2 years. To overcome the
resistance of EGFR TKIs, the potent resistance mechanisms and novel therapeutic
strategies have been developed. T790M mutation and activation of bypass signaling
pathway are identified the predominant mechanisms of acquired resistance to TKIs.
Several approaches have shown promise, such as next-generation EGFR TKIs,
immunotherapy, and combinational therapies. And the limited clinical data suggest
that all drugs are acceptable safe. Additionally, this review will also focus on 
the increasingly importance of re-biopsy at the time of disease progression, and 
the matching effective therapies is related to the identification of specific
molecular types of tumors.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2305-5839.2015.03.60 
PMCID: PMC4430733
PMID: 26015938  [PubMed]


286. Int Immunopharmacol. 2015 Sep;28(1):22-8. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2015.05.021. Epub
2015 May 23.

Efficacy and safety of dendritic cells co-cultured with cytokine-induced killer
cells immunotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer.

Wang S(1), Wang Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong
University, Jinan, Shandong 250021, P. R. China. (2)Department of Thoracic
Surgery, Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong
250021, P. R. China. Electronic address: wz620226@hotmail.com.

Dendritic cells co-cultured with cytokine-induced killer cells (DC-CIK)
immunotherapy has been widely studied and might be a new therapeutic strategy for
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We aimed to comprehensively and
quantitatively evaluate the efficacy and safety of DC-CIK immunotherapy in NSCLC.
Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science were searched for randomized
controlled trials comparing DC-CIK immunotherapy with control therapies in NSCLC.
A total of 505 patients from 6 trials were enrolled. Compared with control
therapies, DC-CIK immunotherapy significantly improved progression-free survival 
(PFS) [hazard ratio (HR): 0.528, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.390-0.715,
P<0.001], overall survival (OS) (HR: 0.619, 95% CI: 0.487-0.786, P<0.001), and
disease control rates (DCR) [relative risk (RR): 1.250, 95% CI: 1.058-1.477,
P=0.009], but objective response rates (ORR) (RR: 1.190, 95% CI: 0.561-2.526,
P=0.650) was not improved for DC-CIK immunotherapy. The risks of all-grade
anemia, leukopenia, dermatosis, diarrhea, nausea, acratia, and chest distress in 
patients receiving DC-CIK immunotherapy were comparable to those receiving
control therapies. This meta-analysis demonstrates DC-CIK immunotherapy has
superiority in PFS, OS, and DCR for NSCLC patients, and no more serious adverse
events appeared. Further studies to provide solid evidence for the routine
clinical use of DC-CIK immunotherapy are urgently needed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2015.05.021 
PMID: 26013109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2015 Jul;14(7):487-98. doi: 10.1038/nrd4506. Epub 2015 May
22.

Therapeutic approaches to enhance natural killer cell cytotoxicity against
cancer: the force awakens.

Childs RW(1), Carlsten M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Scientific insights into the human immune system have recently led to
unprecedented breakthroughs in immunotherapy. In the twenty-first century, drugs 
and cell-based therapies developed to bolster humoral and T cell immunity
represent an established and growing component of cancer therapeutics. Although
natural killer (NK) cells have long been known to have advantages over T cells in
terms of their capacity to induce antigen-independent host immune responses
against malignancies, their therapeutic potential in the clinic has been largely 
unexplored. A growing number of scientific discoveries into pathways that both
activate and suppress NK cell function, as well as methods to sensitize tumours
to NK cell cytotoxicity, have led to the development of numerous pharmacological 
and genetic methods to enhance NK cell antitumour immunity. These findings, as
well as advances in our ability to expand NK cells ex vivo and manipulate their
capacity to home to the tumour, have now provided investigators with a variety of
new methods and strategies to harness the full potential of NK cell-based cancer 
immunotherapy in the clinic.

DOI: 10.1038/nrd4506 
PMID: 26000725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2015;11(7):1573-84. doi: 10.1080/21645515.2015.1037058.

Oncolytic viruses: From bench to bedside with a focus on safety.

Buijs PR(1), Verhagen JH, van Eijck CH, van den Hoogen BG.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Surgery; Erasmus MC; University Medical Center ; Rotterdam ,
The Netherlands.

Oncolytic viruses are a relatively new class of anti-cancer immunotherapy agents.
Several viruses have undergone evaluation in clinical trials in the last decades,
and the first agent is about to be approved to be used as a novel cancer therapy 
modality. In the current review, an overview is presented on recent (pre)clinical
developments in the field of oncolytic viruses that have previously been or
currently are being evaluated in clinical trials. Special attention is given to
possible safety issues like toxicity, environmental shedding, mutation and
reversion to wildtype virus.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2015.1037058 
PMCID: PMC4514197
PMID: 25996182  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2015:e442-7. doi: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2015.35.e442.

Current Standards and Clinical Trials in Systemic Therapy for Stage III Lung
Cancer: What Is New?

Hanna N(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, Indiana
University Melvin and Bren Simon Cancer Center, Indianapolis, IN.

Patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) comprise a
heterogeneous group, some of whom have curable disease. Although surgery plays a 
role for some patients, the majority of fit patients will be treated with
chemotherapy and radiation alone. The optimal therapy for all patients remains
undefined, but certain principles of care are widely accepted. Specifically,
concurrent chemoradiation is the standard of care for patients who are able to
tolerate such therapy, namely those with a good performance status, minimal or no
weight loss, and adequate end-organ function, including pulmonary reserve. The
most commonly used chemotherapy regimens given in combination with radiation
therapy are cisplatin/etoposide or carboplatin/paclitaxel. Studies incorporating 
newer agents have not improved outcomes when compared to these older regimens.
The merits of chemotherapy administered beyond the conclusion of radiation
therapy continue to be debated, but thus far randomized phase III trials have not
provided supporting evidence for this strategy. Incorporating antiangiogenics
with chemoradiation has proven to be ineffective in some cases and unsafe in
others. Studies with targeted agents in unselected patient populations with stage
III disease have also been disappointing. Despite these recent setbacks, however,
there remains a sound rationale for incorporating molecularly targeted agents
into chemoradiation regimens in select patient groups or consolidating
chemoradiation with immunotherapy. Studies that incorporate drugs targeting EGFR,
ALK, RAS, programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), and programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1)
into the management of patients with stage III NSCLC will be reviewed.

DOI: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2015.35.e442 
PMID: 25993208  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2015:e414-8. doi: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2015.35.e414.

Beyond "second-line" in non-small cell lung cancer: therapy and supportive care.

Martins RG(1), Reynolds CH(1), Riely GJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)From Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, University of Washington, Seattle, WA; US
Oncology Research, Ocala, FL; Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Weill
Cornell Medical College, New York, NY.

Although there once was a single algorithm for the treatment of patients with
advanced lung cancer, the modern treatment of advanced lung cancer has multiple
treatment pathways that depend on multiple factors, including histology and
molecular subtype of disease. New molecular targets, targeted agents, and modes
of therapy for patients, including immunotherapy, are being identified at an
accelerating pace. These advances are changing outcomes and the treatment
landscape, but they also highlight situations with inadequate data to support the
use of cytotoxic chemotherapy. In this article, we provide an overview of data
regarding cytotoxic chemotherapy and targeted therapy and their value after
second line, review the critical role of supportive care and palliative care, and
emphasize the importance of advance care planning with our patients. Although
this article focuses primarily on NSCLC, the comments about palliative care and
advanced care planning also apply to patients with small cell lung cancer.

DOI: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2015.35.e414 
PMID: 25993204  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2015:147-62. doi: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2015.35.147.

Beyond adenocarcinoma: current treatments and future directions for squamous,
small cell, and rare lung cancer histologies.

Gerber DE(1), Paik PK(1), Dowlati A(1).

Author information: 
(1)From The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX; Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY; Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH.

Lung cancer encompasses a diverse spectrum of histologic subtypes. Until
recently, the majority of therapeutic advances were limited to the minority of
patients with adenocarcinoma. With the advent of comprehensive genomic profiling 
of squamous and small cell lung cancers, new therapeutic targets have emerged.
For squamous tumors, the most promising of these include fibroblast growth factor
receptor (FGFR), the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway, discoidin
domain receptor 2 (DDR2), and G1/S checkpoint regulators. In 2014, the
antiangiogenic agent ramucirumab was approved for all non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) histologies, including squamous tumors. Immunotherapeutic approaches also
appear to be promising for these cases. Genomic analysis of small cell lung
cancer has revealed a high mutation burden, but relatively few druggable driver
oncogenic alterations. Current treatment strategies under investigation are
focusing on targeting mitotic, cell cycle, and DNA repair regulation, as well as 
immunotherapy. Pulmonary neuroendocrine tumors represent a diverse spectrum of
diseases that may be treated with somatostatin analogs, cytotoxic agents, and
molecularly targeted therapies. Radiolabeled somatostatin analogs and
combinations with mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors also show
potential. Large cell neuroendocrine tumors share numerous clinical, pathologic, 
and molecular features with small cell lung cancer; however, whether they should 
be treated similarly or according to a NSCLC paradigm remains a matter of debate.

DOI: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2015.35.147 
PMID: 25993153  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2015:67-74. doi: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2015.35.67.

Targeted and immunotherapeutic approaches in brain metastases.

Ahluwalia MS(1), Winkler F(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Burkhardt Brain Tumor Neuro-Oncology Center, Neurological Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH; Neurology Clinic, University of Heidelberg and
German Cancer Research Center, Heidelberg, Germany.

Brain metastases are a common and devastating complication of cancer. The
approach to the management of brain metastases is often multidisciplinary and
includes surgery, whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT), stereotactic radiosurgery
(SRS), and systemic therapeutic agents. Until recently, systemic therapy has had 
a limited role in the management of brain metastases because of a lack of
activity, challenges of blood-brain barrier penetration, the heterogeneous
patient population, and a heavily pretreated patient population. Advances in the 
understanding of the biology of brain metastases and molecularly defined disease 
subsets have facilitated an emerging role of novel therapeutic agents, including 
targeted therapies and immunotherapy, in the management of brain metastases.

DOI: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2015.35.67 
PMID: 25993144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Sep;153:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2015.05.004. Epub
2015 May 16.

Vaccine immunotherapy in lung cancer: Clinical experience and future directions.

Freeman-Keller M(1), Goldman J(1), Gray J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Graduate Medical Education, University of South Florida, United 
States. (2)Department of Thoracic Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and
Research Institute, Tampa, FL, United States. Electronic address:
Jhanelle.gray@moffitt.org.

Lung cancer remains the most common cause of cancer-related deaths in the United 
States, with SEER data showing lung cancer accounting for 29% of all male-related
cancer mortality and 26% of all female-related mortality. Patients with small
cell lung cancer (SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have localized
disease both have 5-year survival rates of 52.2%, whereas patients with
metastatic disease have 5-year survival rates of only 3.7%. Traditional
anti-cancer therapies (surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy) have limited
effectiveness in curbing progression. However, advances in immunology and
molecular biology in the past two decades have resulted in improved prognosis for
those with SCLC and NSCLC, although novel therapies are still needed to make
significant improvements in median overall and progression-free survival rates.
Notable progress on the importance of tumor immunology has included work on
immune surveillance, antigenic targets, and immune checkpoints. Immunotherapies, 
including vaccines, which can induce antitumor responses by harnessing the power 
of the immune system, may help to fill this void, and the cancer vaccine
continues to be studied as adjunctive therapy. Here, we review recently reported 
results from clinical trials as well as the possible future roles of vaccine
therapy in the treatment of SCLC and NSCLC patients.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2015.05.004 
PMID: 25989231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Oncology (Williston Park). 2015 May;29(5):331-40.

Stereotactic radiation therapy combined with immunotherapy: augmenting the role
of radiation in local and systemic treatment.

Sharabi AB, Tran PT, Lim M, Drake CG, Deweese TL.

Stereotactic radiosurgery and stereotactic body radiation therapy are two
contemporary radiation modalities that can treat tumors in any area of the body
using highly focused radiation. Recently, immunotherapy has established itself as
a viable and powerful anticancer treatment. In this review we detail the
rationale supporting a combination of immunotherapy and stereotactic radiation.
Additionally, we discuss the evidence for the immune stimulatory effects of
focused radiation and the role that radiation may play in enhancing the systemic 
treatment effects of immunotherapy.


PMCID: PMC4814161
PMID: 25979541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2015 Jun;16(6):26. doi: 10.1007/s11864-015-0345-5.

Immunotherapeutic approaches to sarcoma.

Burgess M(1), Tawbi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, School of Medicine,
University of Pittsburgh and University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, Cancer
Pavilion, Suite 569, 5150 Centre Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA, 15232, USA.

OPINION STATEMENT: Current therapies in advanced sarcomas are primarily based on 
cytotoxic chemotherapy and have modest efficacy coupled with significant
toxicity. Little progress has been made in the field since imatinib was approved 
for the treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) in 2002 despite the
recent FDA approval of the multi-tyrosine kinase inhibitor pazopanib. Novel
therapies are clearly needed. Immunotherapy utilizing checkpoint inhibitors has
yielded significant clinical benefit in multiple solid tumors manifesting as
durable responses in melanoma, kidney, lung, and bladder cancers, as well as
hematologic malignancies. Given the success in several "non-immunogenic" tumors
and recent preclinical data, there is sufficient evidence to support the use of
immunotherapy in sarcoma. Cytokine-based therapies have shown no benefit in the
advanced setting. Two large randomized trials of muramyl tripeptide or of
interferon maintenance in resected osteosarcoma patients did not provide
unequivocal statistically significant benefit. More promising results have been
reported in small studies evaluating vaccines and adoptive T cell therapy in
specific subtypes of sarcoma such as synovial sarcoma, which widely expresses the
immunogenic cancer testis antigen NY-ESO-1. Emerging approaches with chimeric
antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells are hypothesis-generating and
thought-provoking. However, the unprecedented clinical activity and excellent
safety profile of checkpoint inhibitors targeting programmed death-1 receptor and
its ligand (PD-1/PD-L1) have galvanized the field and generated much enthusiasm
to harness the power of immunotherapy in pursuit of cures in patients with
advanced sarcomas. An ongoing phase II study (SARC028) will hopefully usher an
era of investigation of this exciting approach in sarcoma. However, it is
unlikely that one agent will carry a universal cure and future approaches need to
focus on patient selection as well as on identifying the optimal combination of
checkpoint inhibitors with targeted therapy, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-015-0345-5 
PMID: 25975445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Semin Oncol. 2015 Jun;42(3):466-73. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.02.008. Epub
2015 Feb 13.

Anti-PD-1 therapy in melanoma.

Homet Moreno B(1), Parisi G(2), Robert L(1), Ribas A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology, University of
California Los Angeles (UCLA), CA. (2)Department of Medicine, Division of
Hematology-Oncology, University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), CA; Department 
of Oncology, Division of Medical Oncology and Immunotherapy, University Hospital 
of Siena, Italy. (3)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology,
University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), CA; Department of Surgery,
University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, CA; Department of
Medical and Molecular Pharmacology, University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), 
Los Angeles, CA; Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center (JCCC) at UCLA, Los Angeles,
CA. Electronic address: aribas@mednet.ucla.edu.

Immune-regulatory mechanisms are used by cancer to hide from the immune system.
Advances and in-depth understanding of the biology of melanoma and its
interaction with the immune system have led to the development of some of
antagonistic antibodies to the programmed death 1 pathway (PD-1) and one of its
ligands, programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1), which are demonstrating high clinical
benefit rates and tolerability. Blocking the immune-regulatory checkpoints that
limit T-cell responses to melanoma upon PD-1/PD-L1 modulation has provided
clinically validated targets for cancer immunotherapy. Combinations with other
anti-melanoma agents may result in additional benefits. Nivolumab, pembrolizumab 
(formerly known as MK-3475 and lambrolizumab), and pidilizumab are anti-PD-1
antibodies in clinical development for melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer,
renal cell carcinoma, head and neck cancers, lymphoma, and several other cancers.
Long-term survivors already have been reported with these therapies. In this
review, we discuss the current state of anti-PD-1 agents, the evidence in the
literature to support the combination of anti-PD-1 antibodies with other
anti-cancer agents and discuss the future directions for rational design of
clinical trials that keep on increasing the number of long-term survivors.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.02.008 
PMID: 25965365  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Semin Oncol. 2015 Jun;42(3):448-58. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.02.016. Epub
2015 Feb 13.

Immunologic correlates in the course of treatment with immunomodulating
antibodies.

Weide B(1), Di Giacomo AM(2), Fonsatti E(2), Zitvogel L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Dermatooncology, Department of Dermatology, University Medical
Center Tübingen, Germany. Electronic address:
benjamin.weide@med.uni-tuebingen.de. (2)Division of Medical Oncology and
Immunotherapy, University Hospital of Siena, Italy. (3)Gustave Roussy Cancer
Campus, Villejuif, France; INSERM U1015, Villejuif, France; Université Paris
Sud-XI, Faculté de Médecine, Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France; Center of Clinical
Investigations in Biotherapies of Cancer (CICBT) 507, Villejuif, France.

Monoclonal antibodies (Ab) targeting immune checkpoints like CTLA-4 or PD-1 have 
come of age in the treatment of metastatic melanoma and further approvals are
expected for other malignancies like lung and renal cell cancer as well. However,
the majority of patients still do not experience clinical benefit upon these
therapies. Moreover, immune-related side effects and the costs of these therapies
prompt the search for their precise mode of action and for biomarker discovery.
Here, we describe different classes of immunologic correlates such as
pharmacodynamic changes observed in all treated patients, correlates with
response during treatment (surrogate markers) or at the time-point of tumor
assessment, as well as predictive markers for response and for immune-related
adverse events. This review gives an overview of available data about correlates 
analyzed in the serum, all in immune cell subsets in the peripheral blood or in
tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. We will discuss how to prospectively validate and
integrate these parameters for routine assessment of patients in daily clinical
practice and give an outlook on promising future directions of biomarker
research.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.02.016 
PMID: 25965363  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Semin Oncol. 2015 Jun;42(3):418-22. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.02.001. Epub
2015 Feb 24.

Immune checkpoint blockade in malignant mesothelioma.

Calabrò L(1), Maio M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology and Immunotherapy, University Hospital of Siena, Istituto
Toscano Tumori, Siena, Italy. Electronic address: l.calabro@ao-siena.toscana.it. 
(2)Medical Oncology and Immunotherapy, University Hospital of Siena, Istituto
Toscano Tumori, Siena, Italy.

Malignant mesothelioma (MM) is a highly aggressive malignancy with a very dismal 
prognosis. Current treatment for unresectable MM is largely unsatisfactory;
therefore, new therapeutic approaches are eagerly awaited. A better understanding
of the complex mechanisms of immune escape operated by neoplastic cells and the
ability to unleash an efficient anti-tumor immune response by targeting
regulatory immune checkpoint(s) with immunomodulatory monoclonal antibodies
(mAbs), is leading to very promising clinical results in different tumor types.
Herein, we highlight the clinical impact so far identified for these new
immunomodulatory agents in MM patients and discuss their prospective use to
design novel clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2015.02.001 
PMID: 25965359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2015 Sep;12(9):511-26. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.90. Epub
2015 May 12.

Refining the treatment of NSCLC according to histological and molecular subtypes.

Thomas A(1), Liu SV(2), Subramaniam DS(2), Giaccone G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic and Gastrointestinal Oncology Branch, Center for Cancer Research,
Building 10, 4-4553, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892-1201, USA. (2)Department of Oncology, Lombardi Comprehensive
Cancer Center, Georgetown University, 3970 Reservoir Road North West, Washington,
DC 20057, USA.

In the past decade, the characterization of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
into subtypes based on genotype and histology has resulted in dramatic
improvements in disease outcome in select patient subgroups. In particular,
molecularly targeted agents that inhibit EGFR or ALK are approved for the
treatment of NSCLC harbouring genetic alterations in the genes encoding these
proteins. Although acquired resistance usually limits the duration of response to
these therapies, a number of new agents have proven effective at tackling
specific resistance mechanisms to first-generation inhibitors. Large initiatives 
are starting to address the role of biomarker-driven targeted therapy in squamous
lung cancers, and in the adjuvant setting. Immunotherapy undeniably holds great
promise and our understanding of subsets of NSCLC based on patterns of immune
response is continuing to evolve. In addition, efforts are underway to identify
rare genomic subsets through genomic screening, functional studies, and molecular
characterization of exceptional responders. This Review provides an overview of
the key developments in the treatment of NSCLC, and discusses potential
strategies to further optimize therapy by targeting disease subtypes.

DOI: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.90 
PMID: 25963091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2015 Jun;34(2):277-90. doi: 10.1007/s10555-015-9566-0.

Regulatory T cells and potential inmmunotherapeutic targets in lung cancer.

Zhang D(1), Chen Z, Wang DC, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Minhang Hospital, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai Institute of 
Clinical Bioinformatics, Fudan University Center for Clinical Bioinformatics,
Shanghai, China.

Lung cancer and metastasis are two of the most lethal diseases globally and
seldom have effective therapies. Immunotherapy is considered as one of the
powerful alternatives. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) can suppress the activation of 
the immune system, maintain immune tolerance to self-antigens, and contribute to 
immunosuppression of antitumor immunity, which is critical for tumor immune
evasion in epithelial malignancies, including lung cancer. The present review
gives an overview of the biological functions and regulations of Tregs associated
with the development of lung cancer and metastasis and explores the potentials of
Treg-oriented therapeutic targets. Subsets and features of Tregs mainly include
naturally occurring Tregs (nTregs) (CD4(+) nTregs and CD8(+) nTregs) and
adaptive/induced Tregs (CD4(+) iTregs and CD8(+) iTregs). Tregs, especially in
circulation or regional lymph nodes, play an important role in the progress and
metastasis of lung cancer and are considered as therapeutic targets and
biomarkers to predict the survival length and recurrence of lung cancer.
Increasing understanding of Tregs' functional mechanisms will lead to a number of
clinical trials on the discovery and development of Treg-oriented new therapies. 
Tregs play important roles in lung cancer and metastasis, and the understanding
of Tregs becomes more critical for clinical applications and therapies. Thus,
Tregs and associated factors can be potential therapeutic targets for lung cancer
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10555-015-9566-0 
PMID: 25962964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Curr Mol Med. 2015;15(5):418-32.

KRAS Mutations in Lung Adenocarcinoma: Molecular and Epidemiological
Characteristics, Methods for Detection, and Therapeutic Strategy Perspectives.

Guibert N, Ilie M, Long E, Hofman V, Bouhlel L, Brest P, Mograbi B, Marquette CH,
Didier A, Mazieres J, Hofman P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Pathologie Clinique et Experimentale, Hopital Pasteur, CHU de
Nice, 30 avenue de la Voie Romaine, F-06002 Nice Cedex 1, France.
hofman.p@chu-nice.fr.

KRAS mutations are detected in over one third of lung adenocarcinomas, most
frequently in Caucasian and smoker patients. The impact of KRAS mutations on lung
adenocarcinoma prognosis is currently subject to debate, as is their impact on
the response to chemotherapy and EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The different
methods for KRAS status assessment, based on histological and cytological samples
or biological fluids, offer varying sensitivities. Since no treatments are
available in clinical routine for KRAS-mutated lung cancer patients, one of the
current major challenges in thoracic oncology is developing new dedicated
strategic therapies. Different molecules can be developed that act on a
post-transcriptional KRAS protein level, blocking its cytoplasmic membrane
recruitment. The efficacy of these molecules' targeting of the different
signaling pathways activated by the KRAS mutation (such as the MEK and BRAF
pathways) is related to the particular KRAS mutation subtype. New therapeutic
strategies are currently focused on certain genes linked with KRAS inducing a
synthetic lethal interaction. The purpose of this work is to provide an overview 
of i) the recent epidemiological and molecular findings concerning KRASmutated
lung adenocarcinoma, ii) the prognostic impact of KRAS mutations, in particular
during response to treatment, iii) the available methods for detecting this
mutation, and iv) the current molecules under development for new therapeutic
strategies and the clinical trials targeting this genomic alteration.


PMID: 25941815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Comput Struct Biotechnol J. 2015 Apr 8;13:265-72. doi:
10.1016/j.csbj.2015.03.008. eCollection 2015.

A2aR antagonists: Next generation checkpoint blockade for cancer immunotherapy.

Leone RD(1), Lo YC(1), Powell JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Research Center, Department of Oncology,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

The last several years have witnessed exciting progress in the development of
immunotherapy for the treatment of cancer. This has been due in great part to the
development of so-called checkpoint blockade. That is, antibodies that block
inhibitory receptors such as CTLA-4 and PD-1 and thus unleash antigen-specific
immune responses against tumors. It is clear that tumors evade the immune
response by usurping pathways that play a role in negatively regulating normal
immune responses. In this regard, adenosine in the immune microenvironment
leading to the activation of the A2a receptor has been shown to represent one
such negative feedback loop. Indeed, the tumor microenvironment has relatively
high concentrations of adenosine. To this end, blocking A2a receptor activation
has the potential to markedly enhance anti-tumor immunity in mouse models. This
review will present data demonstrating the ability of A2a receptor blockade to
enhance tumor vaccines, checkpoint blockade and adoptive T cell therapy. Also, as
several recent studies have demonstrated that under certain conditions A2a
receptor blockade can enhance tumor progression, we will also explore the
complexities of adenosine signaling in the immune response. Despite important
nuances to the A2a receptor pathway that require further elucidation, studies to 
date strongly support the development of A2a receptor antagonists (some of which 
have already been tested in phase III clinical trials for Parkinson Disease) as
novel modalities in the immunotherapy armamentarium.

DOI: 10.1016/j.csbj.2015.03.008 
PMCID: PMC4415113
PMID: 25941561  [PubMed]


303. Cancer Treat Rev. 2015 Jun;41(6):465-75. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2015.04.001. Epub
2015 Apr 9.

Addressing the unmet need in lung cancer: The potential of immuno-oncology.

Scagliotti GV(1), Bironzo P(2), Vansteenkiste JF(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Torino, Department of Oncology, Orbassano, Torino, Italy.
Electronic address: scagliotti@ihnet.it. (2)University of Torino, Department of
Oncology, Orbassano, Torino, Italy. (3)Respiratory Oncology Unit and Trial Unit, 
Department of Pulmonology, University Hospitals KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

Chemotherapy is currently the standard of care for non-oncogene-driven advanced
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Due to improvements in chemotherapeutic
choices and supportive care, patients currently typically undergo multiple lines 
of chemotherapy as their disease progresses. Although treatments have improved
over recent years, limited benefits are seen, especially in patients receiving
later-line chemotherapy, as response rates can be low, response duration short
and survival poor. Furthermore, only a small percentage of patients derive
benefit from later-line therapy, with most experiencing deteriorating quality of 
life and significant toxicities. More recently, molecular targeted therapies have
provided improvements in outcomes. However, these treatments only offer a clear
benefit in subsets of tumours harbouring the appropriate genomic alteration
(mutation, amplification, translocation). Most of the genomic abnormalities
susceptible to therapeutic intervention are detected in adenocarcinoma, mainly in
never smokers, while alterations in the genome of other histological subtypes are
known but specific agents targeting these alterations have yet to be developed.
Thus, the therapeutic management of these subtypes represents an ongoing
challenge. Recent advances in immunotherapy have highlighted the potential of
immuno-oncology based treatments for NSCLC, offering the potential to provide
durable responses and outcomes regardless of histology or mutation status. This
review discusses the current unmet medical needs in NSCLC, the limits of current 
first-line and later-line chemotherapy and targeted agents, and the emergence of 
new therapeutic strategies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2015.04.001 
PMID: 25936526  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


304. J Clin Med. 2015 Apr;4(4):665-95. doi: 10.3390/jcm4040665.

Current Approaches in the Treatment of Relapsed and Refractory Acute Myeloid
Leukemia.

Ramos NR(1), Mo CC(2), Karp JE(3), Hourigan CS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Myeloid Malignancies Section, Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and
Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1583, USA ;
Department of Hematology-Oncology, John P. Murtha Cancer Center, Walter Reed
National Military Medical Center, Bethesda, MD 20889, USA. (2)Department of
Hematology-Oncology, John P. Murtha Cancer Center, Walter Reed National Military 
Medical Center, Bethesda, MD 20889, USA. (3)Division of Hematologic Malignancies,
Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. (4)Myeloid Malignancies Section, Hematology Branch,
National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892-1583, USA.

The limited sensitivity of the historical treatment response criteria for acute
myeloid leukemia (AML) has resulted in a different paradigm for treatment
compared with most other cancers presenting with widely disseminated disease.
Initial cytotoxic induction chemotherapy is often able to reduce tumor burden to 
a level sufficient to meet the current criteria for "complete" remission.
Nevertheless, most AML patients ultimately die from their disease, most commonly 
as clinically evident relapsed AML. Despite a variety of available salvage
therapy options, prognosis in patients with relapsed or refractory AML is
generally poor. In this review, we outline the commonly utilized salvage
cytotoxic therapy interventions and then highlight novel investigational efforts 
currently in clinical trials using both pathway-targeted agents and immunotherapy
based approaches. We conclude that there is no current standard of care for adult
relapsed or refractory AML other than offering referral to an appropriate
clinical trial.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm4040665 
PMCID: PMC4412468
PMID: 25932335  [PubMed]


305. J Vet Intern Med. 2015 May-Jun;29(3):759-69. doi: 10.1111/jvim.12603. Epub 2015
Apr 30.

The immunotherapy of canine osteosarcoma: a historical and systematic review.

Wycislo KL(1,)(2), Fan TM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiology, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, 61802.
(2)Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, 61802.
(3)Department of Veterinary Clinical Medicine, University of Illinois, Urbana,
IL, 61802.

Osteosarcoma is a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that accounts for the majority
of primary bone tumors in dogs and shares biological and clinical similarities
with osteosarcoma in humans. Despite dose intensification with conventional
cytotoxic therapies, survival times for dogs and humans diagnosed with high-grade
osteosarcoma have not changed in the past 20 years, with the principal cause of
mortality being the development of pulmonary metastases. Given the therapeutic
plateau reached for delaying metastatic progression with cytotoxic agents,
exploration of alterative adjuvant therapies for improving management of
osteosarcoma micrometastases is clinically justified. Evidence suggests that
osteosarcoma is an immunogenic tumor, and development of immunotherapies for the 
treatment of microscopic lung metastases might improve long-term outcomes. In
this review, the history and foundational knowledge of immune interactions to
canine osteosarcoma are highlighted. In parallel, immunotherapeutic strategies
that have been explored for the treatment of canine osteosarcoma are summarized. 
With a greater understanding and awareness for how the immune system might be
redirected toward combating osteosarcoma metastases, the rational development of 
diverse immune strategies for managing osteosarcoma holds substantial promise for
transforming the therapeutic landscape and improving disease management in both
dogs and human beings.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine published
by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of the American College of Veterinary
Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jvim.12603 
PMCID: PMC4895426
PMID: 25929293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Front Immunol. 2015 Apr 15;6:162. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2015.00162. eCollection
2015.

Heat Shock Protein 70 (Hsp70) Peptide Activated Natural Killer (NK) Cells for the
Treatment of Patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) after
Radiochemotherapy (RCTx) - From Preclinical Studies to a Clinical Phase II Trial.

Specht HM(1), Ahrens N(2), Blankenstein C(3), Duell T(4), Fietkau R(5), Gaipl
US(5), Günther C(6), Gunther S(1), Habl G(1), Hautmann H(7), Hautmann M(8), Huber
RM(9), Molls M(1), Offner R(2), Rödel C(10), Rödel F(10), Schütz M(11), Combs
SE(1), Multhoff G(12).

Author information: 
(1)Radiation Oncology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische Universität München ,
Munich , Germany. (2)Transfusion Medicine, Institute for Clinical Chemistry and
Laboratory Medicine, University Hospital Regensburg , Regensburg , Germany.
(3)Münchner Studienzentrum (MSZ), Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische
Universität München , Munich , Germany. (4)Thoracic Oncology, Asklepios
Lungenfachkliniken , Munich , Germany. (5)Radiation Oncology, University Hospital
Erlangen , Erlangen , Germany. (6)GMP Laboratory, apceth GmbH & Co. KG , Munich ,
Germany. (7)Thoracic Oncology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische Universität
München , Munich , Germany. (8)Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Regensburg
, Regensburg , Germany. (9)Thoracic Oncology, Department of Medicine, University 
of Munich , Munich , Germany. (10)Radiation Oncology, University Hospital
Frankfurt , Frankfurt , Germany. (11)Thoracic Oncology, Klinikum Bogenhausen ,
Munich , Germany. (12)Radiation Oncology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische
Universität München , Munich , Germany ; Institute of Biological Molecular
Imaging, Helmholtz Zentrum München , Munich , Germany.

Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) is frequently overexpressed in tumor cells. An
unusual cell surface localization could be demonstrated on a large variety of
solid tumors including lung, colorectal, breast, squamous cell carcinomas of the 
head and neck, prostate and pancreatic carcinomas, glioblastomas, sarcomas and
hematological malignancies, but not on corresponding normal tissues. A membrane
(m)Hsp70-positive phenotype can be determined either directly on single cell
suspensions of tumor biopsies by flow cytometry using cmHsp70.1 monoclonal
antibody or indirectly in the serum of patients using a novel lipHsp70 ELISA. A
mHsp70-positive tumor phenotype has been associated with highly aggressive
tumors, causing invasion and metastases and resistance to cell death. However,
natural killer (NK), but not T cells were found to kill mHsp70-positive tumor
cells after activation with a naturally occurring Hsp70 peptide (TKD) plus low
dose IL-2 (TKD/IL-2). Safety and tolerability of ex vivo TKD/IL-2 stimulated,
autologous NK cells has been demonstrated in patients with metastasized
colorectal and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in a phase I clinical trial.
Based on promising clinical results of the previous study, a phase II randomized 
clinical study was initiated in 2014. The primary objective of this multicenter
proof-of-concept trial is to examine whether an adjuvant treatment of NSCLC
patients after platinum-based radiochemotherapy (RCTx) with TKD/IL-2 activated,
autologous NK cells is clinically effective. As a mHsp70-positive tumor phenotype
is associated with poor clinical outcome only mHsp70-positive tumor patients will
be recruited into the trial. The primary endpoint of this study will be the
comparison of the progression-free survival of patients treated with ex vivo
activated NK cells compared to patients who were treated with RCTx alone. As
secondary endpoints overall survival, toxicity, quality-of-life, and biological
responses will be determined in both study groups.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2015.00162 
PMCID: PMC4397864
PMID: 25926832  [PubMed]


307. Asia Pac J Clin Oncol. 2015 Apr;11 Suppl 1:2-8. doi: 10.1111/ajco.12361.

Role of immunotherapy in lung cancer: Preliminary results of new vaccines and
immune checkpoint inhibitors.

John T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Olivia Newton-John Cancer Centre, Austin Health, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.

The two dominant approaches to manipulating cancer immunotherapeutics are active,
where the immune system is directly stimulated, and passive, where antitumor
antibodies stimulate an indirect immune response. At this point, the active
approach is receiving more attention in the arena of lung cancer, with ongoing
vaccine clinical trials and studies investigating the role of immune checkpoint
inhibitors, in particular those that block the programmed death 1(PD-1) receptor 
and its ligands. Early results from trials of PD-1/PD-L1 ligand inhibitors in
nonsmall cell lung cancer are promising, with patients experiencing rapid and
durable responses in the first-, second- and third-line setting as well as in
combination with chemotherapy and other immune checkpoint inhibitors. Although
the number of patients in these trials is small and the results are preliminary, 
lung cancer physicians are encouraged that they may soon have agents that confer 
benefits in excess of those seen with chemotherapy to offer their patients.
Further results of ongoing trials are highly anticipated.

© 2015 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ajco.12361 
PMID: 25913639  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2015 Oct;9(5):224-35. doi: 10.1177/1753465815581147. Epub
2015 Apr 22.

Best practice in the treatment of advanced squamous cell lung cancer.

Ang YL(1), Tan HL(1), Soo RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, National University Cancer Institute,
National University Health System, Singapore. (2)Department of
Hematology-Oncology, National University Cancer Institute, National University
Health System, 1E Kent Ridge Road, NUHS Tower Block Level 7, Singapore 119228
ross_soo@nuhs.edu.sg.

The management of advanced stage nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has been
altered by the recognition of histology-based treatment and the use of targeted
therapy. Whilst outcomes have improved with adenocarcinoma, treatment options are
still limited in advanced stage squamous cell lung cancer. With advances in the
molecular characterization of squamous cell cancers (SCCs), new potential targets
have been identified. In this review, we discuss the role of histology in the
treatment of NSCLC, cytotoxic chemotherapy, existing targeted therapies, the new 
molecular subsets and novel inhibitors in squamous cell lung carcinoma, and the
emerging role of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Based on the results of two recent
studies, nivolumab, a programmed death 1 (PD-1) immune checkpoint inhibitor, has 
been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the treatment of
squamous cell NSCLC in the second-line setting. Well-designed biomarker driven
studies are needed to accelerate the development and approval of novel therapies 
for patients with lung SCC.

© The Author(s), 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1753465815581147 
PMID: 25902866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2015 Jul;12(7):381-94. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.73. Epub
2015 Apr 21.

Clinical management of breast cancer heterogeneity.

Zardavas D(1), Irrthum A(1), Swanton C(2), Piccart M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Breast International Group (BIG)-aisbl c/o Jules Bordet Institute, Boulevard
de Waterloo 121, 1000 Brussels, Belgium. (2)University College London Cancer
Institute, Cancer Research UK Lung Cancer Centre of Excellence, Paul O'Gorman
Building, Huntley Street, London WC1E 6DD, UK. (3)Jules Bordet Institute,
Boulevard de Waterloo 121, 1000 Brussels, Belgium.

Traditionally, intertumour heterogeneity in breast cancer has been documented in 
terms of different histological subtypes, treatment sensitivity profiles, and
clinical outcomes among different patients. Results of high-throughput molecular 
profiling studies have subsequently revealed the true extent of this
heterogeneity. Further complicating this scenario, the heterogeneous expression
of the oestrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), and HER2 has been
reported in different areas of the same tumour. Furthermore, discordance, in
terms of ER, PR and HER2 expression, has also been reported between primary
tumours and their matched metastatic lesions. High-throughput molecular profiling
studies have confirmed that spatial and temporal intratumour heterogeneity of
breast cancers exist at a level beyond common expectations. We describe the
different levels of tumour heterogeneity, and discuss the strategies that can be 
adopted by clinicians to tackle treatment response and resistance issues
associated with such heterogeneity, including a rationally selected combination
of agents that target driver mutations, the targeting of deleterious passenger
mutations, identifying and eradicating the 'lethal' clone, targeting the tumour
microenvironment, or using adaptive treatments and immunotherapy. The
identification of the most-appropriate strategies and their implementation in the
clinic will prove highly challenging and necessitate the adoption of radically
new practices for the optimal clinical management of breast malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.73 
PMID: 25895611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Cancer Lett. 2015 Nov 28;368(2):246-51. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2015.04.007. Epub
2015 Apr 16.

Immune modulation in advanced radiotherapies: Targeting out-of-field effects.

Hanna GG(1), Coyle VM(2), Prise KM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology, Queen's University of Belfast, 95
Lisburn Road, Belfast BT9 7AE, Northern Ireland, UK. Electronic address:
g.hanna@qub.ac.uk. (2)Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology, Queen's
University of Belfast, 95 Lisburn Road, Belfast BT9 7AE, Northern Ireland, UK.

By virtue of being a localized treatment modality, radiotherapy is unable to
deliver a tumoricidal radiation dose to tissues outside of the irradiated field. 
Nevertheless, ionizing radiation may result in radiation damage mediated by a
bystander like effect away from the irradiated field, but this response is likely
to be modest when radiotherapy is the sole treatment modality. Over the last
decade there has been a re-emergence of immune modulating therapies as
anti-cancer treatment modalities. Clinical trials on vaccines have on the whole
been largely disappointing, but greater response rates have been observed from
the immune checkpoint modulators. A clinical benefit of using such agents has
been shown in disease sites such as melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer.
There is growing pre-clinical data and a number of case reports which suggest the
presence of abscopal effects when radiotherapy is co-administered with immune
checkpoint inhibitors, suggesting that this combination may lead to an enhanced
tumour response outside of the primary treatment field. In this review, the
mechanisms of such an enhanced out-of-field tumour response, the potential
clinical utilities, the optimal radiotherapy delivery and considerations for
clinical follow-up following treatment are discussed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2015.04.007 
PMID: 25892550  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Blood Cancer J. 2015 Apr 17;5:e306. doi: 10.1038/bcj.2015.32.

The cellular immune system in myelomagenesis: NK cells and T cells in the
development of myeloma [corrected] and their uses in immunotherapies.

Dosani T(1), Carlsten M(2), Maric I(3), Landgren O(4).

Author information: 
(1)Lymphoid Malignancies Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. (2)Hematology
Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD, USA. (3)Hematology Section, Department of Laboratory Medicine,
Clinical Center, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. (4)Myeloma
Service, Division of Hematology Oncology, Department of Medicine, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.

Erratum in
    Blood Cancer J. 2015;5:e321.

As vast strides are being made in the management and treatment of multiple
myeloma (MM), recent interests are increasingly focusing on understanding the
development of the disease. The knowledge that MM develops exclusively from a
protracted phase of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance provides
an opportunity to study tumor evolution in this process. Although the immune
system has been implicated in the development of MM, the scientific literature on
the role and status of various immune components in this process is broad and
sometimes contradictory. Accordingly, we present a review of cellular immune
subsets in myelomagenesis. We summarize the current literature on the
quantitative and functional profiles of natural killer cells and T-cells,
including conventional T-cells, natural killer T-cells, γδ T-cells and regulatory
T-cells, in myelomagenesis. Our goal is to provide an overview of the status and 
function of these immune cells in both the peripheral blood and the bone marrow
during myelomagenesis. This provides a better understanding of the nature of the 
immune system in tumor evolution, the knowledge of which is especially
significant considering that immunotherapies are increasingly being explored in
the treatment of both MM and its precursor conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/bcj.2015.32 
PMCID: PMC4450330
PMID: 25885426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015 Jun;15(6):787-801. doi:
10.1517/14712598.2015.1036737. Epub 2015 Apr 16.

Immuno-regulatory antibodies for the treatment of cancer.

Honeychurch J(1), Cheadle EJ, Dovedi SJ, Illidge TM.

Author information: 
(1)Targeted Therapy Group, Institute of Cancer Sciences, University of
Manchester, The Christie Hospital, Manchester Cancer Research Centre, Manchester 
Academic Health Sciences Centre , Manchester M20 4BX , UK +44 0 161 446 8110 ;
+44 0 161 446 8001 ; tmi@Manchester.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: After years of limited success, progress of anti-cancer
immuno-therapeutics has been considerable over the past decade. Key to this
progress has been the application of new biological insights around the
importance and nature of immune checkpoints that are able to reverse
down-regulation of anti-tumor immunity.
AREAS COVERED: An overview of the preclinical and recent clinical trial data on
key immuno-regulatory agents currently in development, including antibody
targeting of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4), programmed death receptor
1 (PD-1) on T-lymphocytes and its principal ligand (PD-L1) on tumor cells as well
as immune agonists (e.g., anti-CD40).
EXPERT OPINION: Durable long-term responses in some patients with advanced
melanoma, initially with ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4) and more recently antibodies
targeting either PD-1 or PD-L1 in patients with melanoma and renal cancer,
non-small-cell lung, bladder and head and neck cancers with less toxicity, have
provided real optimism that immunotherapeutic approaches can improve outcomes in 
a wide range of cancer. The manageable tolerability of PD-1-pathway blockers and 
their unique mechanism of action are encouraging combination approaches. Current 
efforts focus on registration trials of single agents plus combinations in many
different tumor types and treatment settings and identifying and developing
predictive biomarkers of immunological response.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1036737 
PMID: 25882106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


313. BMJ Open. 2015 Apr 14;5(4):e006321. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-006321.

Evaluation of tumour vaccine immunotherapy for the treatment of advanced
non-small cell lung cancer: a systematic meta-analysis.

Wang M(1), Cao JX(1), Liu YS(1), Xu BL(1), Li D(1), Zhang XY(1), Li JL(1), Liu
JL(1), Wang HB(1), Wang ZX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biotherapy Center, General Hospital of Beijing Military Command, Beijing,
People's Republic of China.

OBJECTIVES: Our meta-analysis performed a systematic evaluation on the
therapeutic efficacy and safety of tumour vaccines for the treatment of advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
DESIGN: Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials
(RCT).
DATA SOURCES: PubMed, the Cochrane Center Register of Controlled Trials, Science 
Direct and EMBASE were searched from January 1980 until January 2015.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTING STUDIES: RCT were included; the control arm
had to receive either placebo or chemotherapy or no treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The quality of the data from individual papers was
assessed for overall survival (OS), clinical response rate and side effects.
RESULTS: Overall, 11 RCT of advanced NSCLC with a total of 3986 patients were
conducted for meta-analysis. The results showed that the vaccine arm
significantly extended primary endpoint median overall survival compared with
control group (p<0.00001) (HR 0.760; 95% CI 0.644 to 0.896; p=0.001). Three
subgroup patients with tumour vaccine at 1-year, 2-year and 3-year survival rates
also gained significant benefits compared with their corresponding control group 
(p=0.0004, 0.03 and 0.19, respectively). Besides, a significant improvement in
median time to progression (TTP), median progression-free survival (PFS) and a
trend of improvement in objective response rate were observed after tumour
vaccine treatment (p=0.001, 0.005 and 0.05, respectively; median PFS HR 0.842;
95% CI 0.744 to 0.954; p=0.007). A few severe adverse effects occurred in the
tumour vaccine group, but fewer side effects were observed in the vaccine group
compared with the control group (p<0.00001).
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, NSCLC tumour vaccines markedly prolong median OS
(p<0.00001), median TTP (p=0.001) and median PFS (p=0.005), improve clinical
response rate (p=0.05) and lessen adverse side effects (p<0.00001). Our
meta-analysis suggests tumour vaccines improve the efficacy of the treatment, and
also provide superiority in treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC among a
variety of immunotherapy strategies.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-006321 
PMCID: PMC4401843
PMID: 25872936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2015 Apr;4(2):177-90. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.01.11.

The role of the immune system in non-small cell lung carcinoma and potential for 
therapeutic intervention.

Domagala-Kulawik J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Diseases, Pneumonology and Allergology, Medical
University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

Over a hundred years after the first description of this disease, lung cancer
represents one of the major challenges in oncology. Radical treatment cannot be
introduced in more than 70% of cases and overall survival rate does not exceed
15%. The immunosurveillance of lung cancer may be effective in early oncogenesis 
but is inhibited in the course of developing a clinically detectable tumor. Very 
low and heterogonous antigenicity of lung cancer cells leads to passive escape
from anti-cancer immune defense. The cytotoxic lymphocytes (CTLs) that play a
main role in the anticancer response are actively suppressed in the tumor
environment and following regulatory mechanisms inhibit the recognition of tumor 
antigens by antigen presenting cells. The population of regulatory T cells
(Tregs) is augmented and the expression of transcription factor-Foxp3 is markedly
increased on tumor cells and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL). It is
accomplished by M2 macrophage polarization, the activity of myeloid derived
suppressor cells (MDSCs) and a significantly elevated concentration of cytokines:
transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) and IL-10 in the tumor microenvironment.
Very active suppression of immune protection is the predominant role of the
programmed death 1 (PD-1)-PD-L1 pathway. The blockage of this pathway was found
to be an effective treatment approach; therefore the monoclonal antibodies are
being intensively investigated in lung cancer patients. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte
antigen-4 (CTLA-4) is the molecule capable of inhibiting the activation signal.
The antibody anti-CTLA-4 improves CTLs function in solid tumors and lung cancer
patients may benefit from use of this agent. The second way in lung cancer
immunotherapy is production of anti-cancer vaccines using recognized cancer
antigens: MAGE-A3, membrane associated glycoprotein (MUC-1), and EGF. It was
recently shown in ongoing clinical trials that combined therapies: immune- and
chemotherapy, radiotherapy or targeted therapy seem to be effective.
Immunotherapy in lung cancer has an individual character-there is a need to
assess the patient's immune status prior to implementation of immunomodulating
therapy.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2015.01.11 
PMCID: PMC4384216
PMID: 25870800  [PubMed]


315. Br J Cancer. 2015 Apr 28;112(9):1421-7. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2015.124. Epub 2015 Apr 
9.

Anti-programmed cell death protein-1/ligand-1 therapy in different cancers.

Homet Moreno B(1), Ribas A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology, University of
California Los Angeles (UCLA), 11-934 Factor Building, 10833 Le Conte Avenue, Los
Angeles, CA 90095-1782, USA. (2)1] Department of Medicine, Division of
Hematology-Oncology, University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), 11-934 Factor
Building, 10833 Le Conte Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1782, USA [2] Department
of Surgery, University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, CA, USA [3]
Department of Medical and Molecular Pharmacology, University of California Los
Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, CA, USA [4] Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
(JCCC) at the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Immunologic checkpoint blockade with antibodies against the programmed cell death
protein-1 (PD-1) or its ligand (PD-L1) is an effective method for reversing
cancer immunosuppression and thereby promoting immune responses against several
cancer types. Anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies have resulted in long-term
responses with minimal side effects in significant numbers of patients with
melanoma, lung, kidney, bladder and triple-negative breast cancer, as well as in 
chemotherapy-refractory Hodgkin disease. There is already evidence from at least 
one randomised trial that anti-PD-1 therapy is superior to chemotherapy in the
treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma, and two anti-PD-1 antibodies,
pembrolizumab and nivolumab, have been approved by the US Food and Drug
Administration for the treatment of patients previously treated for metastatic
melanoma. It is anticipated that approvals by drug regulatory bodies will be
forthcoming in several cancers in the next months.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2015.124 
PMCID: PMC4453674
PMID: 25856776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2015 Aug;9(4):164-72. doi: 10.1177/1753465815579608. Epub
2015 Apr 7.

Nintedanib in non-small cell lung cancer: from preclinical to approval.

Caglevic C(1), Grassi M(2), Raez L(3), Listi A(4), Giallombardo M(5), Bustamante 
E(6), Gil-Bazo I(7), Rolfo C(8).

Author information: 
(1)Oncology Department, Arturo Lopez Perez Cancer Foundation, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Phase I - Early Clinical Trials Unit, Oncology Department, Antwerp University 
Hospital, Edegem, Belgium. (3)Thoracic Oncology Program, Memorial Cancer
Institute, Memorial Health Care System, Pembroke Pines, FL, USA. (4)Department of
Surgical, Oncological and Stomatological Sciences, Section of Medical Oncology,
University of Palermo, Italy. (5)Phase I - Early Clinical Trials Unit, Oncology
Department, Antwerp University Hospital, Edegem, Belgium Department of
Biopathology and Medical Biotechnology and Forensic Section of Biology and
Genetics, University of Palermo, Italy Tumor Immunotherapy Laboratory, Oncology
Department, Antwerp University Hospital, Edegem, Belgium. (6)Molecular Biology
Unit, Arturo Lopez Perez Cancer Foundation, Santiago, Chile. (7)Department of
Oncology, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (8)Head of Phase I -
Early Clinical Trials Unit, Oncology Department, Antwerp University Hospital and 
Antwerp University, Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650 Edegem, Belgium
christian.rolfo@uza.be.

Angiogenesis is a driving force of a tumor's development. Targeting this process 
is an attractive option, as this is a feature shared by most of the solid tumors.
A lot of antiangiogenic drugs have been developed following this path, including 
bevacizumab, sorafenib, sunitinib, vandetanib, ramucirumab, motesanib and many
others. The latest drug of this class to be approved for patients with non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) was nintedanib, a triple angiokinase inhibitor. This
molecule targets vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), platelet derived
growth factor (PDGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) pathways, avoiding the
tumor's switch to normal escape mechanisms. The pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic 
and toxicity profiles of nintedanib have been tested in several studies. These
trials revealed it to be very interesting, as this agent did not lead to the
classical adverse events of other tyrosine kinase inhibitors. A phase III
clinical trial that recently concluded provided us with relevant information in
patients with NSCLC of adenocarcinoma histology. Here we present a short overview
of the tumor angiogenesis pathways and antiangiogenic drugs. In particular, we
will focus on nintedanib, from the preclinical studies to the latest phase III
clinical trial that allowed this new agent to be approved by the European
Medicines Agency as a second-line treatment option in association with docetaxel 
for NSCLC patients with adenocarcinoma histology.

© The Author(s), 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1753465815579608 
PMID: 25855060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2015 Feb;63(2):122-7. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.154380.

Choroidal metastases: origin, features, and therapy.

Arepalli S, Kaliki S, Shields CL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ocular Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

The choroid is the most common ocular site for metastatic disease, owing to
abundant vascular supply. The primary cancers that most commonly lead to
choroidal metastases include breast cancer (40-47%) and lung cancer (21-29%).
Bilateral, multifocal metastases are most often secondary to breast cancer,
whereas unilateral, unifocal metastasis are more commonly found with lung cancer.
The treatment of choroidal metastasis depends on the systemic status of the
patient and number, location, and laterality of the choroidal tumors. Treatment
options include observation in patients with poor systemic status or those with
resolved or asymptomatic disease; systemic chemotherapy, immunotherapy, hormone
therapy, or whole eye radiotherapy if the metastases are active, multifocal and
bilateral; plaque radiotherapy, transpupillary radiotherapy, or photodynamic
therapy for active, solitary metastasis; and enucleation for those with blind
painful eye. A database search was performed on PubMed, using the terms
"choroidal metastasis," or "choroidal metastases," in combination with terms such
as "treatment," "features," or "diagnosis." Relevant articles were extracted and 
reviewed.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.154380 
PMCID: PMC4399120
PMID: 25827542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2015 Jun;9(3):105-20. doi: 10.1177/1753465815578349. Epub
2015 Mar 31.

Targeting the immune system to treat lung cancer: rationale and clinical
experience.

Guibert N(1), Delaunay M(1), Mazières J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Larrey, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Université Paul Sabatier,
Toulouse, France. (2)Thoracic Oncology Unit, Respiratory Disease Department,
Hôpital Larrey, CHU Toulouse, Chemin de Pouvourville, 31059 Toulouse Cedex,
France mazieres.j@chu-toulouse.fr.

The use of immunotherapy that harnesses and enhances the innate powers of the
immune system to fight cancer cells represents the most promising new cancer
treatment approach since the development of the first chemotherapies and, more
recently, targeted therapies. Unexpectedly, lung cancer has recently emerged as
an exciting new target for immune-based therapies. Several approaches to
immunotherapy for lung cancer have shown promise in early clinical trials and in 
late-phase development. The most advanced strategies can be split into two main
categories: therapeutic vaccines and checkpoint inhibitors. At this time of great
expectations, this review provides the reader with an update on the
immunotherapies used to treat lung cancer with a focus on the rationale of
targeting the immune system. It reports the results from recent major clinical
trials, describes new toxicity profiles associated with such drugs, and
particularly the role of the pulmonologists in their management. This review
provides an overview of the main perspectives within this field.

© The Author(s), 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1753465815578349 
PMID: 25827132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Clin Ther. 2015 Apr 1;37(4):764-82. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.02.018. Epub
2015 Mar 29.

The Next Immune-Checkpoint Inhibitors: PD-1/PD-L1 Blockade in Melanoma.

Mahoney KM(1), Freeman GJ(2), McDermott DF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Medical Oncology,
Harvard Medical School, Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
Electronic address: kmmah5@bidmc.harvard.edu. (2)Department of Medical Oncology, 
Harvard Medical School, Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

PURPOSE: Blocking the interaction between the programmed cell death (PD)-1
protein and one of its ligands, PD-L1, has been reported to have impressive
antitumor responses. Therapeutics targeting this pathway are currently in
clinical trials. Pembrolizumab and nivolumab are the first of this anti-PD-1
pathway family of checkpoint inhibitors to gain accelerated approval from the US 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of ipilimumab-refractory
melanoma. Nivolumab has been associated with improved overall survival compared
with dacarbazine in patients with previously untreated wild-type
serine/threonine-protein kinase B-raf proto-oncogene BRAF melanoma. Although the 
most mature data are in the treatment of melanoma, the FDA has granted approval
of nivolumab for squamous cell lung cancer and the breakthrough therapy
designation to immune- checkpoint inhibitors for use in other cancers: nivolumab,
an anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody, for Hodgkin lymphoma, and MPDL-3280A, an
anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody, for bladder cancer and non-small cell lung
cancer. Here we review the literature on PD-1 and PD-L1 blockade and focus on the
reported clinical studies that have included patients with melanoma.
METHODS: PubMed was searched to identify relevant clinical studies of
PD-1/PD-L1-targeted therapies in melanoma. A review of data from the current
trials on clinicaltrial.gov was incorporated, as well as data presented in
abstracts at the 2014 annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical
Oncology, given the limited number of published clinical trials on this topic.
FINDINGS: The anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 agents have been reported to have
impressive antitumor effects in several malignancies, including melanoma. The
greatest clinical activity in unselected patients has been seen in melanoma.
Tumor expression of PD-L1 is a suggestive, but inadequate, biomarker predictive
of response to immune-checkpoint blockade. However, tumors expressing little or
no PD-L1 are less likely to respond to PD-1 pathway blockade. Combination
checkpoint blockade with PD-1 plus cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen (CTLA)-4
blockade appears to improve response rates in patients who are less likely to
respond to single-checkpoint blockade. Toxicity with PD-1 blocking agents is less
than the toxicity with previous immunotherapies (eg, interleukin 2, CTLA-4
blockade). Certain adverse events can be severe and potentially life threatening,
but most can be prevented or reversed with close monitoring and appropriate
management.
IMPLICATIONS: This family of immune-checkpoint inhibitors benefits not only
patients with metastatic melanoma but also those with historically less
responsive tumor types. Although a subset of patients responds to single-agent
blockade, the initial trial of checkpoint-inhibitor combinations has reported a
potential to improve response rates. Combination therapies appear to be a means
of increasing response rates, albeit with increased immune-related adverse
events. As these treatments become available to patients, education regarding the
recognition and management of immune-related effects of immune-checkpoint
blockade will be essential for maximizing clinical benefit.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.02.018 
PMCID: PMC4497957
PMID: 25823918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Pathologe. 2015 Mar;36(2):154-63. doi: 10.1007/s00292-015-0004-4.

[Molecular diagnostics of non-small cell lung cancer: New markers and
technologies].

[Article in German]

Warth A(1), Endris V, Kriegsmann M, Stenzinger A, Penzel R, Pfarr N, Weichert W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pathologie, Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 
224, 69120, Heidelberg, Deutschland.

Lung cancer is the prototypical tumor entity for the development of new
diagnostic and individualized therapeutic strategies based on molecular patient
stratification. Developments in this field specifically concentrate on predictive
biomarkers for the response to conventional therapeutic agents, novel drugs
targeting specific mutations and also new immunomodulatory drugs. The multitude
of upcoming new predictive biomarkers requires the development and implementation
of efficient test strategies and comprehensive technical methods, specifically
when tissue restrictions inherent to lung cancer diagnostics are also taken into 
account. Novel procedures and technical aspects of these issues are discussed in 
this review.

DOI: 10.1007/s00292-015-0004-4 
PMID: 25820445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2014 Dec;3(6):406-7. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2014.08.07.

A phase I study of MEDI4736, NNT-PD-L1 antibody in patients with advanced solid
tumors.

Zielinski CC(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Clinical Division of Oncology and Chairman, Department of Medicine I, 2
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical University Vienna, General Hospital, Vienna,
Austria ; 3 Central European Cooperative Oncology Group, Vienna, Austria.

A review and critical consideration of immunotherapeutical concepts in non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is given. Nivolumab represents a promising option in
various malignancies with more results exceeding treatment of metastatic
malignant melanoma eagerly awaited.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2014.08.07 
PMCID: PMC4367668
PMID: 25806335  [PubMed]


322. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2014 Oct;3(5):305-10. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2014.09.13.

Adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with completely resected non-small cell lung
cancer.

Pirker R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine I, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Adjuvant chemotherapy has been established as a standard for patients with
completely resected non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Adjuvant chemotherapy
increased the 5-year survival rates by 4% to 15% within randomized trials and,
based on a meta-analysis of five cisplatin-based trials, by 5.4%. Adjuvant
chemotherapy consists of a cisplatin-based doublet, preferentially cisplatin plus
vinorelbine. Future improvements in outcome of adjuvant therapy are expected by
customized chemotherapy and the integration of targeted therapies or
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2014.09.13 
PMCID: PMC4367797
PMID: 25806316  [PubMed]


323. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2014 Feb;3(1):53-63. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2014.01.01.

Immunotherapy in lung cancer.

Massarelli E(1), Papadimitrakopoulou V(1), Welsh J(1), Tang C(1), Tsao AS(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Thoracic Head and Neck Medical Oncology, 2 Department of
Radiation Oncology, the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston,
TX, USA.

Survival rates for metastatic lung cancer including non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer (SCLC) are poor with 5-year survival of less
than 5%. The use of molecular targeted therapies has improved median overall
survival (OS) in a limited group of NSCLC patients whose tumors harbor specific
genetic alterations. However for a large group of NSCLC and SCLC molecular
alterations are not available to lead to direct targeted therapies. Recent
favorable results of newer trials of therapeutic vaccines and checkpoint
inhibitors have proven against the common belief that lung cancer is
nonimmunogenic. In particular, the checkpoint inhibitors targeting cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and the programmed death-1 (PD-1)
pathway have shown durable clinical responses with manageable toxicity. Several
phase II and III clinical trials testing the association of different schedule of
chemotherapy and immunotherapy or immunotherapy alone are ongoing in lung cancer 
and important results are expected in the near future. However, more studies are 
needed to understand the optimal combination of immunotherapeutic agents with
chemotherapy and radiation therapy for the treatment of NSCLC and SCLC.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2014.01.01 
PMCID: PMC4367607
PMID: 25806281  [PubMed]


324. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2014 Feb;3(1):46-52. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.12.01.

Lung cancer vaccines: current status and future prospects.

Ramlogan-Steel CA(1), Steel JC(1), Morris JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Cincinnati Cancer Center, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, 
OH 45267, USA.

Designing a cancer treatment that very specifically targets and kills tumor cells
with little to no side effects is the "holy grail" of oncology. Cancer vaccines
have this potential. Vaccines utilize the immune system to specifically target
and eliminate tumor cells. Historically, vaccination approaches against lung
cancer have been disappointing. However, over the past decade, a greater
understanding of the immune system and of the antigens expressed by tumors,
coupled with advances in immunoadjuvants and improved delivery systems, has led
to advances in the use of immunotherapy including vaccines to target lung cancer.
Proof of principle phase I/II clinical trials targeting the MAGE-A3 and MUC1
tumor antigens, as well as cell-based vaccines such as belagenpumatucel-L have
suggested improved survival, leading to larger scale phase III clinical trials.
This review will discuss cancer vaccines in relation to lung cancer and present
clinical data supporting their use.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.12.01 
PMCID: PMC4367609
PMID: 25806280  [PubMed]


325. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2014 Feb;3(1):34-45. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.11.04.

Immunotherapy prospects in the treatment of lung cancer and mesothelioma.

Aerts JG(1), Lievense LA(1), Hoogsteden HC(1), Hegmans JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Rotterdam,
The Netherlands ; 2 Department of Pulmonary Diseases, Amphia Hospital Breda, The 
Netherlands.

A very recent finding is the role of immune activation in cancer. The assumption 
that stimulating the patient's immune system to attack tumors is a valuable
treatment option in malignant diseases has gained more acceptance. However the
high immunosuppressive effects caused by the tumor limits this beneficial effect.
There is a delicate balance between immunoactivation and immunosuppression in a
patient. Especially in non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the role of
immunosuppressive cells hampering immune activation is high. But also in small
cell lung cancer (SCLC) and mesothelioma immunosuppressive activity is high. This
is suggested to be related to the type of tumor, advanced stage of the disease,
and the tumor load. In this review, we provide an overview of the progress and
challenges in the immunotherapeutic approaches in lung cancer. We conclude with
the concept that immunotherapy in thoracic malignancies must be tailored made to 
the balance of the immune system.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.11.04 
PMCID: PMC4367611
PMID: 25806279  [PubMed]


326. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2014 Feb;3(1):23-33. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.11.01.

γδ T cell therapy for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.

Kakimi K(1), Matsushita H(1), Murakawa T(1), Nakajima J(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Immunotherapeutics, 2 Department of Thoracic Surgery, The
University of Tokyo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

γδ T cells are attractive effector cells for cancer immunotherapy as they can
secrete cytokines abundantly and exert potent cytotoxicity against a wide range
of cancer cells. They comprise 1-5% of peripheral blood T cells, the majority
expressing the Vγ9Vδ2 T cell receptor that recognizes phosphoantigens. Direct in 
vivo activation of Vγ9Vδ2 T cells in cancer patients as well as adoptive transfer
of ex vivo expanded Vγ9Vδ2 T cells has been investigated in several clinical
trials. We previously established a large-scale in vitro expansion method for
Vγ9Vδ2 T cells using zoledronate and interleukin-2 (IL-2). We found that Vγ9Vδ2 T
cells from patients with advanced cancer as well as from healthy donors underwent
extensive proliferation under these conditions. Such cultured Vγ9Vδ2 T cells
retained cytokine secretion capacity and mediated cytotoxicity against a variety 
of cancer cell lines. Recently, we conducted a phase I clinical study to evaluate
safety and potential anti-tumor effects of re-infusing ex vivo expanded γδ T
cells in patients with advanced or recurrent non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
refractory to or intolerant of current conventional treatments. There were no
severe adverse events related to the therapy. All patients remained alive during 
the study period with a median survival of 589 days and median progression-free
survival of 126 days. Six patients had stable disease (SD), whereas the remaining
six evaluable patients experienced progressive disease (PD) four weeks after the 
sixth transfer. We conclude that adoptive transfer of zoledronate-expanded γδ T
cells is safe and feasible in patients with NSCLC, refractory to other
treatments.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.11.01 
PMCID: PMC4367606
PMID: 25806278  [PubMed]


327. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2014 Feb;3(1):2-14. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.10.13.

Immunotherapy in lung cancer.

Villaruz LC(1), Kalyan A(1), Zarour H(1), Socinski MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, University of Pittsburgh, School of
Medicine/Hematology-Oncology, Lung and Thoracic Malignancies Program, Pittsburgh,
PA 15232, USA.

Immunotherapy has emerged in recent years as a promising therapeutic approach in 
lung cancer. Two approaches are of particular interest: immune checkpoint
inhibition, which aims to counteract the physiologic mechanisms of immune
tolerance co-opted by some tumors, and vaccine therapy, which enables enhanced
exposure to tumor antigen. Immune checkpoint therapies include the monoclonal
antibody blockade of the cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) with
ipilimumab, as well as antibody blockade of the programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)
receptor and the PD-1 ligand. These immune checkpoint therapies have been
evaluated in both non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer
(SCLC) with early evidence of activity. Vaccines include antigen specific
therapies which induce specific antitumor immunity against relevant
tumor-associated antigens. In lung cancer, these include the melanoma-associated 
antigen-A3 (MAGE-A3), membrane-associated glycoprotein (MUC-1), and the epidermal
growth factor receptor (EGFR). Whole tumor vaccines have also been evaluated in
lung cancer and influence the patient's immune system to allow recognition of the
tumor as foreign creating de novo immunity. This review summarizes the evidence
to date for the efficacy and safety of immunotherapies in lung cancer.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.10.13 
PMCID: PMC4367610
PMID: 25806276  [PubMed]


328. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2015 Aug;95(2):154-64. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.03.001. Epub 2015 Mar 12.

Targeted therapies for small cell lung cancer: Where do we stand?

Arcaro A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Research, University of Bern, CH-3010 Bern,
Switzerland. Electronic address: alexandre.arcaro@dkf.unibe.ch.

Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) accounts for 15% of lung cancer cases and is
associated with a dismal prognosis. Standard therapeutic regimens have been
improved over the past decades, but without a major impact on patient survival.
The development of targeted therapies based on a better understanding of the
molecular basis of the disease is urgently needed. At the genetic level, SCLC
appears very heterogenous, although somatic mutations targeting classical
oncogenes and tumor suppressors have been reported. SCLC also possesses somatic
mutations in many other cancer genes, including transcription factors, enzymes
involved in chromatin modification, receptor tyrosine kinases and their
downstream signaling components. Several avenues have been explored to develop
targeted therapies for SCLC. So far, however, there has been limited success with
these targeted approaches in clinical trials. Further progress in the
optimization of targeted therapies for SCLC will require the development of more 
personalized approaches for the patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.03.001 
PMID: 25800975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Future Oncol. 2015;11(9):1307-26. doi: 10.2217/fon.15.52. Epub 2015 Mar 23.

Nivolumab: targeting PD-1 to bolster antitumor immunity.

Brahmer JR(1), Hammers H, Lipson EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA.

Nivolumab, a fully human IgG4 PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor antibody, blocks
PD-1 and can restore anticancer immune responses by abrogating PD-1
pathway-mediated T-cell inhibition. Nivolumab is approved in Japan and the USA
for the treatment of patients with advanced melanoma. A Phase I trial reported
overall objective response rates of 17, 32 and 29% in patients with advanced
non-small-cell lung cancer, melanoma and renal cell carcinoma, respectively,
which included many heavily pretreated patients. 1-/2-year overall survival rates
were 42%/24%, 63%/48% and 70%/50% for non-small-cell lung cancer, melanoma and
renal cell carcinoma, respectively. Nivolumab significantly improved survival
versus dacarbazine in previously untreated patients with metastatic melanoma in a
Phase III trial. Nivolumab is associated with a manageable adverse event profile.
Numerous clinical trials are investigating nivolumab alone or in combination with
other therapies in multiple cancer settings. This article summarizes the
development of nivolumab as of November 2014.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.15.52 
PMID: 25798726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2015 Oct;64(10):1287-93. doi:
10.1007/s00262-015-1677-5. Epub 2015 Mar 20.

Novel strategies for inhibiting PD-1 pathway-mediated immune suppression while
simultaneously delivering activating signals to tumor-reactive T cells.

Ostrand-Rosenberg S(1), Horn LA, Alvarez JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Maryland Baltimore County,
1000 Hilltop Circle, Baltimore, MD, 21250, USA, srosenbe@umbc.edu.

We previously developed cell-based vaccines as therapeutics for metastatic
cancers. The vaccines were aimed at activating type I CD4(+)T cells and consisted
of tumor cells transfected with genes encoding syngeneic MHC class II and CD80
costimulatory molecules, and lacking the MHC II-associated invariant chain. The
vaccines showed some efficacy in mice with sarcoma, melanoma, and breast cancer
and activated MHC class II syngeneic T cells from breast, lung, and melanoma
patients. During the course of the vaccine studies, we observed that CD80 not
only costimulated naïve T cells, but also bound to PD-L1 and prevented tumor
cell-expressed PD-L1 from binding to its receptor PD-1 on activated T cells. A
soluble form of CD80 (CD80-Fc) had the same effect and sustained IFNγ production 
by both human and murine PD-1(+) activated T cells in the presence of PD-L1(+)
human or mouse tumor cells, respectively. In vitro studies with human tumor cells
indicated that CD80-Fc was more effective than antibodies to either PD-1 or PD-L1
in sustaining T cell production of IFNγ. Additionally, in vivo studies with a
murine tumor demonstrated that CD80-Fc was more effective than antibodies to
PD-L1 in extending survival time. Studies with human T cells blocked for CD28 and
with T cells from CD28 knockout mice demonstrated that CD80-Fc simultaneously
inhibited PD-L1/PD-1-mediated immune suppression and delivered costimulatory
signals to activated T cells, thereby amplifying T cell activation. These results
suggest that CD80-Fc may be a useful monotherapy that minimizes PD-1 pathway
immune suppression while simultaneously activating tumor-reactive T cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-015-1677-5 
PMCID: PMC4558214
PMID: 25792524  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


331. World J Clin Cases. 2015 Mar 16;3(3):293-300. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v3.i3.293.

Voltage gated calcium channel antibody-related neurological diseases.

Bekircan-Kurt CE(1), Derle Çiftçi E(1), Kurne AT(1), Anlar B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Can Ebru Bekircan-Kurt, Aslı Tuncer Kurne, Neurology Department, Faculty of
Medicine, Hacettepe University, 06100 Ankara, Turkey.

Voltage gated calcium channel (VGCC) antibodies are generally associated with
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. However the presence of this antibody has been
associated with paraneoplastic as well as non-paraneoplastic cerebellar
degeneration. Most patients with VGCC-antibody-positivity have small cell lung
cancer (SCLC). Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is an autoimmune disease 
of the presynaptic part of the neuromuscular junction. Its classical clinical
triad is proximal muscle weakness, areflexia and autonomic dysfunction. Fifty to 
sixty percent of LEMS patients have a neoplasia, usually SCLC. The co-occurrence 
of SCLC and LEMS causes more severe and progressive disease and shorter survival 
than non-paraneoplastic LEMS. Treatment includes 3,4 diaminopyridine for
symptomatic purposes and immunotherapy with prednisolone, azathioprine or
intravenous immunoglobulin in patients unresponsive to 3,4 diaminopyridine.
Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (PCD) is a syndrome characterized with
severe, subacute pancerebellar dysfunction. Serum is positive for VGCC antibody
in 41%-44% of patients, usually with the co-occurrence of SCLC. Clinical and
electrophysiological features of LEMS are also present in 20%-40% of these
patients. Unfortunately, PCD symptoms do not improve with immunotherapy. The role
of VGCC antibody in the immunopathogenesis of LEMS is well known whereas its role
in PCD is still unclear. All patients presenting with LEMS or PCD must be
investigated for SCLC.

DOI: 10.12998/wjcc.v3.i3.293 
PMCID: PMC4360501
PMID: 25789302  [PubMed]


332. Integr Cancer Ther. 2015 May;14(3):201-11. doi: 10.1177/1534735415572883. Epub
2015 Mar 17.

Polysaccharide K and Coriolus versicolor extracts for lung cancer: a systematic
review.

Fritz H(1), Kennedy DA(2), Ishii M(1), Fergusson D(3), Fernandes R(2), Cooley
K(2), Seely D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Canadian College of Naturopathic Medicine, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Canadian College of Naturopathic Medicine, Toronto, Ontario, Canada The
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (3)Ottawa Hospital Research
Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. (4)Canadian College of Naturopathic Medicine,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario,
Canada Ottawa Integrative Cancer Centre, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada dseely@oicc.ca.

BACKGROUND: Polysaccharide K, also known as PSK or Krestin, is derived from the
Coriolus versicolor mushroom and is widely used in Japan as an adjuvant
immunotherapy for a variety of cancer including lung cancer. Despite reported
benefits, there has been no English language synthesis of PSK for lung cancer. To
address this knowledge gap, we conducted a systematic review of PSK for the
treatment of lung cancer.
METHODS: We searched PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL, the Cochrane Library, AltHealth
Watch, and the Library of Science and Technology from inception to August 2014
for clinical and preclinical evidence pertaining to the safety and efficacy of
PSK or other Coriolus versicolor extracts for lung cancer.
RESULTS: Thirty-one reports of 28 studies were included for full review and
analysis. Six studies were randomized controlled trials, 5 were nonrandomized
controlled trials, and 17 were preclinical studies. Nine of the reports were
Japanese language publications. Fifteen of 17 preclinical studies supported
anticancer effects for PSK through immunomodulation and potentiation of immune
surveillance, as well as through direct tumor inhibiting actions in vivo that
resulted in reduced tumor growth and antimetastatic effects. Nonrandomized
controlled trials showed improvement of various survival measures including
median survival and 1-, 2-, and 5-year survival. Randomized controlled trials
showed benefits on a range of endpoints, including immune parameters and
hematological function, performance status and body weight, tumor-related
symptoms such as fatigue and anorexia, as well as survival. Although there were
conflicting results for impact on some of the tumor-related symptoms and median
survival, overall most randomized controlled trials supported a positive impact
for PSK on these endpoints. PSK was safely administered following and in
conjunction with standard radiation and chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: PSK may improve immune function, reduce tumor-associated symptoms,
and extend survival in lung cancer patients. Larger, more rigorous randomized
controlled trials for PSK in lung cancer patients are warranted.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1534735415572883 
PMID: 25784670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Lung Cancer. 2015 May;88(2):117-23. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2015.02.007. Epub 2015
Feb 16.

Optimal management of immune-related toxicities associated with checkpoint
inhibitors in lung cancer.

Howell M(1), Lee R(2), Bowyer S(1), Fusi A(1), Lorigan P(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Wilmslow Road, Manchester M21 4BX, United
Kingdom. (2)The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Wilmslow Road, Manchester M21 4BX,
United Kingdom; The University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL,
United Kingdom. (3)The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Wilmslow Road, Manchester
M21 4BX, United Kingdom; The University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester
M13 9PL, United Kingdom. Electronic address: paul.lorigan@christie.nhs.uk.

Antibodies against immune checkpoints including CTLA-4, PD-1 and PD-L1 are
increasingly being used in lung cancer. They are associated with novel, immune
related toxicities not previously encountered with established treatments for
lung cancer including colitis, hepatitis, rashes, neuropathies and other rarer
immune mediated toxicities. Although generally these are low grade, there is a
potential to be life threatening if not managed promptly. Early recognition of
toxicity and institution of management algorithms are key to ensuring patient
safety. We review the common toxicities and provide recommendations on their
management.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2015.02.007 
PMID: 25776466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Tumour Biol. 2015 Mar;36(3):1411-22. doi: 10.1007/s13277-015-3285-6. Epub 2015
Mar 4.

Immunotherapy for lung cancer: for whom the bell tolls?

Madureira P(1), de Mello RA, de Vasconcelos A, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, Porto,
Portugal.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death and accounts for
approximately 30% of all cancer deaths. Despite the recent developments in
personalized therapy, the prognosis in lung cancer is still very poor.
Immunotherapy is now emerging as a new hope for patients with lung cancer. It is 
well known that standard chemotherapeutic regimens have devastating effects for
the patient's immune system. Therefore, the aim of immunotherapy is to
specifically enhance the immune response against the tumour. Recently, many
trials addressed the role of such therapies for metastatic non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) treatment: ipilimumab, tremelimumab, nivolumab and pembrolizumab
are immunotherapeutic agents of high relevance in this field. Anti-tumour
vaccines, as well as dendritic cell-based therapies, have emerged as potent
inducers of immune response against the tumour. Herein, we will review some of
the most promising cancer immunotherapies, highlighting their advantages and try 
to understand, in an immunological perspective, the missteps associated with the 
current treatments for cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-015-3285-6 
PMID: 25736929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2015 Mar;140(5):329-33. doi: 10.1055/s-0041-100763. Epub
2015 Mar 3.

[Non-small cell lung cancer: news from immunotherapy].

[Article in German]

Reinmuth N(1), Heigener DF(1), Reck M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Thorakale Onkologie, LungenClinic Grosshansdorf, Grosshansdorf, 
Deutschland.

Comment in
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2015 Mar;140(5):316.

Immune evasion is recognized as a key strategy for survival and progression of
several cancer entities including non-small cell lung cancer. Hence, various
approaches to restore anti-tumor immune responses are currently investigated. In 
particular, agents targeting immune checkpoint receptors, such as the cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte antigen-4 receptor and programmed death-1 receptor have shown
promise in early clinical trials. With multiple studies under way, there are high
expectations that treatment outcomes in patients with lung cancer who are
ineligible for complete surgical resection may be improved with the incorporation
of immunotherapies in the various treatment cascades.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0041-100763 
PMID: 25734674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Mar 1;21(5):976-84. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-1187.

Cancer immunotherapy: a future paradigm shift in the treatment of non-small cell 
lung cancer.

Anagnostou VK(1), Brahmer JR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns
Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland. (2)Department of Oncology, The Sidney Kimmel
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland.
brahmju@jhmi.edu.

Emerging evidence on the role of the antitumor activity of the immune system has 
generated great interest in immunotherapy even for tumors that were historically 
considered as nonimmunogenic. Immunotherapy is emerging as a major modality in
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treatment focusing on vaccine approaches to
elicit specific immune responses and development of inhibitors of the molecular
mediators of cancer-induced immunosuppression (immune checkpoints) to boost
antitumor immune responses. Amplification of the host response against evolving
tumors through vaccination is being investigated in ongoing clinical trials with 
tumor cell vaccines; however, the clinical efficacy of these agents has been
limited. Blocking inhibitory pathways such as the CTL antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and
programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) checkpoint pathways with mAbs has generated
antitumor immune responses that are transforming cancer therapeutics. PD-1 and
programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) antibodies have shown durable responses in
NSCLC, with a favorable safety profile and manageable side effects. The activity 
of immune checkpoint inhibitors is currently been assessed in treatment-naïve
patients with PD-L1-positive advanced NSCLC. Combinatorial approaches with other 
immune checkpoint inhibitors, chemotherapy, or targeted agents are being explored
in ongoing clinical trials, and may improve outcome in NSCLC.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-1187 
PMID: 25733707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Cancer Sci. 2015 May;106(5):505-11. doi: 10.1111/cas.12650. Epub 2015 Apr 1.

Cancer immunotherapy using novel tumor-associated antigenic peptides identified
by genome-wide cDNA microarray analyses.

Nishimura Y(1), Tomita Y(1,)(2), Yuno A(1,)(3), Yoshitake Y(3,)(4), Shinohara
M(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunogenetics, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kumamoto
University, Kumamoto, Japan. (2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Graduate
School of Medical Sciences, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan. (3)Department
of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kumamoto 
University, Kumamoto, Japan. (4)Itoh Maxillofacial Hospital, Kumamoto, Japan.

Recent genome-wide cDNA microarray analysis of gene expression profiles in
comprehensive tumor types coupled with isolation of cancer tissues by
laser-microbeam microdissection have revealed ideal tumor-associated antigens
(TAAs) that are frequently overexpressed in various cancers including head and
neck squamous cell cancer (HNSCC) and lung cancer, but not in most normal tissues
except for testis, placenta, and fetal organs. Preclinical studies using
HLA-transgenic mice and human T cells in vitro showed that TAA-derived
CTL-epitope short peptides (SPs) are highly immunogenic and induce HLA-A2 or
-A24-restricted CTLs. Based on the accumulated evidence, we carried out a phase
II clinical trial of the TAA-SP vaccine in advanced 37 HNSCC patients. This study
showed a significant induction of TAA-specific CTLs in the majority of patients
without serious adverse effects. Importantly, clinical responses including a
complete response were observed in this study. Another phase II clinical trial of
therapeutic TAA-SP vaccine, designed to evaluate the ability of prevention of
recurrence, is ongoing in HNSCC patients who have received curative operations.
Further studies in human preclinical studies and in vivo studies using HLA class 
I transgenic mice showed TAA-derived long peptides (TAA-LPs) have the capacity to
induce not only promiscuous HLA class II-restricted CD4(+) T helper type 1 cells 
but also tumor-specific CTLs through a cross-presentation mechanism. Moreover, we
observed an augmentation of TAA-LP-specific T helper type 1 cell responses and
tumor antigen-spreading in HNSCC patients vaccinated with TAA-SPs. This
accumulated evidence suggests that therapeutic TAA-SPs and LPs vaccines may
provide a promising cancer immunotherapy.

© 2015 The Authors. Cancer Science published by Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd on 
behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.12650 
PMCID: PMC4452150
PMID: 25726868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2015 Mar;34(1):129-44. doi: 10.1007/s10555-015-9550-8.

Low immunogenicity in non-small cell lung cancer; do new developments and novel
treatments have a role?

Gardiner RE(1), Jahangeer S, Forde P, Ariffin AB, Bird B, Soden D, Hinchion J.

Author information: 
(1)Cork Cancer Research Centre, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland,
rebeccagardiner@rcsi.ie.

Approximately 1.6 million new cases of lung cancer are diagnosed annually (Jemal 
et al. CA: A Cancer Journal for Clinicians, 61, 69-90, 2011) and it remains the
leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Despite decades of bench and
clinical research to attempt to improve outcome for locally advanced, good
performance status patients, the 5-year survival remains less than 15 % (Molina
et al. 2008). Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICH) therapies have shown a
significant promise in preclinical and clinical trails to date in the treatment
of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The idea of combining these systemic
immune therapies with local ablative techniques is one that is gaining momentum. 
Electrochemotherapy (ECT) is a unique atraumatic local therapy that has had very 
promising objective response rates and a number of advantages including but not
limited to its immunostimulatory effects. ECT in combination with ICHs offers a
novel approach for dealing with this difficult disease process.

DOI: 10.1007/s10555-015-9550-8 
PMID: 25726003  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Ann Oncol. 2015 Aug;26(8):1649-60. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdv101. Epub 2015 Feb 26.

Searching for targets for the systemic therapy of mesothelioma.

Stahel RA(1), Weder W(2), Felley-Bosco E(3), Petrausch U(3), Curioni-Fontecedro
A(3), Schmitt-Opitz I(2), Peters S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital, Zürich rolf.stahel@usz.ch.
(2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, University Hospital, Zürich. (3)Department of 
Oncology, University Hospital, Zürich. (4)Department of Oncology, Centre
Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, Lausanne, Switzerland.

Malignant mesothelioma is an incurable disease associated with asbestos exposure 
arising in the pleural cavity and less frequently in the peritoneal cavity.
Platinum-based combination chemotherapy with pemetrexed is the established
standard of care. Multimodality approaches including surgery and radiotherapy are
being investigated. Increasing knowledge about the molecular characteristics of
mesothelioma had led to the identification of novel potential targets for
systemic therapy. Current evidence suggests pathways activated in response to
merlin deficiency, including Pi3K/mTOR and the focal adhesion kinase, as well as 
immunotherapeutic approaches to be most promising. This review elaborates on the 
rationale behind targeted approaches that have been and are undergoing
exploration in mesothelioma and summarizes available clinical results and ongoing
efforts to improve the systemic therapy of mesothelioma.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdv101 
PMID: 25722383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Mol Cancer Ther. 2015 Apr;14(4):847-56. doi: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-14-0983. Epub 
2015 Feb 18.

PD-L1 Expression as a Predictive Biomarker in Cancer Immunotherapy.

Patel SP(1), Kurzrock R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy, Division of Hematology and Oncology,
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center, San Diego, California. sandippatel@ucsd.edu.
(2)Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy, Division of Hematology and Oncology,
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center, San Diego, California.

The resurgence of cancer immunotherapy stems from an improved understanding of
the tumor microenvironment. The PD-1/PD-L1 axis is of particular interest, in
light of promising data demonstrating a restoration of host immunity against
tumors, with the prospect of durable remissions. Indeed, remarkable clinical
responses have been seen in several different malignancies including, but not
limited to, melanoma, lung, kidney, and bladder cancers. Even so, determining
which patients derive benefit from PD-1/PD-L1-directed immunotherapy remains an
important clinical question, particularly in light of the autoimmune toxicity of 
these agents. The use of PD-L1 (B7-H1) immunohistochemistry (IHC) as a predictive
biomarker is confounded by multiple unresolved issues: variable detection
antibodies, differing IHC cutoffs, tissue preparation, processing variability,
primary versus metastatic biopsies, oncogenic versus induced PD-L1 expression,
and staining of tumor versus immune cells. Emerging data suggest that patients
whose tumors overexpress PD-L1 by IHC have improved clinical outcomes with
anti-PD-1-directed therapy, but the presence of robust responses in some patients
with low levels of expression of these markers complicates the issue of PD-L1 as 
an exclusionary predictive biomarker. An improved understanding of the host
immune system and tumor microenvironment will better elucidate which patients
derive benefit from these promising agents.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-14-0983 
PMID: 25695955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Front Immunol. 2015 Jan 30;6:12. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2015.00012. eCollection 2015.

Chemokine receptor-specific antibodies in cancer immunotherapy: achievements and 
challenges.

Vela M(1), Aris M(2), Llorente M(3), Garcia-Sanz JA(4), Kremer L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Oncology, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología,
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CNB/CSIC) , Madrid , Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigaciones Oncológicas, Fundación Cáncer , Buenos Aires ,
Argentina. (3)Protein Tools Unit, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología, Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CNB/CSIC) , Madrid , Spain.
(4)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Centro de Investigaciones
Biológicas, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CIB/CSIC) , Madrid ,
Spain. (5)Department of Immunology and Oncology, Centro Nacional de
Biotecnología, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CNB/CSIC) ,
Madrid , Spain ; Protein Tools Unit, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología, Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CNB/CSIC) , Madrid , Spain.

The 1990s brought a burst of information regarding the structure, expression
pattern, and role in leukocyte migration and adhesion of chemokines and their
receptors. At that time, the FDA approved the first therapeutic antibodies for
cancer treatment. A few years later, it was reported that the chemokine receptors
CXCR4 and CCR7 were involved on directing metastases to liver, lung, bone marrow,
or lymph nodes, and the over-expression of CCR4, CCR6, and CCR9 by certain
tumors. The possibility of inhibiting the interaction of chemokine receptors
present on the surface of tumor cells with their ligands emerged as a new
therapeutic approach. Therefore, many research groups and companies began to
develop small molecule antagonists and specific antibodies, aiming to neutralize 
signaling from these receptors. Despite great expectations, so far, only one
anti-chemokine receptor antibody has been approved for its clinical use,
mogamulizumab, an anti-CCR4 antibody, granted in Japan to treat refractory adult 
T-cell leukemia and lymphoma. Here, we review the main achievements obtained with
anti-chemokine receptor antibodies for cancer immunotherapy, including discovery 
and clinical studies, proposed mechanisms of action, and therapeutic
applications.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2015.00012 
PMCID: PMC4311683
PMID: 25688243  [PubMed]


342. Rev Pneumol Clin. 2015 Feb;71(1):44-56. doi: 10.1016/j.pneumo.2014.11.004. Epub
2015 Feb 14.

[Immunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: inhibition of PD1/PDL1 pathway].

[Article in French]

Guilleminault L(1), Carmier D(2), Heuzé-Vourc'h N(3), Diot P(4), Pichon E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Service de pneumologie et d'explorations fonctionnelles, CHRU de Tours, 2,
boulevard Tonnellé, 37044 Tours cedex, France; Centre d'étude des pathologies
respiratoires, UMR 1100/EA6305, 37032 Tours, France; EA6305, université
François-Rabelais de Tours, 37032 Tours, France. Electronic address:
guillel@free.fr. (2)Service de pneumologie et d'explorations fonctionnelles, CHRU
de Tours, 2, boulevard Tonnellé, 37044 Tours cedex, France. (3)Centre d'étude des
pathologies respiratoires, UMR 1100/EA6305, 37032 Tours, France; EA6305,
université François-Rabelais de Tours, 37032 Tours, France. (4)Service de
pneumologie et d'explorations fonctionnelles, CHRU de Tours, 2, boulevard
Tonnellé, 37044 Tours cedex, France; Centre d'étude des pathologies
respiratoires, UMR 1100/EA6305, 37032 Tours, France; EA6305, université
François-Rabelais de Tours, 37032 Tours, France.

Despite recent advances in targeted therapy of non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC), many patients do not benefit from these therapies. Inhibition of
PD1/PDL1 is an interesting therapeutic target which restores the immune system
against tumor cells. PD1 is located on lymphocytes and PDL1 on the antigen
presenting cells. PD1 and PDL1 are co-inhibition molecules and their interaction 
results in immune tolerance against tumor cells. Anti-PD1 and anti-PDL1
antibodies have been developed to restore immune system in solid cancer including
NSCLC. In phase I, studies assessing nivolumab, an anti-PD1 antibody, objective
responses were observed in 13 to 18% of NSCLC patients failing previous
treatment. The data obtained with anti-PDL1 antibodies is similar with objective 
responses ranging from 6 to 22%. The encouraging results of phase I/II studies
must be confirmed in ongoing phase III studies. Anti-PD1 and anti-PDL1 antibodies
exposed to new adverse events including auto-immune diseases whose support is not
codified. Questions about treatment duration and criteria evaluation are not
resolved. These treatments pave the way for immunomodulation in NSCLC treatment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pneumo.2014.11.004 
PMID: 25687821  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Oncotarget. 2015 Feb 28;6(6):3479-92.

PD-1 pathway inhibitors: the next generation of immunotherapy for advanced
melanoma.

Luke JJ(1), Ott PA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Hematology/Oncology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Melanoma Disease Center, Dana Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA, USA.

Checkpoint inhibitors are revolutionizing treatment options and expectations for 
patients with melanoma. Ipilimumab, a monoclonal antibody against cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4), was the first approved checkpoint
inhibitor. Emerging long-term data indicate that approximately 20% of
ipilimumab-treated patients achieve long-term survival. The first programmed
death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor, pembrolizumab, was recently approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of melanoma; nivolumab was 
previously approved in Japan. PD-1 inhibitors are also poised to become standard 
of care treatment for other cancers, including non-small cell lung cancer, renal 
cell carcinoma and Hodgkin's lymphoma. Immunotherapy using checkpoint inhibition 
is a different treatment approach to chemotherapy and targeted agents: instead of
directly acting on the tumor to induce tumor cell death, checkpoint inhibitors
enhance or de novo stimulate antitumor immune responses to eliminate cancer
cells. Initial data suggest that objective anti-tumor response rates may be
higher with anti-PD-1 agents compared with ipilimumab and the safety profile may 
be more tolerable. This review explores the development and next steps for PD-1
pathway inhibitors, including discussion of their novel mechanism of action and
clinical data to-date, with a focus on melanoma.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.2980 
PMCID: PMC4414130
PMID: 25682878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Curr Oncol Rep. 2015 Feb;17(2):5. doi: 10.1007/s11912-014-0426-9.

Immunotherapy for the treatment of breast cancer.

Ernst B(1), Anderson KS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.

Decades of research are now leading to therapeutics that target the molecular
mechanisms of the cancer-specific immune response. These therapeutics include
tumor antigen vaccines, dendritic cell activators, adjuvants that activate innate
immunity, adoptive cellular therapy, and checkpoint blockade. The advances in
targeted immunotherapy have led to clinical advances in the treatment of solid
tumors such as melanoma, prostate cancer, lung cancer, and hematologic
malignancies. Preclinical and translational studies suggest that patients with
breast cancer may also benefit from augmenting effective immune responses. These 
results have led to early-phase clinical trials of tumor antigen vaccines,
adjuvants, and combinations of checkpoint inhibitor blockade to boost breast
cancer-specific immunity in patients. This review focuses on the current and
emerging development of cancer immunotherapy for breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s11912-014-0426-9 
PMID: 25677118  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Swiss Med Wkly. 2015 Feb 4;145:w14066. doi: 10.4414/smw.2015.14066. eCollection
2015.

Cancer immunology - development of novel anti-cancer therapies.

Rothschild SI(1), Thommen DS(2), Moersig W(3), Müller P(4), Zippelius A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department Internal Medicine, Medical Oncology, University Hospital Basel,
Switzerland. (2)Department Internal Medicine, Medical Oncology, University
Hospital Basel, Switzerland, and Department of Biomedicine, Cancer Immunology &
Biology, University Basel, Switzerland. (3)Division of Thoracic Surgery,
Department of Surgery, Unversity Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Biomedicine, Cancer Immunology & Biology, University Basel,
Switzerland. (5)a Department Internal Medicine, Medical Oncology, University
Hospital Basel, Switzerland, and Department of Biomedicine, Cancer Immunology &
Biology, University Basel, Switzerland.

The vast majority of tumours are characterised by high frequencies of genetic and
epigenetic alterations resulting in tumour-specific antigens, which may, in
principle, be recognised by cytotoxic T cells. Though early clinical
immunotherapy trials have yielded mixed results with ambiguous clinical benefit, 
cancer immunotherapy is now attracting increasing attention as a viable
therapeutic option, mainly in melanoma and lung cancer, but increasingly also in 
other malignancies. In particular, recent therapeutic efforts targeting
inhibitory receptors on T cells to overcome tumour-induced immune dysfunction
have the potential to reshape current treatment standards in oncology. The
clinical development has been pioneered by the antibody ipilimumab, which blocks 
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and has demonstrated
survival benefit in two randomised landmark trials in melanoma. Capitalising on
this success, the research on the clinical implication of T cell checkpoint
inhibition has been boosted. Early clinical trials have demonstrated meaningful
response rates, sustained clinical benefits with encouraging survival rates and
good tolerability of next-generation checkpoint inhibitors, including programmed 
death-1 (PD-1) and programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors, across multiple 
cancer types. Attractive perspectives include the concurrent blockade of
immunological (non-redundant) checkpoints, which has recently been demonstrated
using combinations of immune checkpoint modulators themselves or with other
therapies, such as chemotherapy, targeted therapy or radiotherapy. This article
summarises the mechanism of action and subsequent clinical studies of immune
checkpoint antibodies in oncology with a particular focus on melanoma and lung
cancer.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2015.14066 
PMID: 25668078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Cancer Radiother. 2015 Feb;19(1):43-7. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2014.12.001. Epub
2015 Feb 2.

[Systemic treatment of brain metastases from lung cancer].

[Article in French]

Barlesi F(1), Spano JP(2), Cortot AB(3), Carpentier AF(4), Robinet G(5), Besse
B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'oncologie multidisciplinaire et d'innovations thérapeutiques,
Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille (AP-HM), chemin des Bourrely, 13915
Marseille cedex 20, France; Université Aix-Marseille, boulevard Charles-Livon,
13007 Marseille, France; Groupe de recherche sur la prise en charge des
métastases cérébrales (GRPCMac), 13273 Marseille, France. Electronic address:
fabrice.barlesi@ap-hm.fr. (2)Groupe de recherche sur la prise en charge des
métastases cérébrales (GRPCMac), 13273 Marseille, France; Département d'oncologie
médicale, groupe hospitalier de la Pitié-Salpêtrière, Assistance
publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), 47-83, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris,
France. (3)Service de pneumologie et d'oncologie thoracique, CHRU de Lille, 59037
Lille, France. (4)Service de neurologie, hôpital Avicenne, Assistance
publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), 125, rue de Stalingrad, 93000 Bobigny,
France. (5)Institut de cancérologie et hématologie, CHRU Morvan, 2, avenue Foch, 
29609 Brest cedex, France. (6)Institut de cancérologie Gustave-Roussy, cancer
campus, 114, rue Édouard-Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif, France; Université Paris-Sud,
5, rue Jean-Baptiste-Clément, 92296 Châtenay-Malabry cedex, France.

Systemic treatment of lung cancer patients with brain metastases is based on
clinical (presence of symptomatic intracranial lesions), pathological and
molecular characteristics of the disease. The efficacy of standard platinum-based
chemotherapy is comparable inside and outside the brain, justifying its use as
front-line therapy. The intracranial efficacy of targeted therapies (EGFR
tyrosine kinase inhibitors, ALK inhibitors) is demonstrated, and is globally
superior to the efficacy of standard chemotherapy, justifying their use as
front-line therapy in case of EGFR activating mutation or ALK rearrangement
(providing the change in the crizotinib label in France). The concomitant use of 
whole brain radiotherapy and a systemic treatment (chemotherapy or targeted
therapy) is not recommended in the absence of a demonstrated better efficacy
and/or acceptable safety profile. Several trials are ongoing to assess new whole 
brain radiotherapy modalities, new targeted therapies alone or in combination,
especially exploring immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2015 Société française de radiothérapie oncologique (SFRO). Published
by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2014.12.001 
PMID: 25656857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Cancer Radiother. 2015 Feb;19(1):61-5. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2014.11.009. Epub
2015 Jan 31.

[Global brain metastases management strategy: a multidisciplinary-based
approach].

[Article in French]

Métellus P(1), Tallet A(2), Dhermain F(3), Reyns N(4), Carpentier A(5), Spano
JP(6), Azria D(7), Noël G(8), Barlési F(9), Taillibert S(10), Le Rhun É(11).

Author information: 
(1)Département de neurochirurgie, centre hospitalo-universitaire La Timone,
AP-HM, 264, rue Saint-Pierre, 13385 Marseille cedex 05, France; Groupe de
réflexion sur la prise en charge des métastases cérébrales (GRPCMaC), 13273
Marseille cedex 09, France; Centre de recherche en oncologie et oncopharmacologie
(CRO2), faculté de médecine Timone, université Aix-Marseille, 27, boulevard
Jean-Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 05, France; Inserm U911, faculté de médecine
Timone, 27, boulevard Jean-Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 05, France. Electronic
address: philippe.metellus@mail.ap-hm.fr. (2)Groupe de réflexion sur la prise en 
charge des métastases cérébrales (GRPCMaC), 13273 Marseille cedex 09, France;
Service d'oncologie-radiothérapie, institut Paoli-Calmettes, 232, boulevard
Sainte-Marguerite, 13009 Marseille, France. (3)Groupe de réflexion sur la prise
en charge des métastases cérébrales (GRPCMaC), 13273 Marseille cedex 09, France; 
Département d'oncologie-radiothérapie, institut de cancérologie Gustave-Roussy,
114, rue Édouard-Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif cedex, France. (4)Département de
neurochirurgie, hôpital Roger-Salengro, CHRU, rue Émile-Laine, 59037 Lille cedex,
France. (5)Département de neurologie, hôpital Avicenne, Assistance
publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), 125, rue de Stalingrad, 93009 Bobigny cedex, 
France. (6)Groupe de réflexion sur la prise en charge des métastases cérébrales
(GRPCMaC), 13273 Marseille cedex 09, France; Département d'oncologie médicale,
groupe hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, 47-83, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris,
France. (7)Groupe de réflexion sur la prise en charge des métastases cérébrales
(GRPCMaC), 13273 Marseille cedex 09, France; Département
d'oncologie-radiothérapie, centre de lutte contre le cancer Val-d'Aurelle, 208,
avenue des Apothicaires, 34298 Montpellier cedex 5, France. (8)Département
universitaire de radiothérapie, centre de lutte contre le cancer Paul-Strauss, 3,
rue de la Porte-de-l'Hôpital, BP 42, 67065 Strasbourg cedex, France; Laboratoire 
EA3430, fédération de médecine translationnelle de Strasbourg (FMTS), université 
de Strasbourg, 4, rue Kirschleger, 67085 Strasbourg cedex, France. (9)Groupe de
réflexion sur la prise en charge des métastases cérébrales (GRPCMaC), 13273
Marseille cedex 09, France; Service d'oncologie multidisciplinaire et
d'innovation thérapeutique, hôpital Nord, chemin des Bourrely, 13915 Marseille
cedex 20, France. (10)Département de neurologie 2, groupe hospitalier
Pitié-Salpêtrière, 47-83, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France;
Département de radiothérapie, groupe hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, 47-83,
boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France; Université Pierre-et-Marie-Curie
Paris VI, 4, place Jussieu, 75005 Paris, France. (11)Groupe de réflexion sur la
prise en charge des métastases cérébrales (GRPCMaC), 13273 Marseille cedex 09,
France; Service de neuro-oncologie, département de neurochirurgie, hôpital
Roger-Salengro, CHRU de Lille, rue Émile-Laine, 59037 Lille cedex, France;
Service d'oncologie médicale, centre Oscar-Lambret, 3, rue Frédéric-Combemale, BP
307, 59020 Lille cedex, France; Laboratoire Prism, université Lille 1, bâtiment
SN3 1(er) étage, 59655 Villeneuve d'Ascq cedex, France; Inserm U1192, 59655
Villeneuve d'Ascq cedex, France.

Brain metastases management has evolved over the last fifteen years and may use
varying strategies, including more or less aggressive treatments, sometimes
combined, leading to an improvement in patient's survival and quality of life.
The therapeutic decision is subject to a multidisciplinary analysis, taking into 
account established prognostic factors including patient's general condition,
extracerebral disease status and clinical and radiological presentation of
lesions. In this article, we propose a management strategy based on the state of 
current knowledge and available therapeutic resources.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2014.11.009 
PMID: 25649388  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Front Oncol. 2015 Jan 6;4:379. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00379. eCollection 2014.

Endoplasmic reticulum chaperones and their roles in the immunogenicity of cancer 
vaccines.

Graner MW(1), Lillehei KO(1), Katsanis E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Anschutz Medical Campus, University of Colorado
School of Medicine , Aurora, CO , USA. (2)Department of Pediatrics, The
University of Arizona , Tucson, AZ , USA.

The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a major site of passage for proteins en route
to other organelles, to the cell surface, and to the extracellular space. It is
also the transport route for peptides generated in the cytosol by the proteasome 
into the ER for loading onto major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I)
molecules for eventual antigen presentation at the cell surface. Chaperones
within the ER are critical for many of these processes; however, outside the ER
certain of those chaperones may play important and direct roles in immune
responses. In some cases, particular ER chaperones have been utilized as vaccines
against tumors or infectious disease pathogens when purified from tumor tissue or
recombinantly generated and loaded with antigen. In other cases, the cell surface
location of ER chaperones has implications for immune responses as well as
possible tumor resistance. We have produced heat-shock protein/chaperone
protein-based cancer vaccines called "chaperone-rich cell lysate" (CRCL) that are
conglomerates of chaperones enriched from solid tumors by an isoelectric focusing
technique. These preparations have been effective against numerous murine tumors,
as well as in a canine with an advanced lung carcinoma treated with autologous
CRCL. We also published extensive proteomic analyses of CRCL prepared from human 
surgically resected tumor samples. Of note, these preparations contained at least
10 ER chaperones and a number of other residents, along with many other
chaperones/heat-shock proteins. Gene ontology and network analyses utilizing
these proteins essentially recapitulate the antigen presentation pathways and
interconnections. In conjunction with our current knowledge of cell
surface/extracellular ER chaperones, these data collectively suggest that a
systems-level view may provide insight into the potent immune stimulatory
activities of CRCL with an emphasis on the roles of ER components in those
processes.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00379 
PMCID: PMC4285071
PMID: 25610811  [PubMed]


349. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2015 Mar;19(3):349-62. doi:
10.1517/14728222.2014.986459. Epub 2015 Jan 20.

Disialoganglioside GD2 as a therapeutic target for human diseases.

Suzuki M(1), Cheung NK.

Author information: 
(1)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Department of Pediatrics , 1275 York
Avenue, New York, NY 10065 , USA +1 646 888 2313 ; +1 631 422 0452 ;
cheungn@mskcc.org.

INTRODUCTION: Ganglioside GD2 is found in vertebrates and invertebrates,
overexpressed among pediatric and adult solid tumors, including neuroblastoma,
glioma, retinoblastoma, Ewing's family of tumors, rhabdomyosarcoma, osteosarcoma,
leiomyosarcoma, liposarcoma, fibrosarcoma, small cell lung cancer and melanoma.
It is also found on stem cells, neurons, some nerve fibers and basal layer of the
skin.
AREAS COVERED: GD2 provides a promising clinical target for radiolabeled
antibodies, bispecific antibodies, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T
cells, drug conjugates, nanoparticles and vaccines. Here, we review its
biochemistry, normal physiology, role in tumorigenesis, important characteristics
as a target, as well as anti-GD2-targeted strategies.
EXPERT OPINION: Bridging the knowledge gaps in understanding the interactions of 
GD2 with signaling molecules within the glycosynapses, and the regulation of its 
cellular expression should improve therapeutic strategies targeting this
ganglioside. In addition to anti-GD2 IgG mAbs, their drug conjugates,
radiolabeled forms especially when genetically engineered to improve therapeutic 
index and novel bispecific forms or CARs to retarget T-cells are promising
candidates for treating metastatic cancers.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2014.986459 
PMID: 25604432  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Curr Opin Oncol. 2015 Mar;27(2):108-17. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000167.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors in advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer.

Helissey C(1), Champiat S, Soria JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Drug Development and South Paris University, Gustave Roussy
Cancer Campus, Villejuif, France.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Targeting immune checkpoints has led to promising results in
metastatic nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC). By restoring antitumor immunity,
these treatments are able to induce prolonged clinical responses. The level of
activity and the durability of responses observed in phase I trials has led most 
companies to launch phases II and III trials whose results are highly expected.
RECENT FINDINGS: In this review, we present efficacy and toxicity results of the 
different immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) currently developed in NSCLC and
report other checkpoints currently explored. The specific profile of tumor
responses and immune-related toxicity observed with immunotherapy will be
addressed. Finally, to illustrate the new insights into the development of these 
drugs, we will give an overview of the different ICIs combination studies
evaluated in NSCLC and will discuss the role of programmed cell death-L1 as a
potential biomarker.
SUMMARY: This review will address some of the future challenges of ICIs in NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000167 
PMID: 25602683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Apr;1855(2):193-201. doi: 10.1016/j.bbcan.2015.01.003.
Epub 2015 Jan 15.

Mechanisms of and strategies for overcoming resistance to anti-vascular
endothelial growth factor therapy in non-small cell lung cancer.

Huang Y(1), Carbone DP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cyrus Tang Hematology Center, Jiangsu Institute of Hematology, Collaborative
Innovation Center of Hematology, Soochow University, Suzhou, China; Department of
Cancer Biology, Mayo Clinic Florida, Griffin Building Room 321B, 4500 San Pablo
Road, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA. Electronic address: hyhui20126@163.com. (2)The
Ohio State University Medical Center, Columbus, OH, USA. Electronic address:
David.Carbone@osumc.edu.

Sustained angiogenesis is a hallmark of cancer. Because of the primary role of
vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs) and their receptors in angiogenesis, 
VEGF-targeted agents have been developed to inhibit these signaling processes in 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, the clinical benefits are transient 
and resistance often rapidly develops. Insights into the molecular mechanisms of 
resistance would help to develop novel strategies to improve the efficacy of
antiangiogenic therapies. This review discusses the mechanisms of resistance to
anti-VEGF therapy and the postulated strategies to optimize antiangiogenic
therapy. A number of multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors currently in phase 
III clinical development for NSCLC are summarized. The emerging combination of
antiangiogenic therapy with tumor immunotherapy is also discussed.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbcan.2015.01.003 
PMID: 25598052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Adv Med Sci. 2015 Mar;60(1):83-8. doi: 10.1016/j.advms.2014.12.002. Epub 2014 Dec
25.

New therapeutic options for advanced non-resectable malignant melanoma.

Stadler S(1), Weina K(1), Gebhardt C(1), Utikal J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Skin Cancer Unit, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany;
Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, University Medical Center
Mannheim, Ruprecht-Karl University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany. (2)Skin
Cancer Unit, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany;
Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, University Medical Center
Mannheim, Ruprecht-Karl University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany. Electronic
address: jochen.utikal@umm.de.

Melanoma is a malignant tumor which is inclined to metastasize promptly into the 
lymphatic system and other organs such as lung, liver, brain or bone. Therefore
early diagnosis remains crucial for improving clinical outcome for melanoma
patients. Current chemotherapy and chemo-immunotherapy regimes have shown little 
clinical benefit with no improvement in overall survival. However, new advances
in melanoma biology such as the discovery of predisposed gene signatures and key 
somatic events have changed clinical practice. New therapeutic approaches are
being tested or have been approved by the FDA/EMA recently including targeted
therapies, such as BRAF- and MEK-inhibitors, and novel immunotherapies, such as
anti-CTLA4 or anti-PD1 therapies. For these therapies an improvement of
progression-free and overall survival has been seen in patients with advanced
non-resectable melanoma. The following review summarizes recent therapeutic
options after the ASCO and ESMO annual meetings 2014 for the treatment of
malignant melanoma.

Copyright © 2015 Medical University of Bialystok. Published by Elsevier Urban &
Partner Sp. z o.o. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.advms.2014.12.002 
PMID: 25596540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


353. J Transl Med. 2015 Jan 16;13:5. doi: 10.1186/s12967-014-0373-0.

PD-1/PD-L1 pathway in non-small-cell lung cancer and its relation with EGFR
mutation.

Ji M(1), Liu Y(2), Li Q(3), Li XD(4), Zhao WQ(5), Zhang H(6), Zhang X(7), Jiang
JT(8), Wu CP(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University,
Changzhou, China. jimei90@sina.com. (2)Department of Hematology, The Third
Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Changzhou, China. 15051973544@163.com.
(3)Department of Pathology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Changzhou, China. liqing@163.com. (4)Department of Oncology, The Third Affiliated
Hospital of Soochow University, Changzhou, China. shuiliuhefang@163.com.
(5)Department of Oncology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University,
Changzhou, China. zhaowq11@163.com. (6)Department of Epidemiology and
Biostatistics, College of Public Health, University of South Florida, Tampa, USA.
kevin511511@gmail.com. (7)Department of Clinical Oncology, Institute of
Development, Aging and Cancer, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.
274365378@qq.com. (8)Department of Biological Treatment, The Third Affiliated
Hospital of Soochow University, Changzhou, China. wcpjjt@163.com. (9)Department
of Oncology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Changzhou,
China. wcpjscz@163.com.

Immunotherapy has become a crucial modality for non-small-cell lung cancer
treatment. Recently, two immune checkpoints, PD-1 and PD-L1, have emerged as
important targets for immunotherapy. Their antitumor efficacy has been confirmed 
by in vitro and in vivo studies. But the correlation between PD-1/PD-L1
expression and EGFR expression was controversial and needs more evidences to
support the combination of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors and tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-014-0373-0 
PMCID: PMC4302082
PMID: 25592115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Expert Opin Emerg Drugs. 2015 Mar;20(1):149-60. doi:
10.1517/14728214.2015.1001365. Epub 2015 Jan 5.

Emerging drugs for squamous cell lung cancer.

Cheng H(1), Shcherba M, Kandavelou K, Liang Y, Liu H, Perez-Soler R.

Author information: 
(1)Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Department of
Oncology , 111 East 210th Street, NY 10467 , USA hcheng@montefiore.org.

INTRODUCTION: The management of advanced NSCLC has been shifted by
histology-driven treatment and molecularly targeted therapy, especially in lung
adenocarcinoma. However, as the second most common histology in NSCLC, the
treatment options for squamous cell lung cancer (SQCLC) remain very limited.
AREAS COVERED: The review first discusses the role of histology in management of 
NSCLC and new cytotoxic agents in SQCLC, and then addresses genomic
characterization and potential molecular targets in SQCLC. The article then
provides an overview for several major categories of novel molecularly targeted
therapies and immune-based strategies with particular attention to ongoing SQCLC 
trials.
EXPERT OPINION: The key challenges in drug development are to uncover novel
actionable targets and to identify predictive biomarkers. Progress in genomic
analysis has identified some promising targetable genes and oncogenic pathways in
SQCLC with a wave of targeted agents being tested in clinical trials.
Immunotherapy has also raised great interest in management of SQCLC, especially
agents targeting immune check points, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4,
programmed death-1 receptor and its ligands. Better understanding of tumor
biology and development of novel targeted therapies will help to facilitate more 
effective personalized therapy for patients with this devastating illness.

DOI: 10.1517/14728214.2015.1001365 
PMID: 25557559  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


355. J Thorac Oncol. 2015 Jan;10(1 Suppl 1):S1-63. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000405.

Molecularly targeted therapies in non-small-cell lung cancer annual update 2014.

Morgensztern D(1), Campo MJ, Dahlberg SE, Doebele RC, Garon E, Gerber DE,
Goldberg SB, Hammerman PS, Heist RS, Hensing T, Horn L, Ramalingam SS, Rudin CM, 
Salgia R, Sequist LV, Shaw AT, Simon GR, Somaiah N, Spigel DR, Wrangle J, Johnson
D, Herbst RS, Bunn P, Govindan R.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Medical Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine,
Saint Louis, Missouri; Departments of †Medical Oncology and ‡Biostatistics and
Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts;
§Department of Medical Oncology, University of Colorado School of Medicine and
University of Colorado Cancer Center, Aurora, Colorado; ‖UCLA Santa Monica
Hematology Oncology, Santa Monica, California; ¶Division of Hematology-Oncology, 
Harold C. Simmons Cancer Center, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas; #Department of Medical Oncology, Yale School of Medicine and
Cancer Center, New Haven, Connecticut; **Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer
Center, Boston, Massachusetts; ††Department of Oncology, The University of
Chicago Medicine, Chicago, Illinois; ‡‡Division of Hematology-Oncology,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee; §§Department of
Hematology and Medical Oncology, Emory University School of Medicine, Winship
Cancer Institute, Atlanta, Georgia; ‖‖Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York; ¶¶Division of Hematology-Oncology, Medical University of South
Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina; ##Sarah Cannon Research Institute,
Nashville, Tennessee; ***The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns
Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland; †††Department of Internal Medicine, UT Southwestern
Medical Center, Dallas, Texas; and ‡‡‡Division of Medical Oncology, University of
Colorado Denver School of Medicine, Denver, Colorado.

There have been significant advances in the understanding of the biology and
treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) during the past few years. A
number of molecularly targeted agents are in the clinic or in development for
patients with advanced NSCLC. We are beginning to understand the mechanisms of
acquired resistance after exposure to tyrosine kinase inhibitors in patients with
oncogene addicted NSCLC. The advent of next-generation sequencing has enabled to 
study comprehensively genomic alterations in lung cancer. Finally, early results 
from immune checkpoint inhibitors are very encouraging. This review summarizes
recent advances in the area of cancer genomics, targeted therapies, and
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000405 
PMCID: PMC4346098
PMID: 25535693  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Immunotherapy. 2014;6(11):1221-35. doi: 10.2217/imt.14.82.

Immunotherapy and lung cancer: current developments and novel targeted therapies.

Domingues D(1), Turner A, Silva MD, Marques DS, Mellidez JC, Wannesson L,
Mountzios G, de Mello RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Portuguese Oncology Institute (IPO PORTO), Rua
Dr. António Bernardino de Almeida, 4200-072, Porto, Portugal.

Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a highly prevalent and aggressive disease. 
In the metastatic setting, major advances include the incorporation of
immunotherapy and targeted therapies into the clinician's therapeutic
armamentarium. Standard chemotherapeutic regimens have long been reported to
interfere with the immune response to the tumor; conversely, antitumor immunity
may add to the effects of those therapies. The aim of immunotherapy is to
specifically enhance the immune response directed to the tumor. Recently, many
trials addressed the role of such therapies for metastatic NSCLC treatment:
ipilimumab, tremelimumab, nivolumab and lambrolizumab are immunotherapeutic
agents of main interest in this field. In addition, anti-tumor vaccines, such as 
MAGE-A3, Tecetomide, TG4010, CIMAvax, ganglioside vaccines, tumor cell vaccines
and dendritic cell vaccines, emerged as potent inducers of immune response
against the tumor. The current work aims to address the most recent developments 
regarding these innovative immunotherapies and their implementation in the
treatment of metastatic NSCLC.

DOI: 10.2217/imt.14.82 
PMID: 25496336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2014;10(11):3383-93. doi: 10.4161/hv.29836.

Tecemotide: an antigen-specific cancer immunotherapy.

Wurz GT(1), Kao CJ, Wolf M, DeGregorio MW.

Author information: 
(1)a University of California , Davis; Department of Internal Medicine; Division 
of Hematology and Oncology ; Sacramento , CA USA.

The identification of tumor-associated antigens (TAA) has made possible the
development of antigen-specific cancer immunotherapies such as tecemotide. One of
those is mucin 1 (MUC1), a cell membrane glycoprotein expressed on some
epithelial tissues such as breast and lung. In cancer, MUC1 becomes overexpressed
and aberrantly glycosylated, exposing the immunogenic tandem repeat units in the 
extracellular domain of MUC1. Designed to target tumor associated MUC1,
tecemotide is being evaluated in Phase III clinical trials for treatment of
unresectable stage IIIA/IIIB non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) as maintenance
therapy following chemoradiotherapy. Additional Phase II studies in other
indications are ongoing. This review discusses the preclinical and clinical
development of tecemotide, ongoing preclinical studies of tecemotide in human
MUC1 transgenic mouse models of breast and lung cancer, and the potential
application of these models for optimizing the timing of chemoradiotherapy and
tecemotide immunotherapy to achieve the best treatment outcome for patients.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.29836 
PMCID: PMC4514140
PMID: 25483673  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2014;10(11):3196-200. doi: 10.4161/21645515.2014.973323.

TroVax in colorectal cancer.

Rowe J(1), Cen P.

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Oncology; Department of Internal Medicine ; The University of
Texas Health Science Center at Houston and Memorial Hermann Cancer Center ;
Houston , TX USA.

Currently, the backbone of therapy for metastatic disease is cytotoxic
chemotherapy, along with the recent addition of targeted therapy based on
molecular markers with KRAS testing. Despite the improvement in survival for
metastatic colon cancer, newer agents are still needed. The clinical activity of 
TroVax in metastatic colon cancer has been studied in a small number of clinical 
trials. There is evidence that supports the vaccine's ability to induce humoral
and cellular responses, as demonstrated by positive 5T4 and MVA-specific antibody
titers and cellular proliferation assays. Future strategies should focus on
investigating the immunomodulatory effects of chemotherapy in conjunction with
TroVax, understanding the optimal dosing and schedule of the combination, and
examining potential predictive biomarkers to determine which patients may benefit
from immunotherapy from those who do not.

DOI: 10.4161/21645515.2014.973323 
PMCID: PMC4514084
PMID: 25483641  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Cancer Treat Rev. 2015 Jan;41(1):27-34. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2014.10.007. Epub
2014 Nov 8.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma: new hope in the horizon with novel therapeutic
strategies.

Remon J(1), Reguart N(2), Corral J(3), Lianes P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Hospital de Mataró, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: jremon@csdm.cat.
(2)Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: nreguart@clinic.ub.es. 
(3)Hospital Universitario Vírgen del Rocío, Sevilla, Spain. Electronic address:
jesuscorraljaime@hotmail.com. (4)Hospital de Mataró, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic
address: plianes@csdm.cat.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rare but aggressive malignancy of the
pleura, with a strong causal link to asbestos exposure. MPM incidence has been
increasing in recent years and it is not expected to fall off in the next two
decades. Prognosis of MPM patients is modest since the vast majority of patients 
are diagnosed at advanced stage and because platinum-based chemotherapy remains
the cornerstone of treatment, with no standard second line treatment. Most
current efforts to improve outcomes are based on a better understanding of the
stromal compartment and deregulated pathways leading ultimately to the design of 
clinical trials based on novel therapeutic approaches such as immunotherapy or
molecular-directed compounds. This review seeks to update the last clinical
trials investigating novel agents in unresectable MPM.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2014.10.007 
PMID: 25467107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Intern Med J. 2015 Jul;45(7):696-701. doi: 10.1111/imj.12653.

Checkpoint immunotherapy for cancer: superior survival, unaccustomed toxicities.

Gedye C(1,)(2), van der Westhuizen A(2), John T(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, Hunter Medical Research Institute,
University of Newcastle, Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia. (2)Department of 
Medical Oncology, Calvary Mater Newcastle, Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Olivia Newton John Cancer and Wellness Centre,
Austin Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Novel cancer immunotherapy antibodies are moving from clinical trials into
routine practice, delivering sustained benefits and prolonged survival to
patients with melanoma, lung, kidney and other cancers. These immunostimulatory
antibodies non-specifically activate the patient's own immune system by
inhibiting immune system checkpoint proteins. This mechanism of action is
entirely different to traditional cancer treatments, such as chemotherapy. While 
there are virtually no immediate toxicities, serious life-threatening autoimmune 
side-effects such as colitis, dermatitis, hypophysitis, pneumonitis and hepatitis
can occur, sometimes starting long after the treatment has been given.
Recognition, referral and prompt treatment with immunosuppressive drugs like
corticosteroids can control these immune-related side-effects without
compromising efficacy. This exciting new class of drugs is defining a new
paradigm in cancer therapy.

© 2014 The Authors; Internal Medicine Journal © 2014 Royal Australasian College
of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/imj.12653 
PMID: 25444021  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Cancer Treat Rev. 2014 Dec;40(10):1192-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2014.07.002. Epub
2014 Jul 17.

Personalized treatments of cancer patients: a reality in daily practice, a costly
dream or a shared vision of the future from the oncology community?

Arnedos M(1), Soria JC(1), Andre F(1), Tursz T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France; Inserm Unit U981,
Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France. (2)Department of Medicine, Gustave Roussy,
Villejuif, France. Electronic address: thomas.tursz@igr.fr.

Therapies targeting activated oncogenes have been associated with several
successes in the last decades that are described in this review, together with
their limits and related unsolved questions. Most of the tumours will eventually 
develop drug resistance potentially due to intratumor heterogeneity and selection
of additional molecular events. Moreover, studies in the field of molecular
characterisation of cancers have shown that most tumors include large number of
rare genomic events. Developing new drugs requires the use of large-scale
molecular screening programs to enrich phase I/II trials with patients presenting
the genetic alterations to treat them with the appropriate drug(s). Administering
one single drug will incur in non-durable results, so the future is to cleverly
combine drugs. Development of personalized immunotherapeutics and/or
anti-angiogenic agents could change the natural history of several cancers.
Finally, other systems including DNA repair and metabolism have become
targetable. These considerations justify the development of molecular medicine
with the characterisation of each tumour to assess defects in all the systems
previously mentioned to propose a unique combination of therapies to each
patient. Current drug development is clearly not appropriate, and studies with
drugs given in relevant combinations should be favoured by new relationships
between academia and industry. New organisational and medico-economics approaches
are required to minimize the financial burden of personalized medicine by
considering the foreseen decrease of the costs of new technologies, and the money
saved by avoiding the use of many costly, useless but nonetheless toxic
treatments given after failure of standard therapy.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2014.07.002 
PMID: 25441102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Semin Oncol. 2014 Oct;41(5):589-612. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2014.07.003. Epub 
2014 Jul 21.

GD2-targeted immunotherapy and radioimmunotherapy.

Dobrenkov K(1), Cheung NK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York,
NY. (2)Department of Pediatrics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, NY. Electronic address: cheungn@mskcc.org.

Ganglioside GD2 is a tumor-associated surface antigen found in a broad spectrum
of human cancers and stem cells. They include pediatric embryonal tumors
(neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, brain tumors, osteosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma,
rhabdomyosarcoma), as well as adult cancers (small cell lung cancer, melanoma,
soft tissue sarcomas). Because of its restricted normal tissue distribution, GD2 
has been proven safe for antibody targeting. Anti-GD2 antibody is now
incorporated into the standard of care for the treatment of high-risk metastatic 
neuroblastoma. Building on this experience, novel combinations of antibodies,
cytokines, cells, and genetically engineered products all directed at GD2 are
rapidly moving into the clinic. In this review, past and present immunotherapy
trials directed at GD2 will be summarized, highlighting the lessons learned and
the future directions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2014.07.003 
PMCID: PMC4254523
PMID: 25440605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Trends Mol Med. 2015 Jan;21(1):24-33. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2014.10.009. Epub
2014 Oct 30.

Human cancer immunotherapy with antibodies to the PD-1 and PD-L1 pathway.

Ohaegbulam KC(1), Assal A(2), Lazar-Molnar E(3), Yao Y(4), Zang X(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine, New York, NY 10461, USA. (2)Department of Oncology, Montefiore Medical 
Center, New York, NY 10467, USA. (3)Department of Pathology, University of Utah
School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, USA. (4)Department of Neurosurgery,
Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200040, China. (5)Department of
Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY
10461, USA; Department of Oncology, Montefiore Medical Center, New York, NY
10467, USA. Electronic address: xing-xing.zang@einstein.yu.edu.

The programmed death 1 (PD-1) receptor and its ligands programmed death ligand 1 
(PD-L1) and PD-L2, members of the CD28 and B7 families, play critical roles in T 
cell coinhibition and exhaustion. Overexpression of PD-L1 and PD-1 on tumor cells
and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, respectively, correlates with poor disease
outcome in some human cancers. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) blockading the
PD-1/PD-L1 pathway have been developed for cancer immunotherapy via enhancing T
cell functions. Clinical trials with mAbs to PD-1 and PD-L1 have shown impressive
response rates in patients, particularly for melanoma, non-small-cell lung cancer
(NSCLC), renal cell carcinoma (RCC), and bladder cancer. Further studies are
needed to dissect the mechanisms of variable response rate, to identify
biomarkers for clinical response, to develop small-molecule inhibitors, and to
combine these treatments with other therapies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmed.2014.10.009 
PMCID: PMC4282825
PMID: 25440090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2015 Jun;12(6):977-91. doi: 10.1517/17425247.2015.986454.
Epub 2014 Nov 25.

Aerosol gene delivery using viral vectors and cationic carriers for in vivo lung 
cancer therapy.

Hong SH(1), Park SJ, Lee S, Cho CS, Cho MH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Toxicology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Research Institute
for Veterinary Science, and BK21 PLUS Program for Creative Veterinary Science
Research, Seoul National University , Seoul 151-742 , South Korea +82 2 880 1276 
; mchotox@snu.ac.kr.

INTRODUCTION: Lung cancer has the highest mortality rate among all cancers in
both men and women. Aerosol delivery is a noninvasive method for gene delivery to
the lungs, although efficient and biocompatible vectors need to be developed for 
lung cancer therapy.
AREAS COVERED: This review summarizes recent advances in airway gene delivery for
lung cancer treatment in animal models using viral vectors or cationic polymers. 
Viral vectors including lentiviruses and adenoviruses have been used for airway
gene delivery because of their high transfection efficiency. Cationic polymers
have also been developed for aerosol gene therapy owing to their biocompatibility
and ease of modification.
EXPERT OPINION: Efficient delivery and specific promoters are needed for lung
cancer therapy. Capsid engineering or PEGylation can lower immunogenicity.
Moreover, immunotherapy and oncolytic viruses need to be tested with aerosol
delivery for lung cancer therapy. Meanwhile, naturally existing cationic
materials may allow the development of novel and biocompatible carriers. In
combination with various technologies for aerosol delivery, novel and specific
carriers could be developed for lung cancer therapy in the future. Finally,
standardized protocols for quantifying and manufacturing viral vectors and
cationic polymers need to be developed in order to ensure biosafety.

DOI: 10.1517/17425247.2015.986454 
PMID: 25423167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Oncology (Williston Park). 2014 Nov;28 Suppl 3:39-48.

Prognostic and predictive markers for the new immunotherapies.

Mahoney KM, Atkins MB.

Blocking the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) pathway with monoclonal antibodies
has shown promising antitumor responses in clinical trials, with less toxicity
than has been seen with prior immune therapies such as interleukin 2 and
ipilimumab. Pembrolizumab, an anti-PD-1 antibody, recently gained US Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) accelerated approval for the treatment of patients with
ipilimumab-refractory melanoma, while nivolumab, another anti-PD-1 antibody, and 
MPDL3280A, an anti-programmed cell death 1 ligand (PD-L1) antibody, have been
granted FDA "breakthrough designation" for treatment of subsets of patients with 
refractory Hodgkin lymphoma and metastatic bladder cancer, respectively.
Encouraging antitumor activity has also been seen with these agents in patients
with other malignancies, including non-small-cell lung cancer and head and neck
cancer, tumors not previously thought to be immune-responsive. PD-L1 expression
has emerged as a potential predictive biomarker for PD-1-directed therapy.
Multiple, distinct, companion assays for PD-L1 positivity have been developed,
but there is as yet no comparison, standardization, or prospective validation of 
these assays. PD-L1 expression on tumor cells and/or the tumor-immune infiltrate 
is likely only part of the predictive model necessary for selecting patients
predisposed to respond to monotherapy. Additional predictive biomarkers are
necessary to identify patients most likely to benefit from PD-1-based combination
therapy, since tumor cell PD-L1 expression appears to have limited predictive
value in this setting.


PMID: 25384886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2015;15(3):307-13.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors for non-small-cell lung cancer: does that represent 
a 'new frontier'?

Pilotto S, Kinspergher S, Peretti U, Calio A, Carbognin L, Ferrara R, Brunelli M,
Chilosi M, Tortora G, Bria E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata, University of
Verona, P.le L.A. Scuro 10, 37124, Verona, Italy. emiliobria@yahoo.it.

Advances in the interpretation and understanding of cancer behaviour,
particularly of its ability to evade the host immunosurveillance, deregulating
the balance between inhibitory and stimulatory factors, led to the development of
an innovative category of immunotherapeutic agents, currently under
investigation. Although the disappointing data deriving from the employment of
vaccines in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), more promising results have been 
obtained in the early phase trials with immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4), programmed cell death
protein-1 (PD-1) and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors. This review
delineates the main features of the available immunotherapeutic agents, focusing 
the discussion on immune checkpoint inhibitors, those that have already
demonstrated a relevant clinical activity (such as Ipilimumab and Nivolumab) and 
those molecules still in early development phase. Moreover, we underline the
possible emerging issues deriving from the progressive diffusion of
Immuno-Oncology into the standard clinical practice. The careful and accurate
identification and management of immune-related toxicities, the validation of
more reliable immune response criteria and the increasing research of potential
predictive biomarkers are key points of discussion. The perspective is that
immunotherapy might represent an effective 'magic bullet', able to change the
treatment paradigm of NSCLC, particularly of those subgroups featured by a
heavily mutant cancer (squamous histology and smokers), where the immunologic
agents contribute in cancer development and progression seems to be strong and,
concurrently, the efficacy of standard therapies particularly limited.


PMID: 25382117  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


367. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2015 Jul;141(7):1249-58. doi: 10.1007/s00432-014-1867-0.
Epub 2014 Nov 8.

T-cell-associated cellular immunotherapy for lung cancer.

Li K(1), Zhang Q, Zhang Y, Yang J, Zheng J.

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Biological Cancer Therapy, Xuzhou Medical College,
West Huaihai Road 84#, Xuzhou, 221002, Jiangsu, China.

PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to discuss recent findings on the role 
of T cells in lung cancer to provide information on their potential application, 
especially in cellular immunotherapy.
METHODS: Data on the different types of T cells that are currently used for the
treatment of lung cancer were obtained by searching the PUBMED database.
RESULTS: Cytotoxic T lymphocytes, natural killer T cells, γδ T cells,
lymphokine-activated killer cells, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes,
cytokine-induced killer cells and gene-modified T cells were analyzed to
determine the benefits and drawbacks of their application in the treatment of
lung cancer. Advances in the study of their antitumor mechanisms and directions
for future research were discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: T cells are critical for tumorigenesis and therefore important
targets for the treatment of lung cancer. T-cell-associated cellular
immunotherapy opens up a window of opportunity for the development of
complementary methods to traditional lung cancer treatments, which warrants
further investigation to improve the clinical outcomes of lung cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-014-1867-0 
PMID: 25381064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Front Oncol. 2014 Oct 22;4:288. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00288. eCollection 2014.

Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer: Has it Finally Arrived?

Mostafa AA(1), Morris DG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Calgary , Calgary, AB , Canada.

The possible link between infection/inflammation/immune activation and a cancer
patient's outcome from both a causative and outcome point of view has long been
postulated. Substantial progress in the understanding of tumor-associated
antigens/epitopes, immune cellular subpopulations, cytokine pathways/expression, 
the tumor microenvironment, and the balance between tumor-immune suppression and 
stimulation have been made over the past decade. This knowledge has heralded a
new era of tumor immunotherapy utilizing vaccines, immune checkpoint inhibition, 
and oncolytic viruses. Despite significant progress in the molecular era now with
targeted therapeutics such as EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors and ALK fusion
protein inhibitors that have significantly improved the outcome of these specific
lung cancer subpopulations, the overall 5 year survival for all non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) is still <20%. Unlike malignancies such as malignant
melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, and neuroblastoma given their documented
spontaneous remission rates lung cancer historically has been felt to be
resistant to immune approaches likely related to an immunosuppressive tumor
microenvironment and/or lack of immune recognition. Defining responding
populations, understanding the mechanism(s) underlying durable immune responses, 
and the role of chemotherapy, radiation, oncolytic viruses, and other tumor
disrupting agents in augmenting immune responses have led to improved
optimization of immune therapeutic strategies. The purpose of this review is to
focus on the recent advances in lung immunotherapy with an emphasis on recent
clinical trials in the last 5 years in NSCLC.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00288 
PMCID: PMC4206190
PMID: 25374843  [PubMed]


369. Clin Transl Oncol. 2015 Jan;17(1):11-23. doi: 10.1007/s12094-014-1231-5. Epub
2014 Nov 6.

Recommendations for radiological diagnosis and assessment of treatment response
in lung cancer: a national consensus statement by the Spanish Society of Medical 
Radiology and the Spanish Society of Medical Oncology.

de Castro J(1), Cobo M, Isla D, Puente J, Reguart N, Cabeza B, Gayete A, Sánchez 
M, Torres MI, Ferreirós J.

Author information: 
(1)Oncology Department, La Paz University Hospital, Paseo de la Castellana, 261, 
28046, Madrid, Spain, javier.decastro@salud.madrid.org.

Comment in
    Clin Transl Oncol. 2015 Jun;17(6):495-6.

The last decade has seen substantial progress in the diagnostic and therapeutic
approach to lung cancer, thus meaning that its prognosis has improved. The
Spanish Society of Medical Radiology and the Spanish Society of Medical Oncology 
have therefore produced a national consensus statement to make recommendations
for radiological diagnosis and assessment of treatment response in patients with 
lung cancer. This expert group recommends multi-detector computed tomography as
the technique of choice for investigating this disease. The radiology report
should include a full assessment by the TNM staging system. Lastly, when the
patient is on immunotherapy, response evaluation should employ not only response 
evaluation criteria in solid tumours, but also immune-related response criteria.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-014-1231-5 
PMID: 25373531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Feb 15;191(4):377-90. doi:
10.1164/rccm.201409-1671PP.

The non-small cell lung cancer immune contexture. A major determinant of tumor
characteristics and patient outcome.

Remark R(1), Becker C, Gomez JE, Damotte D, Dieu-Nosjean MC, Sautès-Fridman C,
Fridman WH, Powell CA, Altorki NK, Merad M, Gnjatic S.

Author information: 
(1)1 Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology and.

Solid tumors, beyond mere accumulation of cancer cells, form a complex ecosystem 
consisting of normal epithelial cells, fibroblasts, blood and lymphatic vessels, 
structural components, and infiltrating hematopoietic cells including myeloid and
lymphoid elements that impact tumor growth, tumor spreading, and clinical
outcome. The composition of the immune microenvironment is diverse, including
various populations of T cells, B cells, dendritic cells, natural killer cells,
myeloid-derived suppressor cells, neutrophils, or macrophages. The immune
contexture describes the density, location, and organization of these immune
cells within solid tumors. In lung cancer, which is the deadliest type of cancer,
and particularly in non-small cell lung cancer, its most prevalent form, reports 
have described some of the interactions between the tumor and the host. These
data, in addition to articles on various types of tumors, provide a greater
understanding of the tumor-host microenvironment interaction and stimulate the
development of prognostic and predictive biomarkers, the identification of novel 
target antigens for therapeutic intervention, and the implementation of tools for
long-term management of patients with cancer.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201409-1671PP 
PMID: 25369536  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Cancer. 2014 Oct 22;5(9):765-73. doi: 10.7150/jca.10471. eCollection 2014.

Interleukin-7 and interleukin-15 for cancer.

Zarogoulidis P(1), Lampaki S(1), Yarmus L(2), Kioumis I(1), Pitsiou G(1),
Katsikogiannis N(3), Hohenforst-Schmidt W(4), Li Q(5), Huang H(5), Sakkas A(6),
Organtzis J(1), Sakkas L(6), Mpoukovinas I(7), Tsakiridis K(8), Lazaridis G(9),
Syrigos K(10), Zarogoulidis K(1).

Author information: 
(1)1. Pulmonary Department-Oncology Unit, ``G. Papanikolaou`` General Hospital,
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece. (2)2. Division of
Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, U.S.A.
(3)3. Surgery Department (NHS), University General Hospital of Alexandroupolis,
Alexandroupolis, Greece. (4)4. II Medical Clinic, ``Coburg`` Hospital, University
of Wuerzburg, Coburg, Germany. (5)5. Department of Respiratory Diseases, Changhai
Hospital/First Affiliated Hospital of the Second Military Medical University,
Shanghai, China. (6)6. Pathology Department, ``G. Papanikolaou`` General
Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. (7)7. Oncology Department, ``BioMedicine``
Private Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. (8)8. Cardiothoracic Surgery Department, 
``Saint Luke`` Private Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. (9)9. Oncology Department,
``G. Papageorgiou`` University Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. (10)10. Oncology
Department, ``Sotiria`` Hospital, University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

Interleukin 7 and 15 are considered powerful pro-inflammatory cytokines, they
have the ability to destabilize chromosomes and induce tumorigenesis.
Additionally, they can control malignancy proliferation by influencing the tumor 
microenvironment and immune system. Immunotherapy has been proposed as a
treatment modality for malignancy for over a decade; the exact mechanisms of
action and pathways are still under investigation. Interleukin 7 and 15 have been
extensively investigated in hematological malignancies since their mode of action
influences the stimulation of the immune system in a more direct way than other
malignancies such as lung, melanoma, and breast, renal and colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.7150/jca.10471 
PMCID: PMC4216801
PMID: 25368677  [PubMed]


372. Cancer Immunol Res. 2014 Nov;2(11):1034-43. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0174.

Prostate cancer immunotherapy: beyond immunity to curability.

Simons JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Prostate Cancer Foundation, Santa Monica, California. jsimons@pcf.org.

Metastatic prostate cancer is the second leading cause of death from cancer in
the United States. It is the first prevalent cancer in which overall survival in 
advanced disease is modestly, but objectively, improved with outpatient delivered
dendritic cell-based immunotherapy. More prostate cancer patients have enrolled
through Facebook and trusted-site Internet searches in clinical trials for
prostate cancer vaccine-based immunotherapy than in immunotherapy trials for
lung, breast, colon, pancreas, ovarian, and bladder cancer combined in the past 7
years. Exceptional responses to anti-CTLA-4 treatment have been documented in
clinics, and prostate cancer neoantigen characterization and T-cell clonotyping
are in their research ascendancy. The prostate is an accessory organ; it is not
required for fertility, erectile function, or urinary continence. The true
evolutionary advantage of having a prostate for male mammalian physiology is a
topic of speculation in seminar rooms and on bar stools, but it remains unknown. 
Hundreds of prostate lineage-unique proteins (PLUP) exist among the >37,000
normal human prostate lineage-unique open reading frames that can be targeted for
immunologic ablation of PLUP(+) prostate cancer cells by prostate-specific
autoimmunity. This bioengineered graft-versus-prostate disease is a powerful
strategy that can eliminate deaths from prostate cancer. Immunologic tolerance to
prostate cancer can be overcome at every clinical stage of presentation. This
Cancer Immunology at the Crossroads article aims to present advances in the past 
two decades of basic, translational, and clinical research in prostate cancer,
including bioengineering B-cell and T-cell responses, and ongoing prostate cancer
immunotherapy trials.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0174 
PMID: 25367978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Thorac Dis. 2014 Oct;6(10):1513-20. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2014.08.17.

L-BLP25 as a peptide vaccine therapy in non-small cell lung cancer: a review.

Xia W(1), Wang J(1), Xu Y(1), Jiang F(1), Xu L(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Thoracic Surgery, Nanjing Medical University Affiliated Cancer
Hospital, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Molecular and Translational Cancer Research, 
Cancer Institute of Jiangsu Province, Baiziting 42, Nanjing 210009, China ; 2 The
Fourth Clinical College of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing 210000, China ; 3 
The First Clinical College of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing 210000, China.

Lung cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies worldwide and the leading
cause of cancer-related death. Most cases are non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
The median overall survival of patients with advanced stage undergoing current
standard chemotherapy is approximately 10 months. The addition of new compounds, 
including targeted agents, to standard first-line cytotoxic doublets, which are
administered concurrently and/or as maintenance therapy in patients who have not 
experienced disease progression after first-line treatment, has shown potential
in improving the efficacy in patients with advanced disease. L-BLP25 is a mucin 1
(MUC1) antigen-specific immunotherapy induces a T-cell response to MUC1 in both a
preclinical MUC1-transgenic lung cancer mouse model and patients. This review is 
aimed at introducing the mechanism by which L-BLP25 targets MUC1, summarizing the
achievements gained in the completed clinical trials with L-BLP25 administered as
maintenance therapy in the treatment of unresectable stage III/IV NSCLC, and
discussing the research trends.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2014.08.17 
PMCID: PMC4215136
PMID: 25364531  [PubMed]


374. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2014 Dec;10(12):1711-30. doi:
10.1586/1744666X.2014.975692. Epub 2014 Oct 28.

Cellular and molecular immunology of lung cancer: therapeutic implications.

Nguyen AH(1), Berim IG, Agrawal DK.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Clinical and Translational Science, Creighton University School of 
Medicine, CRISS II Room 510, 2500 California Plaza Omaha, NE 68178, USA.

Although the incidence of lung cancer is declining, the prognosis remains poor.
This is likely due to lack of early detection and only recent developments in
selective cancer therapies. Key immune cells involved in the pathogenesis of lung
cancer include CD4(+) T lymphocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells and NK cells.
The growing understanding of these cells indicates a highly complex and
intertwined network of their involvement in each stage of lung cancer. Immune
cell types and numbers affect prognosis and could offer an opportunity for
clinical therapeutic applications. However, an incomplete understanding of immune
cell involvement and the underlying processes in lung cancer still remain. Deeper
investigation focusing on the role of the immune cells will further the
understanding of lung carcinogenesis and develop novel therapeutic approaches for
the treatment and management of patients with more specialized and selective lung
cancer.

DOI: 10.1586/1744666X.2014.975692 
PMCID: PMC4596236
PMID: 25351434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Drugs. 2014 Nov;74(17):1993-2013. doi: 10.1007/s40265-014-0305-6.

Clinical impact of checkpoint inhibitors as novel cancer therapies.

Shih K(1), Arkenau HT, Infante JR.

Author information: 
(1)Sarah Cannon Research Institute and Tennessee Oncology PLLC, Nashville, TN,
37203, USA, kshih@tnonc.com.

Immune responses are tightly regulated via signaling through numerous
co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory molecules. Exploitation of these immune
checkpoint pathways is one of the mechanisms by which tumors evade and/or escape 
the immune system. A growing understanding of the biology of immune checkpoints
and tumor immunology has led to the development of monoclonal antibodies designed
to target co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory molecules in order to re-engage the
immune system and restore antitumor immune responses. Anti-cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) antibodies were among the first to be 
tested in the clinic, and ipilimumab was the first immune checkpoint inhibitor
approved for an anticancer indication. Agents targeting the programmed death 1
(PD-1) pathway, either PD-1 or one of its ligands, programmed death ligand 1, are
in active clinical development for numerous cancers, including advanced melanoma 
and lung cancer. Understanding the different mechanisms of action, safety
profiles, and response patterns associated with inhibition of the CTLA-4 and PD-1
pathways may improve patient management as these therapies are moved in to the
clinical practice setting and may also provide a rationale for combination
therapy with different inhibitors. Additional immune checkpoint molecules with
therapeutic potential, including lymphocyte activation gene-3 and
glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor-related gene, also have
inhibitors in early stages of clinical development. Clinical responses and safety
data reported to date on immune checkpoint inhibitors suggest these agents may
have the potential to markedly improve outcomes for patients with cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-014-0305-6 
PMCID: PMC4224737
PMID: 25344022  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Ther Adv Med Oncol. 2014 Sep;6(5):240-53. doi: 10.1177/1758834014532510.

Novel agents in development for advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Stinchcombe TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 170 Manning Drive, POB 3rd Floor,
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7305, USA.

Erratum in
    Ther Adv Med Oncol. 2015 Jul;7(4):237.

The identification of EGFR mutations and ALK rearrangements in nonsmall cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) has led to the rapid development of targeted therapies and
significant changes in the treatment paradigm. Epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and crizotinib are now standard
therapies for patients with the appropriate molecular alteration. Current
investigations are determining the mechanisms of resistance to targeted therapies
and developing novel agents to combat resistance. For patients with KRAS mutant
NSCLC, a phase III trial of the MEK inhibitor, selumetinib, has been initiated.
For patients without a defined mutation or a mutation without a known targeted
therapy, immunotherapy, ganetespib, nintedanib and MET inhibitors in combination 
with EGFR TKIs are in development. Preliminary results of phase III trials raise 
doubts about the future development of dacomitinib as a second-line agent.

DOI: 10.1177/1758834014532510 
PMCID: PMC4206610
PMID: 25342991  [PubMed]


377. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2014 Oct 20;17(10):734-40. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.10.05.

[Advances of PD-1/PD-L1 signaling pathway in immune escape and treatment for
 non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Lin C(1), Chen X(1), Liu J(1), Huang Y(1), Ou-Yang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nanjing Military Command Fuzhou General Hospital, Fuzhou 350025, China.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Despiting
the great progress on target agents, majority of people who do not harbor a
mutation could not get benefit from them. Immunotherapy, through stimulating the 
body's immune system to improve the antitumor immunity effect, has been a new
therapeutic method for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Study had been
reported that immune checkpoint molecules, including programmed death-1
(PD-1)/PD-ligand (L) 1 axis, are closedly related with cancer generation and
development, and play a key role on clinical significance of NSCLC. Activation of
PD-1/PD-L1 pathway contributes to tumor immune escape, and block PD-1/PD-L1
pathway can enhance endogenous antimuor immunity. Currently increasing clinical
trials suggested that immune checkpoint inhibitors, including anti-PD-1 and
anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies turned out to be beneficial and safe in NSCLC.
Here, we provide a review on the progress of PD-1/PD-L1 pathway and immune
checkpoint inhibitors in NSCLC.

Publisher: 非小细胞肺癌（non-small cell lung cancer,
NSCLC）是肿瘤相关性死亡率第一的恶性肿瘤。虽然近年来靶向治疗进展迅速，但很多基因未突变的患者不能从中受益。目前免疫治疗已成为肿瘤治疗的新方向，它能通过刺激机体
免疫系统提高抗肿瘤免疫效应。研究显示免疫检查点分子：程序性死亡分子1（programmed death 1, PD-1）、程序性死亡分子1配体（PD-1
ligand,
PD-L1），与肿瘤发生、发展密切相关，在NSCLC中有重要的临床意义。PD-1/PD-L1信号通路的激活有助于肿瘤免疫逃逸，而阻断该通路可以增强机体内源性抗肿瘤
免疫效应。目前越来越多的临床试验显示免疫检查点阻滞剂抗PD-1、抗PD-L1抗体在治疗NSCLC中的良好疗效性和安全性。本综述旨在回顾及总结近年来PD-1/PD-
L1信号通路及其阻滞剂在NSCLC中的研究进展。
DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.10.05 
PMID: 25342040  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Cancer. 2015 Mar 1;121(5):664-72. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29098. Epub 2014 Oct 21.

Small cell lung cancer: where do we go from here?

Byers LA(1), Rudin CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of Texas
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.

Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive disease that accounts for
approximately 14% of all lung cancers. In the United States, approximately 31,000
patients are diagnosed annually with SCLC. Despite numerous clinical trials,
including at least 40 phase 3 trials since the 1970s, systemic treatment for
patients with SCLC has not changed significantly in the past several decades.
Consequently, the 5-year survival rate remains low at <7% overall, and most
patients survive for only 1 year or less after diagnosis. Unlike nonsmall cell
lung cancer (NSCLC), in which major advances have been made using targeted
therapies, there are still no approved targeted drugs for SCLC. Significant
barriers to progress in SCLC include 1) a lack of early detection modalities, 2) 
limited tumor tissue for translational research (eg, molecular profiling of DNA, 
RNA, and/or protein alterations) because of small diagnostic biopsies and the
rare use of surgical resection in standard treatment, and 3) rapid disease
progression with poor understanding of the mechanisms contributing to therapeutic
resistance. In this report, the authors review the current state of SCLC
treatment, recent advances in current understanding of the underlying disease
biology, and opportunities to advance translational research and therapeutic
approaches for patients with SCLC.

© 2014 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29098 
PMID: 25336398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Int J Colorectal Dis. 2015 Jan;30(1):1-10. doi: 10.1007/s00384-014-2029-1. Epub
2014 Oct 21.

Advances in malignant peritoneal mesothelioma.

Cao S(1), Jin S, Cao J, Shen J, Hu J, Che D, Pan B, Zhang J, He X, Ding D, Gu F, 
Yu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital,
No.150 Haping Road, Harbin, 150081, China, cs.bo@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Malignant mesothelioma is a rare, insidious, and aggressive tumor
arising from the mesothelial surface of pleural and peritoneal cavities, the
pericardium, or the tunica vaginalis, with an increasing incidence worldwide,
high misdiagnosis rate, and overall negative prognosis. A total of 20% of all
cases is peritoneum in origin.
METHODS: The present study is a review of literatures focusing on the advances in
epidemiology, clinical presentations, radiological features, diagnosis,
misdiagnosis, management, and prognostic factors of malignant peritoneal
mesothelioma (MPM) occurred in the past decades.
RESULTS: Asbestos, SV40, and radiation exposures have been demonstrated to be
correlated with the pathogenesis of MPM. The main presentations are abdominal
distension and pain. Computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 
and positron-emission tomography (PET) play an important role in the preoperative
imaging and staging. Definitive diagnosis is made on the basis of
immunohistochemistry. Prognostic factors have been identified and verified.
Negative indicators include advanced age, male gender, poor performance status,
non-epithelial histology, and absence of surgery. The management of MPM has
evolved from single chemotherapy to multimodality treatment of cytoreductive
surgery (CRS) and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC),
chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy. Promising results have been
achieved after a combined treatment of CRS and HIPEC, with an elevated median
survival time of 29.5-92 months and a 5-year survival rate of 39-63%.
CONCLUSIONS: CRS and HIPEC represent the standard treatment strategy for selected
patients with MPM, and patients with unresectable tumors can benefit from the
combined treatment of chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00384-014-2029-1 
PMID: 25331029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Int Immunol. 2015 Jan;27(1):39-46. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxu095. Epub 2014 Oct 16.

Therapeutic uses of anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies.

Philips GK(1), Atkins M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Georgetown University Hospital, 3800 Reservoir Road
NW, Washington DC 20007, USA george.k.philips@gunet.georgetown.edu. (2)Department
of Oncology, Georgetown-Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Research
Building-E501, 3970 Reservoir Road NW, Washington DC 20057, USA.

Despite extensive investigation over the past three decades, cancer immunotherapy
has produced limited success, with few agents achieving approval by the Food and 
Drug Administration and even the most effective helping only a minority of
patients, primarily with melanoma or renal cancer. In recent years, immune
checkpoints that maintain physiologic self-tolerance have been implicated in the 
down-regulation of anti-tumor immunity. Efforts to restore latent anti-tumor
immunity have focused on antibody-based interventions targeting CTL antigen 4
(CTLA-4) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) on T lymphocytes and its
principal ligand (PD-L1) on tumor cells. Ipilimumab, an antibody targeting
CTLA-4, appears to restore tumor immunity at the priming phase, whereas
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies restore immune function in the tumor microenvironment.
Although ipilimumab can produce durable long-term responses in patients with
advanced melanoma, it is associated with significant immune-related toxicities.
By contrast, antibodies targeting either PD-1 or PD-L1 have produced significant 
anti-tumor activity with considerably less toxicity. Activity was seen in
patients with melanoma and renal cancer, as well as those with non-small-cell
lung, bladder and head and neck cancers, tumors not previously felt to be
sensitive to immunotherapy. The tolerability of PD-1-pathway blockers and their
unique mechanism of action have made them ideal backbones for combination regimen
development. Combination approaches involving cytotoxic chemotherapy,
anti-angiogenic agents, alternative immune-checkpoint inhibitors,
immunostimulatory cytokines and cancer vaccines are currently under clinical
investigation. Current efforts focus on registration trials of single agents and 
combinations in various diseases and disease settings and identifying predictive 
biomarkers of response.

© The Japanese Society for Immunology. 2014. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxu095 
PMID: 25323844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Tuberc Respir Dis (Seoul). 2014 Sep;77(3):111-5. doi: 10.4046/trd.2014.77.3.111. 
Epub 2014 Sep 30.

Immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer.

Yoon SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Chosun University School of Medicine,
Gwangju, Korea.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, and more 
than 80% of cases are of non-small cell lung cancer. Although chemotherapy and
molecularly targeted therapy may provide some benefit, there is a need for newer 
therapies for the treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC. Immunotherapy aims
to augment the recognition of cancer as foreign, to stimulate immune
responsiveness, and to relieve the inhibition of the immune response that allows 
tolerance to tumor survival and growth. Two immunotherapeutic approaches showing 
promise in NSCLC are immune checkpoint inhibition and cancer vaccination.
Although currently immunotherapy does not have an established role in the
treatment of NSCLC, these patients should be enrolled in formal clinical trials.

DOI: 10.4046/trd.2014.77.3.111 
PMCID: PMC4192308
PMID: 25309605  [PubMed]


382. Clin Cancer Res. 2014 Dec 1;20(23):5898-907. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-2437. 
Epub 2014 Oct 10.

Therapeutic strategies utilized in the setting of acquired resistance to EGFR
tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

Yu HA(1), Riely GJ(2), Lovly CM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Weil Cornell
Medical College, New York, New York. christine.lovly@vanderbilt.edu
YuH@mskcc.org. (2)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
Weil Cornell Medical College, New York, New York. (3)Department of Medicine,
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine and Vanderbilt Ingram Cancer Center,
Nashville, Tennessee. christine.lovly@vanderbilt.edu YuH@mskcc.org.

Patients with EGFR-mutant lung cancer derive significant therapeutic benefit from
treatment with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI). Unfortunately, acquired
resistance is an inevitable consequence of this treatment strategy, with a broad 
variety of resistance mechanisms including acquired EGFR mutations (e.g., T790M) 
and activation of bypass signaling pathways, such as MET and HER2. Several
therapeutic strategies hypothesized to delay or overcome resistance have been
tested in clinical trials, including "next-generation" EGFR TKIs and rational
combinations of targeted agents. However, to date, there are no FDA-approved
therapies for patients with acquired resistance to first-line EGFR TKI therapy.
There remains a critical need for more effective and better tailored treatments
in this setting to match treatments to the individual patient and specific
resistance mechanism at hand. In this review, we discuss known mechanisms of
resistance to first-line EGFR TKI therapy and describe previous and ongoing
strategies to overcome resistance.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-2437 
PMCID: PMC4253858
PMID: 25303979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


383. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 30;9(9):e108958. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108958.
eCollection 2014.

Effectiveness and safety of chemotherapy combined with dendritic cells
co-cultured with cytokine-induced killer cells in the treatment of advanced
non-small-cell lung cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Han RX(1), Liu X(2), Pan P(1), Jia YJ(2), Yu JC(2).

Author information: 
(1)First Teaching Hospital of Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Tianjin, China; Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin,
China. (2)First Teaching Hospital of Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Tianjin, China.

BACKGROUND: Lung cancer, particularly non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the
leading cause of cancer mortality. Chemotherapy combined dendritic cells
co-cultured with cytokine-induced killer cells (DC-CIK) immunotherapy has been
applied in advanced NSCLC patients' treatment, but couldn't provide consistent
beneficial results. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate the efficiency and
safety of combination therapy to promote the application.
METHODS: A literature search for randomized controlled trials of NSCLC was
conducted in PubMed database. Before meta-analysis was performed, studies were
evaluated heterogeneity. Pooled risk ratios (RRs) were estimated and 95%
confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a fixed-effect model.
Sensitivity analysis was also performed.
RESULTS: Six eligible trials were enrolled. Efficiency and safety of chemotherapy
followed by DC-CIK immunotherapy (experimental group) and chemotherapy alone
(control group) were compared. 1-year overall survival (OS) (P = 0.02) and
progression free survival (PFS) (P = 0.005) in the experimental group were
significantly increased compared with the control. Disease control rate (DCR)
(P = 0.006) rose significantly in experimental group. However, no significant
differences between the two groups were observed in 2-year OS (P = 0.21), 2-year 
PFS (P = 0.10), overall response rate (ORR) (P = 0.76) and partial response (PR) 
(P = 0.22). Temporary fever, anemia, leukopenia and nausea were the four major
adverse events (AEs) treated by chemotherapy. The incidence of anemia, leukopenia
and nausea in the experimental group was obviously lower than the control group. 
Temporary fever rate was higher in experimental group than that in the control,
but could be alleviated by taking sufficient rest.
CONCLUSIONS: Chemotherapy combined with DC-CIK immunotherapy showed superiority
in DCR, 1-year OS and PFS, and no more AEs appeared, however, there was no
significant improvement in ORR, PR, 2-year OS and PFS. As a whole, the
combination therapy is safer but modest in efficacy for advanced NSCLC patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108958 
PMCID: PMC4182599
PMID: 25268709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2014 Dec;15(4):683-99. doi: 10.1007/s11864-014-0314-4.

Local and systemic therapies for malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Gomez D(1), Tsao AS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas M. D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX, 77030, USA.

OPINION STATEMENT: Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a challenging disease 
to treat with median overall survival times ranging between 9-17 months for all
stages of disease. Recent clinical trials have improved our understanding of the 
biology of MPM. However, survival results are still not ideal. For early-stage
MPM, patients should be evaluated for trimodality therapy in an experienced
cancer center. If treating off-protocol, MPM patients should receive a surgical
staging evaluation. The decision to proceed with surgical resection also should
be considered after an extensive and thorough pulmonary and cardiac evaluation.
If deemed a good surgical candidate, patients should receive surgical resection
(pleurectomy/decortication or extrapleural pneumonectomy), adjuvant radiation
therapy (hemithoracic external beam or intensity modulated radiation therapy),
and either neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy (cisplatin-pemetrexed for 4
cycles). The optimal precise sequence of the trimodality is unclear and should be
decided upon by a multidisciplinary consensus for each individual patient. In
general, clinical trial participation should be encouraged. Several trials are
currently underway to examine intraoperative therapies, vaccines, immunotherapy
additions, and novel radiation therapy techniques. Advances in the field of MPM
are reliant on participation in clinical trials and identifying biomarkers that
are predictive for response to systemic therapies and prognostic for survival
benefit.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-014-0314-4 
PMID: 25266654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Expert Opin Emerg Drugs. 2014 Dec;19(4):557-69. doi:
10.1517/14728214.2014.964682. Epub 2014 Sep 25.

Emerging drugs targeting PD-1 and PD-L1: reality or hope?

Casaluce F(1), Sgambato A, Sacco PC, Palazzolo G, Maione P, Rossi A, Ciardiello
F, Gridelli C.

Author information: 
(1)Second University of Naples, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine 
, Naples , Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Some tumors evade immune responses by exploiting immune checkpoint 
pathways and other regulatory mechanisms. Recent advances in the understanding of
immune evasion strategies has given rise to development of novel immunotherapies 
that can restore the patient's own immune system to respond to and eliminate
cancer cells.
AREAS COVERED: Multiple agents targeting the programmed cell death protein 1
(PD-1) pathway, both anti-PD-1 and anti-programmed death ligand-1 (a key ligand
for PD-1) compounds, are currently in active clinical development for lung
cancer. Preliminary data of efficacy as monotherapy or in combination with
chemotherapy are promising. In this review, we will summarize the
immunomodulatory environment in NSCLC, we will focus on immune-checkpoint
inhibitors, and the data currently available in lung cancer.
EXPERT OPINION: The immune-mediated therapies represent an exciting new
therapeutic approach, but evidences are still early in lung cancer, and more data
from clinical studies are needed to optimize the clinical impact of these
therapies.

DOI: 10.1517/14728214.2014.964682 
PMID: 25253438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2014 Aug;37(218):119-23.

[The newest perspectives on the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme].

[Article in Polish]

Cholewa H, Duda K, Łabuzek K, Okopień B.

Glioblastoma multiforme is the most common and most malignant primary brain
tumor, with a yearly incidence of 2.5 in 100,000. It has a very dismal prognosis,
since the medium overall survival of untreated patients is as low as 3 months.
Location in the central nervous system, high aggressiveness, spreading alongside 
blood vessels and white matter, cause a lot of therapeutic challenges. The
blood-brain barrier unables most of the systemic drugs to reach the tumor and
complete resection is usually impossible. Because of that, effects of the
standard treatment remain unsatisfying. It forces to search for novel treatment
options. Regarding pharmacotherapy a lot of attention is brought to
antiangiogenic therapies, where the most common drug is bevacizumab. In Europe it
is registered to use in diffuse breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, colon 
and rectal cancer with metastases, but for glioblastoma it's use is still
considered to be experimental. Inhibition of integrins, extracellular matrix
metalloproteinases and EGFR are among other therapeutic goals. There is a broad
range of studies on breaking the resistance of cancer stem cells, modifying the
niche of cancer cells, active immunotherapy and the use of microRNAs. The field
of stereotactic radiosurgery is also under constant improvement. Methods of both 
genetic and biomedical engineering, such as nanotubes or liposomes, can be
helpful to overcome the blood-brain barrier and insert the drugs directly and
even selectively into the tumor.


PMID: 25252449  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Surg Clin North Am. 2014 Oct;94(5):1075-89, ix. doi: 10.1016/j.suc.2014.07.009.
Epub 2014 Aug 2.

Surgical treatment options for stage IV melanoma.

Wei IH(1), Healy MA(1), Wong SL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan, 1500 East Medical Center Drive,
Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. (2)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan, 1500 
East Medical Center Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. Electronic address:
wongsl@umich.edu.

Melanomas have unique tumor biology and unpredictable patterns of metastasis.
Metastatic melanoma is classified based on the location of metastasis. Surgical
resection of metastatic melanoma may be performed for curative or palliative
intent. In carefully selected patients, there is a survival benefit to
metastasectomy. Candidates for surgical resection generally have favorable
prognostic factors. Targeted biologic therapies and immunomodulatory therapies
are promising new treatments associated with improved progression-free and
overall survival. In the setting of new, effective medical therapies, further
study is needed to determine how best to combine nonsurgical and surgical
treatments for stage IV melanoma.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suc.2014.07.009 
PMID: 25245969  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2015 Jan;116(1):19-24. doi: 10.1111/bcpt.12320.
Epub 2014 Oct 13.

The targeting of indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase -mediated immune escape in cancer.

Iversen TZ(1), Andersen MH, Svane IM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology and Oncology, Center for Cancer ImmuneTherapy
(CCIT), Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Herlev, Denmark.

The era of immunotherapies was unleashed in 2010 with the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) approval of the first therapeutic vaccine sipuleucel-T as a 
standard treatment for metastatic prostate cancer. Next, the first
immune-activating anticytotoxic lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) antibody ipilimumab
exhibiting 'immune checkpoint blockade' was approved by FDA and European Medical 
Agency (EMA) for the treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma. New
generations of immune checkpoint blockading antibodies targeting programmed cell 
death 1 (PD-1) and its ligand (PD-L1) are now under intense investigation in
metastatic melanoma (MM) and non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and impressive
clinical results are anticipated. Despite these successes, only a fraction of
patients become clinical responders to therapy. Thus, to improve the selection of
patients likely to respond, scrutinizing different immune parameters during
treatment is essential. In the summary of this PhD thesis, we investigated
changes in immune parameters and their possible correlation with clinical
efficacy in patients with MM during treatments with the standard chemo- and
immunotherapies, temozolomide (TMZ) and interferon-α2b/interleukin-2 (IFN-α/IL-2)
immunotherapy. The overall aim was to assess changes in frequency and absolute
counts of different immune cell subsets before and after treatment and correlate 
to clinical benefit. Furthermore, the thesis covers a finalized, clinical phase 1
study in patients with NSCLC testing a peptide vaccination with a
HLA-A2-restricted epitope derived from indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase (IDO). The
overall aim in this trial was to evaluate safety and tolerability of IDO as an
anticancer vaccine target in patients with NSCLC and to assess whether immunity
correlated to clinical response.

© 2014 Nordic Association for the Publication of BCPT (former Nordic
Pharmacological Society).

DOI: 10.1111/bcpt.12320 
PMID: 25207460  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2015 Jan;15(1):69-83. doi:
10.1586/14737140.2015.957187. Epub 2014 Sep 9.

Exploring the potential of immuno-oncology-based treatment for patients with
non-small cell lung cancer.

Heigener D(1), Reck M.

Author information: 
(1)LungenClinic Grosshansdorf, Department of Thoracic Oncology, Airway Research
Center North (ARCN), member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL),
Woehrendamm 80, 22927, Grosshansdorf, Germany.

Immune evasion is recognized as a key strategy for cancer survival and
progression. With increased understanding of immune escape mechanisms, the
development of immunotherapies to restore anti-tumor immune responses has
flourished. Immuno-oncology (I-O) agents targeting checkpoints in the immune
regulation cascade currently form the mainstay of approaches of cancer
immunotherapy. Since initial success in melanoma, evidence for the notable
effects of the I-O modality has been expanding, with numerous clinical studies
underway or completed in a variety of solid tumors, including non-small cell lung
cancer. This review highlights the rationale and potential role of immunotherapy 
in non-small cell lung cancer management, with a focus on immune checkpoint
inhibitors. We also discuss the potential for I-O-based combination therapy.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.2015.957187 
PMID: 25199617  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


390. In Vivo. 2014 Sep-Oct;28(5):675-81.

The WT1 gene--its role in tumourigenesis and prospects for immunotherapeutic
advances.

Lindstedt I(1), Lindgren MA(1), Andersson E(1), Engström W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Veterinary Public Health, Swedish
University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden. (2)Department of Biomedical
Sciences and Veterinary Public Health, Swedish University of Agricultural
Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden wilhelm.engstrom@slu.se.

The Wilms Tumour 1 (WT1) gene is a complex gene which was originally linked to
suppression of cancer in kidneys. Studies of WT1-knockout mice confirmed the
important role of WT1 in the pathogenesis of Wilms' tumour, a tumour which
accounts for 95% of all childhood renal tumours. In such cases, the WT1 gene acts
as a tumour-suppressor gene. Subsequent research has shown that the WT1 gene in
many other cases acts as an oncogene, most prominently in leukaemia and lung
cancer (even though these cancer forms can emerge as a result of many other
aetiological factors). Since WT1 acts as an oncogene in many different organs, it
is of great importance to evaluate how and when the WT1 gene and protein act.
This information can then be used to develop immunotherapy to stabilize and treat
different malignant diseases. Both phase I and phase II studies have been carried
out on candidate vaccines with varying but overall promising results. The immune 
response does not always correlate with the clinical response, however, and the
efficacy of the treatment is often limited. Further development is, therefore,
needed to understand how vaccines can be improved, so that they, can hopefully
fulfil a clinical role in the future.

Copyright © 2014 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G.
Delinassios), All rights reserved.


PMID: 25189877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Chin J Cancer. 2014 Sep;33(9):434-44. doi: 10.5732/cjc.014.10122.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors in clinical trials.

Sharon E(1), Streicher H, Goncalves P, Chen HX.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis,
National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. sharone@mail.nih.gov.

Immunology-based therapy is rapidly developing into an effective treatment option
for a surprising range of cancers. We have learned over the last decade that
powerful immunologic effector cells may be blocked by inhibitory regulatory
pathways controlled by specific molecules often called "immune checkpoints."
These checkpoints serve to control or turn off the immune response when it is no 
longer needed to prevent tissue injury and autoimmunity. Cancer cells have
learned or evolved to use these mechanisms to evade immune control and
elimination. The development of a new therapeutic class of drugs that inhibit
these inhibitory pathways has recently emerged as a potent strategy in oncology. 
Three sets of agents have emerged in clinical trials exploiting this strategy.
These agents are antibody-based therapies targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
antigen 4 (CTLA4), programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), and programmed cell death
ligand 1 (PD-L1). These inhibitors of immune inhibition have demonstrated
extensive activity as single agents and in combinations. Clinical responses have 
been seen in melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, non-small cell lung cancer, and
several other tumor types. Despite the autoimmune or inflammatory immune-mediated
adverse effects which have been seen, the responses and overall survival benefits
exhibited thus far warrant further clinical development.

DOI: 10.5732/cjc.014.10122 
PMCID: PMC4190433
PMID: 25189716  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Thorac Oncol. 2014 Nov;9(11):1609-17. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000302.

Biomarkers in early-stage non-small-cell lung cancer: current concepts and future
directions.

Burotto M(1), Thomas A, Subramaniam D, Giaccone G, Rajan A.

Author information: 
(1)*Thoracic and Gastrointestinal Oncology Branch, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, Maryland; and †Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology,
Lombardi Cancer Center, Georgetown University, Washington, DC.

Comment in
    J Thorac Oncol. 2015 Jun;10(6):e46.

Advances in molecular biology and bioinformatics have resulted in the
identification of a number of potential biomarkers that could be relevant in the 
management of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Although there is
an increasing amount of literature related to these biomarkers, major issues need
to be resolved including validity and reproducibility of results. Additionally,
in order to interpret the existing literature accurately, a clear distinction
must be made between the prognostic and predictive value of biomarkers. The
practical applicability of biomarker discovery for patients with lung cancer
includes the identification of patients with early-stage NSCLC who are most
likely to benefit from adjuvant therapy. Information gleaned from biomarkers has 
the potential to help in evaluating the role of targeted therapies including
immunotherapy in the neoadjuvant and adjuvant setting. The role of gene
signatures and the use of newer platforms such as RNA, methylation, and protein
signatures is being explored in patients with early-stage NSCLC. This review
focuses on the applications of biomarker discovery in patients with early-stage
NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000302 
PMCID: PMC4254270
PMID: 25185530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2014 Dec;14(12):1495-513. doi:
10.1586/14737140.2014.949245. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Moving from histological subtyping to molecular characterization: new treatment
opportunities in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.

Carnio S(1), Novello S, Bironzo P, Scagliotti GV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, S. Luigi Hospital, University of Torino, Regione
Gonzole 10, 10043 Orbassano, Torino, Italy.

Over the last 10 years, the systemic treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung
cancer has progressively moved away from the 'one-size-fits-all' approach to
histological subtyping. Currently, there is a progressive implementation of
targeted therapies based on specific molecular characteristics such as the EGF
receptor sensitizing mutations and the anaplastic lymphoma kinase rearrangements.
Despite the availability of effective agents against these abnormalities,
acquired resistance is still a major issue. A new generation of tyrosine kinase
inhibitors for EGF receptor and anaplastic lymphoma kinase targeting acquired
resistance mechanisms have been recently investigated. Several promising tyrosine
kinase inhibitors that hit other targets are also in clinical development,
including: rat sarcoma gene/MEK, BRAF1, PIK3A, c-mesenchymal-epithelial
transition, c-ros oncogene 1, rearranged during transfection, human EGFR 2, FGFR,
VEGFR, PDGFR and discoidin death receptor 2. Furthermore, new advances in
immunology have been achieved through the discovery of vaccines and immune
checkpoint pathways such as the cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4,
programmed cell death protein 1 and its ligands.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.2014.949245 
PMID: 25183305  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Nihon Naika Gakkai Zasshi. 2014 Jun 10;103(6):1330-6.

[Lung cancer: progress in diagnosis and treatments. Topics: III. Treatment; 5.
Immune therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Takiguchi Y.


PMID: 25151798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2014 Oct;14(10):1173-87. doi:
10.1586/14737140.2014.952287. Epub 2014 Aug 22.

Immunotherapy: is a minor god yet in the pantheon of treatments for lung cancer?

Rolfo C(1), Sortino G, Smits E, Passiglia F, Bronte G, Castiglia M, Russo A,
Santos ES, Janssens A, Pauwels P, Raez L.

Author information: 
(1)Oncology Department, Phase I - Early Clinical Trials Unit, Antwerp University 
Hospital, Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650 Edegem, Belgium.

Immunotherapy has been studied for many years in lung cancer without significant 
results, making the majority of oncologists quite skeptical about its possible
application for non-small cell lung cancer treatment. However, the recent
knowledge about immune escape and subsequent 'cancer immunoediting' has yielded
the development of new strategies of cancer immunotherapy, heralding a new era of
lung cancer treatment. Cancer vaccines, including both whole-cell and peptide
vaccines have been tested both in early and advanced stages of non-small cell
lung cancer. New immunomodulatory agents, including anti-CTLA4, anti-PD1/PDL1
monoclonal antibodies, have been investigated as monotherapy in metastatic lung
cancer. To date, these treatments have shown impressive results of efficacy and
tolerability in early clinical trials, leading to testing in several large,
randomized Phase III trials. As these results will be confirmed, these drugs will
be available in the near future, offering new exciting therapeutic options for
lung cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.2014.952287 
PMID: 25148289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Klin Onkol. 2014;27(4):239-46.

[Anticipated efficacy of HPV vaccination in prophylaxis against nongenital
cancers].

[Article in Czech]

Sehnal B, Vojáčková N, Driák D, Kmoníčková E, Vaňousová D, Maxová K, Neumannová
H, Sláma J.

BACKGROUND: There is a considerable number of studies on the efficacy HPV (human 
papillomavirus) vaccination against different cancers but relevant information is
scattered in diverse journals. This paper is a review summarizing current
knowledge of the potential of HPV vaccination against all HPV related cancers.
AIM: HPV infection is probably the most frequent sexually transmitted disease. At
least 13 HPV genotypes are classified as carcinogenic or probably carcinogenic in
respect to cervical cancer. Almost 100% of cervical cancers are linked to HPV
infection. HPV 16 and HPV 18 are the most frequently involved genotypes and
account together for approximately 70% of cervical cancer in the world.
Persistent high risk HPV infection is responsible for a significant proportion of
vulvar, vaginal, anal and penile carcinomas. The virus has also been implicated
in oncogenesis of head and neck cancers, including oropharyngeal cancers. HPV
infection can play an important role in cancerogenesis of lung, esophagus,
breast, and colon and rectum. On the contrary, published results indicate that
HPV infection is not associated with prostate oncogenesis. Strong predominance of
HPV 16 has been reported for all HPV associated cancer sites. Generally, it is
estimated that approximately 5.2% of all cancers are associated with oncogenic
HPV infection. Currently, there are two vaccines on the market; quadrivalent
Silgard® (Gardasil®) and bivalent CervarixTM. Large trials for both vaccines have
shown efficacy against HPV related infection and disease. Efficacy has been very 
high in HPV naive subjects to vaccine related types. While HPV vaccination is
currently approved for the prevention of cervical cancer, it also has the
potential in the prevention of all HPV associated malignancies. The Czech
republic belongs to countries that cover HPV vaccination of girls at the age of
13- 14 years by general health insurance. Overall impact of this vaccination
remains to be evaluated. The new issues of the role of HPV in oncogenesis, as
well as the potential effect of HPV vaccination against HPV related nongenital
cancers are discussed.
CONCLUSION: Approximately 5.2% of all human cancers are associated with oncogenic
human papillomavirus infection. HPV vaccination against the most risky HPV
oncotypes may cause a significant reduction of these cancers mainly in the HPV
naive population.


PMID: 25115712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2014 Oct;10(10):612-27. doi: 10.1038/nrrheum.2014.123. Epub
2014 Aug 12.

Adverse reactions to biologic agents and their medical management.

Boyman O(1), Comte D(2), Spertini F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, University Hospital Zurich, Gloriastrasse 30,
CH-8091 Zurich, Switzerland. (2)Division of Immunology and Allergy, Centre
Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, Rue du Bugnon 46, CH-1011 Lausanne,
Switzerland.

Biologic agents have substantially advanced the treatment of immunological
disorders, including chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. However, these
drugs are often associated with adverse events (AEs), including allergic,
immunological and other unwanted reactions. AEs can affect almost any organ or
system in the body and can occur immediately, within minutes to hours, or with a 
delay of several days or more after initiation of biologic therapy. Although some
AEs are a direct consequence of the functional inhibition of
biologic-agent-targeted antigens, the pathogenesis of other AEs results from a
drug-induced imbalance of the immune system, intermediary factors and cofactors, 
a complexity that complicates their prediction. Herein, we review the AEs
associated with biologic therapy most relevant to rheumatic and immunological
diseases, and discuss their underlying pathogenesis. We also include our
recommendations for the medical management of such AEs. Increased understanding
and improved risk management of AEs induced by biologic agents will enable better
use of these versatile immune-response modifiers.

DOI: 10.1038/nrrheum.2014.123 
PMID: 25112605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Mol Oncol. 2014 Sep 12;8(6):1132-9. doi: 10.1016/j.molonc.2014.07.011. Epub 2014 
Jul 24.

Acquired and intrinsic resistance in cancer immunotherapy.

Kelderman S(1), Schumacher TN(1), Haanen JB(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (2)The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: j.haanen@nki.nl.

A number of immunotherapies, in particular immune checkpoint targeting antibodies
and adoptive T-cell therapies, are starting to transform the treatment of
advanced cancers. The likelihood to respond to these immunotherapies differs
strongly across tumor types, with response rates for checkpoint targeting being
the highest in advanced melanoma, renal cell cancer and non-small cell lung
cancer. However, also non-responsiveness is observed, indicating the presence of 
intrinsic resistance or naturally acquired resistance. In addition, a subgroup of
patients that do initially respond to immunotherapy will later recur, thereby
also pointing towards a role of therapy-induced acquired resistance. Here, we
review our current understanding of both intrinsic and acquired resistance
mechanisms in cancer immunotherapy, and discuss potential strategies to overcome 
them.

Copyright © 2014 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molonc.2014.07.011 
PMID: 25106088  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Front Immunol. 2014 Jul 23;5:352. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2014.00352. eCollection
2014.

Toll-like receptors and prostate cancer.

Zhao S(1), Zhang Y(2), Zhang Q(3), Wang F(2), Zhang D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biosciences and Technology, Texas A&M University Health Science
Center , Houston, TX , USA ; Department of Medical Oncology, Affiliated Tumor
Hospital of Harbin Medical University , Harbin , China. (2)Institute of
Biosciences and Technology, Texas A&M University Health Science Center , Houston,
TX , USA. (3)Department of Medical Oncology, Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Harbin 
Medical University , Harbin , China.

Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related death in men after 
lung cancer. Immune responses clearly play a critical role in the tumorigenesis
and in the efficacy of radiation therapy and chemotherapy in prostate cancer;
however, the underlying molecular mechanisms are still poorly understood.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a well-known family of pattern recognition
receptors that play a key role in host immune system. Recent studies demonstrate 
that there are links between TLRs and cancer; however, the function and
biological importance of TLRs in prostate cancer seems complex. To elucidate the 
role of TLRs and innate immunity in prostate cancer might provide us with a
better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of this disease. Moreover,
utilizing the agonists or antagonists of TLRs might represent a promising new
strategy against prostate cancer. In this review, we summarize recent advances on
the studies of association between TLR signaling and prostate cancer, TLR
polymorphisms and prostate cancer risk, and provide some insights about TLRs as
potential targets for prostate cancer immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2014.00352 
PMCID: PMC4107957
PMID: 25101092  [PubMed]


400. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2014 Oct;14(10):1189-203. doi:
10.1586/14737140.2014.940327. Epub 2014 Aug 7.

Update on systemic therapy of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.

Cufer T(1), Knez L.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, University Clinic Golnik, Golnik 36, 4204 Golnik,
Slovenia.

In the last decade, major progress in the treatment of advanced non-small-cell
lung cancer has been made through the better understanding of the molecular
biology of lung cancer, identification of new oncogene drivers and development of
oncogene-directed drugs. Oncogene-directed therapies with EGFR or anaplastic
lymphoma kinase tyrosine kinase inhibitors became standard practice in patients
with activating EGFR mutations or anaplastic lymphoma kinase rearrangements,
improving median survival rates to up to 35 months. Encouragingly, there are
still numerous other targeted drugs and treatment strategies under development.
In addition, nowadays chemotherapy can be tailored based on histology of the
primary tumor and response to induction chemotherapy, raising median survival
rates up to 13 months. These major developments, both in oncogene- and
non-oncogene-directed therapies is presented in this review, together with a
further designation of the most relevant future strategies, such as
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.2014.940327 
PMID: 25098682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Cancer J. 2014 Jul-Aug;20(4):281-9. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000063.

B7-H1/PD-1 blockade therapy in non-small cell lung cancer: current status and
future direction.

Gettinger S(1), Herbst RS.

Author information: 
(1)From Yale School of Medicine, Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center, New Haven, CT.

Over the past few years, there has been a mounting enthusiasm around the
potential of immunotherapy in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC). This interest was catalyzed in 2012 by initial reports of responses to
programmed death 1 (PD-1) pathway inhibition in patients with heavily pretreated 
advanced NSCLC. Since then, a number of antibodies targeting either PD-1 or the
primary ligand of PD-1, programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1), have shown durable
responses in phase I studies with large NSCLC expansion cohorts. Therapies have
been well tolerated, with rare severe autoimmune toxicity. Two phase III trials
have completed accrual in pretreated NSCLC patients, with a phase III trial
underway in chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced NSCLC. Efforts are now
focusing on identifying predictive biomarkers such as tumor PD-L1 expression and 
combinations of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors with either standard therapies for advanced
NSCLC or other immunotherapies. This review summarizes clinical trial results to 
date and discusses challenges with ongoing and future clinical trials evaluating 
this new class of drugs.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000063 
PMID: 25098289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Int Immunopharmacol. 2014 Oct;22(2):451-64. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2014.07.019.
Epub 2014 Jul 27.

Combined immunotherapy with dendritic cells and cytokine-induced killer cells for
malignant tumors: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Chen R(1), Deng X(2), Wu H(3), Peng P(1), Wen B(1), Li F(1), Li F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Digestive, Ruikang Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi, University of
Chinese Medicine, 530011 Huadong Road No. 10, Nanning, 530023 Guangxi, China.
(2)Department of Digestive, Ruikang Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi, University of
Chinese Medicine, 530011 Huadong Road No. 10, Nanning, 530023 Guangxi, China.
Electronic address: dx8848@126.com. (3)Department of Hepatopathy, The First
Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi, University of Chinese Medicine, Dongge Road No.
89-9, 530023 Nanning, China.

PURPOSE: A new strategy of adoptive and passive immunotherapy involves combining 
dendritic cells (DCs) with a subset of natural killer T lymphocytes termed
cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells. The objective of this systematic review and 
meta-analysis was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of DC-CIK therapy vs.
placebo, no intervention, conventional treatments, or other complementary and
alternative medicines for malignant tumors.
METHOD: We searched PubMed, Medline, Embase, Cochrane, Wangfang, Weipu, CNKI
databases and reference lists of articles. We selected randomized controlled
trials of DC-CIK therapy vs. placebo, no intervention, conventional treatments,
or other complementary and alternative medicines in patients with all types and
stages of malignant tumor. Primary outcome measures were overall survival and
treatment response. Secondary outcome measures were health-related quality of
life (HRQoL) assessment, progression free survival (PFS), and adverse events.
RESULTS: Six trials met our inclusion criteria. There was evidence that
chemotherapy+DC-CIK increased the 2-year (RR 2.88, 95% CI 1.38 to 5.99, P=0.005) 
and 3-year (RR 11.67, 95% CI 2.28 to 59.69, P=0.003) survival rates and
progression free survival (RR 0.64, 95% CI 0.34 to 0.94, P<0.0001) in patients
with non-small cell lung cancer compared to those treated with chemotherapy
alone. DC-CIK therapy appears to be well-tolerated by cancer patients and to
improve post-treatment patient health related quality of life.
CONCLUSION: DC-CIK immunotherapy is a safe and effective treatment for patients
with malignant tumors. Further clinical trials to provide supportive evidence for
the routine use of DC-CIK therapy in clinical practice are warranted.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2014.07.019 
PMID: 25073120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Semin Cancer Biol. 2014 Dec;29:21-31. doi: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2014.07.005. Epub 
2014 Jul 25.

The receptor tyrosine kinase ROR1--an oncofetal antigen for targeted cancer
therapy.

Hojjat-Farsangi M(1), Moshfegh A(1), Daneshmanesh AH(1), Khan AS(1), Mikaelsson
E(1), Osterborg A(2), Mellstedt H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Immune and Gene Therapy Lab, Cancer Center
Karolinska (CCK), Karolinska University Hospital Solna and Karolinska Institutet,
Stockholm, Sweden. (2)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Immune and Gene Therapy
Lab, Cancer Center Karolinska (CCK), Karolinska University Hospital Solna and
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Hematology, Karolinska
University Hospital Solna, Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Oncology, Karolinska 
University Hospital Solna, Stockholm, Sweden. (3)Department of
Oncology-Pathology, Immune and Gene Therapy Lab, Cancer Center Karolinska (CCK), 
Karolinska University Hospital Solna and Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm,
Sweden. Electronic address: hakan.mellstedt@karolinska.se.

Targeted cancer therapies have emerged as new treatment options for various
cancer types. Among targets, receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) are among the most 
promising. ROR1 is a transmembrane RTK of importance during the normal
embryogenesis for the central nervous system, heart, lung and skeletal systems,
but is not expressed in normal adult tissues. However, ROR1 is overexpressed in
several human malignancies and may act as a survival factor for tumor cells. Its 
unique expression by malignant cells may provide a target for novel therapeutics 
including monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and small molecule inhibitors of tyrosine 
kinases (TKI) for the treatment of cancer. Promising preclinical results have
been reported in e.g. chronic lymphocytic leukemia, pancreatic carcinoma, lung
and breast cancer. ROR1 might also be an interesting oncofetal antigen for active
immunotherapy. In this review, we provide an overview of the ROR1 structure and
functions in cancer and highlight emerging therapeutic options of interest for
targeting ROR1 in tumor therapy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2014.07.005 
PMID: 25068995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Clin Neurophysiol. 2014 Dec;125(12):2328-36. doi: 10.1016/j.clinph.2014.06.031.
Epub 2014 Jul 4.

Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome - diagnosis, pathogenesis and therapy.

Hülsbrink R(1), Hashemolhosseini S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Biochemie, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlang en-Nürnberg,
Fahrstrasse 17, 91054 Erlangen, Germany. (2)Institut für Biochemie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlang en-Nürnberg, Fahrstrasse 17, 91054
Erlangen, Germany. Electronic address: said.hashemolhosseini@fau.de.

Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) describes a rare human autoimmune
disorder of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Clinically, LEMS patients suffer
from characteristic muscle weakness that is caused by the presence of antibodies 
directed against their voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC). These channels are 
localized in the presynaptic membrane of their motor nerve terminals. Binding of 
autoimmune antibodies to the VGCCs leads to reduced neuromuscular transmission.
In approximately 50% of the patients, LEMS is reflected by a paraneoplastic
manifestation and most commonly associated with a small cell lung carcinoma
(SCLC) whose cells also express VGCCs in their plasma membrane. Better
understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of LEMS has helped with the
development of new diagnostic approaches and has led to targeted symptomatic and 
immunosuppressive therapy. For LEMS patients with an underlying malignancy, tumor
therapy is the first choice to date.

Copyright © 2014 International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology. Published 
by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2014.06.031 
PMID: 25065299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Arch Bronconeumol. 2015 Apr;51(4):177-84. doi: 10.1016/j.arbres.2014.06.005. Epub
2014 Jul 22.

Diagnosis and treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Rodríguez Panadero F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla (IBiS), Unidad Médico-Quirúrgica de
Enfermedades Respiratorias (UMQER), Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío,
CSIC, Universidad de Sevilla, Sevilla, España CIBER de Enfermedades Respiratorias
(CIBERES), I.S. Carlos III, Madrid, España. Electronic address:
frodriguezpan@gmail.com.

There are three major challenges in the diagnosis of malignant pleural
mesothelioma: mesothelioma must be distinguished from benign mesothelial
hyperplasia; malignant mesothelioma (and its subtypes) must be distinguished from
metastatic carcinoma; and invasion of structures adjacent to the pleura must be
demonstrated. The basis for clarifying the first two aspects is determination of 
a panel of monoclonal antibodies with appropriate immunohistochemical evaluation 
performed by highly qualified experts. Clarification of the third aspect requires
sufficiently abundant, deep biopsy material, for which thoracoscopy is the
technique of choice. Video-assisted needle biopsy with real-time imaging can be
of great assistance when there is diffuse nodal thickening and scant or absent
effusion. Given the difficulties of reaching an early diagnosis, cure is not
generally achieved with radical surgery (pleuropneumonectomy), so liberation of
the tumor mass with pleurectomy/decortication combined with chemo- or radiation
therapy (multimodal treatment) has been gaining followers in recent years. In
cases in which surgery is not feasible, chemotherapy (a combination of pemetrexed
and platinum-derived compounds, in most cases) with pleurodesis or a tunneled
pleural drainage catheter, if control of pleural effusion is required, can be
considered. Radiation therapy is reserved for treatment of pain associated with
infiltration of the chest wall or any other neighboring structure. In any case,
comprehensive support treatment for pain control in specialist units is
essential: this acquires particular significance in this type of malignancy.

Copyright © 2014 SEPAR. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arbres.2014.06.005 
PMID: 25059587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Aug;14(8):535-46. doi: 10.1038/nrc3775.

Non-small-cell lung cancers: a heterogeneous set of diseases.

Chen Z(1), Fillmore CM(2), Hammerman PS(3), Kim CF(4), Wong KK(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA. [2]. (2)1] Stem Cell Program, Boston Children's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. [2] Harvard Stem Cell Institute,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. [3] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. [4]. (3)Department of Medical Oncology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. (4)1] Stem Cell
Program, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. [2]
Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. [3] Department 
of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. (5)1]
Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA. [2] Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. [3] Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer
Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2015 Apr;15(4):247.

Non-small-cell lung cancers (NSCLCs), the most common lung cancers, are known to 
have diverse pathological features. During the past decade, in-depth analyses of 
lung cancer genomes and signalling pathways have further defined NSCLCs as a
group of distinct diseases with genetic and cellular heterogeneity. Consequently,
an impressive list of potential therapeutic targets was unveiled, drastically
altering the clinical evaluation and treatment of patients. Many targeted
therapies have been developed with compelling clinical proofs of concept;
however, treatment responses are typically short-lived. Further studies of the
tumour microenvironment have uncovered new possible avenues to control this
deadly disease, including immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nrc3775 
PMID: 25056707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Int J Clin Oncol. 2015 Apr;20(2):395-404. doi: 10.1007/s10147-014-0722-2. Epub
2014 Jul 25.

Hypersensitivity to chemotherapeutics: a cross sectional study with 35
desensitisations.

Goksel O(1), Goksel T, Cok G, Karakus H, Bacakoglu F, Goker E, Uslu R, Erdinc M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chest Diseases, Ege University Medical School, Izmir, Turkey,
ozlem.goksel@ege.edu.tr.

BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy is one of the main treatments for lung cancer, and in
these patients, discontinuation of treatment due to uncontrollable
hypersensitivity reactions (HSRs) is an important problem.
AIM: To determine the frequency of HSRs during chemotherapy and to review current
approaches.
METHODS: We did a cross sectional study in patients undergoing chemotherapy for
lung cancer in a reference chemotherapy unit from January 2012 to January 2013.
Patients who developed immediate-HSRs or delayed-HSRs to chemotherapeutics and
gave consent were included into study. The effectiveness of a standardised
12-step "rapid drug desensitisation" (RDD) procedure was investigated in patients
with immediate-HSRs.
RESULTS: In total, 1,099 cycles of chemotherapy were administered to 292 patients
in 1 year. We observed ten HSRs, during ten cycles in ten patients (~3 % of the
patients). Two HSRs were delayed-type, eight were immediate-type at grade 1-3. Of
those with immediate-type HSR, five patients with grade 2-3, and additional two
referred patients with grade 4 HSRs were successfully given their culprit drug in
35 cycles of chemotherapy with 12-step or modified 20-step RDD protocol.
CONCLUSIONS: HSRs to chemotherapeutics are not so rare. Premedication alone does 
not prevent such reactions. The results of RDD treatment look promising for
continuing treatment with the culprit chemotherapeutic agent.

DOI: 10.1007/s10147-014-0722-2 
PMID: 25056643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Curr Oncol Rep. 2014 Sep;16(9):400. doi: 10.1007/s11912-014-0400-6.

Immunotherapeutic agents in non-small-cell lung cancer finally coming to the
front lines.

Ruiz R(1), Hunis B, Raez LE.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Medicina Oncológica, Instituto Nacional de Enfermedades
Neoplásicas, Angamos Este 2520, Surquilllo, Lima, Peru,
rossana.ruiz.mendoza@gmail.com.

Non-small-cell lung cancer usually carries a dismal prognosis. Novel treatment
approaches are clearly warranted. Immunotherapy has emerged as a promising area
of research developing agents that manipulate the immune system to induce
antitumor responses while avoiding major toxicity. New vaccines and checkpoint
inhibitors are currently undergoing investigation in phase II and phase III
clinical trials. In advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC),
belagenpumatucel-L, an allogeneic cell vaccine directed against transforming
growth factor β in the tumor microenvironment, knocks down the immune suppression
caused by the tumor and has demonstrated a dose- and time-dependent efficacy in
some subgroups of patients. L-BLP25 and TG4010 are both antigenic vaccines that
target mucin 1, whose encoding proto-oncogene is commonly mutated in solid
tumors. The L-BLP25 vaccine achieved a significant improvement in overall
survival in the subgroup of patients with stage IIIB NSCLC treated with
chemoradiotherapy. TG4010 vaccination resulted in better progression-free
survival when added to cisplatin-gemcitabine chemotherapy. These results are
being addressed in the currently ongoing phase III TIME trial. In the adjuvant
setting, MAGE-A3, an antigen-based vaccine, showed promising results in
melanoma-associated antigen A3 positive lung cancer patients who underwent
resection in the phase II study; however, no improvement in progression-free
survival was observed in the phase III MAGRIT study. CIMAVax is a recombinant
human epidermal growth factor (EGF) vaccine that induces anti-EGF antibody
production and prevents EGF from binding to its receptor. It has improved overall
survival in patients with advanced NSCLC who achieve seroconversion. Ipilimumab, 
an immune checkpoint inhibitor that targets cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4,
demonstrated improved progression-free survival in advanced NSCLC patients who
received the drug after chemotherapy in a phased regimen. Finally,
anti-programmed death receptor 1 agents have achieved durable response rates in
phase I studies. This review gives an overview of the current data and the most
promissory immunotherapeutic agents for NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1007/s11912-014-0400-6 
PMID: 25030654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Front Oncol. 2014 Jun 27;4:157. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00157. eCollection 2014.

Treatment paradigms for patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer,
squamous lung cancer: first, second, and third-line.

Al-Farsi A(1), Ellis PM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Juravinski Cancer Centre, McMaster University ,
Hamilton, ON , Canada.

Historically, the treatment algorithm applied to non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) was the same for all histologic subtypes. However, recent advances in our
understanding of the molecular profiles of squamous and non-squamous NSCLC have
changed this perspective. Histologic subtype and the presence of specific
molecular abnormalities have predictive value for response to and toxicity from
therapy, as well as overall survival. For patients with squamous NSCLC, a
platinum agent plus gemcitabine, or paclitaxel is recommended as first-line
therapy. The role of epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibodies is
uncertain. Maintenance therapy is not widely recommended, although data exist for
the use of erlotinib. The standard recommendation for second-line therapy is
docetaxel and erlotinib should be considered as second or third-line therapy.
There is ongoing research identifying molecular targets in squamous NSCLC and
many agents are in early phase clinical trials. Immunotherapeutic approaches
targeting programed death-1 receptor and its ligand (PD-L1) appear promising.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00157 
PMCID: PMC4073307
PMID: 25019058  [PubMed]


410. Kaohsiung J Med Sci. 2014 Aug;30(8):402-8. doi: 10.1016/j.kjms.2014.03.003. Epub 
2014 Apr 17.

The preliminary experiences of translocation renal cell carcinoma and literature 
review.

Su HH(1), Sung MT(2), Chiang PH(3), Cheng YT(1), Chen YT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung
University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. (2)Department of Pathology,
Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of
Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. (3)Department of Urology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung
Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung,
Taiwan. Electronic address: cphtem@yahoo.com.tw.

Xp11.2 translocation renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is rare and predominantly found
in children and young adults. Because of the property of overexpressed
transcription factor E3 (TFE3) fusion protein, immunohistochemical (IHC) staining
with TFE3 antibody makes an excellent diagnostic tool. This study analyzed
preliminary experiences of eight Xp11.2 translocation RCCs in our institution
between 2007 and 2012. In four males and four females with a mean age of 28.4
years. Xp11.2 translocation RCCs were diagnosed. TFE3 IHC stain was positive in
all tumor specimens. As the initial presentation, four patients suffered from
abdominal pain, three cases had gross hematuria, and one case had hemoptysis
caused by existing lung metastasis. The tumor was located in the right kidney
(75%) with mean diameter of 5.85 ± 2.64 cm. Three cases (38%, 3/8) presented with
lymph node metastasis at the time of diagnosis. In five cases (63%, 5/8), the
initial diagnosis was Stage III and IV. Treatment included open surgery (one
partial nephrectomy and five radical nephrectomies), cryoablation, immunotherapy,
and target therapy. The mean follow-up time was 32 months. One patient died after
23.4 months of follow-up. The application of TFE3 IHC stain will improve the
diagnostic accuracy for detecting XP11.2 translocation renal cell carcinoma.
Surgery or cryoablation both had excellent prognosis in early stages. Although
the disease is believed to be indolent, an increasingly aggressive clinical
course should be kept in mind, especially for children and young adults.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.kjms.2014.03.003 
PMID: 25002378  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Sep;11(9):509-24. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2014.111. Epub 
2014 Jul 8.

Therapeutic vaccines for cancer: an overview of clinical trials.

Melero I(1), Gaudernack G(2), Gerritsen W(3), Huber C(4), Parmiani G(5), Scholl
S(6), Thatcher N(7), Wagstaff J(8), Zielinski C(9), Faulkner I(10), Mellstedt
H(11).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigación Medica Aplicada (CIMA) and Clínica Universitaria
(CUN), Universidad de Navarra, Spain. (2)Department of Immunology, The Norwegian 
Radium Hospital, Cancer Research Institute, University of Oslo, Norway.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, VUmc Cancer Center Amsterdam, 1081 HV
Amsterdam, Netherlands. (4)Department of Haematology/Oncology, Johannes Gutenberg
University, Germany. (5)San Raffaele Foundation Scientific Institute, Italy.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Curie, France. (7)CRC Department of
Medical Oncology, Christie Hospital NHS Trust, UK. (8)South West Wales Cancer
Institute, Singleton Hospital, UK. (9)Clinical Division of Oncology, Department
of Medicine I, Comprehensive Cancer Centre Vienna, Medical University Vienna,
Austria. (10)International Medical Press, UK. (11)Cancer Centre Karolinska,
Department of Oncology, Karolinska University Hospital, SE-171 76 Stockholm,
Sweden.

The therapeutic potential of host-specific and tumour-specific immune responses
is well recognized and, after many years, active immunotherapies directed at
inducing or augmenting these responses are entering clinical practice. Antitumour
immunization is a complex, multi-component task, and the optimal combinations of 
antigens, adjuvants, delivery vehicles and routes of administration are not yet
identified. Active immunotherapy must also address the immunosuppressive and
tolerogenic mechanisms deployed by tumours. This Review provides an overview of
new results from clinical studies of therapeutic cancer vaccines directed against
tumour-associated antigens and discusses their implications for the use of active
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2014.111 
PMID: 25001465  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Mol Biol Rep. 2014 Sep;41(9):6317-23. doi: 10.1007/s11033-014-3514-x. Epub 2014
Jun 27.

Beyond chemotherapy and targeted therapy: adoptive cellular therapy in non-small 
cell lung cancer.

Wang J(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Norman Bethune College of Medicine, Jilin
University, Changchun, 130021, Jilin, People's Republic of China,
wangjunyingjilin@gmail.com.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is an intractable disease for which effective 
treatment approaches are urgently needed. The ability to induce antigen-specific 
immune responses in patients with lung cancer has led to the development of
immunotherapy as a novel concept for the treatment of NSCLC. Adoptive cellular
therapy (ACT) represents an important advancement in cancer immunotherapy with
the utilization of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, cytokine-induced killer cells,
natural killer cells and γδ T cells. In this study, we review recent advances in 
ACT for NSCLC in clinical trials and provide a perspective on the improvement in 
ACT and potential therapeutic approaches using engineered T cell therapy for
NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-014-3514-x 
PMID: 24969486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Contemp Oncol (Pozn). 2014;18(2):77-84. doi: 10.5114/wo.2014.42724. Epub 2014 Jun
3.

Actual status of therapeutic vaccination in non-small cell lung cancer.

Szyszka-Barth K(1), Ramlau K(2), Goździk-Spychalska J(3), Spychalski L(1), Bryl
M(1), Gołda-Gocka I(1), Kopczyńska A(4), Barinow-Wojewódzki A(5), Ramlau R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology with the Subdepartment of Diurnal
Chemotherapy, Wielkopolska Center of Pulmonology and Thoracosurgery of Eugenia
and Janusz Zeyland, Poznan, Poland. (2)Clinic Hospital, Poznan University of
Medical Sciences, Poland. (3)Department of Pulmonology, Allergology and Lung
Oncology, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poland. (4)Department of
Chemotherapy, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poland. (5)Adult
Pulmonary-Rehabilitation Department, Wielkopolska Center of Pulmonology and
Thoracosurgery of Eugenia and Janusz Zeyland, Poznan, Poland. (6)Department of
Clinical Oncology with the Subdepartment of Diurnal Chemotherapy, Wielkopolska
Center of Pulmonology and Thoracosurgery of Eugenia and Janusz Zeyland, Poznan,
Poland ; Thoracosurgery Clinic, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poland.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Although
treatment methods such as surgery, radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy have
improved, prognosis remains unsatisfactory, and developing new therapeutic
strategies is still an urgent matter. Immunotherapy is a novel therapeutic
approach wherein activated immune cells can specifically kill tumour cells.
Several lung cancer vaccines have demonstrated prolonged survival time in phase
II and III trials, and several clinical trials are under investigation. However, 
many clinical trials involving cancer vaccination with defined tumour antigens
have shown this method to work only in a small number of patients. Cancer
immunotherapy is not completely effective in eradicating tumour cells because
they evade host immune control.

DOI: 10.5114/wo.2014.42724 
PMCID: PMC4068811
PMID: 24966788  [PubMed]


414. Cancer Control. 2014 Jul;21(3):231-7.

PD-1 pathway inhibitors: changing the landscape of cancer immunotherapy.

Dolan DE(1), Gupta S.

Author information: 
(1)Genitourinary Oncology Program, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.
Shilpa.Gupta@Moffitt.org.

BACKGROUND: Immunotherapeutic approaches to treating cancer have been evaluated
during the last few decades with limited success. An understanding of the
checkpoint signaling pathway involving the programmed death 1 (PD-1) receptor and
its ligands (PD-L1/2) has clarified the role of these approaches in tumor-induced
immune suppression and has been a critical advancement in immunotherapeutic drug 
development.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature review was performed to identify the
available data on checkpoint inhibitors, with a focus on anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1
agents being tested in oncology. The search included Medline, PubMed, the
ClinicalTrials.gov registry, and abstracts from the American Society of Clinical 
Oncology meetings through April 2014. The effectiveness and safety of the
available anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 drugs are reviewed.
RESULTS: Tumors that express PD-L1 can often be aggressive and carry a poor
prognosis. The anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 agents have a good safety profile and
have resulted in durable responses in a variety of cancers, including melanoma,
kidney cancer, and lung cancer, even after stopping treatment. The scope of these
agents is being evaluated in various other solid tumors and hematological
malignancies, alone or in combination with other therapies, including other
checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies, as well as cytotoxic chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The PD-1/PD-L1 pathway in cancer is implicated in tumors escaping
immune destruction and is a promising therapeutic target. The development of
anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 agents marks a new era in the treatment of cancer with
immunotherapies. Early clinical experience has shown encouraging activity of
these agents in a variety of tumors, and further results are eagerly awaited from
completed and ongoing studies.


PMID: 24955707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2014 Spring;26(1):26-35. doi:
10.1053/j.semtcvs.2014.02.005. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

The state of the art in non-small cell lung cancer immunotherapy.

Seetharamu N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, New York University School of
Medicine, New York, New York.. Electronic address:
Nagashree.seetharamu@nyumc.org.

Once considered an ineffective modality in lung cancer, immunotherapy has emerged
as one of the most promising therapeutic strategies for this lethal disease. The 
past few years have seen a plethora of clinical trials evaluating various
immunotherapeutic approaches in lung cancer. This article discusses the current
status of immunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer with a review of completed 
studies and ongoing trials.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semtcvs.2014.02.005 
PMID: 24952755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2014 Jun 20;17(6):474-80. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.06.07.

[Advances of immunotherapy in small cell lung cancer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Liu J(1), Zhang S(1), Li H(2), Cheng Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Jilin Provincial Cancer Hospital, Changchun
130012, China. (2)Hematological Oncology Laboratory, Jilin Provincial Cancer
Hospital, Changchun 130012, China. (3)Department of Thoracic Oncology.

Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is complex heterogeneous due to unclear biological 
characteristics in terms of cell origin, pathogenesis and driver genes etc.
Diagnosis and treatment of SCLC has been slowly improved and few breakthroughs
have been discovered up to now. Therefore new strategies are urgently needed to
improve the efficacy of SCLC treatment. Tumor immunotherapy has potential to
restore and trigger the immune system to recognize and eliminate tumor cells,
notably it has only minimal adverse impact on normal tissue. Cancer vaccine,
adoptive immunotherapy, cytokines and checkpoint inhibitors have now been
launched for clinical treatment of SCLC. Ipilimumab is the most promising
medicine of immunotherapy. Immunotherapy is expected to bring new vision to the
treatment of SCLC. And further researches are needed on such problems affecting
efficacy of immunotherapy as the heterogeneity of SCLC, the uncertainty of target
for immunotherapy, the immune tolerance, etc.

Publisher: 小细胞肺癌（small cell lung cancer,
SCLC）具有复杂的异质性，由于细胞起源、发病机制和驱动基因尚不明确，SCLC的诊治进展缓慢，鲜有突破，迫切需要新的治疗策略提高SCLC疗效。肿瘤免疫治疗可提高免
疫系统识别和排除肿瘤细胞的能力，且对正常组织影响轻微。目前已经开展了肿瘤疫苗、过继细胞免疫治疗、细胞因子、checkpoint抑制剂等治疗SCLC的临床研究，ip
ilimumab是最有前景的药物。免疫治疗有望为SCLC治疗带来新的希望，未来还需要对SCLC的异质性、免疫治疗靶点不明确、免疫治疗耐受等影响免疫治疗疗效的问题开
展进一步研究。
DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.06.07 
PMID: 24949688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2014;804:341-53. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-04843-7_19.

Natural killer cells for osteosarcoma.

Tarek N(1), Lee DA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatrics, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, TX, USA, NTarek@mdanderson.org.

Natural killer (NK) cells are lymphocytes of the innate immune system that have
the ability to recognize malignant cells through detection of a variety of
cell-surface indicators of stress and danger. Once activated through such
recognition, NK cells release cytokines and induce target cell lysis through a
variety of mechanisms. NK cells are increasingly recognized as important
mediators of other immunotherapeutic modalities, including cytokines, antibodies,
immunomodulators, and stem cell transplantation. Adoptive immunotherapies with NK
cells are being tested in early-stage clinical trials, and recent advances in
manipulating their number and function have caused a renewed emphasis on this
cancer-fighting cell. In this chapter we address the evidence for NK cell
recognition of osteosarcoma in vitro and in vivo, discuss new therapies that are 
directly or indirectly dependent on NK cell function, and describe potential
approaches for manipulating NK cell number and function to enhance therapy
against osteosarcoma.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-04843-7_19 
PMID: 24924184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2014;804:323-40. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-04843-7_18.

Genetically modified T-cell therapy for osteosarcoma.

DeRenzo C(1), Gottschalk S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Houston Methodist, Texas Children's
Hospital, Baylor College of Medicine, 1102 Bates Street, Suite 1770, Houston, TX,
77030, USA.

T-cell immunotherapy may offer an approach to improve outcomes for patients with 
osteosarcoma, who fail current therapies. In addition, it has the potential to
reduce treatment-related complications for all patients. Generating
tumor-specific T cells with conventional antigen presenting cells ex vivo is time
consuming and often results in T-cell products with a low frequency of
tumor-specific T cells. In addition, the generated T cells remain sensitive to
the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Genetic modification of T cells is 
one strategy to overcome these limitations. For example, T cells can be
genetically modified to render them antigen specific, resistant to inhibitory
factors, or increase their ability to home to tumor sites. Most genetic
modification strategies have only been evaluated in preclinical models, however
early phase clinical trials are in progress. In this chapter we review the
current status of gene-modified T-cell therapy with special focus on
osteosarcoma, highlighting potential antigenic targets, preclinical and clinical 
studies, and strategies to improve current T-cell therapy approaches.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-04843-7_18 
PMCID: PMC4617538
PMID: 24924183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2014;804:285-9. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-04843-7_15.

IL-11Rα: a novel target for the treatment of osteosarcoma.

Lewis VO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Oncology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, 301402, Unit
1448, Houston, TX, 77230-1402, USA, volewis@mdanderson.org.

Recent advances have shown that cell surface receptors are expressed
differentially in normal and pathological conditions. Novel organ specific and
disease specific proteins expressed on tumor vasculature have been identified by 
in vivo phage display technology and the diversity of the tumor-associated
vasculature has provided the basis for the development of targeted therapeutics. 
Investigators recently screened a phage display library in a human cancer
patient. An IL-11 mimic phage displaying the cyclic peptide CGRRAGGSC (single
letter amino acid code) specifically bound to immobilized IL-11Rα. It has been
demonstrated that the expression of the IL-11Rα is increased in several other
types of tumors including osteosarcoma. The ability to selectively target the
IL-11Rα may provide an alternative treatment of for a disease where new treatment
options are truly needed.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-04843-7_15 
PMID: 24924180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


420. J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2015 Dec;21(6):451-67. doi: 10.1177/1078155214538087. Epub
2014 Jun 9.

Clinical evaluation of compounds targeting PD-1/PD-L1 pathway for cancer
immunotherapy.

Lu J(1), Lee-Gabel L(2), Nadeau MC(2), Ferencz TM(2), Soefje SA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Smilow Cancer Hospital at Yale-New Haven, New Haven,
USA jing.lu@ynhh.org. (2)Department of Pharmacy, Smilow Cancer Hospital at
Yale-New Haven, New Haven, USA. (3)Department of Pharmacy, University Medical
Center Brackenridge, Seton Healthcare Family, Austin, USA.

Significant enthusiasm currently exists for new immunotherapeutic strategies:
blocking the interaction between programmed death-1 receptor on T-cells and
programmed death-ligand 1 on tumor cells to boost immune system stimulation to
fight cancer. Immunomodulation with the antiprogrammed death-1/programmed
death-ligand 1 monoclonal antibodies has shown to mediate tumor shrinkage and
extend overall survival from several pivotal phase I/II studies in melanoma,
renal cell carcinoma, and non-small cell lung cancer. This has prompted multiple 
large ongoing phase III trials with the expectation for fast-track FDA approvals 
to satisfy unmet medical needs. Compounds targeting the programmed death-1
pathway that are in clinical trials fall into two major categories, namely
antiprogrammed death-1 antibodies: Nivolumab, MK-3475, and pidilizumab; and
antiprogrammed death-ligand 1 antibodies: MPDL3280A, BMS-936559, MEDI4736, and
MSB0010718C. We reviewed the clinical efficacy and safety of each compound based 
upon major registered clinical trials and published clinical data. Overall,
response rate of more than 20% is consistently seen across all these trials, with
maximal response of approximately 50% achieved by certain single antiprogrammed
death-1 agents or when used in combination with cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 
blockade. The responses seen are early, durable, and have continued after
treatment discontinuation. Immune-related adverse events are the most common side
effects seen in these clinical trials. Overall, the skin and gastrointestinal
tract are the most common organ systems affected by these compounds while
hepatic, endocrine, and neurologic events are less frequent. These side effects
are low grade, manageable, and typically resolve within a relatively short time
frame with a predictable resolution pattern given proper management. We therefore
propose detailed guidelines for management of major immune-related adverse events
that are anticipated with antiprogrammed death-1/programmed death-ligand 1
therapies based on general experience with other monoclonal antibodies and the
established management algorithms for immune-related adverse events for cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte antigen-4 blockade with ipilimumab. We anticipate that the
antiprogrammed death-1 strategy will become a viable and crucial clinical
strategy for cancer therapy.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1078155214538087 
PMID: 24917416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


421. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 May 21;20(19):5808-17. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i19.5808.

Intervention on toll-like receptors in pancreatic cancer.

Vaz J(1), Andersson R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Juan Vaz, Roland Andersson, Department of Surgery, Clinical Sciences Lund,
Skåne University Hospital Lund, Lund University, SE-221 85 Lund, Sweden.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is a devastating disease with pronounced
morbidity and a high mortality rate. Currently available treatments lack
convincing cost-efficiency determinations and are in most cases not associated
with relevant success rate. Experimental stimulation of the immune system in
murine PDA models has revealed some promising results. Toll-like receptors (TLRs)
are pillars of the immune system that have been linked to several forms of
malignancy, including lung, breast and colon cancer. In humans, TLRs are
expressed in the pancreatic cancer tissue and in several cancer cell lines,
whereas they are not expressed in the normal pancreas. In the present review, we 
explore the current knowledge concerning the role of different TLRs associated to
PDA. Even if almost all known TLRs are expressed in the pancreatic cancer
microenvironment, there are only five TLRs suggested as possible therapeutic
targets. Most data points at TLR2 and TLR9 as effective tumor markers and
agonists could potentially be used as e.g. future adjuvant therapies. The
elucidation of the role of TLR3 in PDA is only in its initial phase. The
inhibition/blockage of TLR4-related pathways has shown some promising effects,
but there are still many steps left before TLR4 inhibitors can be considered as
possible therapeutic agents. Finally, TLR7 antagonists seem to be potential
candidates for therapy. Independent of their potential in immunotherapies, all
existing data indicate that TLRs are strongly involved in the pathophysiology and
development of PDA.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i19.5808 
PMCID: PMC4024790
PMID: 24914341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Lik Sprava. 2014 Jan-Feb;(1-2):3-15.

[Sarcoidosis--granulomatosis: the modern view of the etiology and pathogenesis
with clinical cases review].

[Article in Russian]

Kazmirchuk VE, Tsarik VV, Mal'tsev DV, Ishchenko MI.

Diagnostic criteria of sarcoidosis were offered in the 60-ies of XX century,
however today the problem of sarcoidosis is difficult for understanding the
different specialists and early detection. The development of laboratory
diagnostic of viral infections and introduction of polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) has greatly improved the level of diagnosis of herpes infections, reveal
the previously unknown etiology of many diseases: sarcoidosis (granulomatosis),
migraine, multiple sclerosis, cystic prenatal brain damage, convulsions,
Hodgkin's disease and others. Sarcoidosis is the set of clinical symptoms
(fatigue, shortness of breath, coughing, heaviness in the chest), laboratory,
radiological and histopathological data that allow the doctor to diagnose,
predict prognosis and treatment policy. Most often, sarcoidosis affects the lungs
and thoracic lymph nodes. In the last period for 2011-2013 in 2930
immunologically tested patients the sarcoidosis was confirmed in 146. Primarily
these patients were exposed to different diagnosis--COPD, pneumonia,
tuberculosis, lung cancer. Among patients with sarcoidosis on the first place in 
frequency of detection were EBV and HHV-6. We were the first in 2000, described
the Epstein-Barr virus as the causative factor of sarcoidosis, and has been
hypothesized the immunopathology of sarcoidosis and principles of individual
immunotherapy with a resolution of the granulomatous process in 92 % of cases.
Subsequently, this association has been and illustrates the relationship to other
viruses (HHV-6, HHV-8) demonstrated by other authors.


PMID: 24908953  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Lung Cancer. 2014 Aug;85(2):101-9. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2014.05.005. Epub 2014 
May 14.

Immunotherapy in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.

Sundar R(1), Soong R(2), Cho BC(3), Brahmer JR(4), Soo RA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology-Oncology, National University Cancer Institute,
National University Health System, Singapore. (2)Cancer Science Institute of
Singapore, National University of Singapore, Singapore; Department of Pathology, 
National University Health System, Singapore. (3)Division of Medical Oncology,
Yonsei Cancer Center, Seoul, South Korea. (4)Department of Oncology, The Sidney
Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, MD, United States. 
(5)Department of Haematology-Oncology, National University Cancer Institute,
National University Health System, Singapore; Cancer Science Institute of
Singapore, National University of Singapore, Singapore; Department of Surgery,
University of Western Australia, Australia. Electronic address:
ross_soo@nuhs.edu.sg.

Advances in the understanding of the role of the immune system in tumor
immunosurveillance have resulted in the recognition that tumors can evade immune 
destruction via the dysregulation of co-inhibitory or checkpoint signals. This
has led to the development of a generation immunotherapeutic agents targeting the
immune checkpoint pathway. Recent early phase studies of immune checkpoint
modulators, such as CTLA-4, PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors in NSCLC have reported
promising results with prolonged clinical responses and tolerable toxicity. This 
article provides an overview of co-stimulatory and inhibitory molecules that
regulate the immune response to tumors, recent therapies that have been developed
to exploit these interactions and the role of predictive biomarkers in treatment 
selection.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2014.05.005 
PMCID: PMC4332778
PMID: 24880938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2014:e375-80. doi: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2014.34.e375.

Chemotherapy for lung cancers: here to stay.

Kris MG(1), Hellmann MD(1), Chaft JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Thoracic Oncology Service, Division of Solid Tumor Oncology,
Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Weill Cornell
Medical College, New York, NY.

Four decades of clinical research document the effectiveness of chemotherapy in
patients with lung cancers. Chemotherapeutic agents can improve lung cancer
symptoms, lengthen life in most patients with lung cancers, and enhance
curability in individuals with locoregional disease when combined with surgery or
irradiation. Chemotherapy's effectiveness is enhanced in patients with
EGFR-mutant and ALK-positive lung cancers and can "rescue" individuals whose
oncogene-driven cancers have become resistant to targeted agents. As
immunotherapies become part of the therapeutic armamentarium for lung cancers,
chemotherapeutic drugs have the potential to modulate the immune system to
enhance the effectiveness of immune check point inhibitors. Even in this era of
personalized medicine and targeted therapies, chemotherapeutic agents remain
essential components in cancer care.

DOI: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2014.34.e375 
PMID: 24857127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2014:177-89. doi: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2014.34.177.

50 Years of progress in the systemic therapy of non-small cell lung cancer.

Wakelee H(1), Kelly K(1), Edelman MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Stanford Cancer Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA;
University of California, Davis Cancer Center, Sacramento, CA; University of New 
Mexico Cancer Center, Albuquerque, NM.

Non-small cell lung cancer constitutes 85% to 90% of lung cancer and is the most 
common cause of cancer death. Over the past 50 years, substantial progress has
been made in all aspects of lung cancer including screening, diagnostic
evaluation, surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. This review focuses on 
the advances in systemic therapy during this half century.

DOI: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2014.34.177 
PMID: 24857075  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Cytotherapy. 2014 Nov;16(11):1453-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2014.03.009. Epub 2014 
May 20.

Opportunities and limitations of natural killer cells as adoptive therapy for
malignant disease.

Davies JO(1), Stringaris K(1), Barrett AJ(2), Rezvani K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. (3)Stem Cell Transplantation and
Cellular Therapy, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA. Electronic
address: KRezvani@mdanderson.org.

Although natural killer (NK) cells can be readily generated for adoptive therapy 
with current techniques, their optimal application to treat malignant diseases
requires an appreciation of the dynamic balance between signals that either
synergize with or antagonize each other. Individuals display wide differences in 
NK function that determine their therapeutic efficacy. The ability of NK cells to
kill target cells or produce cytokines depends on the balance between signals
from activating and inhibitory cell-surface receptors. The selection of NK cells 
with a predominant activating profile is critical for delivering successful
anti-tumor activity. This can be achieved through selection of killer
immunoglobulin-like receptor-mismatched NK donors and by use of blocking
molecules against inhibitory pathways. Optimum NK cytotoxicity may require
licensing or priming with tumor cells. Recent discoveries in the molecular and
cellular biology of NK cells inform in the design of new strategies, including
adjuvant therapies, to maximize the cytotoxic potential of NK cells for adoptive 
transfer to treat human malignancies.

Copyright © 2014 International Society for Cellular Therapy. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2014.03.009 
PMCID: PMC4190023
PMID: 24856895  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Ann Thorac Surg. 2014 Jul;98(1):362-71. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2014.04.014.
Epub 2014 May 22.

Primary lung cancer in lung transplant recipients.

Olland AB(1), Falcoz PE(2), Santelmo N(2), Kessler R(1), Massard G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Groupe de Transplantation Pulmonaire, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg,
Strasbourg, France; EA7293, Stress Vasculaire et Tissulaire en Transplantation,
Université de Strasbourg, Faculté de Pharmacie, Illkirch, France. (2)Groupe de
Transplantation Pulmonaire, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg, Strasbourg,
France. (3)Groupe de Transplantation Pulmonaire, Hôpitaux Universitaires de
Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France; EA7293, Stress Vasculaire et Tissulaire en
Transplantation, Université de Strasbourg, Faculté de Pharmacie, Illkirch,
France. Electronic address: gilbert.massard@chru-strasbourg.fr.

Risk factors for lung cancer in lung transplant recipients are a history of
smoking and immunosuppression, to which adds increasing use of lungs from donors 
with a smoking history. The three typical presentations are incidental diagnosis 
on the explanted lung, concerning less than 2%; lung cancer developing on the
lung graft, accounting for less than 1%; and incidence of lung cancer on the
native lung, estimated at 9%. Treatment along available guidelines may be
hampered by decreased lung function owing to chronic rejection or adverse effects
of immunosuppression. Prognosis is comparable to a general population in resected
stage I cancer and is less favorable in advanced stages.

Copyright © 2014 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2014.04.014 
PMID: 24856793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


428. J Mol Med (Berl). 2014 Jul;92(7):697-707. doi: 10.1007/s00109-014-1165-y. Epub
2014 May 23.

Oncogenic drivers, targeted therapies, and acquired resistance in non-small-cell 
lung cancer.

Gower A(1), Wang Y, Giaccone G.

Author information: 
(1)Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA.

In the past decade, a shift toward targeted therapies in non-small-cell lung
cancer following molecular profiling has dramatically changed the way advanced
adenocarcinoma is treated. However, tumor cells inevitably acquire resistance to 
such therapies, circumventing any sustained clinical benefit. As the genomic
classification of lung cancer continues to evolve and as the mechanisms of
acquired resistance to targeted therapies become elucidated and more improved
target-specific drugs come into sight, the future will see more promising results
from the clinic through the development of new therapeutic strategies to
overcome, or prevent the development of, resistance for lung cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-014-1165-y 
PMID: 24852181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2014 Aug;14(8):965-73. doi:
10.1586/14737140.2014.919859. Epub 2014 May 16.

Immune therapies for malignant mesothelioma.

Antoniu SA(1), Dimofte G, Ungureanu D.

Author information: 
(1)Palliative Care-Interdisciplinary Department, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Medicine and Pharmacy "Grigore T Popa", 16 Universitaţii Str, 700115, Iaşi,
Romania.

Malignant mesothelioma (MM) is a rare disease which can develop in pleura,
pericardium or peritoneum and in which the therapies available have limited
efficacy and are associated with various side effects. Therefore, there is a need
for more targeted and more effective therapies which are able to halt the disease
progression. Among them immune therapies actively or passively directed against
various structures of the MM cells seem to be particularly promising given their 
inhibitory potential demonstrated in both experimental and early clinical
studies. Mesothelin in particular seem to be not only a biomarker of disease
activity but also a therapeutic target. This review discusses the immune
therapies currently investigated for MM.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.2014.919859 
PMID: 24833011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


430. World J Clin Oncol. 2014 May 10;5(2):39-47. doi: 10.5306/wjco.v5.i2.39.

Targeted immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer.

Vasekar M(1), Liu X(1), Zheng H(1), Belani CP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Monali Vasekar, Xin Liu, Hong Zheng, Chandra P Belani, Penn State Hershey
Cancer Institute, Penn State University College of Medicine, Hershey, PA 17033,
United States.

Targeted therapies that deliver the expected anti-tumor effects while mitigating 
the adverse effects are taking the cancer world by storm. The need for such
therapies in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), where systemic cytotoxic
chemotherapies still remain the backbone of management, is felt more than ever
before. Runway success of immunotherapies such as Ipilimumab for melanoma has
brought excitement among oncologists. Immune-based treatments are in various
stages of evaluation for NSCLC as well. Immunotherapies using strategies of
antigen based or cell based vaccines, and blocking immune checkpoints are of
substantial interest. Meaningful clinical responses are yet to be reaped from
these new treatment modalities.

DOI: 10.5306/wjco.v5.i2.39 
PMCID: PMC4014795
PMID: 24829850  [PubMed]


431. Oral Oncol. 2014 Jul;50(7):627-32. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2014.04.003. Epub 
2014 May 10.

The role of the PD-L1:PD-1 pathway in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
neck.

Zandberg DP(1), Strome SE(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Maryland Greenebaum Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD, United States;
Department of Medicine, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD,
United States. Electronic address: dzandberg@umm.edu. (2)Department of
Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD,
United States; Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Maryland 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.

Antigen specific stimulation of immune cells, triggers expression of a diverse
array of co-signaling molecules that help define the fate of the resultant immune
response. Antibodies and fusion proteins, capable of blocking and/or activating
these co-signaling pathways, are emerging as potent therapeutic options for the
treatment of cancer and autoimmune disease. Blockade of one such pair of co
signaling interactions, termed PD-L1:PD-1, has shown tremendous promise in phase 
I treatment trials for advanced solid tumors like non-small cell lung cancer and 
melanoma, with long term disease remission in select patients. Based on
intriguing preclinical data from our group and others, several trials are
actively evaluating the utility of PD-L1:PD-1 blockade for the treatment of
recurrent/metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN). In
this review we will explore what is known about the interactions between PD-1 and
PD-L1, with a focus on SCCHN, and specifically discuss how this pathway can be
manipulated with therapeutic intent.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2014.04.003 
PMID: 24819861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2014;816:197-234. doi: 10.1007/978-3-0348-0837-8_9.

The role of inflammation in kidney cancer.

de Vivar Chevez AR(1), Finke J, Bukowski R.

Author information: 
(1)Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH, USA.

Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) constitutes more than 90 % of primary kidney tumors
with the development of metastatic disease in the lung, bone, liver, and brain.
Clear-cell RCC (CCRCC) is the most common histologic form of sporadic kidney
cancer where the majority of tumors have inactivation of the von Hippel-Lindau
(VHL) tumor-suppressor gene resulting in the accumulation of hypoxia-inducible
factor (HIF) leading to dysregulation of cell growth and angiogenesis.
Understanding of the genetic changes in RCC and the downstream events have led to
the development of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) that target HIF-regulated
proteins which currently represents front-line therapy for metastatic disease
although resistance develops in most patients overtime. Despite the fact that RCC
is an immunogenic tumor, there is mounting evidence that immune cells and
inflammatory pathways can enhance tumor growth and immune escape. However, recent
studies are beginning to uncover the mechanisms of immune escape in RCC, and the 
role inflammatory immune cells and cytokines play is this process. These new
findings have led to renewed interest in the use of immunotherapy for the
treatment of this disease that includes strategies to regulate inflammatory
responses. Here, we will discuss the different inflammatory signaling pathways
(e.g., VHL, hypoxia, TNF-α, STAT, and TGF-β) and the downstream transcription
factors, cytokines, and chemokines involved in tumor development, and disease
progression. This will include assessment of the role inflammatory molecules
(e.g., pVHL, TGFb, IL6, select chemokines/chemokine receptors) play in promoting 
cell transformation, survival, proliferation of tumor cells, and metastasis
derived from in vitro and in vivo studies. Included is a section on how select
inflammatory cells (TAM, MDSC, and neutrophils) promote tumor evasion of immune
cells. We also provide examples of molecules/cells that correlate negatively
(CXCL12, CXCR4, and MMP, neutrophils, and MDSC) and positively (TH1 cells, IP-10,
and MIG) with tumor progression and survival. Finally, there is a discussion of
different inhibitors of inflammation that may be useful in the treatment of RCC.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-0348-0837-8_9 
PMID: 24818725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Immunotherapy. 2014;6(4):459-75. doi: 10.2217/imt.14.9.

Harnessing the power of the immune system via blockade of PD-1 and PD-L1: a
promising new anticancer strategy.

Reiss KA(1), Forde PM, Brahmer JR.

Author information: 
(1)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Cancer
Research Building I, Room 186, 401 North Broadway Street, Baltimore, MD 21287,
USA.

Cancer cells employ several mechanisms to evade the immune system of their host, 
thus escaping immune recognition and elimination. Of particular interest is a
cancer cell's ability to co-opt the immune system's innate ligands and inhibitory
receptors (also known as checkpoints), thus creating an immunosuppressive
microenvironment that downregulates T-cell activation and cell signaling. The
recent development of the checkpoint inhibitors anti-programmed death-1 and
anti-programmed death ligand-1 has generated an enormous amount of interest as a 
potential new anticancer strategy in solid tumors, particularly in non-small-cell
lung cancer, renal cell carcinoma and melanoma. Data suggest significant disease 
response rates using anti-programmed death-1 and anti-programmed death ligand-1
antibodies, even in heavily pretreated patients. Future directions include
optimization of drug delivery sequence and combination of immunotherapy with
other therapies including cytotoxic chemotherapy, radiation, antiangiogenic
agents and small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

DOI: 10.2217/imt.14.9 
PMCID: PMC4732706
PMID: 24815784  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Int Rev Immunol. 2014 Oct;33(5):383-401. doi: 10.3109/08830185.2014.911857. Epub 
2014 May 8.

The role of human papilloma virus (HPV) infection in non-anogenital cancer and
the promise of immunotherapy: a review.

Cobos C(1), Figueroa JA, Mirandola L, Colombo M, Summers G, Figueroa A, Aulakh A,
Konala V, Verma R, Riaz J, Wade R, Saadeh C, Rahman RL, Pandey A, Radhi S, Nguyen
DD, Jenkins M, Chiriva-Internati M, Cobos E.

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Internal Medicine at the Division of Hematology & Oncology,
Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center and Southwest Cancer Treatment and
Research Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.

Over the past 30 years, human papilloma virus (HPV) has been shown to play a role
in the development of various cancers. Most notably, HPV has been linked to
malignant progression in neoplasms of the anogenital region. However, high-risk
HPV has also been suggested to play a significant role in the development of
cancers in other anatomic locations, such as the head and neck, lung, breast and 
bladder. In 2006, the first vaccine for HPV, Gardasil, was approved for the
prevention of subtypes 6, 11, 16 and 18. A few years later, Cevarix was approved 
for the prevention of subtypes 16 and 18, the HPV subtypes most frequently
implicated in malignant progression. Although increased awareness and vaccination
could drastically decrease the incidence of HPV-positive cancers, these
approaches do not benefit patients who have already contracted HPV and developed 
cancer as a result. For this reason, researchers need to continue developing
treatment modalities, such as targeted immunotherapies, for HPV-positive lesions.
Here, we review the potential evidence linking HPV infection with the development
of non-anogenital cancers and the potential role of immunotherapy in the
prevention and eradication of HPV infection and its oncogenic sequela.

DOI: 10.3109/08830185.2014.911857 
PMID: 24811210  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Cancer Immunol Res. 2014 May;2(5):393-8. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0039.

Tim-3: an emerging target in the cancer immunotherapy landscape.

Anderson AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Author's Affiliation: Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Harvard Institutes of Medicine, Boston,
Massachusetts.

The cancer immunotherapy field has grown exponentially in the past few years,
largely driven by the success of immune checkpoint blockade. Therapies targeting 
the immune checkpoint molecules CTLA-4 and PD-1 have achieved objective responses
in melanoma, renal cancer, and lung cancer; however, a large number of patients
are still suffering with these cancers that are not benefiting from these
therapies. Moreover, several cancers have proved to be largely refractory to
therapies that target CTLA-4 and PD-1. This has catalyzed interest in targeting
novel immune checkpoint receptors with the goal of realizing the full potential
of checkpoint blockade for treating cancer. In this regard, the immune checkpoint
receptor Tim-3 exhibits several unique features that make it an intriguing
candidate for the next wave of therapies that target immune checkpoints in
cancer.

DOI: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0039 
PMID: 24795351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 2014;82(3):286-99. doi: 10.5603/PiAP.2014.0034.

[Immune alterations in lung cancer - the new therapeutic approach].

[Article in Polish]

Domagała-Kulawik J(1), Osińska I.

Author information: 
(1)domagalakulawik@gmail.com.

Lung cancer is the main cause of cancer death worldwide. An advanced stage of the
disease at the time of diagnosis, observed in the majority of cases, does not
allow for introduction of radical treatment or makes the treatment ineffective.
Lung cancer as a solid tumour with a very low antigenicity escapes immune
surveillance, and cytotoxic cells attack. Cytotoxic lymphocytes play a key role
in anticancer defence, but the population of these cells individually differs.
Many suppressor and regulatory mechanisms inhibit the recognition of tumour
antigens by dendritic and cytotoxic cell activation. The population of regulatory
T cells (T regs) plays a crucial role in this inhibition of immune response.
Their function depends on the expression of transcription factor Foxp3 and the
presence of CTLA-4 molecules. The increased proportion of T regs and high
expression of Foxp3 and CTLA-4 on lung cancer cells and tumour infiltrating
lymphocytes were observed. Other components of immune response inhibition and
tumour promotion are: Th17 cell population, M2 macrophage polarisation, the
presence of myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and a significantly elevated
concentration of cytokines: TGF-b and IL-10 in the tumour microenvironment. The
recognition of these mechanisms may have important therapeutic implications.
Several types of agents which are capable of modulating the immune response have 
recently been used in many clinical trials conducted in lung cancer patients,
some of them showing efficacy. Lung cancer immunotherapy has two main directions:
the first goal is to improve the cytotoxic effect (for example by inhibition of
CTLA-4, stimulation of dendritic cell function, inhibition of lymphocyte
apoptosis), and the second way is the production of anti-cancer vaccines using
known cancer antigens: MAGE A3, MUC1, EGF and TGF-b. Immunotherapy in lung cancer
treatment has a character of personalised therapy - there is a need to specify
the patient's immune status prior to treatment. The analysis of immune cells and 
mediators in the peripheral blood allows this, but the more valuable method seems
to be bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) examination with careful assessment of the
tumour microenvironment.

DOI: 10.5603/PiAP.2014.0034 
PMID: 24793154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Cancer Immunol Res. 2013 Aug;1(2):85-91. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-13-0078. Epub
2013 Jul 22.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors: making immunotherapy a reality for the treatment of
lung cancer.

Brahmer JR(1), Pardoll DM.

Author information: 
(1)Authors' Affiliation: The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns
Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland.

Despite the limited success of immunotherapies in solid malignancy, two human
cancers, melanoma and renal cancer, have, for many years, responded to systemic
administration of immune-targeted biologics and showed signals of response to
certain therapeutic vaccines. These findings underpinned a long-held perception
that melanoma and renal cancer were uniquely "immunogenic" but that virtually all
other human cancers were not and thus would not respond to immune modulation.
That notion has now been shattered by the significant and durable responses in
non-small cell lung cancer induced by therapeutic treatment with antibodies
blocking the PD-1 checkpoint. The immunotherapy success in lung cancer thus
provides a gateway to development of treatments for multiple cancer types that
were previously believed not accessible to immune-based therapies.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-13-0078 
PMCID: PMC4856021
PMID: 24777499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Immunotherapy. 2014;6(3):269-82. doi: 10.2217/imt.14.6.

Benefits of a continuous therapy for cancer patients with a novel adoptive cell
therapy by cascade priming (CAPRI).

Wank R(1), Song X, Gu S, Laumbacher B.

Author information: 
(1)Immunotherapy Research Center Munich, Pettenkoferstr. 8, 80336 Munich,
Germany.

A growing body of evidence shows that immune cells are pivotal in the fight
against cancer. First, association studies have identified immune-protective
immune response genes against cancer. Second, the presence of immune cells in the
respective malignant tumor correlated with a better prognosis for the patients.
Third, adoptive cell therapy (ACT) showed, in recent reports, an efficient
reduction or even cure for malignant tumors. The focus of this review is a novel 
in vitro ACT technique, using the patient's cascade-primed immune cells. The
cascade-priming procedure stimulates APCs from the peripheral blood. Stimulated
APCs digest and present tumor material better and differentiate naive cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte effector cells against the patient's cancer. The principle and the
impressive results of the cascade-primed immune cell treatment in patient case
series is compared with the ACT concepts of lymphokine-activated killer,
macrophage-activated killer, macrophage-activated killer-dendritic cell,
cytokine-induced killer and tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte methods.

DOI: 10.2217/imt.14.6 
PMID: 24762072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Med Oncol. 2014 May;31(5):960. doi: 10.1007/s12032-014-0960-1. Epub 2014 Apr 19.

Unmet needs in squamous cell carcinoma of the lung: potential role for
immunotherapy.

Stinchcombe TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Multi-disciplinary Thoracic Oncology Program, University of North Carolina UNC
Chapel Hill, Physicians Office Bldg. CB# 7305, 170 Manning Drive, 3rd Floor,
Chapel Hill, NC, 27599-7305, USA, thomas_stinchcombe@med.unc.edu.

Squamous cell carcinoma of the lung accounts for 20-30% of non-small cell lung
cancers (NSCLC). Despite the differences in disease characteristics between
squamous and non-squamous NSCLC, both have historically been treated similarly in
the clinic. Recently approved drugs have revealed differences in activity and
safety profiles across histologic subtypes and have applicability in treating
non-squamous, but not typically squamous, NSCLC. Exploration of immune
checkpoints--co-inhibitory molecules used to regulate immune responses--has
resulted in novel immunotherapies designed to interrupt signaling through the
cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 or programmed cell death protein-1
pathways on lymphocytes. Modulation of these pathways can lead to restored
antitumor immune responses, and preliminary evidence shows that agents targeting 
these pathways have activity in lung cancer, including squamous NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1007/s12032-014-0960-1 
PMCID: PMC4006124
PMID: 24748366  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2014 May;33(5):461-7. doi: 10.1016/j.healun.2014.03.002.
Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Long-term immunosuppression and malignancy in thoracic transplantation: where is 
the balance?

Nair N(1), Gongora E(2), Mehra MR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Scott & White Hospital, Texas A&M HSC College of
Medicine, Temple, Texas; Sacred Heart Medical Center/Providence Spokane Heart
Institute, Spokane, Washington. Electronic address: nandini.nair@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Drexel University College of
Medicine/Hahnemann University Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (3)Heart and 
Vascular Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts.

Cancers in post-transplant patients exhibit the same molecular and cellular
properties as those in their non-transplanted counterparts and arise secondary to
uncontrolled/sustained growth, apoptosis resistance, inhibition of tumor
suppressors, immortalization of cells with invasion, and and metastasis.
Disruption of DNA repair mechanisms, upregulation of angiogenic growth factors,
impaired viral immunity and activated oncogenic viruses contribute to the
initiation of malignancies in this population. This article extends and addresses
the concerns in this area. We propose potential cancer prevention strategies and 
a possible 4-pronged approach to prevent and treat malignancies in the
post-transplant population. Future research should define strategies for immune
modulation, immune suppression and malignancy prevention, including methods for
naive B-cell repopulation, memory B-cell reduction and biomarker identification
and utilization for predicting tolerance. Non-immune therapies, such as adjunct
preventive methods and goals to modify risk factors, may reduce incidence of
malignancies and pave the way to better outcomes. The role of statins is of
particular interest in this context due to their pleiotropic effects on the cell 
cycle and their most direct role in inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis.

Copyright © 2014 International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2014.03.002 
PMID: 24742695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Oncoimmunology. 2014 Jan 1;3(1):e27572. Epub 2014 Jan 17.

γδ T cells for cancer immunotherapy: A systematic review of clinical trials.

Fisher JP(1), Heuijerjans J(1), Yan M(1), Gustafsson K(2), Anderson J(1).

Author information: 
(1)UCL Institute of Child Health; London, UK. (2)UCL Institute of Child Health;
Molecular Immunology Unit; London, UK.

γδ T cells contribute to the front line of lymphoid antitumor surveillance and
bridge the gap between innate and adaptive immunity. They can be readily expanded
to high numbers in vivo and in vitro, starting from the blood of cancer patients,
and a number of Phase I trials have demonstrated that these cells can be employed
in cancer immunotherapy. Sufficient patients have received γδ T cell-based
immunotherapies in the context of clinical trials to evaluate their utility, and 
to inform the direction of new trials. A systematic approach was used to identify
Phase I, Phase II, and feasibility studies testing γδ T cell-based immunotherapy 
in cancer patients. Studies were excluded from further analysis if they did not
provide patient-specific data. Data were compiled to evaluate efficacy, with
stratification by treatment approach. When possible, comparisons were made with
the efficacy of second-line conventional therapeutic approaches for the same
malignancy. Twelve eligible studies were identified, providing information on 157
patients who had received γδ T cell-based immunotherapy. The comparison of
objective response data suggests that γδ T cell-based immunotherapy is superior
to current second-line therapies for advanced renal cell carcinoma and prostate
cancer, but not for non-small cell lung carcinoma. An evaluation of pooled data
from 132 published in vitro experiments shows a consistent improvement in the
cytotoxicity of γδ T cells in the presence of antitumor antibodies. Immunotherapy
using γδ T cells alone shows promising clinical activity, but there is a strong
preclinical rationale for combining this treatment modality with cancer-targeting
antibodies to augment its efficacy.

DOI: 10.4161/onci.27572 
PMCID: PMC3984269
PMID: 24734216  [PubMed]


442. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2014 Aug;20(8):1169-75. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.04.008. Epub 2014 Apr 13.

Outcomes of lung transplantation after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation.

Cheng GS(1), Edelman JD(2), Madtes DK(3), Martin PJ(4), Flowers ME(4).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington; Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of
Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington. Electronic address:
cheng3@uw.edu. (2)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of
Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington; Veterans Association Puget
Sound Health Care System, Seattle, Washington. (3)Clinical Research Division,
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington; Division of
Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, Washington. (4)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington; Division of Medical Oncology,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington.

Other than lung transplantation (LT), no specific therapies exist for end-stage
lung disease resulting from hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT)-related
complications, such as bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS). We report the
indications and outcomes in patients who underwent LT after HCT for hematologic
disease from a retrospective case series at our institution and a review of the
medical literature. We identified a total of 70 cases of LT after HCT, including 
9 allogeneic HCT recipients from our institution who underwent LT between 1990
and 2010. In our cohort, the median age was 16 years (range, 10 to 35 years) at
the time of HCT and 34 years (range, 17 to 44 years) at the time of LT, with a
median interval between HCT and LT of 10 years (range, 2.9 to 27 years).
Indications for LT-included pulmonary fibrosis (n = 4), BOS (n = 3), interstitial
pneumonitis related to graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) (n = 1), and primary
pulmonary hypertension (n = 1). Median survival was 49 months (range, 2 weeks to 
87 months), and 1 patient remains alive at more than 3 years after LT. Survival
at 1 year and 5 years after LT was 89% and 37%, respectively. In the medical
literature between 1992 and July 2013, we identified 20 articles describing 61
cases of LT after HCT from various centers in the United States, Europe, and
Asia. Twenty-six of the 61 cases (43%) involved patients age <18 years at the
time of LT. BOS and GVHD of the lung were cited as the indication for LT in the
majority of cases (80%; n = 49), followed by pulmonary fibrosis and interstitial 
lung disease (20%; n = 12). In publications reporting 3 or more cases with a
follow-up interval ranging from the immediate postoperative period to 16 years,
the survival rate was 71% (39 of 55). Most deaths were attributed to long-term
complications of the lung allograft, including infections and BOS. Two deaths
were related to recurrent or relapsed hematologic malignancy. LT can prolong
survival in some patients who suffer from end-stage pulmonary complications after
HCT. Patient factors that likely improve the chances of a good long-term outcome 
include young age, at least 2 years post-HCT free of relapse from the original
hematologic malignancy, and lack of other end-organ dysfunction or manifestations
of chronic GVHD that require treatment with immunosuppressive agents.

Copyright © 2014 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.04.008 
PMID: 24727334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Cell Immunol. 2014 May-Jun;289(1-2):63-9. doi: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2014.03.009.
Epub 2014 Apr 1.

Telomeres and telomerase in T cells of tumor immunity.

Qian Y(1), Yang L(2), Cao S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Tianjin Cancer Institute & Hospital, Tianjin Medical
University, Tianjin, China; National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, China;
Key Laboratory of Cancer Immunology and Biotherapy, Tianjin, China; Research
Center of Lung Cancer, Tianjin, China. (2)Department of Immunology, Tianjin
Cancer Institute & Hospital, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China; National
Clinical Research Center of Cancer, China; Key Laboratory of Cancer Immunology
and Biotherapy, Tianjin, China; Research Center of Lung Cancer, Tianjin, China.
Electronic address: yanglili1012@gmail.com. (3)Department of Immunology, Tianjin 
Cancer Institute & Hospital, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China; National
Clinical Research Center of Cancer, China; Key Laboratory of Cancer Immunology
and Biotherapy, Tianjin, China; Research Center of Lung Cancer, Tianjin, China.
Electronic address: caoshui@yahoo.com.

Telomeres are specific nucleoprotein structures at the end of a eukaryotic
chromosomes characterized by repeats of the sequence TTAGGG and regulated by the 
enzyme telomerase which prevents their degradation, loss, rearrangement and
end-to-end fusion. During activation, T lymphocytes actively divide, albeit
through only a finite number of cell divisions due to shortening of telomeres.
However, studies have demonstrated that human telomerase reverse transcriptase
(hTERT), thought to be the major component regulating telomerase activity, can
enhance the proliferation of T cells when overexpressed. There are many
treatments for cancers, most of which are targeting the telomere and telomerase
of tumor cells. However, the hTERT-transduced T cells improve their potential for
proliferation, making them an appropriate cell resource for tumor adoptive
immunotherapy, a procedure whereby T cells are isolated from patients, expanded
ex vivo and eventually delivered back into the patients, provides a new approach 
for tumor therapy through improved overall survival rates in cancer patients. In 
this review, we will focus on the telomerase activity in T cells, the regulation 
of telomerase activity, and hTERT-transduced T cells used in adoptive
immunotherapy for cancer.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2014.03.009 
PMID: 24727158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Oncoimmunology. 2014 Jan 1;3(1):e27560. Epub 2014 Jan 3.

Harnessing the immune system to provide long-term survival in patients with
melanoma and other solid tumors.

Eggermont A(1), Robert C(1), Soria JC(1), Zitvogel L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus; Grand Paris; Villejuif, France.

Accumulating data from patients treated with checkpoint inhibitors and other
immunomodulatory agents indicate that harnessing the power of the immune system
is integral to achieve improve long-term cancer containment rates and prolong
patient survival. Due to their mechanism of action, immunotherapeutic approaches 
have the potential to be effective against almost every tumor type. Durable
responses to immunotherapy and prolonged patient survival have indeed been
documented in individuals with melanoma, as well as kidney and lung cancer. These
advances call for the re-evaluation of how clinical benefit is measured in an era
in which long-term tumor control and survival are achievable treatment goals.

DOI: 10.4161/onci.27560 
PMCID: PMC3973659
PMID: 24719793  [PubMed]


445. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2014 Jul;14(7):1007-17. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2014.907786.
Epub 2014 Apr 5.

Ipilimumab in non-small cell lung cancer and small-cell lung cancer: new
knowledge on a new therapeutic strategy.

Rijavec E(1), Genova C, Barletta G, Burrafato G, Biello F, Dal Bello MG, Coco S, 
Truini A, Alama A, Boccardo F, Grossi F.

Author information: 
(1)UOS Tumori Polmonari, IRCCS San Martino - IST Istituto Nazionale per la
Ricerca sul Cancro , L.go Benzi 10, Genova , Italy ery80x@yahoo.it.

INTRODUCTION: Despite recent advances with new chemotherapeutic agents and target
therapies, the prognosis of NSCLC remains poor. Recent results from clinical
trials of immunotherapeutic agents, especially with immune checkpoint inhibitors,
make this approach very exciting in NSCLC. Ipilimumab is a monoclonal antibody
directed against cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 that is able to stimulate the
antitumour immune response by promoting T-cell activation.
AREAS COVERED: We have reviewed the literature and have described the most
important results obtained with ipilimumab in NSCLC in recent trials with a
specific focus on its peculiar toxicity profile and pattern of response. Trials
ongoing with ipilimumab are also reported.
EXPERT OPINION: The results from clinical trials with ipilimumab are promising.
Some important issues in the near future will be to identify prognostic and
predictive biomarkers to select patients who could benefit from this drug.
Further studies are warranted to understand how to combine ipilimumab with other 
anticancer strategies.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2014.907786 
PMID: 24702205  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


446. J Stem Cells. 2013;8(3-4):189-231. doi: jsc.2014.8.3/4.189.

Functional role of solid tumor stem cells in disease etiology and susceptibility 
to therapeutic interventions.

Ramdass B, Duggal R, Minev B, Chowdhary A, Koka P.

Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are defined by their innate stem cell like properties
and can be identified by specific markers that include antigens, molecules and
signaling pathways. Like stem cells, CSC divide indefinitely giving rise to both 
more CSCs and differentiated cell progeny. CSCs can give rise to tumors that
phenotypically resemble their origin, either morphologically or by expression of 
tissue specific genes. Tumors arise from a single cell, the CSC, but the cells
that constitute the tumor are not identical to each other. Evidence of
heterogeneous populations within a tumor has led to an investigation of the
cellular hierarchy of cancers. This review gives an overview of cancer stem
cells, from breast, cervical, lung, prostate, head and neck, glioblastoma,
pancreatic and colorectal cancers and mechanisms implicated in tumor development 
and therapeutic interventions.

DOI: jsc.2014.8.3/4.189 
PMID: 24699025  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Aug;96(2):214-23. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2014.74. Epub 2014 
Apr 1.

Immunologic and clinical effects of targeting PD-1 in lung cancer.

Harvey RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Winship Cancer Institute of
Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

Therapeutic antibodies that block the programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1)
immune checkpoint pathway prevent T-cell downregulation and promote immune
responses against cancer. Several PD-1 pathway inhibitors have shown robust
activity in initial trials. This article reviews the preclinical evidence,
rationale, and clinical pharmacology of blockade of PD-1 or its ligands as
therapy for lung cancer and provides an overview of agents in development,
clinical evidence to date, and implications for clinical application.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2014.74 
PMID: 24690569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Am J Clin Oncol. 2015 Aug;38(4):422-30. doi: 10.1097/COC.0000000000000059.

Emerging immunotherapies in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): 
the role of immune checkpoint inhibitors.

Langer CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Abramson Cancer Center, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.

Immune checkpoint inhibition as a new treatment approach is undergoing extensive 
investigation in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and other malignancies.
Unlike standard chemotherapy or targeted agents, which act directly on the tumor 
cells, immune checkpoint inhibitors work by restoring the immune system's
capacity to eradicate tumors. Agents currently in active clinical development for
lung cancer include ipilimumab, which modulates the cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 pathway, and multiple agents targeting the
programmed death protein 1 (PD-1) pathway, both anti-PD-1 compounds (nivolumab,
pembrolizumab [MK-3475]) and those that target programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1),
a key ligand for PD-1 (BMS-936559, MPDL3280A). Preliminary evidence shows
activity for these agents in NSCLC as monotherapy or in combination with
chemotherapy. This article reviews the immune checkpoint inhibitors and the
available data to date on their use in lung cancer. Clinical implications for the
use of these therapies in NSCLC are discussed as they relate to their novel
mechanisms of action, response patterns, and safety profiles.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0000000000000059 
PMID: 24685885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2014 Mar;17(3):277-81. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.03.17.

[Advances in immunotherapies for non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

He Y(1), You C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Student of Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, China.
(2)Department of Oncology,  Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou 510515, China.

Globally, Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death of high
morbidity and mortality with poor prognosis, which needs some more effective and 
less toxic therapies. The immunotherapies offer a novel approach for the
treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in both the
adjuvant and palliative disease settings. A number of promising immunotherapies
based on different mechanism have now been evaluated showing an increasing
response rate. Moreover, further phase II/III clinical trials will be indicated
to explore its value. These include checkpoint inhibitors (anti-CTLA4 antibody,
anti-PD-1 antibody, anti-PD-L1 antibody), active vaccination (L-BLP25 liposome
vaccine, Belagenpumatucel-L vaccine, MAGE-A3 protein vaccine) and adoptive
vaccination (CIK cells). The purpose of this paper will draw a summary on the
theory, clinical trials, toxicity and problems to be solved of the
immunotherapies in NSCLC.

Publisher:
肺癌是全球范围内癌性死亡的首要因素，发病率、死亡率高，预后较差，急需开发一种新的高效低毒疗法。作为术后辅助或是姑息治疗手段，免疫治疗为非小细胞肺癌患者提供了一个新
的治疗方向。免疫疗法作用机理各不相同，如免疫检测点受体抑制剂（抗CTLA4抗体、抗PD-1抗体、抗PD-L1抗体）、主动性免疫疫苗（L-BLP25脂质体疫苗、Be
lagenpumatucel-L疫苗、MAGE-A3蛋白疫苗）、过继性免疫疫苗（CIK细胞）等，研究表明免疫治疗非小细胞肺癌肿瘤缓解率较前提高，前景值得期待，II
期/III期临床试验亦在进一步探索其临床应用价值。本文就当前非小细胞肺癌免疫疗法原理、临床试验、不良反应及待解决问题作一概述。
DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.03.17 
PMID: 24667269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2014 Mar;17(3):273-6. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.03.16.

[Vascular normalization and cancer immunotherapy].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zeng J(1), Yuan D(2), Liu H(2), Song Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School, Nanfang Medical University, 510515 Guangzhou,
China;Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nanjing General Hospital of Nanjing
Command, Nanjing 210002, China. (2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nanjing
General Hospital of Nanjing Command, Nanjing 210002, China.

Immunotherapies, as a promising anticancer therapy stratrgy, has been paid more
and more attentions. However, the abnormal tumor vasculature creates a hypoxic
microenvironment that make immune cells toward immune suppression. The
immunosuppressive microenvironment seems to impede the development of
immunotherapies. Hence, normalization tumor vascular by anti-angiogenesis
properly could improve the immunosuppressive miroenvironment. Consequently, the
efficacy of the immunotherapies was enhanced. Here, we discuss the effects of
vascular normalizing on tumor immunity and propose a potentially strategy to
re-engineer the tumor-immune microenvironment and improve cancer immunotherapy.

Publisher:
免疫治疗是一种颇有前景的抗肿瘤策略。然而，肿瘤中的免疫抑制微环境阻碍了免疫治疗的发展。异常肿瘤血管造成的缺氧，使免疫细胞趋向免疫抑制。并且异常血管通过分泌生长因子
及细胞因子，改变免疫细胞的增殖、分化及功能，最终形成免疫抑制的微环境。因此，有效的利用血管生成及肿瘤免疫之间的相互作用，适当的抑制血管形成，促进肿瘤血管正常化，可
以改变肿瘤的免疫抑制微环境，成为改善免疫治疗的新策略。现就血管正常化与肿瘤免疫的关系，及二者的联合治疗进行综述。。
DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.03.16 
PMID: 24667268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 2014;82(2):133-49. doi: 10.5603/PiAP.2014.0019.

[The role of systemic therapies of non-small cell lung cancer and malignant
pleural mesothelioma: updated expert recommendations].

[Article in Polish]

Jassem J(1), Biernat W, Bryl M, Chorostowska-Wynimko J, Dziadziuszko R, Krawczyk 
P, Kordek R, Kowalski DM, Krzakowski M, Olszewski W, Orłowski T, Ramlau R, Rzyman
W.

Author information: 
(1)jjassem@gumed.edu.pl.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer related death in Poland. About 85% of 
all lung cancer constitutes non-small cancer (NSCLC), in which the role of
cytotoxic and molecularly targeted drugs is increasing. This article presents the
current evidence- based recommendations for the use of these methods in clinical 
practice in NSCLC and malignant pleural mesothelioma.

DOI: 10.5603/PiAP.2014.0019 
PMID: 24615197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Lung Cancer. 2014 May;84(2):103-9. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2014.01.021. Epub 2014 
Feb 3.

Surgery for malignant pleural mesothelioma: why, when and what?

Lang-Lazdunski L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, 6th Floor Borough Wing, Guy's hospital, London
SE1 9RT, UK; Division of Cancer Studies, King's College London, United Kingdom.
Electronic address: loic.lang-lazdunski@gstt.nhs.uk.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma is a fatal cancer developing in the pleural
cavity, linked to asbestos exposure. Various therapies have been tried in the
past 50 years including surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, immunotherapy and
more recently, targeted therapy. Radical surgery remains controversial in
malignant pleural mesothelioma and two procedures have been offered in the past
to obtain maximal cytoreduction: extrapleural pneumonectomy (EPP) and
pleurectomy/decortication (P/D). Despite growing evidence that EPP might be
detrimental, many believe that radical surgery should still be part of
multimodality therapy in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. Recent
evidence suggests that P/D is well tolerated and produces low mortality and
morbidity. The role of adjuvant intrapleural therapies remains to be determined
and evaluated in large prospective trials. Pleurectomy/decortication does not
jeopardize the chance of having chemotherapy, or chemoradiotherapy either. Many
now believe that it should be the default procedure in multimodality regimens.
However, this remains to be proven in a large randomized trial. Palliative
surgery still has an important role to play in mesothelioma, in establishing or
refining diagnosis and in controlling symptoms and improving quality of life in
many patients whose life expectancy is limited. Recent progress in molecular
analyses and biomarkers should help with patient selection for surgery,
immunotherapy and systemic therapies in the near future.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2014.01.021 
PMID: 24602395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Lung Cancer. 2014 May;84(2):97-100. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2014.01.018. Epub 2014
Jan 30.

Molecular targeted therapy for early-stage non-small-cell lung cancer: will it
increase the cure rate?

Martinez P(1), Martinez-Marti A(1), Navarro A(1), Cedrés S(1), Felip E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Vall d́Hebron University Hospital, Department of Medical Oncology, Barcelona, 
Spain. (2)Vall d́Hebron University Hospital, Department of Medical Oncology,
Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: efelip@vhebron.net.

Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) represents approximately 85% of all lung
cancer cases, with a world-wide annual incidence of around 1.3 million. Surgery
remains the corner stone of treatment in early-stage NSCLC when feasible, and the
addition of adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy has improved these results in
resected NSCLC patients. For those patients with non-metastatic NSCLC not
suitable for complete surgical resection, chemotherapy plus radiotherapy remains 
the best treatment option. For patients with metastatic NSCLC, molecular targeted
agents have become part of the therapeutic arsenal in recent years. However, to
date no targeted agent has been approved for patients with early or
locally-advanced stages of NSCLC. Here, we review the rationale, literature and
studies addressing the role of targeted agents used in the adjuvant setting or as
part of chemoradiotherapy regimens.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2014.01.018 
PMID: 24582269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Semin Oncol. 2014 Feb;41(1):126-32. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2013.12.014. Epub
2013 Dec 12.

Immune checkpoint blockade: the hope for immunotherapy as a treatment of lung
cancer?

Brahmer JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns
Hopkins, Baltimore, MD. Electronic address: brahmju@jhmi.edu.

Over the past 20 years, immunotherapy has not played a role in the treatment of
lung cancer outside of clinical trials. Early trials with vaccines yielded
promising results, but phase III trials have yet to show an improvement in
survival. Recently, immune checkpoint pathway inhibitors have yielded exciting
and consistent activity across this class of antibodies. However, phase III
trials are now ongoing. Currently, the hope of bringing immunotherapy to lung
cancer patients lies in this class of drugs. Only time will show us if these
antibodies will yield an improvement in long-term survival. This review will
focus on checkpoint pathway inhibitors that have completed early-phase trials.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2013.12.014 
PMCID: PMC4732704
PMID: 24565586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Cancer Manag Res. 2014 Feb 3;6:63-75. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S57550. eCollection 2014.

New modalities of cancer treatment for NSCLC: focus on immunotherapy.

Davies M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Smilow Cancer Hospital at Yale-New Haven Hospital, New Haven, CT, USA.

Recent advances in the understanding of immunology and antitumor immune responses
have led to the development of new immunotherapies, including vaccination
approaches and monoclonal antibodies that inhibit immune checkpoint pathways.
These strategies have shown activity in melanoma and are now being tested in lung
cancer. The antibody drugs targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 
and programmed cell death protein-1 immune checkpoint pathways work by restoring 
immune responses against cancer cells, and are associated with unconventional
response patterns and immune-related adverse events as a result of their
mechanism of action. As these new agents enter the clinic, nurses and other
health care providers will require an understanding of the unique efficacy and
safety profiles with immunotherapy to optimize potential patient benefits. This
paper provides a review of the new immunotherapeutic agents in development for
lung cancer, and strategies for managing patients on immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S57550 
PMCID: PMC3917949
PMID: 24520205  [PubMed]


456. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2014 Apr;14(4):411-8. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2014.887675.
Epub 2014 Feb 10.

Updates on immunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer.

Shimanovsky A(1), Dasanu CA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Connecticut Health Science Center, Department of Medicine , 263 
Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT 06030 , USA shimanovsky@resident.uchc.edu.

Immunotherapy has made significant progress in patients with non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) in the last years. Early tumor vaccine studies showed trends
toward better clinical outcomes, and larger trial results are currently being
awaited. Immune checkpoint inhibitors are promising therapeutic agents in
advanced NSCLC. While ipilimumab, a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 inhibitor,
has clearly improved outcomes in metastatic malignant melanoma, its safety and
efficacy in NSCLC are not yet known. Programmed death-1 (PD-1) and PD-1 ligand
inhibitors such as nivolumab, MK3475 and MPDL3280 have demonstrated clinical
efficacy in patients with advanced/metastatic NSCLC in early clinical trials.
Their validation in larger Phase III trials is anxiously being awaited.
Furthermore, exploring efficacy of these molecules in patients with early stages 
of lung cancer is also necessary.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2014.887675 
PMID: 24512518  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Bull Cancer. 2014 Feb;101(2):195-202. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2014.1885.

[Pulmonary malt lymphoma].

[Article in French]

Borie R(1), Antoine M(2), Cadranel J(3), Wislez M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Service de pneumologie A, centre de compétences maladies rares pulmonaires,
AP-HP hôpital Bichat-Claude Bernard, 46, rue Henri Huchard, 75877 Paris cedex 18,
France. (2)Service d'anatomie pathologique, AP-HP hôpital Tenon, 4, rue de la
Chine, 75970 Paris, France, Laboratoire de biologie cellulaire et
d'immunopathologie pulmonaire, ER2, GRC-04, université Pierre-et Marie-Curie
Paris 6, Paris, France. (3)Laboratoire de biologie cellulaire et
d'immunopathologie pulmonaire, ER2, GRC-04, université Pierre-et Marie-Curie
Paris 6, Paris, France, Service de pneumologie et de réanimation, Centre de
compétences maladies rares pulmonaires, AP-HP-Hôpital Tenon, 4, rue de la Chine, 
75970 Paris, France.

This review will describe the current knowledge in the pathophysiology,
diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of pulmonary MALT (Mucosa Associated Lymphoid 
Tissue) lymphoma. Pulmonary MALT lymphomas are low-grade B cell lymphoma and are 
the most frequent lymphomas arising from the lung. Tumour cells arise from mucosa
associated lymphoid tissue. Unlike other sites, no pathogen has been associated
with pulmonary location of MALT lymphoma. However addictive translocations
involving the MALT1 gene are frequently evidenced Patients are frequently
asymptomatic and present with a chronic alveolar opacity. Diagnosis requires
histology that may be retrieved by minimally invasive procedures during bronchial
endoscopy or by CT scan guided percutaneous biopsies. Prognosis is good and
treatment may vary with abstention, surgery, radiotherapy, immunotherapy or
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2014.1885 
PMID: 24509230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2014 Mar;15(1):137-46. doi: 10.1007/s11864-013-0268-y.

Potential of new therapies like anti-PD1 in kidney cancer.

Gunturi A(1), McDermott DF.

Author information: 
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, MASCO 428, 375 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA,
02215, USA.

OPINION STATEMENT: Various targeted immunotherapies have shown efficacy in
metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) recently. Specifically, molecules targeting
the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway have shown promising results. These agents appear to
provide several advantages over previous standard therapies. First, higher
objective responses are attained with these agents, many of which are complete
and durable. Second, these drugs are associated with less overall
treatment-related toxicity. This allows for the testing of various combination
therapies that may provide better clinical outcomes. Finally, these novel
therapeutics are unique in that they appear to have benefit in a variety of
neoplasms, including those with dismal prognosis such as metastatic non-small
cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Further investigations are needed to confirm these
findings and explore additional applications. The importance of PD-L1 expression 
on tumor cells on the efficacy of PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors is also under
investigation. Patient selection based on this expression may optimize the
observed clinical benefit. Thus, we believe that new therapeutics such as
Anti-PD1 and Anti-PD-L1 antibodies will make a significant impact on cancer
treatment in general as well as in the field of kidney cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-013-0268-y 
PMID: 24504486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Clin Cancer Res. 2014 Mar 1;20(5):1067-73. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0731.
Epub 2014 Jan 27.

New strategies in lung cancer: translating immunotherapy into clinical practice.

Forde PM(1), Kelly RJ, Brahmer JR.

Author information: 
(1)Authors' Affiliation: Upper Aerodigestive Program, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive
Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland.

Recent breakthroughs in translating the early development of immunomodulatory
antibodies into the clinic, notably with the anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
antigen-4 antibody, ipilimumab, have led to durable benefits and prolonged
survival for a subgroup of patients with advanced melanoma. Subsequent studies
have shown that related immune checkpoint antibodies, specifically those
targeting the programmed death-1 pathway, have activity in non-small cell lung
cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer is the commonest cause of cancer death
worldwide and this exciting avenue of clinical investigation carries with it
great promise and new challenges. In this article, we discuss recent developments
in lung cancer immunotherapy, reviewing recent findings from therapeutic vaccine 
studies and in particular we focus on the refinement of immunomodulation as a
therapeutic strategy in this challenging disease.

©2014 AACR

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0731 
PMID: 24470514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Lancet Respir Med. 2013 Sep;1(7):551-63. doi: 10.1016/S2213-2600(13)70159-0. Epub
2013 Aug 23.

Lung cancer: potential targets for immunotherapy.

Tartour E(1), Zitvogel L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, Service d'Immunologie Biologique, Paris,
France; INSERM, U970 PARCC, Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France. (2)INSERM 
U1015, Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France; Université Paris Sud, Kremlin 
Bicêtre, France. Electronic address: zitvogel@igr.fr.

Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide and a 
therapeutic challenge. Recent success with antibodies blocking immune checkpoints
in non-small-cell lung cancers (NSCLC) highlights the potential of immunotherapy 
for lung cancer treatment, and the need for trials of combination regimens of
immunotherapy plus chemotherapy that lead to immunogenic cell death. Here, we
review the development of immunogenic cytotoxic compounds, vaccines, and
antibodies in NSCLC, in view of their integration into personalised oncology.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-2600(13)70159-0 
PMID: 24461616  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2014 Mar;14(3):365-76. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2014.880421. 
Epub 2014 Jan 24.

Melanoma-associated antigen-A3 vaccination in the treatment of non-small-cell
lung cancer.

Adam V(1), Wauters I, Vansteenkiste J.

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital KU Leuven, Department of Pulmonology, Respiratory Oncology
Unit, Leuven Lung Cancer Group , Herestraat 49, 3000 Leuven , Belgium +32 16
346801 ; +32 16 346803 ; johan.vansteenkiste@uzleuven.be.

INTRODUCTION: Lung cancer is a common health problem with a bad prognosis,
despite recent advances in its treatment. Antigen-specific immunotherapy implies 
the administration of tumor-specific antigens with an immunostimulant to induce a
powerful antitumor immune response, which has shown to be capable of eliminating 
tumor cells. Melanoma-associated antigen (MAGE) A3 is a good antigen to use in
antigen-specific immunotherapy, since it is aberrantly expressed in cancer cells,
but not expressed in normal tissue, except in germline and placental cells.
AREAS COVERED: Trials have been performed with the MAGE-A3 vaccine in the
adjuvant setting after resection of non-small-cell lung cancer. They have shown
that the MAGE-A3 vaccine is safe and well tolerated, with promising signs of
clinical benefit, especially in patients expressing a specific gene signature.
Outcome data are currently expected of a large Phase III randomized controlled
trial in the same setting.
EXPERT OPINION: The future is hopeful for antigen-specific immunotherapy in
general and MAGE-A3 vaccine in specific. Further research needs to identify new
tumor-specific antigens, more potent adjuvants and genetic profiles suggestive of
a better response toward antigen-specific immunotherapy. The MAGE-A3 vaccine has 
to be investigated in other settings than the adjuvant one and in other tumor
types expressing MAGE-A3.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2014.880421 
PMID: 24456101  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2014 May;50(5):870-5. doi: 10.1165/rcmb.2013-0472TR.

Immunotherapy for malignant pleural mesothelioma. Current status and future
prospects.

Wong RM(1), Ianculescu I, Sharma S, Gage DL, Olevsky OM, Kotova S, Kostic MN,
Grundfest WS, Hou D, Cameron RB.

Author information: 
(1)1 Pacific Meso Center at the Pacific Heart, Lung & Blood Institute, Los
Angeles, California.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rare malignancy of the pleura that is
frequently resistant to conventional therapies. Immunotherapy is a promising
investigational approach for MPM that has shown some evidence of clinical benefit
in select patients. However, tumor-induced immunosuppression is likely a major
impediment to achieving optimal clinical responses to immunotherapeutic
intervention. MPM contains a variable degree of infiltrating T-regulatory cells
and M2 macrophages, which are believed to facilitate tumor evasion from the host 
immune system. Additional immunosuppressive factors identified in other human
tumor types, such as tumor-associated programmed death ligand-1 expression, may
be relevant for investigation in MPM. Conventional cytoreductive therapies, such 
as radiation, chemotherapy, and surgery, may play a critical role in successful
immunotherapeutic strategies by ablating intratumoral and/or systemic
immunosuppressive factors, thus creating a host environment more amenable to
immunotherapy. This article reviews the immunotherapeutic approaches being
evaluated in patients with MPM and discusses how immunotherapy might be
rationally combined with conventional tumor cytoreductive therapies for this
disease.

DOI: 10.1165/rcmb.2013-0472TR 
PMID: 24450537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Curr Opin Oncol. 2014 Mar;26(2):165-70. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000052.

Vaccination therapy for non-small-cell lung cancer.

Cuppens K(1), Vansteenkiste J.

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory Oncology Unit (Department of Pulmonology) and Leuven Lung Cancer
Group, University Hospital KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Recent advances in our understanding of cancer immunology
resulted in the development of promising therapeutic agents for either
nonantigen-specific immunotherapy, for example, monoclonal antibodies targeting
immune checkpoints on the T-cell lymphocyte, and antigen-specific immunotherapy
or vaccination. Here, we review the recently reported results from randomized
controlled trials (RCTs) with the latter approach.
RECENT FINDINGS: Several trials indicated feasibility, safety, and potential for 
better patient outcomes. In resected early stage non-small-cell lung cancer, a
phase II RCT with the MAGE-A3 vaccine showed a trend for improved disease-free
interval (hazard ratio 0.75), now further evaluated in the large MAGRIT (MAGE-A3 
as Adjuvant NSCLC Immunotherapy Trial) study. In stage III after
chemoradiotherapy, the phase III START (Stimulating Targeted Antigenic Responses 
to NSCLC) trial with L-BLP25 vaccine resulted in a remarkable 10-month
improvement in median survival in the concurrent chemoradiotherapy subgroup. In
the advanced setting, the phase III study with the allogeneic tumor cell vaccine 
belagenpumatucel-L did not improve survival in the whole study, but interesting
effects were seen in subgroups.
SUMMARY: Recent non-small-cell lung cancer vaccination trials did not meet their 
primary endpoint, but showed clear patient benefits in subgroup analyses.
Confirmatory trials and identifying patients who will benefit using predictive
factors, will hopefully bring these approaches in the clinic in the near future.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000052 
PMID: 24441502  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Semin Intervent Radiol. 2013 Jun;30(2):176-84. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1342959.

Regional chemotherapy of the lung: transpulmonary chemoembolization in malignant 
lung tumors.

Vogl TJ(1), Shafinaderi M(1), Zangos S(1), Lindemayr S(1), Vatankhah K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe 
University Hospital, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Standard treatment options in patients with lung cancer and pulmonary metastases 
are surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and immunotherapy. For reducing clinical
complications of surgery and achieving a better local response, transpulmonary
chemoembolization of the lungs is a possible interventional technique in which
anticancer drugs are administered directly into a tumor through its feeding
vessels followed by occlusive agents that are injected through the delivery
catheter for blocking the vessel. This allows a longer contact period in the
tumor with a higher cytostatic drug concentration. The technique is safe and
results present promising local response rates, but the influence on survival is 
still questionable. This article describes the current role of intravascular
therapies in the treatment of pulmonary malignancies.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1342959 
PMCID: PMC3709942
PMID: 24436534  [PubMed]


465. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2014 Mar;15(1):1-13. doi: 10.1007/s11864-013-0273-1.

Updates in systemic treatment for metastatic cervical cancer.

Chao A(1), Lin CT, Lai CH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at
Linkou and Chang Gung University, 5 Fu-Shin Street, Kueishan, Taoyuan, 333,
Taiwan, angel945@cgmh.org.tw.

OPINION STATEMENT: Cervical cancer has been a leading cause of morbidity and
gynecologic cancer deaths throughout the world in this generation despite the
implementation of Pap smears. The American Joint Committee on Cancer classifies
metastatic cervical cancer as any tumor (T) stage and M1 (distant metastasis of
peritoneal spread and involvement of supraclavicular, mediastinal, or para-aortic
lymph nodes; lung; liver; or bone) at primary presentation or
persistent/recurrent disease outside the pelvis. Radiation with platinum-based
chemotherapy is the standard treatment for locally advanced and potentially
curable disease at limited metastatic site(s). For patients with recurrent
cervical cancer after definitive surgery who have not received prior
radiotherapy, salvage chemoradiation is an option. Meanwhile, surgery may be
offered to patients with resectable disease if they have received primary
radiotherapy. Patients with distant relapse at sole/limited metastatic site(s)
could undergo salvage treatment by chemoradiation, surgery plus
radiotherapy/chemoradiation, or surgery alone to achieve prolonged survival;
hence, they should not be treated with systemic therapy alone. For previously
irradiated unresectable lesions or disseminated disease, no effective control of 
the disease is available; therefore, such patients are candidates for systemic
treatment. The primary goal of chemotherapy for those who are not amenable to
curative intent is to extend life while offering quality of life. Results of
clinical trials using platinum/nonplatinum doublets, molecularly targeted
therapies, and immunotherapy, including therapeutic human papillomavirus
vaccines, are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-013-0273-1 
PMID: 24429797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


466. MAbs. 2014 Jan-Feb;6(1):54-72. doi: 10.4161/mabs.27029.

IgE immunotherapy: a novel concept with promise for the treatment of cancer.

Josephs DH(1), Spicer JF(2), Karagiannis P(3), Gould HJ(4), Karagiannis SN(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cutaneous Medicine and Immunotherapy Unit; St. John's Institute of
Dermatology; Division of Genetics and Molecular Medicine & NIHR Biomedical
Research Centre at Guy's and St. Thomas's Hospitals and King's College London;
London, UK; Division of Cancer Studies; King's College London; Guy's Hospital;
London, UK. (2)Division of Cancer Studies; King's College London; Guy's Hospital;
London, UK. (3)Cutaneous Medicine and Immunotherapy Unit; St. John's Institute of
Dermatology; Division of Genetics and Molecular Medicine & NIHR Biomedical
Research Centre at Guy's and St. Thomas's Hospitals and King's College London;
London, UK. (4)Randall Division of Cell and Molecular Biophysics & Division of
Asthma; Allergy and Lung Biology; MRC and Asthma UK Centre for Allergic
Mechanisms of Asthma; King's College London; Guy's Campus; London, UK.

The importance of antibodies in activating immune responses against tumors is now
better appreciated with the emergence of checkpoint blockade antibodies and with 
engineered antibody Fc domains featuring enhanced capacity to focus potent
effector cells against cancer cells. Antibodies designed with Fc regions of the
IgE class can confer natural, potent, long-lived immune surveillance in tissues
through tenacious engagement of high-affinity cognate Fc receptors on distinct,
often tumor-resident immune effector cells, and through ability to activate these
cells under tumor-induced Th2-biased conditions. Here, we review the properties
that make IgE a contributor to the allergic response and a critical player in the
protection against parasites, which also support IgE as a novel anti-cancer
modality. We discuss IgE-based active and passive immunotherapeutic approaches in
disparate in vitro and in vivo model systems, collectively suggesting the
potential of IgE immunotherapies in oncology. Translation toward clinical
application is now in progress.

DOI: 10.4161/mabs.27029 
PMCID: PMC3929456
PMID: 24423620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2014 Jan;17(1):34-41. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.01.06.

[Progress in immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Xu Y(1), Wang M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Disease, Peking Union Medical College Hospital,
Chinese Academy of Medical Science  and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing
100730, China.

In recent years, the five-year survival rate of patients with advanced stage
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains low despite recent advances in
surgery, irradiation, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy. Immunotherapy which
utilizes the immune system to control and eradicate cancer is a viable treatment 
approach for malignancy. Immunotherapy in patients with lung cancer has made
breakthrough progress recently. Novel immunotherapeutic agents, such as
antigen-specific tumour vaccines, checkpoint inhibitors, etc, have all been
evaluated in lung cancer, and some have shown prolonged survival time in phase II
trials and III trails. The immune-related response criteria for the evaluation of
antitumor responses with immunotherapeutic agents have been made. Now,
immunotherapy will likely be a fundamentally new concept for the treatment of
NSCLC.

Publisher: 近年来，非小细胞肺癌（non-small cell lung cancer,
NSCLC）在手术治疗、放疗、化疗及靶向治疗方面均取得了很大的进展，但晚期NSCLC患者的5年生存率仍然很低。免疫治疗利用免疫系统来控制和清除瘤细胞，已成为肿瘤治
疗的一种重要手段。NSCLC的免疫治疗近期取得了突破性的进展，抗原特异性肿瘤疫苗、检查点阻滞剂等多种新型抗肿瘤免疫治疗药物已进行NSCLC治疗的临床试验，并在II
期和III期临床试验中取得一定的成果。目前已完善了免疫治疗疗效评估标准，成为免疫治疗药物抗肿瘤评价标准。免疫治疗将成为NSCLC治疗的一种重要手段。
DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.01.06 
PMID: 24398312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Immunotargets Ther. 2013 Dec 16;3:1-8. doi: 10.2147/ITT.S30821. eCollection 2014.

Emerging treatments in management of prostate cancer: biomarker validation and
endpoints for immunotherapy clinical trial design.

Slovin SF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genitourinary Oncology Service, Sidney Kimmel Center for Prostate and Urologic
Cancers, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.

The rapidly emerging field of immunotherapy and the development of novel
immunologic agents that have been approved in melanoma and successfully studied
in lung cancer, kidney cancer, and prostate cancer have mandated that there be
uniformity in clinical trial analysis beyond conventional survival endpoints and 
imaging. This includes some measure of determining whether the immunologic target
is hit and how the treatment has impacted on the immune system in toto. While
melanoma is leading the field towards these ends, there is some doubt that not
all of the recent successes with immune therapies, for example, checkpoint
inhibitors, will be effective for every cancer, and that the toxicities may also 
be different depending on the malignancy. This review serves to elucidate the
current issues facing clinical investigators who perform immunologic trials
targeted at patients with prostate cancer and discusses the challenges in
assessing the right immunologic endpoints to demonstrate biologic/immunologic
targeting leading to clinical benefit.

DOI: 10.2147/ITT.S30821 
PMCID: PMC4918229
PMID: 27471695  [PubMed]


469. Handb Clin Neurol. 2014;121:1159-79. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-7020-4088-7.00078-X.

Paraneoplastic disorders of the central and peripheral nervous systems.

Didelot A(1), Honnorat J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Référence, de Diagnostic et de Traitement des Syndromes
Neurologiques Paranéoplasiques and INSERM U842, UMR-S842, Lyon, France.
Electronic address: adrien.didelot@chu-lyon.fr. (2)Centre de Référence, de
Diagnostic et de Traitement des Syndromes Neurologiques Paranéoplasiques and
INSERM U842, UMR-S842, Lyon, France.

Paraneoplatic neurologic syndromes (PNS) have been seminally defined as acute or 
subacute neurological syndromes resulting from nervous system dysfunction that is
remote from the site of a malignant neoplasm or its metastases. However, in
respect to our current understanding of their pathogenesis we may redefine these 
disorders as cancer-related dysimmune neurologic syndromes. We first deal with
the epidemiology and the pathogenesis of PNS, then the different classic PNS are 
reviewed with clinical features according to the associated onconeuronal
antibodies. Finally, therapeutic approaches are discussed.

© 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-7020-4088-7.00078-X 
PMID: 24365410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Dan Med J. 2013 Dec;60(12):B4774.

Immune modulations during chemoimmunotherapy & novel vaccine strategies--in
metastatic melanoma and non small-cell lung cancer.

Iversen TZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cancer ImmuneTherapy (CCIT) Department, of Haematology & Department
of Oncology, Herlev Hospital, Herlev Ringvej 75, Denmark.
trine.zeeberg.iversen@regionh.dk.

This thesis describes the treatment of metastatic melanoma (MM) and non
small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) from an immunotherapeutic approach. The purpose of
the first part of the thesis was to assess how treatment with Temozolomide (TMZ) 
chemotherapy affects the immune system in patients with metastatic MM. Our
results showed that the number of T lymphocytes was significantly reduced after 3
treatment cycles. Furthermore, the induced lymphopenia was positive correlated to
achievement of clinical benefit. We demonstrated that the proportion of CD4+ and 
Treg lymphocytes decreased whereas the CD8+ T cells increased. In particular, we 
demonstrated that mature CD8+ T cells increased during treatment. Analyses of
peripheral blood before and after treatment showed that T cell responses against 
common viral epitopes were conserved despite chemotherapy. Surprisingly, we found
a significant increase in T cell responses against well-known MM tumour specific 
antigens. Overall, we have verified that TMZ in addition to being an alkylating
and cytotoxic chemotherapy, also possess immune modulatory effect in MM patients 
treated with standard dosage of TMZ. In the second part of the thesis we examined
how treatment with Interferon alfa-2b and Interleukin 2 (IFNα/IL2) affects the
immune system. We demonstrated a significant induced lymphocytosis during
treatment. Furthermore, we showed that the percentage increase in lymphocytes was
positively correlated to clinical outcome. Moreover, we have seen that IFNα/IL2
leads to significant increase in NK and Treg cells in both patients with and
without clincal effect. In general, T cell responses against common viral
epitopes and well-known melanoma tumour specific antigens were low. Furthermore, 
the study confirmed that elevated LDH is negatively correlated with both
treatment response and median overall survival. Overall, we have characterized
changes of immune cells and correlated them with clinical efficacy during the
couse of IFNα/IL2 used in standard dosage. In the third part we investigated if
vaccination with a peptide derived from IDO was feasible in patients with
metastatic NSCLC. This "First in Man" trial was safe and showed modest side
effects only. Since IDO was expressed in NSCLC tissues it was found to be a
relevant target. One patient achieved significant regression of liver metastases 
(confirmed partial response) and another 6/15 patients achieved prolonged disease
stabilization. Furthermore, median overall survival was 25.9 months demonstrating
a better survival in vaccinated compared to non-vaccinated comparable NSCLC
patients. The presence of IDO specific CD8+ T cells were detected by IFNy
Elispot. In patients with clinical effect of the vaccine IDO-specific CD8+ T
cells at pre-treatment was significanctly increased. Moreover, low-frequent IDO
positive tetramer CD8+ T cells were detected and led to effective killing of an
IDO+ HLA-A2 positive cancer cell line (SW480) in 1 patient. Moreover, flow
cytometry was performed and in general no significant changes in CD8+ and CD4+ T 
cells were seen, although patients with clinical response showed a trend towards 
increased mature CD8+ T cells during treatment. In addition, we found lower
levels of Tregs as well as an increased level of NK cells after 6 vaccinations.
Elevated Kyn/Trp ratio is suggested to mirror IDO activity. In 8/11 patients the 
level after the 6th vaccine was stable compared to baseline. No differences
between patients with clinical benefit (4/5) and patients with progressive
disease (4/6) were demonstrated. Two patients had an increase in Kyn/Trp ration
meanwhile demonstrating a high expression of IDO. In 2 patients with clinical
response long-term stabilization of Kyn/Trp was observed. Overall, the vaccine
was well tolerated with no adverse toxicity. Median overall survival was 25.9
months with long term disease stabilization achieved in 47% of the treated
patients. Based on the promising clinical results achieved in the vaccine trial
for NSCLC patients, we launched a new clinical trial for MM patients (ongoing
patient recruitment) in June 2012. In order to enhance the immune response the
vaccine comprises IDO plus Survivin peptide as well as the adjuvants Montanide,
Aldara and GM-CSF. Finally, the vaccine is given in combination with TMZ.
Patients are evaluated every 3rd month with PET-CT scan. Preliminary clinical
data from the first 7/30 evaluable patients are presented. Two patients
demonstrated a patial response with 57% and 45% tumour regression lasting for 10 
months and 6+ months respectively, corresponding to a preliminary objective
response rate of 29%. The vaccine has been manageable and without significant
side effects.


PMID: 24355457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Front Immunol. 2013 Dec 2;4:409. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2013.00409.

NKT cells as an ideal anti-tumor immunotherapeutic.

Fujii S(1), Shimizu K(1), Okamoto Y(2), Kunii N(2), Nakayama T(3), Motohashi
S(4), Taniguchi M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Immunotherapy, RCAI, RIKEN, Center for Integrative Medical
Sciences (IMS-RCAI) , Yokohama , Japan. (2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology,
Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University , Chiba , Japan. (3)Department of
Immunology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University , Chiba , Japan.
(4)Department of Medical Immunology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba
University , Chiba , Japan. (5)Laboratory of Immune Regulation, RCAI, RIKEN,
Center for Integrative Medical Sciences (IMS-RCAI) , Yokohama , Japan.

Human natural killer T (NKT) cells are characterized by their expression of an
invariant T cell antigen receptor α chain variable region encoded by a Vα24Jα18
rearrangement. These NKT cells recognize α-galactosylceramide (α-GalCer) in
conjunction with the MHC class I-like CD1d molecule and bridge the innate and
acquired immune systems to mediate efficient and augmented immune responses. A
prime example of one such function is adjuvant activity: NKT cells augment
anti-tumor responses because they can rapidly produce large amounts of IFN-γ,
which acts on NK cells to eliminate MHC negative tumors and also on CD8 cytotoxic
T cells to kill MHC positive tumors. Thus, upon administration of α-GalCer-pulsed
DCs, both MHC negative and positive tumor cells can be effectively eliminated,
resulting in complete tumor eradication without tumor recurrence. Clinical trials
have been completed in a cohort of 17 patients with advanced non-small cell lung 
cancers and 10 cases of head and neck tumors. Sixty percent of advanced lung
cancer patients with high IFN-γ production had significantly prolonged median
survival times of 29.3 months with only the primary treatment. In the case of
head and neck tumors, 10 patients who completed the trial all had stable disease 
or partial responses 5 weeks after the combination therapy of α-GalCer-DCs and
activated NKT cells. We now focus on two potential powerful treatment options for
the future. One is to establish artificial adjuvant vector cells containing tumor
mRNA and α-GalCer/CD1d. This stimulates host NKT cells followed by DC maturation 
and NK cell activation but also induces tumor-specific long-term memory CD8
killer T cell responses, suppressing tumor metastasis even 1 year after the
initial single injection. The other approach is to establish induced pluripotent 
stem (iPS) cells that can generate unlimited numbers of NKT cells with adjuvant
activity. Such iPS-derived NKT cells produce IFN-γ in vitro and in vivo upon
stimulation with α-GalCer/DCs, and mediated adjuvant effects, suppressing tumor
growth in vivo.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2013.00409 
PMCID: PMC3845015
PMID: 24348476  [PubMed]


472. Ann Hematol. 2014 May;93(5):847-54. doi: 10.1007/s00277-013-1981-0. Epub 2013 Dec
18.

Pulmonary manifestations of the pre-engraftment syndrome after umbilical cord
blood transplantation.

Brownback KR(1), Simpson SQ, McGuirk JP, Lin TL, Abhyankar S, Ganguly S, Aljitawi
OS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of Kansas Medical
Center, 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA, kbrownback@kumc.edu.

Pre-engraftment syndrome (PES) is a condition occurring after umbilical cord
blood transplantation (UCBT) characterized by fever and erythematous skin rash
prior to neutrophil engraftment. We sought to determine the incidence and
characterize the pulmonary manifestations of PES. A retrospective review of
patients who underwent UCBT at the University of Kansas Medical Center over a
5-year period was performed. Data collected included patient baseline
characteristics, presence of PES, pulmonary findings, treatments, and survival.
Forty-four patients underwent UCBT with 22 of those patients developing PES.
Full-intensity myeloablative conditioning regimen was found to be a risk factor
for development of PES. Of those 22 patients, 13 had resting hypoxemia. The most 
common radiographic findings included diffuse ground glass opacities with pleural
effusions. Fifteen patients with PES received corticosteroids, of which 12 had
improvement in fevers and rash. These patients had a trend toward worse mortality
than those not receiving corticosteroids. There was a nonsignificant trend toward
worse survival in patients with PES and hypoxemia compared to those without
hypoxemia. PES is a common complication following cord blood transplantation,
with hypoxemia being present in over half of patients with PES. Hypoxemia with
PES and treatment with corticosteroids may portend a worse prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-013-1981-0 
PMCID: PMC4109706
PMID: 24346710  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Bull Cancer. 2014 Jan 1;101(1):31-9. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1865.

[Immunotherapies and targeted therapies in medical oncology].

[Article in French]

Rousseau B(1), Champiat S(1), Loirat D(1), Arrondeau J(1), Lemoine N(1), Soria
JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gustave-Roussy, université Paris-Sud, DITEP, département des innovations
thérapeutiques et des essais précoces, 114, rue Édouard-Vaillant, 94800
Villejuif, France.

New immunotherapies, also called "immune checkpoints", are promising and showed
interesting antitumoral activities in particular in advanced setting of melanoma,
clear cell renal cancer or non-small cell lung carcinoma. These treatments
include ipilimumab, anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1. There is a strong rational for
combination of immunotherapies and targeted therapies. This review is dedicated
to expose the theorical issues and preclinical data of such combinations. This
review examined the impact of immunotherapies on transduction pathways and
modification of immunity related to targeted therapies. First clinical data form 
early drug development studies showed the difficulties observed with such
combination and limitating toxicities. Finally, potential interesting
combinations are overviewed with an emphasis on sequential treatments.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1865 
PMID: 24333964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Future Oncol. 2014 Jan;10(1):79-90. doi: 10.2217/fon.13.145.

Role of immunotherapy in the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.

Rijavec E(1), Genova C, Alama A, Barletta G, Sini C, Pronzato P, Coco S, Dal
Bello MG, Savarino G, Truini A, Boccardo F, Grossi F.

Author information: 
(1)UOS Tumori Polmonari, IRCCS AOU San Martino IST - Istituto Nazionale per la
Ricerca sul Cancro, Genova, Italy.

After several decades of modest results with nonspecific immune stimulants,
immunotherapy has become an exciting approach in the treatment of cancer.
Although non-small-cell lung cancer has not been considered an immunogenic
disease for very long, a better understanding of tumor immunology and the
identification of new targets have led to the development of many clinical trials
of immune-based therapies for this neoplasm. Promising results from many clinical
trials suggest that immunotherapy could be an effective strategy in the
management of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Further studies are required
to help clinicians in the selection of patients who are more likely to benefit
from immunotherapy strategies by the identification of biomarkers and to
understand when the combination of immunotherapy with other agents should be
recommended.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.13.145 
PMID: 24328411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2013;2013:234-46. doi:
10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.234.

Bringing natural killer cells to the clinic: ex vivo manipulation.

Childs RW(1), Berg M.

Author information: 
(1)1Section of Transplantation Immunotherapy, Hematology Branch, National Heart, 
Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.

Recently, there has been a substantial gain in our understanding of the role that
natural killer (NK) cells play in mediating innate host immune responses against 
viruses and cancer. Although NK cells have long been known to be capable of
killing cancer cells independently of antigen recognition, the full therapeutic
potential of NK cell-based immunotherapy has yet to be realized. Here we review
novel methods to activate and expand human NK cells ex vivo for adoptive transfer
in humans, focusing on the important phenotypic and functional differences
observed among freshly isolated, cytokine activated, and ex vivo-expanded NK
populations.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.234 
PMID: 24319186  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Expert Rev Vaccines. 2014 Jan;13(1):87-116. doi: 10.1586/14760584.2014.862499.
Epub 2013 Nov 26.

Recent progress in peptide vaccination in cancer with a focus on non-small-cell
lung cancer.

Talebian Yazdi M(1), Keene KR, Hiemstra PS, van der Burg SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pulmonology, Leiden University Medical Center (LUMC), Leiden,
the Netherlands.

Active immunotherapy aimed at the stimulation of tumor-specific T cells has
established itself within the clinic as a therapeutic option to treat cancer. One
strategy is the use of so-called peptides that mimic genuine T-cell epitopes as
vaccines to activate tumor-specific T cells. In various clinical trials,
different types of vaccines, adjuvants and other immunomodulatory compounds were 
evaluated in patients with different types of tumors. Here, we review the trials 
published in the last 3 years focusing on the T-cell response, the effect of
immunomodulation and potential relationships with clinical outcomes. Furthermore,
we would like to make a case for the development of peptide vaccines aiming to
treat non-small-cell lung cancer, the most common cause of cancer mortality.

DOI: 10.1586/14760584.2014.862499 
PMID: 24308580  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


477. FEBS Lett. 2014 Jan 21;588(2):288-97. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2013.11.030. Epub
2013 Dec 1.

Engineering anti-GD2 monoclonal antibodies for cancer immunotherapy.

Ahmed M(1), Cheung NK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA. (2)Department of Pediatrics, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA.
Electronic address: cheungn@mskcc.org.

Ganglioside GD2 is highly expressed on neuroectoderm-derived tumors and sarcomas,
including neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, melanoma, small cell lung cancer, brain 
tumors, osteosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma in children and
adolescents, as well as liposarcoma, fibrosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma and other soft 
tissue sarcomas in adults. Since GD2 expression in normal tissues is restricted
to the brain, which is inaccessible to circulating antibodies, and in selected
peripheral nerves and melanocytes, it was deemed a suitable target for systemic
tumor immunotherapy. Anti-GD2 antibodies have been actively tested in clinical
trials for neuroblastoma for over the past two decades, with proven safety and
efficacy. The main limitations have been acute pain toxicity associated with GD2 
expression on peripheral nerve fibers and the inability of antibodies to treat
bulky tumor. Several strategies have been developed to reduce pain toxicity,
including bypassing complement activation, using blocking antibodies, or
targeting of O-acetyl-GD2 derivative that is not expressed on peripheral nerves. 
To enhance anti-tumor efficacy, anti-GD2 monoclonal antibodies and fragments have
been engineered into immunocytokines, immunotoxins, antibody drug conjugates,
radiolabeled antibodies, targeted nanoparticles, T-cell engaging bispecific
antibodies, and chimeric antigen receptors. The challenges of these approaches
will be reviewed to build a perspective for next generation anti-GD2 therapeutics
in cancer therapy.

Copyright © 2013 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2013.11.030 
PMID: 24295643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2014 Feb;20(2):154-63. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2013.11.017. Epub 2013 Nov 27.

Back to the future! The evolving role of maintenance therapy after hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation.

Hourigan CS(1), McCarthy P(2), de Lima M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Myeloid Malignancies Section, Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and
Blood Institute, Bethesda, Maryland. (2)Blood and Marrow Transplant Program,
Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York. (3)University Hospitals Case
Medical Center, Seidman Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, Ohio. Electronic address: marcos.delima@uhhospitals.org.

Republished in
    Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2014 Feb;20(2 Suppl):S8-S17.

Relapse is a devastating event for patients with hematologic cancers treated with
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. In most situations, relapse treatment
options are limited. Maintenance therapy offers the possibility of delaying or
avoiding disease recurrence, but its role remains unclear in most conditions that
we treat with transplantation. Here, Dr. Hourigan presents an overview of minimal
residual disease (MRD) measurement in hematologic malignancies and the
applicability of MRD-based post-transplantation interventions. Dr. McCarthy
reviews current knowledge of maintenance therapy in the autologous
transplantation context, with emphasis on immunologic interventions and immune
modulation strategies designed to prevent relapse. Dr. de Lima discusses current 
lines of investigation in disease recurrence prevention after allogeneic
transplantation, focusing on acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome.

Copyright © 2014 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2013.11.017 
PMCID: PMC4205045
PMID: 24291784  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Exp Gerontol. 2014 Jun;54:53-7. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.11.009. Epub 2013 Nov
28.

Are macrophages, myeloid derived suppressor cells and neutrophils mediators of
local suppression in healthy and cancerous tissues in aging hosts?

Jackaman C(1), Nelson DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Immunology and Cancer Group, School of Biomedical Sciences, Curtin University,
Perth, Western Australia 6102, Australia; School of Biomedical Sciences, CHIRI
Biosciences Research Precinct, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia 6102, 
Australia. Electronic address: Connie.Jackaman@curtin.edu.au. (2)Immunology and
Cancer Group, School of Biomedical Sciences, Curtin University, Perth, Western
Australia 6102, Australia; School of Biomedical Sciences, CHIRI Biosciences
Research Precinct, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia 6102, Australia.
Electronic address: Delia.Nelson@curtin.edu.au.

Most cancers emerge in elderly and immune-comprised hosts implying an important
role for cancer immune surveillance. Here, we focus on the role of
tissue-associated innate immune cells including antigen presenting cells (i.e.
dendritic cells and macrophages), myeloid derived suppressor cells and
neutrophils in healthy and cancer-bearing elderly hosts. Most cancers, including 
the cancers that we are interested in, i.e. lung carcinomas and mesothelioma,
emerge in aging populations at a time when naïve T cell function is declining.
CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes are critical anti-tumor effector cells, and their 
diminished function may contribute to cancer escape mechanisms in the elderly.
Therefore, we compare the likely consequences of innate immune cell interactions 
with T cells in young versus elderly hosts. We examine data showing that
elderly-derived innate cells are highly immunosuppressive and may provide a more 
tumorigenic milieu than their younger counterparts. Standard chemotherapy often
only provides these patients a few extra months survival time. Recent evidence
has shown that standard chemotherapy is not as effective in hosts devoid of T
cells. Therefore, T cell dysfunction in the elderly may contribute to poor
treatment outcomes. However, there is also evidence that T cell immunity can be
rejuvenated via activated dendritic cells and/or macrophages. Combining
'rejuvenation' immunotherapy with standard chemotherapy may offer an improved
outcome for elderly cancer patients. We explore this potential herein.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.11.009 
PMID: 24291067  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Nov 27;(11):CD008927. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD008927.pub2.

Antibody induction therapy for lung transplant recipients.

Penninga L(1), Møller CH, Penninga EI, Iversen M, Gluud C, Steinbrüchel DA.

Author information: 
(1)Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical Intervention Research, Department
7812, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, Blegdamsvej 9, Copenhagen, 
Denmark, DK-2100.

BACKGROUND: Lung transplantation has become a valuable and well-accepted
treatment option for most end-stage lung diseases. Lung transplant recipients are
at risk of transplanted organ rejection, and life-long immunosuppression is
necessary. Clear evidence is essential to identify an optimal, safe and effective
immunosuppressive treatment strategy for lung transplant recipients. Consensus
has not yet been achieved concerning use of immunosuppressive antibodies against 
T-cells for induction following lung transplantation.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to assess the benefits and harms of immunosuppressive T-cell
antibody induction with ATG, ALG, IL-2RA, alemtuzumab, or muromonab-CD3 for lung 
transplant recipients.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Renal Group's Specialised Register to 4 
March 2013 through contact with the Trials Search Co-ordinator using search terms
relevant to this review. Studies contained in the Specialised Register are
identified through search strategies specifically designed for CENTRAL, MEDLINE
and EMBASE.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that
compared immunosuppressive monoclonal and polyclonal T-cell antibody induction
for lung transplant recipients. An inclusion criterion was that all participants 
must have received the same maintenance immunosuppressive therapy within each
study.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three authors extracted data. We derived risk
ratios (RR) for dichotomous data and mean differences (MD) for continuous data
with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Methodological risk of bias was assessed
using the Cochrane risk of bias tool and trial sequential analyses were
undertaken to assess the risk of random errors (play of chance).
MAIN RESULTS: Our review included six RCTs (representing a total of 278 adult
lung transplant recipients) that assessed the use of T-cell antibody induction.
Evaluation of the included studies found all to be at high risk of bias.We
conducted comparisons of polyclonal or monoclonal T-cell antibody induction
versus no induction (3 studies, 140 participants); polyclonal T-cell antibody
versus no induction (3 studies, 125 participants); interleukin-2 receptor
antagonists (IL-2RA) versus no induction (1 study, 25 participants); polyclonal
T-cell antibody versus muromonab-CD3 (1 study, 64 participants); and polyclonal
T-cell antibody versus IL-2RA (3 studies, 100 participants). Overall we found no 
significant differences among interventions in terms of mortality, acute
rejection, adverse effects, infection, pneumonia, cytomegalovirus infection,
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome, post-transplantation lymphoproliferative
disease, or cancer.We found a significant outcome difference in one study that
compared antithymocyte globulin versus muromonab-CD3 relating to adverse events
(25/34 (74%) versus 12/30 (40%); RR 1.84, 95% CI 1.13 to 2.98). This suggested
that antithymocyte globulin increased occurrence of adverse events. However,
trial sequential analysis found that the required information size had not been
reached, and the cumulative Z-curve did not cross the trial sequential
alpha-spending monitoring boundaries.None of the studies reported quality of life
or kidney injury. Trial sequential analyses indicated that none of the
meta-analyses achieved required information sizes and the cumulative Z-curves did
not cross the trial sequential alpha-spending monitoring boundaries, nor reached 
the area of futility.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: No clear benefits or harms associated with the use of
T-cell antibody induction compared with no induction, or when different types of 
T-cell antibodies were compared were identified in this review. Few studies were 
identified that investigated use of antibodies against T-cells for induction
after lung transplantation, and numbers of participants and outcomes were also
limited. Assessment of the included studies found that all were at high risk of
methodological bias.Further RCTs are needed to perform robust assessment of the
benefits and harms of T-cell antibody induction for lung transplant recipients.
Future studies should be designed and conducted according to methodologies to
reduce risks of systematic error (bias) and random error (play of chance).

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008927.pub2 
PMID: 24282128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Dec;34(6):810-21. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1358551.
Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Immunotherapy in lung cancer: "b7-bombers" and other new developments.

Creelan BC(1), Antonia SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research
Institute, Tampa, Florida.

Several recent immunotherapy agents have exhibited exceptional activity, and
their eventual approval for use in lung cancer appears plausible. The immune
checkpoint proteins, such as the B7 superfamily, are becoming increasingly
relevant targets for therapeutic inhibition. Tumor vaccines hold the potential to
deliver durable responses that are specific for tumor antigen, with favorable
adverse effect profiles. Several vaccine trials are accruing more patients than
any previous lung cancer trials and are designed to select a specific population 
based on a predefined, scientifically justified biomarker. These emerging immune 
treatments may hold great potential for the systemic treatment of lung cancers.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1358551 
PMID: 24258571  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Jan;11(1):24-37. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2013.208. Epub
2013 Nov 19.

Breathing new life into immunotherapy: review of melanoma, lung and kidney
cancer.

Drake CG(1), Lipson EJ(1), Brahmer JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns
Hopkins, The Bunting Blaustein Cancer Research Building, 1650 Orleans Street,
Baltimore, MD 21231, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Jun;11(6):307.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Jun;11(6):307.

Previously, clinical approaches to using the immune system against cancer focused
on vaccines that intended to specifically initiate or amplify a host response
against evolving tumours. Although vaccine approaches have had some clinical
success, most cancer vaccines fail to induce objective tumour shrinkage in
patients. More-recent approaches have centred on a series of molecules known as
immune checkpoints-whose natural function is to restrain or dampen a potentially 
over-exuberant response. Blocking immune checkpoint molecules with monoclonal
antibodies has emerged as a viable clinical strategy that mediates tumour
shrinkage in several cancer types. In addition to being part of the current
treatment armamentarium for metastatic melanoma, immune checkpoint blockade is
currently undergoing phase III testing in several cancer types.

DOI: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2013.208 
PMCID: PMC4086654
PMID: 24247168  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2014 Feb;14(2):256-64.

Therapeutic vaccines explored in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.

Ma K, Tang YH(1).

Author information: 
(1)LSU Health Sciences Center, School of Medicine, 1501 Kings Hwy, P.O. Box
33932, Shreveport, LA 71130, USA. yahuitang2001@yahoo.fr.

Traditional anti-cancer therapies (surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy) have
limited effectiveness in curbing progression of advanced tumors. However, with
advances in immunology and molecular biology in the last two decades, the
prognosis of cancer immunotherapy has improved. An emerging therapy is the cancer
vaccine as adjunctive therapy. The purpose of this paper is to review this
therapeutic modality for non-small cell lung cancer.


PMID: 24237217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Semin Neurol. 2013 Sep;33(4):357-64. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1359318. Epub 2013 Nov
14.

Paraneoplastic and autoimmune encephalopathies.

O'Toole O(1), Clardy S, Lin Quek AM.

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic Rochester Alumni, Rochester, Minnesota.

Immune-mediated encephalitis is an increasingly recognized cause of neurologic
dysfunction including behavioral change, psychosis, movement disorders, seizures,
autonomic instability, and coma. Associated antineuronal antibodies are of two
main subtypes, those targeting neuronal cell surface antigens, which are
pathogenic, and nonpathogenic antibodies targeting intracellular antigens.
Antibody identification aids in screening for underlying cancers and prediction
of outcome. Cancer is found most commonly with antibodies targeting intracellular
neural components. Certain cancers, such as small-cell lung carcinoma, and breast
and ovarian cancer are particularly immunogenic. When cancer is detected,
oncologic treatment should be followed with immunotherapy. Nonpathogenic antibody
disorders respond poorly to treatment, whereas pathogenic antibodies predict a
favorable response to immune treatment. If no cancer is identified, then ongoing 
surveillance is recommended for 5 years after detection of most antineuronal
antibodies.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1359318 
PMID: 24234357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2014;10(2):352-7. doi: 10.4161/hv.26919. Epub 2013 Nov 6.

Recent advances in immunotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer.

Suzuki H(1), Owada Y(1), Watanabe Y(1), Inoue T(1), Fukuharav M(1), Yamaura T(1),
Mutoh S(1), Okabe N(1), Yaginuma H(1), Hasegawa T(1), Yonechi A(1), Ohsugi J(1), 
Hoshino M(1), Higuchi M(1), Shio Y(1), Gotoh M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Regenerative Surgery; Fukushima Medical University; School of
Medicine; Fukushima, Japan.

Despite of recent development in the field of molecular targeted therapies, lung 
cancer is a leading cause of cancer death in the world. Remarkable progress has
been made recently in immunotherapy for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC), with several modalities, concepts, and treatment settings being
investigated. In vaccine development, large-scale clinical trials such as those
with L-BLP25, belagenpumatucel-L, TG4010, and talactoferrin are already ongoing
and some results have been reported. A trial of a vaccine as adjuvant therapy for
patients with completely resected NSCLC is also ongoing with one of the major
cancer-testis antigens, melanoma-associated antigen (MAGE)-A3. More recently, the
effectiveness of multiple peptide vaccines has also been shown. Recently
developed unique treatment modalities are the immune checkpoint inhibitors, such 
as antibodies against PD-1 and PD-L1, which also show promise. However, although 
therapeutic cancer vaccines are generally thought to be safe, severe adverse
events should be monitored carefully when using immune checkpoint inhibitors.
Here, we discuss recent advances and future perspectives of immunotherapy for
patients with NSCLC.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.26919 
PMCID: PMC4185902
PMID: 24196313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


486. J Thorac Dis. 2013 Oct;5 Suppl 5:S579-92. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2013.08.52.

Targeted therapy in lung cancer: IPASS and beyond, keeping abreast of the
explosion of targeted therapies for lung cancer.

Savas P(1), Hughes B, Solomon B.

Author information: 
(1)The Peter MaCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia;

Advances in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) over the last
decade have predominantly involved the development of therapies directed at
molecular targets such as mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) or rearrangements in the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene. Other
targets have been discovered at low frequency, with multiple agents approved or
in development for treatment of these rare molecular subtypes. The tumour
microenvironment has also provided opportunities for therapies targeting
angiogenesis and the host immune response. This review will provide an overview
of current targeted therapies in NSCLC and promising treatment approaches on the 
horizon.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2013.08.52 
PMCID: PMC3804878
PMID: 24163750  [PubMed]


487. Future Oncol. 2014 Jan;10(1):91-105. doi: 10.2217/fon.13.166. Epub 2013 Oct 22.

Immunotherapy for lung cancer: ongoing clinical trials.

Declerck S(1), Vansteenkiste J.

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory Oncology Unit (Department of Pulmonology) & Leuven Lung Cancer
Group, University Hospital KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

Modulation of a patient's immune system so that it acts against lung cancer cells
has not been successful in the past decades. Advances in our understanding of the
immune response to tumors resulted in the development of different kinds of novel
immunotherapeutic agents. This has resulted in the development of two major
approaches. First, antigen-specific immunotherapy or cancer vaccination, with the
MAGE-A3 vaccine in resected early-stage non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the
L-BLP25 vaccine in locally advanced NSCLC after chemoradiotherapy and
belagenpumatucel-L and the TG4010 vaccine in advanced-stage NSCLC. Second,
non-antigen-specific immunotherapy or cancer immunomodulation is reviewed,
including how monoclonal antibodies modulate the interaction between
antigen-presenting cells, T-lymphocytes and tumor cells (e.g., antibodies against
CTLA-4, or against PD-1 receptor or its ligands). Recent Phase II trials with
these treatments have shown promising results of efficacy and tolerability, which
has led to testing in several large Phase III trials. Some of these are fully
recruited, while others are still ongoing, and important results are be expected 
in the near future.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.13.166 
PMID: 24143916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Pathol. 2014 Jan;232(2):121-33. doi: 10.1002/path.4275.

The evolving genomic classification of lung cancer.

Shames DS(1), Wistuba II.

Author information: 
(1)Genentech Inc, South San Francisco, California, USA.

EGFR gene mutations and ALK gene fusions are well-characterized molecular targets
in NSCLC. Activating alterations in a variety of potential oncogenic driver genes
have also been identified in NSCLC, including ROS1, RET, MET, HER2, and BRAF.
Together with EGFR and ALK, these mutations account for ∼20% of NSCLCs. The
identification of these oncogenic drivers has led to the design of rationally
targeted therapies that have produced superior clinical outcomes in tumours
harbouring these mutations. Many patients, however, have de novo or acquired
resistance to these therapies. In addition, most NSCLCs are genetically complex
tumours harbouring multiple potential activating events. For these patients,
disease subsets are likely to be defined by combination strategies involving a
number of targeted agents. These targets include FGFR1, PTEN, MET, MEK,
PD-1/PD-L1, and NaPi2b. In light of the myriad new biomarkers and targeted
agents, multiplex testing strategies will be invaluable in identifying the
appropriate patients for each therapy and enabling targeted agents to be
channelled to the patients most likely to gain benefit. The challenge now is how 
best to interpret the results of these genomic tests, in the context of other
clinical data, to optimize treatment choices in NSCLC.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on
behalf of Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1002/path.4275 
PMCID: PMC4285848
PMID: 24114583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Oncologist. 2013;18(11):1203-13. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2013-0171. Epub 2013 
Oct 8.

What lies within: novel strategies in immunotherapy for non-small cell lung
cancer.

Forde PM(1), Reiss KA, Zeidan AM, Brahmer JR.

Author information: 
(1)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Immunotherapy has become an increasingly important therapeutic strategy for those
with cancer, with phase III studies demonstrating survival advantages in melanoma
and castration-resistant prostate cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a
promising target for the next generation of immune-based strategies. In this
article, we examine the current state of the art in lung cancer immunotherapy,
including vaccines that specifically target lung tumor antigens and immune
checkpoint antibodies such as antiprogrammed death 1 (anti-PD-1). Both approaches
harness innate immunity against tumors by suppressing tumor-induced immune
paresis. Methods. To identify relevant clinical trials of immunotherapy in NSCLC,
PubMed and Medline databases were searched using the terms "immunotherapy" and
"NSCLC," and several other therapy-specific search terms (e.g., PD-1, NSCLC).
Additionally, abstracts presented at international lung cancer symposia, the
American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meeting, and the European Society of
Medical Oncology annual meeting between 2005 and 2013 were evaluated. Results.
Large international phase III trials of NSCLC vaccines have completed accrual in 
both the adjuvant and metastatic disease settings. Results of the START study
were disappointing, but results from other studies are still awaited. Immune
checkpoint modulation has shown promise, with separate phase I studies of the
anti-PD-1 antibody, nivolumab, and anti-PD-L1 antibody, MPDL3280A, demonstrating 
good tolerance and durable responses for certain patients with NSCLC who were
heavily pretreated. Conclusions. Immune-based strategies have shown initial
promise for early- and advanced-stage NSCLC. Validating these findings in
randomized studies and discovering durable biomarkers of response represent the
next challenges for investigation.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2013-0171 
PMCID: PMC3825306
PMID: 24105749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Mucosal Immunol. 2013 Nov;6(6):1054-67. doi: 10.1038/mi.2013.59. Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Role of type 1 natural killer T cells in pulmonary immunity.

Paget C(1), Trottein F.

Author information: 
(1)1] Cancer Immunology Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, St. Andrews
Place, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia [2] Sir Peter MacCallum Department of 
Oncology and Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria, Australia [3] Institut Pasteur de Lille, Centre d'Infection et
d'Immunité de Lille, Lille, France [4] Institut National de la Santé et de la
Recherche Médicale, Lille, France [5] Centre National de la Recherche
Scientifique, UMR 8204, Lille, France [6] Université Lille Nord de France, Lille,
France [7] Institut Fédératif de Recherche 142, Lille, France.

Mucosal sites are populated by a multitude of innate lymphoid cells and
"innate-like" T lymphocytes expressing semiconserved T-cell receptors. Among the 
latter group, interest in type I natural killer T (NKT) cells has gained
considerable momentum over the last decade. Exposure to NKT cell antigens is
likely to occur continuously at mucosal sites. For this reason, and as they
rapidly respond to stress-induced environmental cytokines, NKT cells are
important contributors to immune and inflammatory responses. Here, we review the 
dual role of mucosal NKT cells during immune responses and pathologies with a
particular focus on the lungs. Their role during pulmonary acute and chronic
inflammation and respiratory infections is outlined. Whether NKT cells might
provide a future attractive therapeutic target for treating human respiratory
diseases is discussed.

DOI: 10.1038/mi.2013.59 
PMID: 24104457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Feb;141(2):125-39. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2013.09.004.
Epub 2013 Sep 27.

Targeting interleukin-6 in inflammatory autoimmune diseases and cancers.

Yao X(1), Huang J(1), Zhong H(1), Shen N(2), Faggioni R(3), Fung M(1), Yao Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)MedImmune, LLC, Gaithersburg, MD 20878, USA. (2)Joint Molecular Rheumatology
Laboratory of Institute of Health Sciences and Shanghai Renji Hospital, Shanghai,
China. (3)MedImmune, LLC, Hayward, CA 94545, USA. (4)MedImmune, LLC,
Gaithersburg, MD 20878, USA. Electronic address: YaoY@medimmune.com.

Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a pleiotropic cytokine with significant functions in the 
regulation of the immune system. As a potent pro-inflammatory cytokine, IL-6
plays a pivotal role in host defense against pathogens and acute stress. However,
increased or deregulated expression of IL-6 significantly contributes to the
pathogenesis of various human diseases. Numerous preclinical and clinical studies
have revealed the pathological roles of the IL-6 pathway in inflammation,
autoimmunity, and cancer. Based on the rich body of studies on biological
activities of IL-6 and its pathological roles, therapeutic strategies targeting
the IL-6 pathway are in development for cancers, inflammatory and autoimmune
diseases. Several anti-IL-6/IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibodies developed for
targeted therapy have demonstrated promising results in both preclinical studies 
and clinical trials. Tocilizumab, an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody, is effective in
the treatment of various autoimmune and inflammatory conditions notably
rheumatoid arthritis. It is the only IL-6 pathway targeting agent approved by the
regulatory agencies for clinical use. Siltuximab, an anti-IL-6 antibody, has been
shown to have potential benefits treating various human cancers either as a
single agent or in combination with other chemotherapy drugs. Several other
anti-IL-6-based therapies are also under clinical development for various
diseases. IL-6 antagonism has been shown to be a potential therapy for these
disorders refractory to conventional drugs. New strategies, such as combination
of IL-6 blockade with inhibition of other signaling pathways, may further improve
IL-6-targeted immunotherapy of human diseases.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2013.09.004 
PMID: 24076269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2013 Oct;2(5):415-22. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.10.09.

Anti-tumor immune response in early stage non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC):
implications for adjuvant therapy.

Butts CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cross Cancer Institute, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

The demonstration that systemic chemotherapy improves survival in patients who
have had resection of early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) represents a
significant advance. The absolute benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy in this
setting is small with an overall survival improvement of 5%. In addition, there
are many patients who have contraindications to cisplatin-based adjuvant therapy.
Adjuvant chemotherapy is intended to target systemic micrometastases that remain 
after primary resection. The observation that cancers can relapse months or years
after initial surgery implies that the residual micrometastases exist in a latent
or dormant state. The concept of tumor dormancy offers therapeutic potential
through induction or maintenance of the dormant state in disseminated tumor cells
or through eradication of these dormant cells. Cancer dormancy is a complex
process with multiple potential mechanisms. This review will focus on some of the
evidence for immune related tumor dormancy and the potential for immune therapies
to improve outcomes in the adjuvant setting in NSCLC.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2218-6751.2013.10.09 
PMCID: PMC4367725
PMID: 25806261  [PubMed]


493. Neurology. 2013 Oct 22;81(17):1500-6. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182a9585f. Epub
2013 Sep 25.

Encephalitis and GABAB receptor antibodies: novel findings in a new case series
of 20 patients.

Höftberger R(1), Titulaer MJ, Sabater L, Dome B, Rózsás A, Hegedus B, Hoda MA,
Laszlo V, Ankersmit HJ, Harms L, Boyero S, de Felipe A, Saiz A, Dalmau J, Graus
F.

Author information: 
(1)From the Service of Neurology (R.H., M.T., L.S., A.S., F.G.), Hospital Clínic,
Universitat de Barcelona and Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica August Pi i Sunyer
(IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain; Institute of Neurology (R.H.), Medical University of
Vienna, Austria; Department of Neurology (M.T.), Erasmus Medical Center,
Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Tumor Biology (B.D., A.R., B.H.,
M.A.H., V.L.), National Koranyi Institute of TB and Pulmonology, Budapest,
Hungary; Department of Thoracic Surgery (B.D., A.R., B.H., M.A.H., V.L., H.J.A.),
Medical University of Vienna, Austria; 2nd Department of Pathology (B.H.),
Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary; Christian Doppler Laboratory for
Cardiac and Thoracic Diagnosis and Regeneration (H.J.A.), Vienna, Austria;
Department of Neurology (L.H.), Charité University Medicine Berlin, Germany;
Servicio Neurología (S.B.), Hospital de Cruces, Barakaldo; Servicio Neurología
(A.d.F.), Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Madrid; Institució Catalana de Recerca i
Estudis Avançats (ICREA) (J.D.), IDIBAPS, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain; and 
Department of Neurology (J.D.), University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2013 Oct 22;81(17):1482-3.

OBJECTIVE: To report the clinical features of 20 newly diagnosed patients with
GABAB receptor (GABABR) antibodies and determine the frequency of associated
tumors and concurrent neuronal autoantibodies.
METHODS: Clinical data were retrospectively obtained and evaluated. Serum and CSF
samples were examined for additional antibodies using methods previously
reported.
RESULTS: Seventeen patients presented with seizures, memory loss, and confusion, 
compatible with limbic encephalitis (LE), one patient presented with ataxia, one 
patient presented with status epilepticus, and one patient presented with
opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome (OMS). Nineteen (95%) patients eventually developed
LE during the course of the disease. Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) was identified
in 10 (50%) patients, all with LE. Treatment and outcome was available from 19
patients: 15 showed complete (n = 7) or partial (n = 8) neurologic improvement
after steroids, IV immunoglobulins, or plasma exchange and oncologic treatment
when indicated; 1 patient died of tumor progression shortly after the first cycle
of immunotherapy, and 3 were not treated. Five patients with SCLC had additional 
onconeuronal antibodies (Ri, amphiphysin, or SOX1), and 2 without tumor had GAD65
and NMDAR antibodies, respectively. GABABR antibodies were not detected in serum 
of 116 patients with SCLC without neurologic symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Our study confirms GABABR as an autoantigen of paraneoplastic and
nonparaneoplastic LE and expands the phenotype of GABABR antibodies to ataxia,
OMS, and status epilepticus. The long-term prognosis is dictated by the presence 
of a tumor. Recognition of syndromes associated with GABABR antibodies is
important because they usually respond to treatment.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182a9585f 
PMCID: PMC3888170
PMID: 24068784  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Curr Top Med Chem. 2013;13(20):2551-61.

Challenges and opportunities for cancer vaccines in the current NSCLC clinical
scenario.

Rodriguez PC(1), Sanchez B.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Molecular Immunology, Clinical Research Direction, 216 and 15,
Playa, P.O.Box: 16040, Havana 11600, Cuba. camilo@cim.sld.cu.

This review is aimed to focus on NSCLC as an emerging and promising model for
active immunotherapy and the challenges for its inclusion in the current clinical
scenario. Cancer vaccines for NSCLC have been focused as a therapeutic option
based on the identification of a tumor hallmark and the active immunization with 
the related molecules that triggers cellular and/or humoral responses that
consequently destroy or delay the rate of malignant progression. This therapeutic
intervention in an established disease state has been aimed to impact into
prolonging patient´s survival with ethically accepted quality of life.
Understanding of relationship between structure and function in cancer vaccines
is essential to interpret their opportunities to impact into prolonging survival 
and increasing quality of life in cancer patients. It is widely accepted that the
failure of the cancer vaccines in the NSCLC scenario is related with its
introduction in the advanced disease stages and poor performance status of the
patients due to the combination of the tumor induced immunosuppression with the
immune senescence. Despite first, second and emerging third line of onco-specific
treatments the life expectancy for NSCLC patients diagnosed at advanced stages is
surrounding the 12 months of median survival and in facts the today real
circumstances are extremely demanding for the success inclusion of cancer
vaccines as therapeutic choice in the clinical scenario. The kinetics of the
active immunizations encompasses a sequential cascade of clinical endpoints:
starting by the activation of the immune system, followed by the antitumor
response and finalizing with the consequential impact on patients' overall
survival. Today this cascade of clinical endpoints is the backbone for active
immunization assessment and moreover the concept of cancer vaccines, applied in
the NSCLC setting, is just evolving as a complex therapeutic strategy, in which
the opportunities for cancer vaccines start from the selection of the target
cancer hallmark, followed by the vaccine formulation and its platforms for immune
potentiating, also cover the successful insertion in the standard of care, the
chronic administration beyond progression disease, the personalization based on
predictors of response and the potential combination with other targeted
therapies.


PMCID: PMC4104452
PMID: 24066886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Front Oncol. 2013 Sep 17;3:243. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2013.00243.

Endogenous retroviruses as targets for antitumor immunity in renal cell cancer
and other tumors.

Cherkasova E(1), Weisman Q, Childs RW.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health , Bethesda, MD , USA.

Human endogenous retroviruses (HERVs), remnants of ancient germ-line infections
with exogenous retroviruses, are estimated to comprise up to 8% of human genome. 
Most HERVs have accumulated mutations and deletions that prevent their expression
as an infectious virus. Nevertheless, a growing number of HERV genes and proteins
have been found to be expressed in different cancers, raising the possibility
that HERV-derived antigens might represent excellent targets for tumor
immunotherapy. Here, we review data showing HERV-encoded antigens are capable of 
eliciting humoral and T-cells specific antitumor immunity. We also describe a
novel HERV-E that was recently found to be selectively expressed in over 80% of
clear cell kidney cancer but not in normal tissues. Remarkably, the restricted
expression of HERV-E in kidney tumors was found to occur as a consequence of
inactivation of the von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor. Importantly, antigens
derived from this provirus are immunogenic, stimulating cytotoxic T-cells that
kill kidney cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. Taken altogether, these data
suggest efforts aimed at boosting human immunity against HERV-derived antigens
could be used as a strategy to treat advanced tumors including kidney cancer.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2013.00243 
PMCID: PMC3775266
PMID: 24062992  [PubMed]


496. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2013 Dec;32(3-4):723-61. doi: 10.1007/s10555-013-9447-3.

Adverse reactions to targeted and non-targeted chemotherapeutic drugs with
emphasis on hypersensitivity responses and the invasive metastatic switch.

Baldo BA(1), Pham NH.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Immunology Unit, Kolling Institute of Medical Research, Royal North 
Shore Hospital of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia,
babaldo@iinet.net.au.

More than 100 drugs are used to treat the many different cancers. They can be
divided into agents with relatively broad, non-targeted specificity and targeted 
drugs developed on the basis of a more refined understanding of individual
cancers and directed at specific molecular targets on different cancer cells.
Individual drugs in both groups have been classified on the basis of their
mechanism of action in killing cancer cells. The targeted drugs include
proteasome inhibitors, toxic chimeric proteins and signal transduction inhibitors
such as tyrosine kinase (non-receptor and receptor), serine/threonine kinase,
histone deacetylase and mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors. Increasingly
used targeted vascular (VEGF) and platelet-derived endothelial growth factor
blockade can provoke a range of pathological consequences. Many of the
non-targeted drugs are cytotoxic, suppressing haematopoiesis as well as provoking
cutaneous eruptions and vascular, lung and liver injury. Cytotoxic side effects
of the targeted drugs occur less often and usually with less severity, but they
show their own unusual adverse effects including, for example, a lengthened QT
interval, a characteristic papulopustular rash, nail disorders and a hand-foot
skin reaction variant. The term hypersensitivity is widely used across a number
of disciplines but not always with the same definition in mind, and the
terminology needs to be standardised. This is particularly apparent in cancer
chemotherapy where anti-neoplastic drug-induced thrombocytopenia, neutropenia,
anaemia, vascular disorders, liver injury and lung disease as well as many
dermatological manifestations sometimes have an immune basis. The most insidious 
of all adverse consequences of targeted therapies, however, are tumour
adaptation, increased malignancy and the invasive metastatic switch seen with
anti-angiogenic drugs that inhibit the VEGF-A pathway. Adverse reactions to 44
non-targeted and 33 targeted, frequently used, chemotherapeutic drugs are
presented together with discussions of diagnosis, premedications,
desensitizations and importance of understanding the mechanisms underlying the
various drug-induced reactions. There is need for wide-ranging acceptance of what
constitutes a hypersensitivity reaction and for allergists to be more involved in
the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of chemotherapeutic drug-induced
hypersensitivity reactions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10555-013-9447-3 
PMID: 24043487  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Int J Clin Oncol. 2014 Aug;19(4):674-8. doi: 10.1007/s10147-013-0612-z. Epub 2013
Aug 30.

Improved survival in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma undergoing
cytoreductive nephrectomy in the era of targeted therapy.

Sakai I(1), Miyake H, Hinata N, Fujisawa M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Urology, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, 7-5-1
Kusunoki-cho, Chuo-ku, Kobe, 650-0017, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We aimed to review our clinical experience of cytoreductive
nephrectomy for patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) and to
identify factors associated with postoperative prognosis in these patients.
METHODS: This study included a total of 164 Japanese patients with mRCC who
underwent cytoreductive nephrectomy and subsequently received immunotherapy
and/or molecular-targeted therapy between 2000 and 2010.
RESULTS: Baseline characteristics of the 164 patients were as follows: median age
was 66 years; metastatic sites included the lung in 133 (81.1 %), bone in 44
(26.8 %), and other in 37 (22.6 %); and 34 (20.7 %), 106 (64.7 %), and 24 (14.6
%) patients were classified into favorable, intermediate-risk, and poor-risk
groups, respectively, according to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
(MSKCC) risk model. As postoperative systemic therapy, 80 patients (48.8 %) were 
treated with immunotherapy alone; the remaining 84 (51.2 %) received
molecular-targeted agents irrespective of previous treatment with immunotherapy. 
Median overall survival of these 164 patients was 25.8 months. Univariate
analysis identified the MSKCC risk classification, preoperative C-reactive
protein (CRP) level, metastatic site, nodal involvement, presence of sarcomatoid 
features, histological subtype, and introduction of molecular-targeted agents as 
significant predictors of overall survival, among which only the preoperative CRP
level and introduction of molecular-targeted agents appeared to be independently 
associated with overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with molecular-targeted agents following cytoreductive
nephrectomy may contribute to improve the survival of patients with mRCC compared
with immunotherapy alone, and it may be important to employ an aggressive
systemic treatment for patients with an increased preoperative value of CRP.

DOI: 10.1007/s10147-013-0612-z 
PMID: 23989537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Mediators Inflamm. 2013;2013:172986. doi: 10.1155/2013/172986. Epub 2013 Jul 25.

Are onconeural antibodies a clinical phenomenology in paraneoplastic limbic
encephalitis?

Zhang H(1), Zhou C, Wu L, Ni F, Zhu J, Jin T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Bethune Hospital of Jilin University, Jilin
University, Xinmin Street 71, Changchun 130021, China.

Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes (PNSs) occur in patients with cancer and
can cause clinical symptoms and signs of dysfunction of the nervous system that
are not due to a local effect of the tumor or its metastases. Most of these
clinical syndromes in adults are associated with lung cancer, especially small
cell lung cancer (SCLC), lymphoma, and gynecological tumors. The finding of
highly specific antibodies directed against onconeural antigens has
revolutionized the diagnosis and promoted the understanding of these syndromes
and led to the current hypothesis of an autoimmune pathophysiology. Accumulating 
data strongly suggested direct pathogenicity of these antibodies. The field of
PNS has expanded rapidly in the past few years with the discovery of limbic
encephalitis associated with glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 65, the voltage
(VGKC-gated potassium channel) complex, the methyl (N-NMDA-D-aspartate),
alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), and gamma
aminobutyric acid (GABA) (B) receptors, and so forth. Despite this, the clinical 
spectrum of these diseases has not yet been fully investigated. The clinical
importance of these conditions lies in their frequent response to immunotherapies
and, less commonly, their association with distinctive tumors. This review
provides an overview on the pathogenesis and diagnosis of PNS, with emphasis on
the role of antibodies in limbic encephalitis.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/172986 
PMCID: PMC3745958
PMID: 23983403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Curr Opin Oncol. 2013 Sep;25(5):511-7. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e328363dfdb.

Current questions in HIV-associated lung cancer.

Shcherba M(1), Shuter J, Haigentz M Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine/Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY 10467, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In this review, we explore current questions regarding risk
factors contributing to frequent and early onset of lung cancer among populations
with HIV infection, treatment, and outcomes of lung cancer in HIV-infected
patients as well as challenges in a newly evolving era of lung cancer screening.
RECENT FINDINGS: Lung cancer, seen in three-fold excess in HIV-infected
populations, has become the most common non-AIDS defining malignancy in the
highly active antiretroviral therapy era. HIV-associated lung cancer appears to
be associated with young age at diagnosis, cigarette smoking, advanced stage at
presentation, and a more aggressive clinical course. There is no unified
explanation for these observations, and aside from traditional risk factors,
HIV-related immunosuppression and biological differences might play a role. In
addition to smoking cessation interventions, screening and early cancer detection
in HIV-infected populations are of high clinical importance, although evidence
supporting lung cancer screening in this particularly high-risk subset is
currently lacking, as are prospective studies of lung cancer therapy.
SUMMARY: There is an urgent need for prospective clinical trials in
HIV-associated lung cancer to improve understanding of lung cancer pathogenesis
and to optimize patient care. Several clinical trials are in progress to address 
questions in cancer biology, screening, and treatment for this significant cause 
of mortality in persons with HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e328363dfdb 
PMCID: PMC3906041
PMID: 23942294  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2013 Dec;14(4):580-94. doi: 10.1007/s11864-013-0250-8.

Targeting the immune system in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer.

Rangachari D(1), Brahmer JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at The Johns
Hopkins Hospital, Bunting-Blaustein Cancer Research Building 1, 1650 Orleans St.,
Room 186, Baltimore, MD, 21287, USA, drangac1@jhmi.edu.

OPINION STATEMENT: Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains the most common
cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Traditional cytotoxic agents and their
attendant toxicities have remained the mainstay of systemic therapy for this
disease, until now. With the identification of novel molecular and immune
cancer-specific aberrancies, molecular agents and immunotherapies have garnered
increasing attention as attractive targets, with the potential for improved
outcomes while mitigating systemic toxicities seen with traditional cytotoxic
agents. Despite a longstanding interest in immunotherapy for the treatment of
NSCLC, results of prior studies of therapeutic vaccines have failed to show
durable or convincingly meaningful clinical responses. However, newer trials of
therapeutic vaccines and checkpoint inhibitors have yielded more promising
results. In particular, the checkpoint inhibitors targeting cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and the programmed death-1 (PD-1)
pathway have shown meaningful clinical responses with manageable toxicities.
Large phase III studies are underway, the results of which have the potential to 
revolutionize the way in which we care for patients with NSCLC. More studies also
are needed to investigate the potentially synergistic effects of traditional and 
immune-based therapies. Given their unique antineoplastic effects, novel
immune-specific clinical endpoints also are actively being investigated.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-013-0250-8 
PMID: 23934510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Jul 15;188(2):157-66. doi:
10.1164/rccm.201304-0716UP.

Update in lung cancer and mesothelioma 2012.

Powell CA(1), Halmos B, Nana-Sinkam SP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA. charles.powell@mssm.edu

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201304-0716UP 
PMCID: PMC3778761
PMID: 23855692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2013 Oct;22(10):1255-63. doi:
10.1517/13543784.2013.816281. Epub 2013 Jul 2.

Therapies currently in Phase II trials for malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Pinton G(1), Manente AG, Tavian D, Moro L, Mutti L.

Author information: 
(1)University of Piemonte Orientale 'A. Avogadro', Department of Pharmaceutical
Sciences , L.go Donegani 2, 28100 Novara , Italy +39 0321 375820 ; +39 0321
375821 ; moro@pharm.unipmn.it.

INTRODUCTION: Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is an aggressive cancer
associated with asbestos exposure, whose incidence will peak within the next
years. Despite an overall low response rate, the current first-line therapy is
represented by combined chemotherapy with cisplatin and antifolate. Moreover,
there are no currently approved regimens for relapsed or refractory MPM.
Therefore, it is clear how both preclinical and clinical researches aimed at
identifying new therapeutic targets and testing them in early clinical settings
are badly needed.
AREAS COVERED: The aim of this review is to summarize and critically comment the 
ongoing Phase II trials for MPM.
EXPERT OPINION: Over the past few years, there has been a significant endeavor of
addressing the clinical research for MPM beyond the very modest results of
chemotherapy. Nonetheless, our understanding is that the treatment of MPM should 
not be merely 'copied' from that of other much better studied tumors. In the
light of recent results, studies toward the metabolic characteristics of this
tumor are being progressively addressed. These evidences are disclosing a rather 
unusual model of malignancy, very likely to be more sensitive to novel 'MPM
cells- and microenvironment-tailored' therapy addressing these characteristics
rather than the sole cancer proliferation.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.2013.816281 
PMID: 23815672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi. 2013;36(3):134-8.

[Recent clinical trials of tumor immunotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Inozume T(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Yamanashi, Department of Dermatology.

Many recent clinical trials of immunotherapy for advanced tumors have reported
remarkable results. For example, blockade of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4
(CTLA-4) significantly improved median overall survival of melanoma patients.
Blockade of programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) or programmed cell death 1 ligand 1
(PD-L1) induced durable tumor regression and prolonged disease stabilization in
patients with advanced cancers, including melanoma, non-small-cell lung cancer,
and renal cell cancer. In addition, adoptive cell transfer of tumor infiltrating 
lymphocytes (TILs) and T cells transduced with high avidity T cell receptor (TCR)
genes have been reported to elicit marked durable tumor regression in melanoma
patients. Further, clinical trials of cancer vaccines targeting various tumors
have been conducted to prolong overall survival. In this review, some remarkable 
results achieved in recent clinical trials are summarized.


PMID: 23812070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2013 Jul;1291:1-13. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12180. Epub 2013 Jun 17.

Development of ipilimumab: a novel immunotherapeutic approach for the treatment
of advanced melanoma.

Wolchok JD(1), Hodi FS, Weber JS, Allison JP, Urba WJ, Robert C, O'Day SJ, Hoos
A, Humphrey R, Berman DM, Lonberg N, Korman AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10021, USA.
wolchokj@mskcc.org

The immunotherapeutic agent ipilimumab has helped address a significant unmet
need in the treatment of advanced melanoma. Ipilimumab is a fully human
monoclonal antibody that targets cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4),
thereby augmenting antitumor immune responses. After decades in which a number of
clinical trials were conducted, ipilimumab was the first therapy to improve
overall survival in a randomized, controlled phase III trial of patients with
advanced melanoma. These results led to the regulatory approval of ipilimumab at 
3 mg/kg for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma. More than
17,000 patients worldwide have received ipilimumab, either as a commercial drug
at 3 mg/kg or in clinical trials and expanded access programs at different doses.
Consistent with its proposed mechanism of action, the most common toxicities
associated with ipilimumab therapy are inflammatory in nature. These
immune-related adverse events were mostly reversible when effective treatment
guidelines were followed. Importantly, long-term follow-up of patients who
received ipilimumab in a phase III trial showed that 24% survived at least two
years, and in phase II studies, a proportion of patients survived at least five
years. Evaluation of ipilimumab is ongoing in the adjuvant setting for melanoma, 
and for advanced disease in nonsmall cell lung, small cell lung, prostate,
ovarian, and gastric cancers.

© 2013 The Authors. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences published by Wiley
Periodicals Inc. on behalf of The New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.12180 
PMCID: PMC3910157
PMID: 23772560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Curr Oncol Rep. 2013 Aug;15(4):411-23. doi: 10.1007/s11912-013-0326-4.

New targets in non-small cell lung cancer.

Gadgeel SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA.
gadgeels@karmanos.org

Lung cancer remains the most common cause of cancer-related death in the United
States. At presentation, the majority of patients have regional or systemic
metastases and therefore require systemic therapy. For years, chemotherapy was
the only systemic therapy option. A major paradigm shift has occurred in recent
years with the identification of driver genetic alterations in some non-small
cell lung cancers (NSCLCs). It is part of current standard of care to assess
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations and anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
(ALK) translocations in tumors of patients with advanced NSCLC. Drugs targeting
these mutations provide significant clinical benefit and are the preferred
therapeutic option in these patients. Ongoing clinical trials are assessing the
clinical benefit from targeting other driver genetic alterations. Further
therapeutic targets have been identified through greater understanding of the
variety of molecular processes that facilitate tumor formation and progression.
Some of these new therapeutic targets are heat shock proteins and targets that
can allow enhanced anti-tumor immune response. It is expected that these advances
will allow personalized management of NSCLC patients and move us away from
approaching all NSCLC patients with the same therapeutic tools.

DOI: 10.1007/s11912-013-0326-4 
PMID: 23771519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 May 31;(5):CD008817. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD008817.pub2.

Tacrolimus versus cyclosporin as primary immunosuppression for lung transplant
recipients.

Penninga L(1), Penninga EI, Møller CH, Iversen M, Steinbrüchel DA, Gluud C.

Author information: 
(1)Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical Intervention Research, Department
7812, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital,Copenhagen, Denmark.
LP@ctu.dk. luitpenninga@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Lung transplantation is a well-accepted treatment for people with
most end-stage lung diseases. Although both tacrolimus and cyclosporin are used
as primary immunosuppressive agents in lung transplant recipients, it is unclear 
which of these drugs is better in reducing rejection and death without causing
adverse effects.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and harms of tacrolimus versus cyclosporin for
primary immunosuppression in lung transplant recipients.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Renal Group's Specialised Register to 10
April 2013 through contact with the Trials Search Co-ordinator using search terms
relevant to this review. We also searched Science Citation Index Expanded and the
Transplant Library to 20 April 2013.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included all randomised controlled trials (RCT) that
compared any dose and duration of administration of tacrolimus versus cyclosporin
as primary immunosuppressive treatment in lung transplant recipients. Our
selection criteria required that all included patients received the same
additional immunosuppressive therapy within each study.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three authors extracted data. For dichotomous data 
we used risk ratio (RR) and used mean difference (MD) for continuous data, each
with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Methodological components of the included
studies were used to assess risk of systematic errors (bias). Trial sequential
analysis was used to assess risk of random errors (play of chance).
MAIN RESULTS: We included three studies that enrolled a total of 413 adult
patients that compared tacrolimus with microemulsion or oral solution
cyclosporin. All studies were found to be at high risk of bias. Tacrolimus seemed
to be significantly superior to cyclosporin regarding the incidence of
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (RR 0.46, 95% CI 0.29 to 0.74), lymphocytic
bronchitis score (MD -0.60, 95% CI -1.04 to -0.16), treatment withdrawal (RR
0.27, 95% CI 0.16 to 0.46), and arterial hypertension (RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.50 to
0.89). However, the finding for arterial hypertension was not confirmed when
analysed using a random-effects model (RR 0.54, 95% CI 0.17 to 1.73).
Furthermore, trial sequential analysis found that none of the meta-analyses
reached the required information sizes and cumulative Z-curves did not cross
trial sequential monitoring boundaries. Diabetes mellitus occurred more
frequently among people in the tacrolimus group compared with the cyclosporin
group when the fixed-effect model was applied (RR 4.24, 95% CI 1.58 to 11.40),
but no difference was found when the random-effects model was used for analysis
(RR 4.43, 95% CI 0.75 to 26.05). Again, trial sequential analysis found that the 
required information threshold was not reached and cumulative Z-curve did not
cross the trial sequential monitoring boundary. No significant difference between
treatment groups was observed regarding mortality (RR 1.06, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.49),
incidence of acute rejection (RR 0.89, 95% CI 0.77 to 1.03), numbers of
infections/100 patient-days (MD -0.15, 95% CI -0.30 to 0.00), cancer (RR 0.21,
95% CI 0.04 to 1.16), kidney dysfunction (RR 1.41, 95% CI 0.93 to 2.14), kidney
failure (RR 1.57, 95% CI 0.28 to 8.94), neurotoxicity (RR 7.06, 95% CI 0.37 to
135.19), and hyperlipidaemia (RR 0.60, 95% CI 0.30 to 1.20). Trial sequential
analysis showed the required information thresholds were not reached for any of
these outcome measures.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Tacrolimus may be superior to cyclosporin regarding
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome, lymphocytic bronchitis, treatment withdrawal, 
and arterial hypertension, but may be inferior regarding development of diabetes.
No difference in mortality and acute rejection was observed between patients
treated with tacrolimus and cyclosporin. There were few studies comparing
tacrolimus and cyclosporin after lung transplantation, and the numbers of
patients and events in the included studies were limited. Furthermore, the
included studies were deemed to be at high risk of bias. Hence, more RCTs are
needed to assess the results of the present review. Such studies ought to be
conducted with low risks of systematic errors (bias) and of random errors (play
of chance).

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008817.pub2 
PMID: 23728681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2013. doi: 10.1200/EdBook_AM.2013.33.e295.

Aberrant epigenetic regulation: a central contributor to lung carcinogenesis and 
a new therapeutic target.

Juergens RA(1), Rudin CM.

Author information: 
(1)From the Juravinski Cancer Centre, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada; The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, MD.

Carcinogenesis is driven by a combination of genetic and epigenetic
abnormalities. Aberrancies in gene promoter methylation patterns and histone
acetylation are associated with silencing of tumor suppressor genes in lung
cancer and other solid tumors. Identification of key epigenetic modifications has
been shown to be prognostic in early-stage non-small cell lung cancer. Previous
clinical trials aimed at modifying the epigenome with single-agent demethylating 
agents or histone deacetylase inhibitors given at maximally tolerated doses have 
provided disappointing results. A recent clinical trial using a combination of a 
demethylating agent and a histone deacetylase inhibitor at "epigenetically
targeted" doses concomitantly has shown promising results, including a patient
with a complete objective response. Biomarkers associated with this clinical
trial suggest that patients who undergo robust demethylation, as detected in the 
peripheral blood after a month on treatment, identifies those who gain the most
benefit from this novel treatment strategy. Based on observations of unusually
durable responses to subsequent therapy after administration of combined
epigenetic therapy, epigenetic therapy may also play a role in "priming" patients
to better respond to standard cytotoxic therapy or immunotherapy. This manuscript
will review the data on the role of epigenetics in lung cancer and the history of
epigenetic treatments in lung cancer spanning over the last 40 years.

DOI: 10.1200/EdBook_AM.2013.33.e295 
PMID: 23714528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2013. doi: 10.1200/EdBook_AM.2013.33.e287.

Biomarkers and correlative endpoints for immunotherapy trials.

Morse MA(1), Osada T, Hobeika A, Patel S, Lyerly HK.

Author information: 
(1)From the Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC.

Immunotherapies for lung cancer are reaching phase III clinical trial, but the
ultimate success likely will depend on developing biomarkers to guide development
and choosing patient populations most likely to benefit. Because the immune
response to cancer involves multiple cell types and cytokines, some spatially and
temporally separated, it is likely that multiple biomarkers will be required to
fully characterize efficacy of the vaccine and predict eventual benefit.
Peripheral blood markers of response, such as the ELISPOT assay and cytokine flow
cytometry analyses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells following immunotherapy,
remain the standard approach, but it is increasingly important to obtain tissue
to study the immune response at the site of the tumor. Earlier clinical endpoints
such as response rate and progression-free survival do not correlate with overall
survival demonstrated for some immunotherapies, suggesting the need to develop
other intermediary clinical endpoints. Insofar as all these biomarkers and
surrogate endpoints are relevant in multiple malignancies, it may be possible to 
extrapolate findings to immunotherapy of lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1200/EdBook_AM.2013.33.e287 
PMID: 23714525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2013. doi: 10.1200/EdBook_AM.2013.33.e280.

Exploring novel immune-related toxicities and endpoints with immune-checkpoint
inhibitors in non-small cell lung cancer.

Chow LQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Medicine, Division of Medical Oncology, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA.

Because of dramatic tumor regressions reported with the anti-programmed death-1
(PD-1) and anti-programmed death ligand-1 (PDL-1) antibodies inhibiting the PD-1 
immune checkpoint, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is now recognized as an
immune-modifiable disease. As responses were observed in smaller numbers in phase
I trials, the immunologic profiles and unique toxicities of these agents have not
been fully established in NSCLC. Moreover, PD-1 checkpoint inhibitors in
development by different companies may demonstrate diverse spectrums of activity 
and toxicity. Although the cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) checkpoint
inhibitors in earlier phase studies appeared to have less impressive responses in
NSCLC, their safety profile has been more broadly defined. The anti-CTLA-4
antibody, ipilimumab, has the best characterized immune-related toxicities
(predominantly skin, gastrointestinal, hepatic, and endocrine) and management
strategies in melanoma. Despite the lack of studies directly comparing these
agents, toxicities from PD-1 inhibition seem milder than those of CTLA-4
inhibition, with distinct toxicities of pneumonitis infrequently observed with
the BMS-936558 anti-PD-1 antibody, nivolumamb, and frequent mild infusion
reactions reported with the BMS-936559 anti-PDL-1 antibody. As lungs are critical
organs often already compromised in NSCLC patients, immune-mediated pneumonitis
can cause worrisome morbidity and mortality. Even though immune checkpoint
inhibitors are being rapidly developed in a multitude of trials, optimal
immune-mediated toxicity management has not been determined, is evolving, and
will be further explored. Early diagnosis and symptom management with
corticosteroids form the basis of treatment. Assessment of new immune-response
criteria and use of primary endpoints of overall survival (OS) will be important 
in the development of these immunotherapies in NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1200/EdBook_AM.2013.33.e280 
PMID: 23714523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Cancer J. 2013 May-Jun;19(3):247-62. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e318292e51a.

Locally advanced lung cancer: an optimal setting for vaccines and other
immunotherapies.

Iyengar P(1), Gerber DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA.

Lung cancer has traditionally been considered relatively resistant to
immunotherapies. However, recent advances in the understanding of
tumor-associated antigens, anti-tumor immune responses, and tumor
immunosuppression mechanisms have resulted in a number of promising
immunomodulatory therapies such as vaccines and checkpoint inhibitors. Locally
advanced non-small cell lung cancer is an optimal setting for these treatments
because standard therapies such as surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy may
enhance anti-tumor immune effects by debulking the tumor, increasing tumor
antigen presentation, and promoting T-cell response and trafficking. Clinical
trials incorporating immunomodulatory agents into combined modality therapy of
locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer have shown promising results. Future 
challenges include identifying biomarkers to predict those patients most likely
to benefit from this approach, radiographic assessment of treatment effects, the 
timing and dosing of combined modality treatment including immunotherapies, and
avoidance of potentially overlapping toxicities.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e318292e51a 
PMCID: PMC3689291
PMID: 23708072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


511. J Leukoc Biol. 2013 Dec;94(6):1201-6. doi: 10.1189/jlb.0313121. Epub 2013 May 21.

Current clinical immunotherapy targets in advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer
(NSCLC).

McCarthy F(1), Roshani R, Steele J, Hagemann T.

Author information: 
(1)1.Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary, University of London, Charterhouse
Square, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK. t.hagemann@qmul.ac.uk.

NSCLC remains one of the most challenging malignancies to treat. Despite the
introduction of innovative therapies over the last decade, the 5-year survival of
NSCLC is still <20%. Clearly, novel, therapeutic approaches are required.
Targeting the immune system to derive meaningful clinical benefit has proved
successful in various malignancies in recent years. As a result, there is renewed
focus on the use of immunotherapy in lung cancer. In this review, we provide an
overview of current immune-modulatory approaches in the treatment of NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1189/jlb.0313121 
PMID: 23695306  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Oncology (Williston Park). 2013 May;27(5):396-404.

New targets and new mechanisms in lung cancer.

Carrizosa DR(1), Mileham KF, Haggstrom DE.

Author information: 
(1)Levine Cancer Institute, Carolinas HealthCare System, Charlotte, North
Carolina, USA.

Comment in
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2013 May;27(5):408, 410.
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2013 May;27(5):411-2.

With the advent of the importance of histology in non-small-cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) and the development of targeted agents that work on newly found
mutations, the field of lung cancer therapy has greatly changed. In addition to
new uses of chemotherapeutics and targeted agents, the possibilities of
immunotherapy are also being explored. This review will describe the well-known
use of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antibodies; the current uses of 
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)
tyrosine kinase inhibitors; newer agents being used against MET, fibroblast
growth factor receptor (FGFR), and other intracellular targets; insights
regarding the field of immunotherapy in lung cancer; and finally, newer
developments in chemotherapy.


PMID: 25184262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2013 Apr;16(4):C9-20. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2013.04.09.

[Immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer--novel approaches to improve
patient outcome].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Shepherd FA(1), Douillard JY, Blumenschein GR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, University Health Network,
Princess Margaret Hospital and the University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada. Frances.Shepherd@uhn.on.ca

Publisher: 简介 通常，非小细胞肺癌（non-small cell lung cancer,
NSCLC）诊断已为晚期，且预后较差。目前的NSCLC标准治疗总体治愈率低，有必要开发新的治疗方法。我们在本综述中提供了最新的免疫治疗干预临床数据，该手段可能能够
提高免疫系统对细胞的应答。方法 我们针对临床应用免疫疗法治疗NSCLC，检索了PubMed上的文章以及最近肿瘤学术会议上的摘要。结果
II期临床研究结果表明，靶向肿瘤细胞本身或其异常表达的肿瘤标志物的疫苗治疗（mucin1，黑色素瘤相关抗原3，或表皮生长因子），有望作为NSCLC免疫疗法。非抗原
免疫治疗，如抗细胞毒T淋巴细胞抗原4单克隆抗体、talactoferrin
alfa和toll-样受体9拮抗剂，作用于激活的免疫系统，与肿瘤抗原无关，可用于晚期NSCLC的治疗。目前一些免疫治疗正在进行III期研究，以确定最佳治疗方案，并
与NSCLC标准治疗对照，确定其临床疗效。结论
越来越多的证据表明肺部肿瘤存在免疫应答。免疫治疗，包括疫苗治疗和非抗原免疫调节方法，可改善NSCLC的预后。而且，提高抗肿瘤免疫应答的治疗，与化疗有协同作用。生物
标志物的明确以及免疫治疗作用机制的进一步阐明对于确定哪些患者更可能从免疫治疗中获益至关重要。
DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2013.04.09 
PMID: 23601304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Drugs. 2013 May;73(6):517-32. doi: 10.1007/s40265-013-0032-4.

Re-examination of maintenance therapy in non-small cell lung cancer with the
advent of new anti-cancer agents.

Berge EM(1), Doebele RC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Colorado, 
Mail Stop 8117, 12801 E. 17th Avenue, Room 8105, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.
Eamon.Berge@ucdenver.edu

Metastatic non-small cell lung cancer remains a disease with a high annual
incidence and annual mortality worldwide, with limitations in first-line
treatment past a fixed amount of platinum doublet chemotherapy for patients that 
do not harbor a targetable genetic abnormality such as an EGFR mutation or ALK
gene rearrangement. Previous attempts to extend first-line treatment past 4-6
cycles of conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy have been disappointing, resulting 
in diminished quality of life and increased toxicity without improvement of
progression-free or overall survival. Several advances in third-generation
chemotherapy and targeted agents have generated a renewed interest in maintenance
therapy, with several randomized phase III trials reporting a significant
improvement in progression-free and overall survival with manageable toxicity
profiles. The availability of new chemotherapy agents, tyrosine kinase
inhibitors, and immunotherapy agents with a more tolerable or nonoverlapping
toxicity profile have resulted in improvements in progression-free survival and
median overall survival in maintenance settings with specific agents such as
pemetrexed and erlotinib. Patients who are responding to first-line therapy, have
not suffered a detrimental decrease in quality of life or performance status, and
understand the risks and benefits of further immediate chemotherapy should be
considered for maintenance treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-013-0032-4 
PMCID: PMC4162404
PMID: 23591906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Cancer Res. 2013 Apr 15;73(8):2381-8. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-12-3932. Epub
2013 Apr 11.

Tumor-specific cytotoxic T cells are crucial for efficacy of immunomodulatory
antibodies in patients with lung cancer.

Aerts JG(1), Hegmans JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands. j.aerts@erasmusmc.nl

There is growing evidence that activation of the immune system may be an
effective treatment for patients with either small cell lung cancer or non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Immunomodulatory antibodies directed against cytotoxic 
T cell-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4/CD152) and programmed cell death ligand 1
(PDL1/CD274) showed clinical efficacy in patients with lung cancer. The key
immune cells responsible for antitumor activity are the CTLs. The presence of
these tumor-directed CTLs, both in number and functionality, is a prerequisite
for the immune system to attack cancer cells. Immunomodulatory agents attempt to 
increase the efficacy of CTL activity. Thus, the limited number of patients who
benefit from immunomodulatory antibodies may be caused by either an inadequate
number or the impairment of CTL activity by the hostile environment created by
the tumor. In this review, we discuss tumor-induced impairment of CTLs and
experimental treatments that can stimulate T-cell responses and optimize specific
CTL function. We discuss 2 types of immune cells with known suppressive capacity 
on CTLs that are of pivotal importance in patients with lung cancer: regulatory T
cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-12-3932 
PMID: 23580578  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


516. J Thorac Oncol. 2013 May;8(5):587-98. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e318286cf88.

Rationale for chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and checkpoint blockade in SCLC:
beyond traditional treatment approaches.

Spigel DR(1), Socinski MA.

Author information: 
(1)Sarah Cannon Research Institute and Tennessee Oncology, PLLC, Nashville,
Tennessee 37203, USA. david.spigel@scresearch.net

INTRODUCTION: Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive malignancy that
although initially sensitive to chemo- and radiation therapy, inevitably relapses
resulting in poor survival. Increasing evidence suggests that immune responses
against SCLC cells make immunotherapy a viable therapeutic approach. Furthermore,
preclinical data have shown that certain chemotherapeutic regimens may augment
the immunotherapeutic response in SCLC. This review discusses current evidence
supporting immunotherapy for SCLC, progress made, and ongoing clinical trials.
METHODS: We searched PubMed and abstracts presented at recent oncology congresses
for publications on the clinical benefit of immunotherapy/checkpoint blockade for
treatment of SCLC.
RESULTS: Preliminary data from ongoing clinical trials in SCLC have shown that
some antiangiogenic agents, vaccines, and immunomodulators, including
interferon-α and immune checkpoint blockers (i.e., anticytotoxic
T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 [CTLA-4] antibodies) may be efficacious as
single agents and in combination with standard-of-care regimens. Notably, in a
phase II trial, ipilimumab--a fully human anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody
recently approved for treatment of unresectable or metastatic
melanoma-demonstrated encouraging results when used as part of a
chemoimmunotherapeutic regimen in patients with SCLC. Ipilimumab is undergoing
further investigation in this population.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment options for SCLC are limited and prognosis poor,
emphasizing the need for novel treatments. Although current strategies
successfully induce a response, the response is not durable. Evidence of an
immune response in SCLC and a better understanding of the immunosuppressive tumor
environment support the combinatorial use of immunomodulators, such as
ipilimumab, with traditional chemotherapy regimens to improve patient outcomes
and potentially sustain the effect from chemotherapeutic induction.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e318286cf88 
PMID: 23546044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2013 May;10(5):289-301. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2013.41. Epub 
2013 Mar 26.

Aetiology, genetics and prevention of secondary neoplasms in adult cancer
survivors.

Travis LB(1), Demark Wahnefried W, Allan JM, Wood ME, Ng AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Rubin Center for Cancer Survivorship,
University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642-0318, USA.
lois_travis@urmc.rochester.edu

Second and higher-order malignancies now comprise about 18% of all incident
cancers in the USA, superseding first primary cancers of the breast, lung, and
prostate. The occurrence of second malignant neoplasms (SMN) is influenced by a
myriad of factors, including the late effects of cancer therapy, shared
aetiological factors with the primary cancer (such as tobacco use, excessive
alcohol intake, and obesity), genetic predisposition, environmental determinants,
host effects, and combinations of factors, including gene-environment
interactions. The influence of these factors on SMN in survivors of adult-onset
cancer is reviewed here. We also discuss how modifiable behavioural and lifestyle
factors may contribute to SMN, and how these factors can be managed. Cancer
survivorship provides an opportune time for oncologists and other health-care
providers to counsel patients with regard to health promotion, not only to reduce
SMN risk, but to minimize co-morbidities. In particular, the importance of
smoking cessation, weight control, physical activity, and other factors consonant
with adoption of a healthy lifestyle should be consistently emphasized to cancer 
survivors. Clinicians can also play a critical role by endorsing genetic
counselling for selected patients and making referrals to dieticians, exercise
trainers, and others to assist with lifestyle change interventions.

DOI: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2013.41 
PMID: 23529000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Expert Rev Vaccines. 2013 Mar;12(3):263-70. doi: 10.1586/erv.13.14.

Therapeutic cancer vaccines in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer.

Limacher JM(1), Spring-Giusti C, Bellon N, Ancian P, Rooke R, Bonnefoy JY.

Author information: 
(1)Transgene SA, Boulevard Gonthier d'Andernach, Parc d'Innovation-CS80166, 67405
Illkirch Graffenstaden Cedex, France. limacher@transgene.fr

Therapeutic vaccines are different from the well-known prophylactic vaccines in
that they are designed to treat patients already suffering from a disease instead
of preventing the disease in healthy individuals. Several therapeutic vaccines
are today in late-stage clinical development for non-small-cell lung cancer.
These vaccines use different approaches including peptides, cell lines and viral 
vectors, and explore different settings within the pathology. Some are given in
monotherapy while others are combined with the classic therapies used with
non-small-cell lung cancer. This review gives a summary of the therapeutic
vaccines currently in late-stage clinical development for non-small-cell lung
cancer.

DOI: 10.1586/erv.13.14 
PMID: 23496666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Lung Cancer. 2013 Jun;80(3):256-62. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2013.02.017. Epub 2013
Mar 13.

Tumor-associated macrophages in thoracic malignancies.

Lievense LA(1), Bezemer K, Aerts JG, Hegmans JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands. l.lievense@erasmusmc.nl

Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) can be abundantly present in numerous cancer 
types. Under influence of various stimuli in the tumor microenvironment TAMs
develop into a tumor-inhibitory (M1) or tumor-promoting (M2) phenotype. Recently,
the role of TAMs in tumor biology and their prognostic value in cancer has become
a major topic of interest. In this review we will discuss the importance of TAMs 
in the pathogenesis and clinical outcome of lung cancer and mesothelioma
patients. In addition, the potential of TAMs as therapeutic targets will be
discussed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2013.02.017 
PMID: 23489559  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Biomed Res Int. 2013;2013:572609. doi: 10.1155/2013/572609. Epub 2013 Jan 16.

A potential therapeutic strategy for malignant mesothelioma with gene medicine.

Tada Y(1), Shimada H, Hiroshima K, Tagawa M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respirology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University,
1-8-1 Inohana, Chuo-ku, Chiba 260-8670, Japan.

Malignant mesothelioma, closely linked with occupational asbestos exposure, is
relatively rare in the frequency, but the patient numbers are going to increase
in the next few decades all over the world. The current treatment modalities are 
not effective in terms of the overall survival and the quality of life.
Mesothelioma mainly develops in the thoracic cavity and infrequently metastasizes
to extrapleural organs. A local treatment can thereby be beneficial to the
patients, and gene therapy with an intrapleural administration of vectors is one 
of the potential therapeutics. Preclinical studies demonstrated the efficacy of
gene medicine for mesothelioma, and clinical trials with adenovirus vectors
showed the safety of an intrapleural injection and a possible involvement of
antitumor immune responses. Nevertheless, low transduction efficiency remains the
main hurdle that hinders further clinical applications. Moreover, rapid
generation of antivector antibody also inhibits transgene expressions. In this
paper, we review the current status of preclinical and clinical gene therapy for 
malignant mesothelioma and discuss potential clinical directions of gene medicine
in terms of a combinatory use with anticancer agents and with immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/572609 
PMCID: PMC3581274
PMID: 23484132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Cancer Invest. 2013 Mar;31(3):197-205. doi: 10.3109/07357907.2013.775294.

Current adoptive immunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer and potential
influence of therapy outcome.

Zheng YW(1), Li RM, Zhang XW, Ren XB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotherapy, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and
Hospital, Tianjin, China.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is found worldwide with high incidence and
poor prognoses. Nowadays, insights in the interaction between tumors and immune
system have led to the development of immunotherapy as a fundamentally new
concept for the treatment of NSCLC. Adoptive cell transfer represents an
important advancement in cancer immunotherapy such as cytokine-induced killer and
γδ T-cells. Recent clinical research studies provide evidence for the positive
effects of adoptive immunotherapy, which is probably associated with levels of
cytokines, cell doses, and immune microenvironment. This review summarizes the
current condition of adoptive immunotherapy in NSCLC and the long-standing
confusion in this field.

DOI: 10.3109/07357907.2013.775294 
PMID: 23477587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Eur Respir J. 2013 Oct;42(4):1119-33. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00143112. Epub 2013
Feb 21.

Current status of and future strategies for multimodality treatment of
unresectable stage III nonsmall cell lung cancer.

Huber RM(1), Reck M, Thomas M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Medicine, University of Munich - Campus Innenstadt, and Thoracic
Oncology Centre Munich, Munich.

Stage III nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) encompasses a heterogeneous group of 
patients, some of whom may be candidates for potentially curative surgery,
although for the majority surgery is not an option. Recommended therapy for
patients with unresectable stage III disease is concurrent treatment with
chemotherapy and thoracic radiotherapy, although even with this dual modality
therapy survival remains disappointing. Novel classes of agents including
targeted therapies have been shown to improve survival in advanced stage NSCLC,
raising the possibility that these agents may have benefits in multimodal therapy
when combined with chemoradiotherapy. Here we consider the rationale for
combining new agents with chemoradiotherapy and the evidence from clinical
studies assessing multimodal strategies for the management of patients with
unresectable stage III NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00143112 
PMID: 23429914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2013 Jun;13(6):847-61. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2013.770836. 
Epub 2013 Feb 19.

Anti-programmed death-1 and anti-programmed death-ligand 1 antibodies in cancer
therapy.

Hamid O(1), Carvajal RD.

Author information: 
(1)Angeles Clinic and Research Institute, Melanoma Center , 11818 Wilshire Blvd.,
Los Angeles, CA 90025 , USA. ohamid@theangelesclinic.org

INTRODUCTION: Multiple agents targeting the immune "checkpoint" programmed
death-1 (PD-1) pathway have demonstrated early evidence of durable clinical
activity and an encouraging safety profile in patients with various tumor types, 
including some cancers, such as non-small-cell lung cancer, historically
perceived as non-immunogenic and thus nonresponsive to immunotherapy.
AREAS COVERED: Functions of the PD-1 pathway in normal immune responses are
reviewed, along with the significance of expression of PD-1 and its ligands in
malignant settings. Rationale for the development of PD-1 pathway-targeted
therapies and associated clinical data are presented. Finally, efforts to date to
identify and develop partner predictive or prognostic biomarkers for these new
PD-1 pathway-targeted immunotherapies are discussed.
EXPERT OPINION: Rather than targeting the tumor directly, immunotherapies
inhibiting PD-1 pathway signaling modulate the antitumor immune response. Indeed,
these agents have already demonstrated promising antitumor activity and
manageable toxicity in various cancers. If future data continue to support
encouraging clinical profiles of anti-PD-1 and anti-programmed death-ligand 1
antibodies, the current paradigm of cancer therapy may shift. In select patient
populations (ideally identified by a predictive biomarker), PD-1 pathway-targeted
immunotherapy has the potential to serve as the backbone of cancer treatment, and
trials evaluating combinations with chemotherapy and/or molecularly targeted
therapies will determine whether additive or even synergistic responses can be
achieved.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2013.770836 
PMID: 23421934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Oncol Lett. 2013 Feb;5(2):424-426. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

The evolution in melanoma treatment as a reflection of precision-oriented
medicine.

Kushnir I(1), Merimsky O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv 64239,
Israel.

Until recently, metastatic melanoma was a disease with limited treatment options 
and a poor prognosis. Dacarbazine was accepted as the standard treatment for
melanoma in the 1970s, and despite inducing an overall survival of approximately 
7.4 months, it remained so until relatively recently. In the last few years,
significant advances in the molecular understanding of this disease have
facilitated the development of novel and promising drugs. Precision-oriented
medicine is currently revolutionizing the practice of oncology. Targeted
therapies have demonstrated great potential in treating melanoma and various
other types of cancer, including breast, colorectal and non-small cell lung
cancer. Here, we review the evolution of melanoma treatment from single-agent
chemotherapy to combination therapy, the emergence of immunotherapy in melanoma
and the development of targeted therapies, such as the use of the BRAF inhibitor 
as a treatment agent. The ability to treat melanoma according to the fingerprint 
of the tumor reflects an overall change in the practice of oncology.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2012.1065 
PMCID: PMC3573132
PMID: 23420786  [PubMed]


525. Clin Chest Med. 2013 Mar;34(1):99-111. doi: 10.1016/j.ccm.2012.12.005. Epub 2013 
Jan 17.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma: update on treatment options with a focus on novel
therapies.

Haas AR(1), Sterman DH.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Interventional Pulmonology and Thoracic Oncology, Pulmonary,
Allergy, and Critical Care Division, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center,
833 West Gates Building, 3400 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104-4283, USA.

There is evidence that improved treatments of malignant pleural mesothelioma are 
increasing the quality and quantity of life for patients with mesothelioma.
Multimodality treatment programs that combine maximal surgical cytoreduction with
novel forms of radiation therapy and more effective chemotherapy combinations may
offer significant increases in survival for certain subgroups of patients with
mesothelioma. Lung-sparing surgery may allow improvements in pulmonary function
after surgery-based multimodality therapy, and potential longer overall survival 
than that seen with extrapleural pneumonectomy. Experimental treatments provide
hope for all patients with mesothelioma, and in the future may be combined with
standard therapy in multimodality protocols.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccm.2012.12.005 
PMCID: PMC3612173
PMID: 23411061  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


526. J Clin Oncol. 2013 Mar 10;31(8):1021-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2012.45.8703. Epub 2013 
Feb 11.

Harnessing the immune system for the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer.

Brahmer JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, MD,
USA. brahmju@jhmi.edu

Over the last several years, new therapeutic targets have emerged in
immunotherapy, particularly the immune checkpoint pathways. Blocking inhibitory
pathways via monoclonal antibodies, such as the anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
antigen-4 antibody (ipilimumab), anti-programmed cell death-1 antibody
(BMS-936558), and anti-programmed cell death-1 ligand antibody (BMS-936559), has 
the ability to break down the shield that tumors co-opt for their defense.
Vaccines are able to help the immune system develop immune memory that can have
long-lasting, tumor-specific effects. Newer vaccines, particularly the tumor cell
vaccine, belagenpumatucel-L, and the antigen-specific vaccines,
melanoma-associated antigen-A3, liposomal BLP-25, TG4010, and recombinant human
epidermal growth factor, are being evaluated in some of the largest trials ever
attempted in lung cancer therapy. These therapies alone or in combination may
hold the key to making immunotherapy a reality in the treatment of lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2012.45.8703 
PMID: 23401435  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


527. J Cancer. 2013;4(1):57-65. doi: 10.7150/jca.5048. Epub 2012 Dec 25.

IL-22: An Evolutionary Missing-Link Authenticating the Role of the Immune System 
in Tissue Regeneration.

Kumar P(1), Rajasekaran K, Palmer JM, Thakar MS, Malarkannan S.

Author information: 
(1)1. Laboratory of Molecular Immunology and Immunotherapy, Blood Research
Institute, 8727 Watertown Plank Road, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA.

Tissue regeneration is a critical component of organ maintenance. The ability of 
lymphocytes to kill pathogen-infected cells has been well-studied. However, the
necessity for lymphocytes to participate in reconstruction of destroyed tissues
has not been explored until recently. Interleukin (IL)-22, a newly defined
cytokine exclusively produced by subsets of lymphocytes, provides the strongest
proof yet for the tissue regenerative potentials of the immune system. IL-22
plays an obligatory role in epithelial homeostasis in the gut, liver and lung.
The receptor for IL-22 (IL-22R1 and IL-10R2) is predominantly expressed by
epithelial cells. While the pro-inflammatory effect is questioned, the
pro-constructive potential of IL-22 is well established. It is evident from the
response to IL-22, that epithelial cells not only produce anti-microbial peptides
but also actively proliferate. Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and retinoic
acid-related orphan receptor (RORγt) transcription factor are required for IL-22 
generation from Lymphoid Tissue inducer cells LTi, Th22 and NK-like cells.
However, IL-22 production from conventional NK cells is independent of AhR and
RORγt. In this review, we present a case for a paradigm shift in how we define
the function of the immune system. This would include tissue regeneration as a
legitimate immune function.

DOI: 10.7150/jca.5048 
PMCID: PMC3564247
PMID: 23386905  [PubMed]


528. Target Oncol. 2013 Sep;8(3):159-72. doi: 10.1007/s11523-012-0247-4. Epub 2013 Jan
15.

Lung cancer-initiating cells: a novel target for cancer therapy.

Morrison BJ(1), Morris JC, Steel JC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of
Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45267, USA. morrisb7@uc.edu

Lung cancer is a major public health problem causing more deaths than any other
cancer. A better understanding of the biology of this disease and improvements in
treatment are greatly needed. Increasing evidence supports the concept that a
rare and specialized population of cancer cells, so-called cancer-initiating
cells with stem cell-like characteristics, is responsible for tumor growth,
maintenance, and recurrence. Cancer-initiating cells also exhibit characteristics
that render them resistant to both radiation and chemotherapy, and therefore they
are believed to play a role in treatment failure. This has led to the hypothesis 
that traditional therapies that indiscriminately kill tumor cells will not be as 
effective as therapies that selectively target cancer-initiating cells.
Investigating putative cancer-initiating cells in lung cancer will greatly
benefit the understanding of the origins of this disease and may lead to novel
approaches to therapy by suggesting markers for use in either further isolating
this population for study or for selectively targeting these cells. This review
will discuss (1) lung cancer, (2) stem cells, and the role of cancer-initiating
cells in tumorigenesis; (3) markers and functional characteristics associated
with lung cancer-initiating cells; and (4) the potential to selectively target
this subpopulation of tumor cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s11523-012-0247-4 
PMCID: PMC3763165
PMID: 23314952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Gen Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2013 Nov;61(11):643-7. doi:
10.1007/s11748-012-0200-6. Epub 2013 Jan 11.

Primary pulmonary angiosarcoma, an exceptional neoplasm with a poor prognosis:
reports of two cases and review of the literature.

Obeso Carillo GA(1), García Fontán EM, Cañizares Carretero MÁ, Pérez Pedrosa A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Vigo University Clinical Hospital, Pizarro No 
22, 36204, Vigo, Pontevedra, Spain, andresobca@hotmail.com.

Primary pulmonary angiosarcoma is a rare type of malignant vascular tumour
characterised by proliferation of tumour cells with endothelial features. Up to
date, only sixteen cases have been reported in English Literature. Treatment
modalities vary from none to surgery, chemotherapeutic regimens, radiotherapy or 
immunotherapy, but none of them have been shown to be effective. Unfortunately,
these tumours are usually very aggressive and overall mortality is very high. We 
present two cases of patients with a diagnosis of primary pulmonary angiosarcoma,
the largest case series ever described, and a review of the scientific
literature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11748-012-0200-6 
PMID: 23306901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Cancer Control. 2013 Jan;20(1):22-31.

Beyond the standard of care: a review of novel immunotherapy trials for the
treatment of lung cancer.

Hall RD(1), Gray JE, Chiappori AA.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Oncology Fellowship Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center &
Research Institute, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.

BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer-related death in the
United States, yet traditional chemotherapy fails to provide long-term benefit
for many patients. New approaches are needed to improve overall survival beyond
the current standard of care.
METHODS: This review discusses recent clinical trials using immunotherapy
techniques to treat both non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and small cell lung
cancer (SCLC) and highlights ongoing immunotherapy research efforts at our
center.
RESULTS: For NSCLC, phase II clinical trials have examined allogeneic vaccines
that target either mucin 1 (MUC1), epidermal growth factor or melanoma-associated
antigen 3. These vaccines are now undergoing larger phase III trials. An
autologous cellular therapy directed against transforming growth factor beta-2
and a recombinant protein with antitumor properties have also shown promise in
prolonging survival in NSCLC in phase II trials. The monoclonal antibodies
ipilimumab, BMS-936558 (anti-PD-1), and BMS936559 (anti-PD-L1) lead to enhanced
T-cell-mediated antitumor effects and have produced objective responses in
early-phase clinical trials. Studies for SCLC also exist, such as a novel vaccine
therapy targeting p53.
CONCLUSIONS: Recent clinical trials in lung cancer demonstrate the potential of
immunotherapeutics to increase overall survival in patients with lung cancer
compared with the current standard of care.


PMID: 23302904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2013 Apr;1283:75-80. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06777.x.
Epub 2013 Jan 9.

TAP expression level in tumor cells defines the nature and processing of MHC
class I peptides for recognition by tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes.

El Hage F(1), Durgeau A, Mami-Chouaib F.

Author information: 
(1)Chimie et Sciences de la Vie et de la Terre, Université Saint-Esprit de
Kaslik, Jounieh, Lebanon.

We identified that the antigen preprocalcitonin (ppCT) is recognized on a human
lung carcinoma by a cytotoxic T lymphocyte clone derived from autologous
tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. The antigenic peptide ppCT(16-25) is encoded by
the gene calcitonin-related polypeptide alpha (CALCA), which codes for CT and is 
overexpressed in several lung carcinomas compared with normal tissues. The ppCT
peptide is derived from the C-terminal region of the signal peptide and is
processed independently of proteasomes and the transporter associated with
antigen processing (TAP)1/TAP2 heterodimeric complexes. Instead, processing
occurs within the endoplasmic reticulum by a novel mechanism involving signal
pepsidase (SP) and signal peptide peptidase (SPP). Although lung cancer cells
bearing the ppCT(16-25) epitope displayed low levels of TAP, restoration of TAP
expression by interferon (IFN)-γ treatment or by TAP1/TAP2 gene transfer
inhibited ppCT antigen presentation. Thus, the ppCT(16-25) human tumor epitope
requires low TAP expression for efficient presentation. These results indicate
that emerging SP-generated peptides represent alternative T cell targets that
permit cytotoxic T lymphocytes to destroy TAP-impaired tumors, a process that
helps to overcome tumor escape from CD8(+) T cell immunity. Additionally, our
data suggest that ppCT is a promising candidate for cancer immunotherapy.

© 2013 The New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06777.x 
PMID: 23302073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Immunotargets Ther. 2013 Sep 18;2:115-24. doi: 10.2147/ITT.S30813. eCollection
2013.

Therapeutic vaccines in non-small cell lung cancer.

Socola F(1), Scherfenberg N(2), Raez LE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center,
University of Miami Leonard M Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA.
(2)University of Miami Leonard M Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA. 
(3)Thoracic Oncology Program, Memorial Cancer Institute, Memorial Health Care
System, Pembroke Pines, Florida, USA.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) unfortunately carries a very poor prognosis.
Patients usually do not become symptomatic, and therefore do not seek treatment, 
until the cancer is advanced and it is too late to employ curative treatment
options. New therapeutic options are urgently needed for NSCLC, because even
current targeted therapies cure very few patients. Active immunotherapy is an
option that is gaining more attention. A delicate and complex interplay exists
between the tumor and the immune system. Solid tumors utilize a variety of
mechanisms to evade immune detection. However, if the immune system can be
stimulated to recognize the tumor as foreign, tumor cells can be specifically
eliminated with little systemic toxicity. A number of vaccines designed to boost 
immunity against NSCLC are currently undergoing investigation in phase III
clinical trials. Belagenpumatucel-L, an allogeneic cell vaccine that decreases
transforming growth factor (TGF-β) in the tumor microenvironment, releases the
immune suppression caused by the tumor and it has shown efficacy in a wide array 
of patients with advanced NSCLC. Melanoma-associated antigen A3 (MAGE-A3), an
antigen-based vaccine, has shown promising results in MAGE-A3(+) NSCLC patients
who have undergone complete surgical resection. L-BLP25 and TG4010 are both
antigenic vaccines that target the Mucin-1 protein (MUC-1), a proto-oncogene that
is commonly mutated in solid tumors. CIMAVax is a recombinant human epidermal
growth factor (EGF) vaccine that induces anti-EGF antibody production and
prevents EGF from binding to its receptor. These vaccines may significantly
improve survival and quality of life for patients with an otherwise dismal NSCLC 
prognosis. This review is intended to give an overview of the current data and
the most promising studies of active immunotherapy for NSCLC.

DOI: 10.2147/ITT.S30813 
PMCID: PMC4928356
PMID: 27471692  [PubMed]


533. Curr Opin Oncol. 2013 Mar;25(2):115-20. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e32835ca1b0.

Adjuvant treatment of resected nonsmall cell lung cancer: state of the art and
new potential developments.

Felip E(1), Martinez-Marti A, Martinez P, Cedres S, Navarro A.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Barcelona,
Spain. efelip@vhebron.net

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Approximately 50% of surgically resected early stage lung
cancer patients will relapse and die of recurrent disease within 5 years. In
order to reduce the risk of relapse and improve survival, efforts have been
focused on the use of chemotherapy before or after surgery. The benefit of
adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy is widely accepted for patients with
resected stage II-IIIA, although its impact on survival is limited. There is,
therefore, a need to find other strategies to further improve survival outcomes.
RECENT FINDINGS: In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the
development of novel therapeutic strategies targeting signaling pathways, such as
epidermal growth factor receptor, angiogenesis, and immunotherapy in stage IV
nonsmall cell lung cancer. The potential contribution of these strategies in the 
adjuvant setting is now being analyzed in randomized clinical trials.
SUMMARY: At present, the challenge for research in early stage disease is to
define subsets of patients who benefit from certain targeting agents and
establish how to integrate such agents into the adjuvant setting.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e32835ca1b0 
PMID: 23262832  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nihon Rinsho. 2012 Dec;70(12):2199-204.

[Specific adverse events caused by monoclonal antibodies, focusing on the
prophylaxis and management].

[Article in Japanese]

Akiyama S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tohoku University Hospital Cancer Center.

Monoclonal antibodies play important roles in medical oncology. The antibodies
were designed as specific molecular targeting drugs and supposed to have less
toxicity to normal cells compared to classical cytotoxic agents. Indeed, they do 
not have severe bone marrow suppression, nausea, or vomiting unlike cytotoxic
drugs. On the other hand, clinicians often undergo characteristic adverse events 
we have never experienced before the appearance of the molecular targeting drugs.
To fully utilize these powerful yet particular medicines, we have to be well
aware of their severe or fatal adverse events and comprehend how to manage those 
toxic events. In this manuscript, important adverse events including infusion
reaction, gastrointestinal perforation, cardiotoxicity, venous thromboembolism,
and interstitial lung disease are subjects for discussion.


PMID: 23259397  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Nihon Rinsho. 2012 Dec;70(12):2114-7.

[Cancer peptide vaccine therapy based on human genomics approach].

[Article in Japanese]

Daigo Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Shiga University of Medical Science.

We established a strategy as follows to identify oncoantigens and HLA-restricted 
epitope peptides, which can be applied as cancer vaccine therapy; i) To identify 
genes overexpressed in solid tumors using the cDNA microarray, ii) To validate
the clinicopathological significance of their protein expression by tissue
microarray covering thousands of human cancers, iii) To verify whether they are
essential for the cell growth by siRNAs, iv) To screen for the epitope peptides
recognized by human HLA-A* 0201/A* 2402-restricted cytotoxic T lymphocyte by
ELISPOT assay. We identified dozens of epitopes derived from oncoantigens. In
clinical trials, the cancer vaccine therapy against lung cancer using a
combination of peptides demonstrated safety and good immunogenicity, and warrants
further studies.


PMID: 23259382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


536. N Engl J Med. 2012 Dec 13;367(24):2322-33. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra1205750.

Purinergic signaling during inflammation.

Eltzschig HK(1), Sitkovsky MV, Robson SC.

Author information: 
(1)Mucosal Inflammation Program, Department of Anesthesiology, University of
Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO 80045, USA. holger.eltzschig@ucdenver.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Mar 28;368(13):1260.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Mar 28;368(13):1260.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMra1205750 
PMCID: PMC3675791
PMID: 23234515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


537. BMC Cancer. 2012 Dec 5;12:580. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-12-580.

Patient-tailored modulation of the immune system may revolutionize future lung
cancer treatment.

Heuvers ME(1), Aerts JG, Cornelissen R, Groen H, Hoogsteden HC, Hegmans JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center, Postbox 2040, 3000
CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Cancer research has devoted most of its energy over the past decades on
unraveling the control mechanisms within tumor cells that govern its behavior.
From this we know that the onset of cancer is the result of cumulative genetic
mutations and epigenetic alterations in tumor cells leading to an unregulated
cell cycle, unlimited replicative potential and the possibility for tissue
invasion and metastasis. Until recently it was often thought that tumors are more
or less undetected or tolerated by the patient's immune system causing the
neoplastic cells to divide and spread without resistance. However, it is without 
any doubt that the tumor environment contains a wide variety of recruited host
immune cells. These tumor infiltrating immune cells influence anti-tumor
responses in opposing ways and emerges as a critical regulator of tumor growth.
Here we provide a summary of the relevant immunological cell types and their
complex and dynamic roles within an established tumor microenvironment. For this,
we focus on both the systemic compartment as well as the local presence within
the tumor microenvironment of late-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC),
admitting that this multifaceted cellular composition will be different from
earlier stages of the disease, between NSCLC patients. Understanding the
paradoxical role that the immune system plays in cancer and increasing options
for their modulation may alter the odds in favor of a more effective anti-tumor
immune response. We predict that the future standard of care of lung cancer will 
involve patient-tailor-made combination therapies that associate (traditional)
chemotherapeutic drugs and biologicals with immune modulating agents and in this 
way complement the therapeutic armamentarium for this disease.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-12-580 
PMCID: PMC3533940
PMID: 23217146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


538. (99m)Tc/(111)In-Labeled DTPA-succinyl polylysine.

Chopra A.
In: Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) [Internet]. Bethesda
(MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US); 2004-2013.
2012 Oct 16.

Intact radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) or their derivatives that are
used for the immunotherapy of cancer have limited efficacy because they have low 
tumor penetration due to their large size (~150 kDa); in addition, radiolabeled
Abs are not very useful to visualize cancerous lesions with different imaging
modalities (primarily positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon
emission computed tomography (SPECT)) due to their long circulation half-life
values (1). In addition, radioactivity derived from the directly labeled mAbs (or
their derivatives) tends to accumulate in organs such as the liver, where the
proteins are catabolized, and the tumors can be visualized only after a prolonged
exposure to the tracer. To amplify the signal obtained from an imaging agent that
can be used for the noninvasive detection of malignant tumors, a strategy of
pretargeting the neoplastic lesions with a bispecific monoclonal antibody (bsmAb)
was developed and evaluated in preclinical studies as discussed in detail by
Sharkey et al. (2). To summarize this strategy, neoplastic lesions in the animals
are first pretargeted with a suitable bsmAb (or its derivative) that binds to a
tumor antigen with one arm. The animals are then injected with an appropriate
radionuclide-chelator complex that binds to the second arm of the bsmAb complex. 
Because the radiolabeled chelator complex is a small molecular weight ligand, the
excess tracer complex is cleared rapidly from circulation and non-target tissues 
by the kidneys. Therefore, the pretargeting technique generates higher
signal/noise ratios compared to those obtained with the directly labeled mAb
alone, and the lesions can be visualized with either PET or SPECT (2). A
preclinical study was performed to evaluate the use of a radiolabeled ligand with
SPECT to detect minute cancerous xenograft tumors in rodents that had been
pretargeted with a bsmAb. This study showed that the lesions were not easily
visualized because the radiochemical had a low specific target binding (3). In
another study, experimental atherosclerotic plaques in mice were pretargeted with
a bsmAb, and a high-specific activity, (99m)Tc-labeled, negatively charged
polymer ((99m)Tc-labeled DTPA-succinyl-polylysine ([(99m)Tc]-DSPL)) was used to
target the bsmAb to visualize the lesions with gamma planar imaging (3). With
this approach, the lesions were reported to have a very high signal/noise ratio
and were visible as soon as 2 h postinjection (p.i.). A similar procedure was
used with [(99m)Tc]-DSPL to visualize metastatic melanoma lung lesions in mice
(4). Patil et al. successfully used (99m)Tc/(111)In-labeled-DSPL
([(99m)Tc/(111)In]-DSPL) with SPECT to detect pretargeted PC-3 cell human
prostate cancer xenograft tumors in severe combined immunodeficient mice (SCID)
(5).

PMID: 23193620  [PubMed]


539. J Thorac Oncol. 2012 Dec;7(16 Suppl 5):S394-6. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e31826df203.

Immune therapies for lung cancer.

Gettinger S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Medical Oncology, Yale University School of
Medicine, Yale Cancer Center, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e31826df203 
PMID: 23160331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Clin Dev Immunol. 2012;2012:741741. doi: 10.1155/2012/741741. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

Tumor-induced CD8+ T-cell dysfunction in lung cancer patients.

Prado-Garcia H(1), Romero-Garcia S, Aguilar-Cazares D, Meneses-Flores M,
Lopez-Gonzalez JS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Enfermedades Cronico-Degenerativas, Instituto Nacional de
Enfermedades Respiratorias Ismael Cosío Villegas, Calzada de Tlalpan 4502,
Seccion XVI, 14080 Mexico City, Mexico. hpradog@yahoo.com

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide and one of the most
common types of cancers. The limited success of chemotherapy and radiotherapy
regimes have highlighted the need to develop new therapies like antitumor
immunotherapy. CD8+ T-cells represent a major arm of the cell-mediated anti-tumor
response and a promising target for developing T-cell-based immunotherapies
against lung cancer. Lung tumors, however, have been considered to possess poor
immunogenicity; even so, lung tumor-specific CD8+ T-cell clones can be
established that possess cytotoxicity against autologous tumor cells. This paper 
will focus on the alterations induced in CD8+ T-cells by lung cancer. Although
memory CD8+ T-cells infiltrate lung tumors, in both tumor-infiltrating
lymphocytes (TILs) and malignant pleural effusions, these cells are dysfunctional
and the effector subset is reduced. We propose that chronic presence of lung
tumors induces dysfunctions in CD8+ T-cells and sensitizes them to
activation-induced cell death, which may be associated with the poor clinical
responses observed in immunotherapeutic trials. Getting a deeper knowledge of the
evasion mechanisms lung cancer induce in CD8+ T-cells should lead to further
understanding of lung cancer biology, overcome tumor evasion mechanisms, and
design improved immunotherapeutic treatments for lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/741741 
PMCID: PMC3483679
PMID: 23118782  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Front Oncol. 2012 Oct 26;2:152. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2012.00152. eCollection 2012.

Maintenance treatment with chemotherapy and immunotherapy in non-small cell lung 
cancer: a case report.

Llanos A(1), Savignano M, Cinat G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sarcoma and Melanoma, Instituto Angel H. Roffo Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

A 53-years-old woman was diagnosed with lung adenocarcinoma state IV (synchronous
pleural involvement) in April 2009. First-line systemic treatment included six
cycles of Carboplatin, Paclitaxel, and Bevacizumab. Partial response was
achieved. Maintenance therapy with Bevacizumab and Pemetrexed was given from
September 2009 to February 2010. No response changes were observed. Immunotherapy
was initiated, and then Pemetrexed was given with the same disease status. Both
treatments were well tolerated. Immunotherapy toxicity included reaction at the
site of injection grade 2. At present, the patient is still on this treatment.
Given the poor prognosis of patients with advanced lung cancer, the combination
of both treatments during the stable phase of the disease may improve
progression-free survival.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2012.00152 
PMCID: PMC3481158
PMID: 23112957  [PubMed]


542. Int Rev Immunol. 2012 Oct;31(5):321-43. doi: 10.3109/08830185.2012.723512.

Cancer testis antigens: a novel target in lung cancer.

Chiriva-Internati M(1), Pandey A, Saba R, Kim M, Saadeh C, Lukman T, Chiaramonte 
R, Jenkins M, Cobos E, Jumper C, Alalawi R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology & Oncology and
Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The Southwest Cancer Treatment and Research
Center, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA.
maurizio.chiriva@ttuhsc.edu

Lung cancer is the main cause of cancer mortality worldwide. This is mainly due
to the fact that it is diagnosed in advanced stage patients, which are no more
surgically curable. Consequently, searching for novel treatments and new
modalities for early diagnosis offers great promise to improve the clinical
outcome. Recently, a new group of antigens, the cancer testis antigens, have been
described as possible early diagnostic tools and therapeutic targets in cancer
therapy.This review will report emerging evidences of cancer testis antigens
deregulation in lung cancer and explore the state of the art of their currently
known role and potential as markers for early diagnosis and disease progression
and targets of an immunotherapeutic approach aiming to improve the cure rate of
this tumor.

DOI: 10.3109/08830185.2012.723512 
PMID: 23083344  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Int Rev Immunol. 2012 Oct;31(5):299-301. doi: 10.3109/08830185.2012.723509.

Topics in this issue: cancer testes antigens, immune checkpoints, inflammation
associated with ischemia-reperfusion and integrin targeting.

Bot A, Chiriva-Internati M.

This issue of the International Reviews of Immunology is dedicated to several
topics: cancer immunotherapy, and basic and translational aspects of immunity.
Two reviews, one focused on breast and the other on lung cancer, highlight the
need to redefine the cancer testes antigens (CTAs) as novel information regarding
their expression profile and biological role emerges. Two other reviews showcase 
pivotal molecules that keep in check immunity at two different levels: the
transcription factor autoimmune regulator (AIRE) important to negative selection 
of the T-cell repertoire, and CD22 that limits the antigen-initiated B-cell
response. Two other articles focus on the debated role of Toll-like receptors
(TLRs) and inflammation in general, in ischemia-reperfusion lesions that follow
cardiovascular disorders and stroke. Last but not the least, this issue hosts a
review that discusses the role and translational potential of the α4 integrin for
the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).

DOI: 10.3109/08830185.2012.723509 
PMID: 23083342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2012 Oct;15(10):606-11. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2012.10.08.

[Review on immunotherapies for lung cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Jin S(1), Tian J.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Student of Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Shanghai 201203, China.

Lung cancer is a highly malignant disease with poor prognosis, most cases are
diagnosed at a very late stage. More effective medications or therapies should be
developed to improve its prognosis. The advancement of tumor immunity and tumor
immunosuppression facilitated the feasibility of immunotherapies for lung cancer.
Ipilimumab, antibody to Programmed death-1 (PD-1), Toll-like receptor agonists,
liposomal BLP25 (L- BLP25), belagenpumatucel-L, melanoma-associated antigen A3
(MAGE-A3) vaccine and talactoferrin have been proved to be effective for lung
cancer through early clinical trials, most of the drugs have moved forward to
phase III trials, so as to collect much higher level evidence to support the
immunotherapies incorporated into the multidisciplinary treatment of lung cancer.
The selection of target patients at appropriate stages, breaking down of tumor
immunosuppression as well as the objective measurement of tumor response to the
therapy are major challenges for the development of immunotherapies for lung
cancer. The clarifying of the mechanism of immune escape led to the above drug
development, and immune-senescence has already become the hotspot in this field.

DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2012.10.08 
PMID: 23075686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Mol Biol Rep. 2013 Jan;40(1):427-37. doi: 10.1007/s11033-012-2077-y. Epub 2012
Oct 14.

Potential of human γδ T cells for immunotherapy of osteosarcoma.

Li Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, No. 2, Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical
University, Guilin Medical University, No. 15, Lequn Road, Guilin 541004,
People's Republic of China. lizhaoxuglm@gmail.com

Recurrent or metastatic osteosarcomas remain a challenging malignancy to treat.
Therefore, development and testing of novel therapeutic strategies to target
these patients are needed. Adoptive cellular therapy strategies are being
evaluated intensively as a novel therapeutic strategy for cancer. Unlike αβ T
cells requiring antigen processing and MHC-restricted peptide displayed by
antigen-presenting cells, γδ T cells exhibit the potent MHC-unrestricted lytic
activity against various tumors in vitro and in vivo. The recent considerable
success of γδ T cell-based immunotherapy in lung metastasis of renal cell
carcinoma warrants further efforts to apply this treatment to other cancers
including osteosarcoma, especially recurrent and metastatic osteosarcomas. In
this review, we summarize the available evidence on γδ T cell-based immunotherapy
for osteosarcoma that has been achieved to date. More importantly, we discuss
potential strategies of the combination of expanded γδ T cells and
bisphosphonates, and modification and expansion of αβ TCR modified γδ T cells for
improving its efficacy for the treatment of osteosarcoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-012-2077-y 
PMID: 23065272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Curr Opin Neurol. 2012 Dec;25(6):795-801. doi: 10.1097/WCO.0b013e328359da15.

Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes.

Graus F(1), Dalmau J.

Author information: 
(1)Service of Neurology, Hospital Clinic, Universitat de Barcelona and Institut
d'Investigació Biomèdica August Pi i Sunyer, Barcelona, Spain.
fgraus@clinic.ub.es

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review describes relevant advances in paraneoplastic
neurological syndromes (PNS) with emphasis on particular syndromes and the impact
of antibodies against surface antigens in their management.
RECENT FINDINGS: PNS may present with symptoms that do not raise the suspicion of
a paraneoplastic origin. The best example is anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor
encephalitis that in adult women frequently associates with ovarian teratoma. An 
electroencephalogram pattern described as 'extreme delta brush' was recently
identified in 30% of patients with this disorder. Isolated myelopathy may have a 
paraneoplastic origin associated with amphiphysin or CV2 (CRMP5) antibodies. Jaw 
dystonia and laryngospasm can be the predominant symptom of the brainstem
encephalitis associated with Ri antibodies. γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA)(B)
receptor antibodies are the most common antibodies found in patients with limbic 
encephalitis and small cell lung cancer, and contactin-associated protein 2
antibodies in patients with Morvan's syndrome and thymoma. Lastly, a recent study
identified delta/notch-like epidermal growth factor-related receptor (DNER) as
the target antigen of Tr antibodies, a marker of cerebellar ataxia and Hodgkin's 
lymphoma.
SUMMARY: The number of antibodies relevant to PNS is now expanded to those
against surface antigens. These antibodies do not confirm the paraneoplastic
origin of the syndrome but predict a better response to immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1097/WCO.0b013e328359da15 
PMCID: PMC3705179
PMID: 23041955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Immunotargets Ther. 2012 Oct 1;2012(1):7-12.

Targeting myeloid-derived suppressor cells augments antitumor activity against
lung cancer.

Srivastava MK(1), Zhu L(1), Harris-White M(2), Huang M(3), St John M(4), Lee
JM(4), Salgia R(5), Cameron RB(6), Strieter R(7), Dubinett S(3), Sharma S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA Lung Cancer Research Program, David Geffen School
of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; Molecular Gene Medicine Laboratory,
Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, Los Angeles, CA.
(2)Molecular Gene Medicine Laboratory, Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles
Healthcare System, Los Angeles, CA. (3)Department of Medicine, UCLA Lung Cancer
Research Program, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ;
Molecular Gene Medicine Laboratory, Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles
Healthcare System, Los Angeles, CA ; Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center, David
Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA. (4)Department of Medicine,
UCLA Lung Cancer Research Program, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los
Angeles, CA ; Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center, David Geffen School of
Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA. (5)Department of Medicine, University of
Chicago, Chicago, IL. (6)Department of Medicine, UCLA Lung Cancer Research
Program, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA ; Jonsson
Comprehensive Cancer Center, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los
Angeles, CA ; Department of Surgery, Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles
Healthcare System, Los Angeles, CA. (7)Department of Medicine, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

Lung cancer evades host immune surveillance by dysregulating inflammation. Tumors
and their surrounding stromata produce growth factors, cytokines, and chemokines 
that recruit, expand, and/or activate myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs).
MDSCs regulate immune responses and are frequently found in malignancy. In this
review the authors discuss tumor-MDSC interactions that suppress host antitumor
activities and the authors' recent findings regarding MDSC depletion that led to 
improved therapeutic vaccination responses against lung cancer. Despite the
identification of a repertoire of tumor antigens, hurdles persist for
immune-based anticancer therapies. It is likely that combined therapies that
address the multiple immune deficits in cancer patients will be required for
effective therapy. MDSCs play a major role in the suppression of T-cell
activation and they sustain tumor growth, proliferation, and metastases.
Regulation of MDSC recruitment, differentiation or expansion, and inhibition of
the MDSC suppressive function with pharmacologic agents will be useful in the
control of cancer growth and progression. Pharmacologic agents that regulate
MDSCs may be more effective when combined with immunotherapies. Optimization of
combined approaches that simultaneously downregulate MDSC suppressor pathways,
restore APC immune-stimulating activity, and expand tumor-reactive T cells will
be useful in improving therapy.

DOI: 10.2147/ITT.S32617 
PMCID: PMC4004632
PMID: 24791250  [PubMed]


548. Arch Neurol. 2012 Dec;69(12):1598-607. doi: 10.1001/archneurol.2012.1173.

Adult-onset opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome.

Klaas JP, Ahlskog JE, Pittock SJ, Matsumoto JY, Aksamit AJ, Bartleson JD, Kumar
R, McEvoy KF, McKeon A.

Comment in
    JAMA Neurol. 2013 May;70(5):655.
    JAMA Neurol. 2013 May;70(5):654-5.

BACKGROUND Little is known about adult-onset opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome (OMS) 
outside of individual case reports. OBJECTIVE To describe adult-onset OMS. DESIGN
Review of medical records (January 1, 1990, through December 31, 2011),
prospective telephone surveillance, and literature review (January 1, 1967,
through December 31, 2011). SETTING Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minnesota. PATIENTS Twenty-one Mayo Clinic patients and 116 previously
reported patients with adult-onset OMS. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Clinical course and
longitudinal outcomes. RESULTS The median age at onset of the 21 OMS patients at 
the Mayo Clinic was 47 years (range, 27-78 years); 11 were women. Symptoms
reported at the first visit included dizziness, 14 patients; balance
difficulties, 14; nausea and/or vomiting, 10; vision abnormalities, 6;
tremor/tremulousness, 4; and altered speech, 2. Myoclonus distribution was
extremities, 15 patients; craniocervical, 8; and trunk, 4. Cancer was detected in
3 patients (breast adenocarcinoma, 2; and small cell lung carcinoma, 1); a
parainfectious cause was assumed in the remainder of the patients. Follow-up of 1
month or more was available for 19 patients (median, 43 months; range, 1-187
months). Treatment (median, 6 weeks) consisted of immunotherapy and symptomatic
therapy in 16 patients, immunotherapy alone for 2, and clonazepam alone for 1. Of
these 19 patients, OMS remitted in 13 and improved in 3; 3 patients died
(neurologic decline, 1; cancer, 1; and myocardial infarction, 1). The cause of
death was of paraneoplastic origin in 60 of 116 literature review patients, with 
the most common carcinomas being lung (33 patients) and breast (7); the most
common antibody was antineuronal nuclear antibody type 2 (anti-Ri, 15). Other
causes were idiopathic in origin, 38 patients; parainfectious, 15 (human
immunodeficiency virus, 7); toxic/metabolic, 2; and other autoimmune, 1. Both
patients with N -methyl-D-aspartate receptor antibody had encephalopathy.
Improvements were attributed to immunotherapy alone in 22 of 28 treated patients.
CONCLUSIONS Adult-onset OMS is rare. Paraneoplastic and parainfectious causes
(particularly human immunodeficiency virus) should be considered. Complete
remission achieved with immunotherapy is the most common outcome.

DOI: 10.1001/archneurol.2012.1173 
PMID: 22986354  [PubMed]


549. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2012 Sep 5;101(18):1143-9; quiz 1150-1. doi:
10.1024/1661-8157/a001052.

[New drug treatment possibilities in castration resistant prostate carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Meisel A(1), Stenner F.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinbereich Innere Medizin-Onkologie, Klinik für Onkologie,
Universitätsspital Zürich.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157/a001052 
PMID: 22945814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Immunol Res. 2013 Mar;55(1-3):22-33. doi: 10.1007/s12026-012-8346-y.

Influence of human immune cells on cancer: studies at the University of Colorado.

Bruno TC(1), French JD, Jordan KR, Ramirez O, Sippel TR, Borges VF, Haugen BR,
McCarter MD, Waziri A, Slansky JE.

Author information: 
(1)National Jewish Health, Integrated Department of Immunology, University of
Colorado School of Medicine, Denver, CO 80206, USA.

There will be over half a million cancer-related deaths in the United States in
2012, with lung cancer being the leader followed by prostate in men and breast in
women. There is estimated to be more than one and a half million new cases of
cancer in 2012, making the development of effective therapies a high priority. As
tumor immunologists, we are interested in the development of immunotherapies
because the immune response offers exquisite specificity and the potential to
target tumor cells without harming normal cells. In this review, we highlight the
current advances in the field of immunotherapy and the current work being
completed by laboratories at University of Colorado School of Medicine in
multiple malignancies, including breast cancer, lung cancer, melanoma, thyroid
cancer, and glioblastoma. This work focuses on augmenting the anti-tumor response
of CD8 T cells in the blood, lymph nodes, and tumors of patients, determining
biomarkers for patients who are more likely to respond to immunotherapy, and
identifying additional anti-tumor and immunosuppressive cells that influence the 
overall response to tumors. These collaborative efforts will identify mechanisms 
to improve immune function, which may elucidate therapeutic targets for clinical 
trials to improve patient health and survival.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-012-8346-y 
PMCID: PMC3984131
PMID: 22941561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Ann Oncol. 2012 Sep;23 Suppl 8:viii28-34. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mds260.

What future opportunities may immuno-oncology provide for improving the treatment
of patients with lung cancer?

Reck M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Hospital Grosshansdorf, Grosshansdorf,
Germany. dr.martin.reck@web.de

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounting for approximately 85% of all cases.
Most patients with NSCLC are diagnosed at an advanced stage and have a poor
prognosis, with a 5-year survival rate of <5%. Despite the introduction of new
chemotherapeutic agents and molecularly targeted drugs, outcomes remain poor,
emphasising the need for new treatment approaches. Inducing or potentiating
immune responses via immunotherapeutic manipulation is a viable treatment
approach for lung cancer. Antigen-specific, tumour-cell, and dendritic cell-based
vaccines have all been evaluated in lung cancer, and some have shown promising
clinical activity in phase II trials. These include liposomal BLP25 vaccine
(L-BLP25), which targets mucin 1, and melanoma-associated antigen 3 (MAGE-A3)
antigen-specific cancer immunotherapeutic (ASCI), which targets MAGE-A3, a
peptide expressed almost exclusively on tumour cells. MAGE-A3 ASCI is being
evaluated in the adjuvant setting in a phase III trial of patients with
early-stage NSCLC, while a phase III trial of L-BLP25 is enrolling patients with 
unresectable stage III NSCLC. T-cell modulating agents (e.g. antibodies against
programmed death 1 and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 [CTLA-4]) are 
also being investigated. For example, in patients with NSCLC treated with
paclitaxel and carboplatin, the phased administration of ipilimumab (an antibody 
against CTLA-4) resulted in substantial improvements in immune-related
progression-free survival compared with chemotherapy alone (5.7 versus 4.6
months; P = 0.05). Immunotherapy in lung cancer is starting to deliver promising 
results in clinical trials. However, further research will be required to
establish the optimal timing of therapy (i.e. in the adjuvant or metastatic
settings). In addition, it will be important to determine if immunotherapies are 
most effective when used alone or in combination with other agents.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mds260 
PMID: 22918925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Clin Dev Immunol. 2012;2012:160724. doi: 10.1155/2012/160724. Epub 2012 Jul 29.

Lung cancer: a classic example of tumor escape and progression while providing
opportunities for immunological intervention.

Jadus MR(1), Natividad J, Mai A, Ouyang Y, Lambrecht N, Szabo S, Ge L, Hoa N,
Dacosta-Iyer MG.

Author information: 
(1)Research Service, VA Long Beach Healthcare System, 5901 E. 7th Street, Long
Beach, CA 90822, USA. martin.jadus@va.gov

Lung cancers remain one of the most common and deadly cancers in the world today 
(12.5% of newly diagnosed cancers) despite current advances in chemo- and
radiation therapies. Often, by the time these tumors are diagnosed, they have
already metastasized. These tumors demonstrate the classic hallmarks of cancer in
that they have advanced defensive strategies allowing them to escape various
standard oncological treatments. Immunotherapy is making inroads towards
effectively treating other fatal cancers, such as melanoma, glioblastoma
multiforme, and castrate-resistant prostate cancers. This paper will cover the
escape mechanisms of bronchogenic lung cancer that must be overcome before they
can be successfully treated. We also review the history of immunotherapy directed
towards lung cancers.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/160724 
PMCID: PMC3414063
PMID: 22899945  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Mol Cell Biochem. 2012 Dec;371(1-2):115-27. doi: 10.1007/s11010-012-1428-2. Epub 
2012 Aug 15.

LDH-C4: a target with therapeutic potential for cancer and contraception.

Gupta GS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics, Panjab University, Chandigarh 160014, India.
drgsgupta53@rediffmail.com

The lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) has been studied widely because it exists in
various isozymic forms. The association of A and B subunits of LDH can generate
five tetrameric isozymes, but the finding of the sixth isozyme in mature human
testis and sperm indicated the presence of an additional subunit of LDH,
designated as LDH-X (also termed LDH-C4 due to tetrameric nature of C-subunit).
LDH-C4 isozyme is an iso-, allo-, and auto-antigen present in mammalian sperm
cells. The synthesis of LDH-C4 in the testis takes place during sexual
maturation, and it is the predominant fraction in mature spermatozoa. Though,
originally considered to be testis specific, LDH-C or Ldh3 in mice was later
detected in the murine oocyte and early embryo. Ldh3 in mouse supports its role
in energy production in spermatids that favor lactate as substrate and in
spermatozoa with a characteristic aerobic glycolytic path to yield ATP. During
last two decades, cancer/testis-associated genes (CTAs) which are expressed only 
in the germinal epithelium of the testis are also expressed in some cancer cells,
but not in non-cancerous somatic tissues. The CTAs are considered promising
candidates for diagnosis and immunotherapy of cancer. The sperm-specific Ldh-c
gene has been shown to express in a broad spectrum of human tumors, with high
frequency in lung cancer, melanoma, and breast cancer; the protein being
expressed virtually in all tumor types tested. Accordingly, LDH-C4 is the unique 
target for contraception in both males and females and offers potential future
for immunotherapy of different types of cancers. As LDH-C has a preference for
lactate as a substrate, LDH-C activation in cancer may depend on lactate for ATP 
production. The major aim of this article is to review the salient features of
LDH-C subunit and the immune responses of LDH-C4 in homologous and heterologous
species in relation to its role in acceptance or rejection of the allograft and
its application in contraception and immunotherapy of cancer, directly or
indirectly through the regulation of its substrate, the lactate.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-012-1428-2 
PMID: 22893065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2012 Aug;8(8):1135-40. doi: 10.4161/hv.20474. Epub 2012
Aug 1.

Overview of the cancer vaccine field: are we moving forward?

Kudrin A(1), Hanna MG Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Medicine, London, UK. koudrine@hotmail.com

Cancer immunotherapy has seen a tremendous number of failures and only few recent
regulatory successes. This review is a first in a series dedicated to evaluate
the status of current global clinical pipeline for cancer vaccines. Apart from
specific areas of medical need which can be addressed by cancer vaccines, the
analysis of the pipeline by clinical indication suggests that a
disproportionately large number of candidates is currently developed in prostate,
breast, lung cancer and melanoma with significant gap of candidates in remaining 
oncology indications. With potential offering and benefits that cancer
immunotherapy could bring to patient community and society as a whole, we require
new innovative R&D, improved Antigen Discovery programs and business models to
fill serious gaps in cancer vaccine R&D pipeline.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.20474 
PMCID: PMC3551888
PMID: 22854670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Jul;13(7):e301-10. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70126-2. Epub
2012 Jun 28.

Immunotherapies for non-small-cell lung cancer and mesothelioma.

Thomas A(1), Hassan R.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Non-small-cell lung cancer and mesothelioma are thoracic malignancies, which in
their advanced stages are incurable and have poor prognosis. Advances in our
understanding of immune responses to tumours, tumour immunosuppression
mechanisms, and tumour-specific shared antigens enabled successful early clinical
trials of several specific and non-specific immunotherapies. For non-small-cell
lung cancer, phase 3 clinical trial results of Toll-like receptor agonists show
little promise. However, ongoing phase 3 trials are assessing melanoma-associated
antigen A3 vaccine, liposomal BLP25, belagenpumatucel-L, and talactoferrin. In
mesothelioma, immunotherapies being investigated include dendritic cell-based and
Listeria-based vaccines, and allogeneic tumour cell and WT1 analogue peptide
vaccines. Selection of appropriate patients and disease stages for immunotherapy,
measurement of tumour-specific immune responses, and understanding the
association between immune and clinical responses are some of the major
challenges for the development of immunotherapies for these malignancies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70126-2 
PMID: 22748269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Cancer Res. 2012 Jul 1;72(13):3125-30. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-11-4094. Epub
2012 Jun 21.

Cellular constituents of immune escape within the tumor microenvironment.

Kerkar SP(1), Restifo NP.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. kerkars@mail.nih.gov

Established tumors are complex masses that contain not only neoplastic cells but 
also nontransformed cellular elements such as stromal cells, the neovasculature, 
and the full gamut of immune cells. However, evidence suggests that, unlike cells
found in lymphoid organs that productively respond to acute infections, immune
cells in tumors are dysregulated and functionally impaired. Tumor masses can
contain regulatory lymphocytes, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, alternatively
activated macrophages, and dendritic cells. Ablation or reprogramming of this
aberrant microenvironment might dramatically augment cancer therapies, and this
strategy is currently being deployed in a variety of clinical trials. A better
understanding of the cellular constituents of tumors and the mechanisms involved 
in immune evasion may help guide the next generation of innovative cancer
immunotherapies.

©2012 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-11-4094 
PMID: 22721837  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Drugs. 2012 Jun 19;72 Suppl 1:37-52. doi: 10.2165/1163028-S0-000000000-00000.

Emerging new agents for the management of patients with non-small cell lung
cancer.

Capelletto E(1), Novello S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University of Turin - AOU San 
Luigi, Orbassano (TO) Italy.

Lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for at least 87% of all lung cancers 
and most cases present at an advanced stage, with metastatic, locally advanced or
recurrent disease. With a greater understanding of tumour biology, a number of
targeted agents have been investigated for the treatment of advanced NSCLC. These
include insulin-like growth factor inhibitors, c-MET inhibitors, poly(adenosine
diphosphate-ribose) polymerase inhibitors, histone deacetylase inhibitors,
proapoptotic agents, epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors, vaccines,
immunotherapy and hedgehog inhibitors. This article aims to provide an overview
of some of the emerging molecules for NSCLC that have demonstrated interesting
results in the past couple of years, including descriptions of the molecular
pathways of these drugs and their main location of action.

DOI: 10.2165/1163028-S0-000000000-00000 
PMID: 22712796  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Recent Pat Anticancer Drug Discov. 2012 Sep;7(3):265-96.

Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)-based cancer vaccines: recent patents and
antitumor effects from experimental models to clinical trials.

Turriziani M(1), Fantini M, Benvenuto M, Izzi V, Masuelli L, Sacchetti P, Modesti
A, Bei R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences and Translational Medicine Tor Vergata, Via
Montpellier 1, 00133 Rome, Italy.

Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), a glycosylated protein of MW 180 kDa, is
overexpressed in a wide range of human carcinomas, including colorectal, gastric,
pancreatic, non-small cell lung and breast carcinomas. Accordingly, CEA is one of
several oncofetal antigens that may serve as a target for active anti-cancer
specific immunotherapy. Experimental results obtained by employing animal models 
have supported the design of clinical trials using a CEA-based vaccine for the
treatment of different types of human cancers. This review reports findings from 
experimental models and clinical evidence on the use of a CEA-based vaccine for
the treatment of cancer patients. Among the diverse CEA-based cancer vaccines,
DCs- and recombinant viruses-based vaccines seem the most valid. However,
although vaccination was shown to induce a strong immune response to CEA,
resulting in a delay in tumor progression and prolonged survival in some cancer
patients, it failed to eradicate the tumor in most cases, owing partly to the
negative effect exerted by the tumor microenvironment on immune response. Thus,
in order to develop more efficient and effective cancer vaccines, it is necessary
to design new clinical trials combining cancer vaccines with chemotherapy,
radiotherapy and drugs which target those factors responsible for
immunosuppression of immune cells. This review also discusses relevant patents
relating to the use of CEA as a cancer vaccine.


PMID: 22630596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Curr Pharm Des. 2012;18(29):4518-25.

Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes--diagnosis and management.

Blaes F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Neurology, Kreiskrankenhaus Gummersbach, Wilhelm-Breckow-Allee 20,
51643 Gummersbach, Germany. Franz.Blaes@kkh-gummersbach.de

Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes (PNS) are rare nervous system dysfunctions 
in cancer patients, which are not due to a local effect of the tumour or its
metastases. PNS in adults are mainly associated with lung cancer, especially
small cell lung cancer, lymphoma and gynaecological tumours. In some cases an
overlapping of different clinical syndromes can be observed. Since autoantibodies
directed against tumour and nervous system tissue can be observed, an autoimmune 
aetiology has been suspected in PNS patients. Currently, one group of patients
exhibit surface-binding receptor or ion channel autoantibodies which are thought 
to be pathogenic and many of these patients respond well to immunotherapies.
Another group of PNS is associated with highly specific autoantibodies directed
against intracellular onconeuronal antigens. The latter group seem to be
T-cell-mediated and do not respond well to immunotherapies. The childhood PNS,
especially the neuroblastoma-associated opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome also
respond to immunosuppressive therapies, plasmapheresis and intravenous
immunoglobulins. The current review summarizes recent developments in
physiopathology, diagnosis and treatment of paraneoplastic neurological
syndromes.


PMID: 22612756  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Int J Hematol. 2012 Jun;95(6):624-31. doi: 10.1007/s12185-012-1091-0. Epub 2012
May 17.

Induced pluripotency as a potential path towards iNKT cell-mediated cancer
immunotherapy.

Watarai H(1), Yamada D, Fujii S, Taniguchi M, Koseki H.

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Center for Allergy and Immunology, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi,
Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan. hwatarai@rcai.riken.jp

Invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells are characterized by the expression of an
invariant Vα14-Jα18 paired with Vβ8/7/2 in mice, and Vα24-Jα18 with Vβ11 in
humans, that recognizes glycolipids, such as α-galactosylceramide (α-GalCer),
presented on the MHC class I-like molecule, CD1d. iNKT cells act as innate T
lymphocytes and serve as a bridge between the innate and acquired immune systems.
iNKT cells augment anti-tumor responses by producing IFN-γ, which acts on NK
cells to eliminate MHC-non-restricted (MHC(-)) target tumor cells, and on CD8(+) 
cytotoxic T lymphocytes to directly kill MHC-restricted (MHC(+)) tumor cells.
Thus, when iNKT cells are activated by α-GalCer-pulsed dendritic cells, both
MHC(-) and MHC(+) tumor cells can be effectively eliminated. Both of these tumor 
cell types are simultaneously present in cancer patients, and at present iNKT
cells are only the cell type capable of eliminating them. Based on these
findings, we have developed iNKT cell-targeted adjuvant immunotherapies with
strong anti-tumor activity in humans. However, two-thirds of patients were
ineligible for this therapy due to the limited numbers of iNKT cells in their
bodies. In order to overcome the problem in cancer patients, we successfully
established a method to generate iNKT cells with adjuvant activity from embryonic
stem cells (ESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). In this review, we 
would like to outline the clinical potential for iNKT cells derived from ESCs and
iPSCs for cancer immunotherapy, and the technical hurdles that must be overcome
if we achieve effective ESC/iPSC-mediated cancer therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s12185-012-1091-0 
PMID: 22592322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 May 15;9(7):391-9. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2012.72.

Targeting ALK in neuroblastoma--preclinical and clinical advancements.

Carpenter EL(1), Mossé YP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology and Center for Childhood Cancer Research, Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia, 3501 Civic Center Boulevard, Philadelphia, PA 19104,
USA.

Despite improvements in cancer therapies in the past 50 years, neuroblastoma
remains a devastating clinical problem and a leading cause of childhood cancer
deaths. Advances in treatments for children with high-risk neuroblastoma have,
until recently, involved addition of cytotoxic therapy to dose-intensive
regimens. In this era of targeted therapies, substantial efforts have been made
to identify optimal targets for different types of cancer. The discovery of
hereditary and somatic activating mutations in the oncogene ALK has now placed
neuroblastoma among other cancers, such as melanoma and non-small-cell lung
cancer (NSCLC), which benefit from therapies with oncogene-specific
small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Crizotinib, a small-molecule inhibitor
of ALK, has transformed the landscape for the treatment of NSCLC harbouring ALK
translocations and has demonstrated activity in preclinical models of ALK-driven 
neuroblastomas. However, inhibition of mutated ALK is complex when compared with 
translocated ALK and remains a therapeutic challenge. This Review discusses the
biology of ALK in the development of neuroblastoma, preclinical and clinical
progress with the use of ALK inhibitors and immunotherapy, challenges associated 
with resistance to such therapies and the steps being taken to overcome some of
these hurdles.

DOI: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2012.72 
PMCID: PMC3683972
PMID: 22585002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Immunother. 2012 Jun;35(5):367-73. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0b013e3182562d76.

Monoclonal antibody therapy of pancreatic cancer with cetuximab: potential for
immune modulation.

Luedke E(1), Jaime-Ramirez AC, Bhave N, Carson WE 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.

Pancreatic cancer is a devastating disease, with a median survival of around 6
months for patients with stage IV disease. The epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR, or HER1) belongs to the erbB receptor tyrosine kinase family.
HER1-mediated cell signaling has been shown to play a major role in promoting
tumor proliferation, angiogenesis, metastasis, and evasion of apoptosis.
Over-expression of HER1 is observed in multiple human malignancies, including
colorectal, lung, breast and pancreatic cancers. In pancreatic carcinoma,
over-expression of HER1 is observed in greater than 70% of patients and is
associated with a poor prognosis and a significant decrease in survival.
Cetuximab (Erbitux) is a chimeric monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds to the
extracellular domain of the HER1 molecule preventing ligand binding and promoting
internalization and subsequent degradation of the HER1 receptor. Cetuximab has
shown anti-tumor activity either alone or in combination with other agents and is
currently FDA approved for use in both squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
neck (SCCHN) and colorectal carcinoma. Research efforts continue to elucidate a
possible role for cetuximab in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Despite
promising preclinical work, phase II and phase III clinical trials have failed to
consistently show efficacy of cetuximab treatment in advanced pancreatic cancer
either alone or in combination with cytotoxic agents. Alternative approaches to
HER1 blockade and mAbs including immune modulation with cytokines might be
necessary in order to improve the efficacy of mAbs in pancreatic cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/CJI.0b013e3182562d76 
PMCID: PMC3353011
PMID: 22576341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2012 Jul;12(7):923-37. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2012.685715. 
Epub 2012 May 5.

Immune alterations and emerging immunotherapeutic approaches in lung cancer.

Dasanu CA(1), Sethi N, Ahmed N.

Author information: 
(1)St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center, Department of Hematology-Oncology,
Medical Oncology and Blood Disorders, Gothic Park, 43 Woodland Street, Suite
G-80, Hartford, CT 06105, USA. c_dasanu@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION: Subjects with lung cancer were shown to present a variety of immune
abnormalities including cellular immune dysfunction, cytokine alterations, and
antigen presentation defects. As discouraging results are commonly seen with the 
existing therapies in lung cancer, more innovative treatment strategies are
needed.
AREAS COVERED: The authors review comprehensively the immune abnormalities in
individuals with lung cancer, describe the lung cancer immunotherapy candidates
that are most advanced in their clinical development, and summarize recent data
from clinical trials of these agents.
EXPERT OPINION: Enhancing the immune system represents an appealing avenue for
lung cancer therapy. Several immunomodulating agents have activity in this regard
including ipilimumab, a monoclonal antibody against the CTLA-4, and
talactoferrin, a dendritic cell activator. In addition, a significant activity
was shown with belagenpumatucel-L, a whole-cell-based vaccine that blocks the
action of TGF-β2. Other promising vaccines are protein-specific vaccines against 
tumor antigens such as MAGE-A3, EGF, and MUC1. Although some of these
immunotherapies may have lackluster performance as single agents in advanced
disease, more impressive results are seen in combination with chemotherapy
agents. Given their proven activity in lung cancer, these immunotherapies may
soon become a powerful addition to the oncologist's toolbox.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2012.685715 
PMID: 22559147  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2012 Apr;12(4):439-45. doi: 10.1586/era.12.24.

Epidermal growth factor vaccine in non-small-cell lung cancer.

Gonzalez Marinello GM(1), Santos ES, Raez LE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Business and Development Center of Molecular Immunology, Havana,
Cuba. gisela@cim.sld.cu

After many years of uncertainty regarding the role of immunotherapy in cancer, we
finally have vaccines approved for the treatment of some malignancies (e.g.,
prostate cancer and melanoma). In non-small-cell lung cancer, several vaccines
are being studied in randomized Phase III clinical trials due to their promising 
results seen in the clinic, such as BLP-25 and melanoma-associated antigen A3.
Traditionally, non-small-cell lung cancer has not been considered a good target
for immunotherapy due to lack of immunogenicity and the strong presence of
regulatory T cells, which do not allow an adequate immune response in the host.
EGF vaccination is a novel area of immunotherapy for this disease. Thus far,
there has been success in generating immune and clinical responses with this
vaccine in several clinical trials, and we will review in depth the efficacy and 
toxicity of this novel agent.

DOI: 10.1586/era.12.24 
PMID: 22500681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Immunol Res. 2012 Dec;54(1-3):262-5. doi: 10.1007/s12026-012-8319-1.

HPK1 as a novel target for cancer immunotherapy.

Sawasdikosol S(1), Zha R, Yang B, Burakoff S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncological Sciences, Tisch Cancer Institute, Mount Sinai School
of Medicine, 1425 Madison Avenue, Icahn 15-75B, New York, NY 10029, USA.
sansana.sawasdikosol@mssm.edu

Identifying the appropriate drug targets for the development of a novel
anti-tumor immunotherapy is one of the most risky steps in the drug development
cycle. We have identified a hematopoietic cell-restricted serine/threonine
kinase, hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1), as a possible target for
therapeutic intervention. Targeted disruption of HPK1 alleles confers T cells
with an elevated Th1 cytokine production in response to TCR engagement. HPK1
(-/-) T cells proliferate more rapidly than the haplotype-matched wild-type
counterpart and are resistant to prostaglandin E2 (PGE(2))-mediated suppression. 
Most strikingly, mice that received adoptive transfer of HPK1 (-/-) T cells
became resistant to lung tumor growth. Also, the loss of HPK1 from dendritic
cells (DCs) endows them with superior antigen presentation ability, enabling HPK1
(-/-) DCs to elicit a more potent anti-tumor immune response when used as cancer 
vaccine. It is probable that blocking the HPK1 kinase activity with a small
molecule inhibitor may activate the superior anti-tumor activity of both cell
types, resulting in a synergistic amplification of anti-tumor potential. Given
that HPK1 is not expressed in any major organs, it is less likely that an
inhibitor of HPK1 kinase activity would cause any serious side effects.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-012-8319-1 
PMID: 22477524  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


566. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2012 Apr;198(4):737-45. doi: 10.2214/AJR.11.7483.

Personalized tumor response assessment in the era of molecular medicine:
cancer-specific and therapy-specific response criteria to complement pitfalls of 
RECIST.

Nishino M(1), Jagannathan JP, Krajewski KM, O'Regan K, Hatabu H, Shapiro G,
Ramaiya NH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Imaging, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02215, USA.
Mizuki_Nishino@dfci.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article is to review cancer- and therapy-specific 
tumor response assessment criteria used in clinical trials and in practice, with 
illustrative case examples, and to discuss future directions toward
"personalized" tumor response assessment.
CONCLUSION: Although Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors will remain as 
the primary generalized criteria for response assessment, newer cancer- and
therapy-specific criteria will play an important role in providing
state-of-the-art response assessment of tumor following molecular targeted
therapy and will contribute to personalized cancer care in the era of molecular
medicine.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.11.7483 
PMCID: PMC3369700
PMID: 22451534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


567. PLoS One. 2012;7(3):e33226. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033226. Epub 2012 Mar 16.

Concomitant active tuberculosis prolongs survival in non-small cell lung cancer: 
a study in a tuberculosis-endemic country.

Kuo CH(1), Lo CY, Chung FT, Lee KY, Lin SM, Wang CH, Heh CC, Chen HC, Kuo HP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Adjuvant tumor cell vaccine with chemotherapy against non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) shows limited clinical response. Whether it provokes
effective cellular immunity in tumor microenvironment is questionable.
Concomitant active tuberculosis in NSCLC (TBLC) resembles locoregional
immunotherapy of tumor cell vaccine; thus, maximally enriches effective
anti-tumor immunity. This study compares the survival and immunological cell
profile in TBLC over NSCLC alone.
METHODS: Retrospective review of NSCLC patients within 1-year-period of 2007 and 
follow-up till 2010.
RESULTS: A total 276 NSCLC patients were included. The median survival of TBLC is
longer than those of NSCLC alone (11.6 vs. 8.8 month, p<0.01). Active
tuberculosis is an independent predictor of better survival with HR of 0.68 (95% 
CI, 0.48 ~ 0.97). Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) (55.8 vs. 31.7%, p<0.01) is a
significant risk factor for NSCLC with active TB. The median survival of SCC with
active tuberculosis is significantly longer than adenocarcinoma or undetermined
NSCLC with TB (14.2 vs. 6.6 and 2.8 months, p<0.05). Active tuberculosis in SCC
increases the expression of CD3 (46.4 ± 24.8 vs. 24.0 ± 16.0, p<0.05), CXCR3
(35.1 ± 16.4 vs. 19.2 ± 13.3, p<0.01) and IP-10 (63.5 ± 21.9 vs. 35.5 ± 21.0,
p<0.01), while expression of FOXP3 is decreased (3.5 ± 0.5 vs. 13.3 ± 3.7 p<0.05,
p<0.05). Survival of SCC with high expression of CD3 (12.1 vs. 3.6 month, p<0.05)
and CXCR3 (12.1 vs. 4.4 month, p<0.05) is longer than that with low expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Active tuberculosis in NSCLC shows better survival outcome. The
effective T lymphocyte infiltration in tumor possibly underlies the mechanism.
Locoregional immunotherapy of tumor cell vaccine may deserve further researches.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033226 
PMCID: PMC3306389
PMID: 22438899  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Ther Adv Med Oncol. 2012 Mar;4(2):43-50. doi: 10.1177/1758834011431718.

Ipilimumab: its potential in non-small cell lung cancer.

Tomasini P(1), Khobta N, Greillier L, Barlesi F.

Author information: 
(1)Multidisciplinary Oncology and Therapeutic Innovations Department, Aix
Marseille University - Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille; Aix Marseille
University - Inserm U911, Marseille, France.

Ipilimumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that enhances antitumor immunity 
by way of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 blockade. It has already been approved
by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of metastatic melanoma
and is being investigated for treating other solid tumors such as renal cell,
prostate and lung cancers. This review details the potential of ipilimumab in the
management of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In particular, ipilimumab
showed promising results in a first-line NSCLC phase II study combining
carboplatin/paclitaxel chemotherapy with concurrent or phased ipilimumab. The
median immune-related progression-free survival was 5.68 months for the phased
ipilimumab arm versus 4.63 months for chemotherapy alone (hazard ratio [HR] =
0.68, p = 0.026) and 5.52 months for the concurrent ipilimumab arm versus 4.63
months for chemotherapy alone (HR = 0.77, p = 0.094). The main adverse events
were immune related, such as hypophysitis, enterocolitis, and hyperthyroidism.
These adverse events may be improved with high-dose glucocorticoids and may be
correlated with tumor response. Phase III studies are ongoing. Future studies may
investigate ipilimumab in the management of early stage lung cancer. Strategies
for potential translational research studies are also discussed to identify
prognostic and predictive biomarkers for the use of ipilimumab in the treatment
of patients with NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1177/1758834011431718 
PMCID: PMC3296082
PMID: 22423263  [PubMed]


569. Immunotherapy. 2012 Mar;4(3):291-304. doi: 10.2217/imt.11.178.

Myeloid suppressor cells and immune modulation in lung cancer.

Srivastava MK(1), Andersson Å, Zhu L, Harris-White M, Lee JM, Dubinett S, Sharma 
S.

Author information: 
(1)University of California Los Angeles & Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles,
CA, USA.

Many tumors, including lung cancers, promote immune tolerance to escape host
immune surveillance and facilitate tumor growth. Tumors utilize numerous pathways
to inhibit immune responses, including the elaboration of immune-suppressive
mediators such as PGE2, TGF-β, IL-10, VEGF, GM-CSF, IL-6, S100A8/A9 and SCF,
which recruit and/or activate myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs). MDSCs, a 
subset of heterogeneous bone marrow-derived hematopoietic cells, are found in the
peripheral blood of cancer patients and positively correlate to malignancy. Solid
tumors contain MDSCs that maintain an immune-suppressive network in the tumor
microenvironment. This review will focus on the interaction of tumors with MDSCs 
that lead to dysregulation of antigen presentation and T-cell activities in
murine tumor models. Specific genetic signatures in lung cancer modulate the
activities of MDSCs and impact tumor progression. Targeting MDSCs may have a
long-term antitumor benefit and is at the forefront of anticancer therapeutic
strategies.

DOI: 10.2217/imt.11.178 
PMCID: PMC3324285
PMID: 22401635  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2012 Sep;83(3):432-43. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.12.005. Epub 2012 Feb 25.

Vaccines in non-small cell lung cancer: rationale, combination strategies and
update on clinical trials.

De Pas T(1), Giovannini M, Rescigno M, Catania C, Toffalorio F, Spitaleri G,
Delmonte A, Barberis M, Spaggiari L, Solli P, Veronesi G, De Braud F.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Unit of Respiratory Tract and Sarcomas, New Drugs Development
Division, European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy. Tommaso.depas@ieo.it

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains the leading cause of cancer related
mortality worldwide and despite some advances in therapy the overall prognosis
remains disappointing. New therapeutic approaches like vaccination have been
proposed and several clinical trials are ongoing. Many tumor antigens have been
identified so far and specific tumor vaccines targeting these antigens have been 
developed. Even if the ideal setting for vaccine therapy might be the adjuvant
one, vaccines seem to be potentially beneficial also in advanced disease and
combination therapy could be a promising treatment option. In the advanced
setting anti-MUC-1 vaccine (belagenpumatucel) and anti-TGF-β(2) vaccine (BPL-25) 
have entered in phase III trials as maintenance therapy after first line
chemotherapy. In the adjuvant setting the most relevant and promising vaccines
are directed against MAGE-A3 and PRAME, respectively. We will review the key
points for effective active immunotherapies and combination therapies, giving an 
update on the most promising vaccines developed in NSCLC.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.12.005 
PMID: 22366114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2012 Jun;23(4):465-72. doi: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2012.01.016.
Epub 2012 Jan 30.

Therapeutic approaches to modulating Notch signaling: current challenges and
future prospects.

Groth C(1), Fortini ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Thomas Jefferson University,
Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

Dysregulated Notch signaling has been implicated in numerous human diseases,
including a broad spectrum of cancers. Mutations in Notch1 are prevalent in
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and abnormal expression of different human
Notch receptors contributes to B-cell tumors as well as cancers of the breast,
lung, pancreas, skin, prostate, colon, brain and other tissues. Several
γ-secretase inhibitors, small chemical compounds that were initially developed to
inhibit the activity of the γ-secretase aspartyl protease in Alzheimer's disease,
are now being explored for their potential chemotherapeutic applications in
Notch-associated cancers. An alternative approach involves the development of
antibodies to inhibit specific Notch receptors, their activating ligands, or
other components of the Notch pathway in tumors. Here we review recent progress
and current challenges in the use of these strategies to modulate Notch signaling
for cancer therapy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2012.01.016 
PMCID: PMC3372654
PMID: 22309842  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


572. J Thorac Dis. 2011 Mar;3(1):30-56. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2010.12.03.

New molecular targeted therapies for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.

Méndez M(1), Custodio A, Provencio M.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro
Majadahonda, Madrid, Spain.

Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a uniformly fatal disease and most patients
will present with advanced stage. Treatment outcomes remain unsatisfactory, with 
low long-term survival rates. Standard treatment, such as palliative chemotherapy
and radiotherapy, offers a median survival not exceeding 1 year. Hence,
considerable efforts have started to be made in order to identify new biological 
agents which may safely and effectively be administered to advanced NSCLC
patients. Two cancer cell pathways in particular have been exploited, the
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and the vascular endothelial growth
factor receptor (VEGFR) pathways. However, novel targeted therapies that
interfere with other dysregulated pathways in lung cancer are already in the
clinic. This review outlines the most promising research approaches to the
treatment of NSCLC, discussed according to the specific molecular pathway
targeted.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2010.12.03 
PMCID: PMC3256501
PMID: 22263060  [PubMed]


573. J Thorac Dis. 2010 Dec;2(4):237-44. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2010.11.6.

Current status of immunotherapy for the treatment of lung cancer.

Murala S(1), Alli V, Kreisel D, Gelman AE, Krupnick AS.

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Immunobiology Laboratory, Departments of Surgery, Pathology and
Immunology of Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

Immunotherapy is a novel approach for the treatment of systemic malignancies.
Passive and adaptive immunotherapy have been applied to the treatment of a wide
variety of solid tumors such as malignant melanoma (1), renal cell carcinoma (2) 
and ovarian cancer (3). Several early clinical trials of immune based therapy for
both non-small (NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer (SCLC) have demonstrated
limited or no success (3),(4) but recent trials of antigen-specific cancer
immunotherapy have shown early therapeutic potential and are now being rigorously
evaluated on a larger scale (5). In this communication we briefly review the
historic aspects of immune based therapy for solid cancer, describe therapeutic
strategies aimed at targeting lung cancer, and discuss limitations of current
therapy and future directions of this field.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2010.11.6 
PMCID: PMC3256475
PMID: 22263052  [PubMed]


574. Cancer Treat Rev. 2012 Oct;38(6):650-61. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2011.11.008. Epub
2012 Jan 9.

Adjuvant immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer.

Tucker ZC(1), Laguna BA, Moon E, Singhal S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 6
White, 3400 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
ztucker@tcmedc.org

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the biggest cancer killer in the United
States and worldwide. In 2011, there are estimated to be 221,130 new cases of
lung cancer in the United States. Over a million people will die of lung cancer
worldwide this year alone. When possible, surgery to remove the tumor is the best
treatment strategy for patients with NSCLC. However, even with adjuvant
(postoperative) chemotherapy and radiation, more than 40% of patients will
develop recurrences locally or systemically and ultimately succumb to their
disease. Thus, there is an urgent need for developing superior approaches to
treat patients who undergo surgery for NSCLC to eliminate residual disease that
is likely responsible for these recurrences. Our group and others have been
interested in using immunotherapy to augment the efficacy of current treatment
strategies. Immunotherapy is very effective against minimal disease burden and
small deposits of tumor cells that are accessible by the circulating immune
cells. Therefore, this strategy may be ideally suited as an adjunct to surgery to
seek and destroy microscopic tumor deposits that remain after surgery. This
review describes the mechanistic underpinnings of immunotherapy and how it is
currently being used to target residual disease and prevent postoperative
recurrences after pulmonary resection in NSCLC.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2011.11.008 
PMID: 22226940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


575. J Stem Cells Regen Med. 2012 Nov 26;8(3):203-4. eCollection 2012.

Cancer incidence and novel therapies developed in Japan.

Iwasaki M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Research, Yamanashi University- School of Medicine ,
Chuo, Japan.

According to the ministry of Health, Labour and welfare of Japan, Cancer has been
the leading cause of death in Japan since 1981. ([1]) As per the data in 2010, in
Japan, one in every three deaths was due to cancer. ([2]) The Japanese Government
has introduced so far, three terms of 10 years strategies for Cancer control
since 1984 till date. The budget allocated for cancer control in 2009 was 52.5
billion yen in Japan. ([3]) Lung is the leading site for cancer in both males and
females in Japan. In males, following the lung, stomach, liver, colon and
pancreas are other leading sites while in the females, stomach, colon, pancreas
and breast are the other leading sites. ([1]) In 2006, the cancer incidence was
694,000 and the male cancer incidence was 1.4 times as large as that of females. 
The peak age for cancer deaths in males is their fifties while in the females it 
is the sixties among Japanese. In addition to the conventional treatments such as
surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy, some of other therapies in practice in
Japan are the Hyperthermia ([4]) that uses high temperatures to kill or damage
the cancer cells, the Ion Beam therapy using proton beams ([5]) to damage the DNA
of the cells as cancer cells have high rate of cell divisions and lesser ability 
to repair DNA damage, the molecular targeted therapies that interfere with a
specific molecular target involved in tumour growth and progression([6]) and most
importantly the autologous cell based Immunotherapies. Modern Cancer
Immunotherapy started in the 1970s in Japan. The immunopotentiators using
compounds from Bacteria, Beta Glucans from fungi were the first forms of modern
Immunotherapy. Then was the era of direct injection of cytokines such as
Interleukins, Interferons etc. The adverse effects associated with the injection 
of cytokines led to development of cell based Immunotherapies in the 1980s. ([7])
Immuno-cell therapies involve isolation of immune cells which are then processed 
and re-injected into the body to exert their action against the cancer. There are
different kinds of Immuno-cell therapies being practised in more than 25 private 
and public institutions in Japan using Natural Killer (NK) cells, Cytotoxic T
lymphocytes (CTLs), Tumour Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL), Lymphokine activated
Killer (LAK) cells, Dendritic cells and Gamma Delta T (γδ T) cells.([7])
Importantly most of the innovations in cell based therapies in the world have
been made in Japan because immunotherapy is a part of the Japanese Health care
system and routine therapies for cancer in Japan. There have been randomized
clinical trials on Immuno-cell therapy for liver cancer, lung cancer, gastric
cancer, ovarian cancer with the results suggesting statistically significant
increase in survival rate and increase in disease free survival rate. ([8, 9, 10,
11]) There are more than 25 institutions in Japan performing such cell based
immunotherapies. A comprehensive review by Egawa et al on 1401 patients showed
that when Immuno-cell therapy was combined with the conventional therapies, the
efficacy increased upto 20-30%. ([7]) Immuno-cell is the least toxic of all
therapies and can be administered even to terminally ill cancer patients. ([12]) 
Contrast to drugs, as autologous cell based Immuno-therapies are from the
patient's own blood and as they are custom tailored to each patient, though
expensive, the adverse effects are minimal. To conclude, cancer-Immunocell
therapies are the future of cancer therapies and further research is needed to
enhance its efficacy and validate the results.


PMID: 24693199  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


576. Radioiodinated anti-DNA-histone 1 complex chimeric tumor necrosis therapy (TNT)
monoclonal antibody 1.

Chopra A.
In: Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) [Internet]. Bethesda
(MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US); 2004-2013.
2011 Sep 17.

Because neoplastic solid tumors grow rapidly, the lack of sufficient blood supply
(and nutrition) leads to cell death and lysis in the lesion and results in the
development and accumulation of necrotic areas in the affected areas. As a
consequence of the lysis, the nuclear antigens (e.g., DNA, histone proteins,
etc.) of the lysed cells are exposed in the necrotic tissues. Investigators have 
used the exposed antigens to develop monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) that have been 
radiolabeled for evaluation in preclinical and clinical studies to detect and
treat malignant tumors (1). This treatment protocol is known as tumor necrosis
therapy (TNT), and the mAb used for this treatment targets only the intracellular
antigens present in the necrotic section of a tumor. Although the intact cell
membrane of a viable cell does not allow the passage of mAbs (because of their
large size), the lysed membrane of a necrotic cell provides mAbs with free access
to bind the intracellular antigens, such as DNA-histone complexes,
heterochromatic DNA, and single-strand DNA of the lysed cells (2). More than two 
decades ago, (125)I-labeled F(ab’)2 fragments of a mAb designated TNT-1 were
shown to bind the nuclear antigens of necrotic cells in xenograft tumors in nude 
mice. This observation was confirmed with gamma planar imaging using
(131)I-labeled TNT-1 F(ab’)2 fragments (3). In a subsequent study with nude mice 
bearing ME-180 cell tumors (of human cervical carcinoma origin), the intact
[(131)I]-TNT-1 mAb was shown to have potential utility in the imaging and
therapeutic treatment of the lesions, and it was concluded that treatment success
was dependent on the number of necrotic cells present in the tumor (i.e., the
higher the number of necrotic cells, the better the treatment results) (4). In
another study, the TNT-1 mAb was determined to specifically target the histone H1
protein in nuclear extracts of Raji cells (5). Khawli et al. showed that uptake
of the (125)I-biotinylated chimeric TNT-1 mAb ([(125)I]-chTNT-1/B) by LS174T
(human colon carcinoma cell line) and Madison 109 (murine adenocarcinoma cell
line) cell tumors in mice was superior to that of the parent (non-biotinylated)
[(125)I]-chTNT-1 mAb (2). Biotinylation was reported to improve uptake of the mAb
by the tumor because it modified the surface charge, and reduced the circulation 
time of the molecule. In addition, conjugation of biotin to the mAb decreased the
isoelectric point of the molecule and improved its pharmacokinetic properties
(2). A (111)In-labeled chimeric TNT-3 mAb (targets single-strand DNA), as well as
its (111)In-labeled Fab’ and F(ab’)2 fragments, were shown to be suitable for the
detection of necrotic solid cancerous tumors in mice (6). The mechanism of action
of the radioiodinated TNT mAb is believed to be as follows: the mAb binds to the 
intracellular antigens present in the necrotic sections of a tumor, and the
radioactive iodine bound to the mAb generates enough energy (as 90% β radiation
(192 keV) and 10% γ radiation (364.5, keV)) to kill the surrounding tumor cells
with little damage to the normal tissue (1). [(131)I]-chTNT-1/B mAb has also been
evaluated in a phase I clinical trial for the treatment of advanced colon and
colorectal cancers (7) and is under clinical evaluation for the treatment of
high-grade adult gliomas (1). In 2003, the Chinese State Food and Drug
Administration (CSFDA) approved the use of [(131)I]-chTNT-1/B mAb for the
immunotherapy of advanced lung cancer in China (8).

PMID: 22171394  [PubMed]


577. Ann Oncol. 2012 Jun;23(6):1387-93. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdr564. Epub 2011 Dec 12.

Vaccination therapy for non-small-cell lung cancer: review of agents in phase III
development.

Decoster L(1), Wauters I, Vansteenkiste JF.

Author information: 
(1)Leuven Lung Cancer Group, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.

The historical results of cancer vaccination for non-small-cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) were disappointing. In the current decade, however, new insights in the
interaction between tumours and the immune system have led to the development of 
immunotherapy as a fundamentally new concept for the treatment of NSCLC. Modern
NSCLC vaccine strategies rely on better identification of antigenic targets,
addition of strong immunoadjuvants, and use of more efficient delivery systems.
These treatments have convincingly demonstrated to elicit potent immune responses
and have shown promising efficacy signals and excellent tolerability in phase II 
randomised studies. This-together with recent positive phase III data in
indications other than NSCLC-has helped to establish the proof of principle for
cancer vaccination. In NSCLC, ongoing phase III trials are investigating this
approach in different treatment settings: the Melanoma AntiGEn A3 vaccine in
resected early-stage NSCLC, the L-BLP25 vaccine in locally advanced NSCLC after
chemoradiotherapy, and belagenpumatucel-L, the epidermal growth factor and the
TG4010 vaccine in advanced stage, either as an adjunct to chemotherapy or as
maintenance after completion of chemotherapy. Mode of action, development,
available clinical data, and currently ongoing phase III studies are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdr564 
PMID: 22156658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2011 Dec;14(12):954-9. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2011.12.10.

[Researche advances on CIK cells and their clinical use in lung cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Luo H(1), Zhou X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Southwest Hospital, the Third Military
Medical School, Chongqing 400038, China.

As the leading cause of cancer-related death among human beings, lung cancer
seriously threats peoples' health all over the world. Cytokine-induced killer
cells (CIK) is a new kind of adaptive immune cells characterized by its dramatic 
proliferation ability and cytotoxicity, non-major histocompatibility antigens
(MHC) restriction and low side effects, which draw an increasing attention in
recent years. The review is to introduce the basic features and mechanism of CIK 
cells briefly and summarize the researches of CIK cells used in the clinical
therapy for lung cancer. Finally, we discuss several problems that should be
addressed before CIK cells are widely applied to clinical patients.

DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2011.12.10 
PMID: 22152697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Surg Today. 2012 Jan;42(1):8-28. doi: 10.1007/s00595-011-0075-7. Epub 2011 Dec 6.

Biological mechanism and clinical effect of protein-bound polysaccharide K
(KRESTIN(®)): review of development and future perspectives.

Maehara Y(1), Tsujitani S, Saeki H, Oki E, Yoshinaga K, Emi Y, Morita M, Kohnoe
S, Kakeji Y, Yano T, Baba H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery and Science, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu
University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
maehara@surg2.med.kyushu-u.ac.jp

The mechanism of action of protein-bound polysaccharide K (PSK; KRESTIN(®))
involves the following actions: (1) recovery from immunosuppression induced by
humoral factors such as transforming growth factor (TGF)-β or as a result of
surgery and chemotherapy; (2) activation of antitumor immune responses including 
maturation of dendritic cells, correction of Th1/Th2 imbalance, and promotion of 
interleukin-15 production by monocytes; and (3) enhancement of the antitumor
effect of chemotherapy by induction of apoptosis and inhibition of metastasis
through direct actions on tumor cells. The clinical effectiveness of PSK has been
demonstrated for various cancers. In patients with gastric or colorectal cancer, 
combined use of PSK with postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy prolongs survival,
and this effect has been confirmed in multiple meta-analyses. For small-cell lung
carcinoma, PSK in conjunction with chemotherapy prolongs the remission period. In
addition, PSK has been shown to be effective against various other cancers,
reduce the adverse effects of chemotherapy, and improve quality of life. Future
studies should examine the effects of PSK under different host immune conditions 
and tumor properties, elucidate the mechanism of action exhibited in each
situation, and identify biomarkers.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-011-0075-7 
PMCID: PMC3253283
PMID: 22139128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


580. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2012 Mar;31(3):296-304. doi:
10.1016/j.healun.2011.10.013. Epub 2011 Nov 23.

Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder after lung transplantation: a review
of 35 cases.

Kremer BE(1), Reshef R, Misleh JG, Christie JD, Ahya VN, Blumenthal NP, Kotloff
RM, Hadjiliadis D, Stadtmauer EA, Schuster SJ, Tsai DE.

Author information: 
(1)Abramson Cancer Center, Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) is a complication
of organ transplantation. The risk of developing PTLD varies depending on a
number of factors, including the organ transplanted and the degree of
immunosuppression used.
METHODS: We report a retrospective analysis of 35 patients with PTLD treated at
our center after lung transplantation. Of 705 patients who received allografts,
34 (4.8%) developed PTLD. One patient underwent transplantation elsewhere and was
treated at our center.
RESULTS: PTLD involved the allograft in 49% of our patients and the
gastrointestinal (GI) tract lumen in 23%. Histologically, 39% of tumors were
monomorphic and 48% polymorphic. The time to presentation defined the location
and histology of disease. Of 17 patients diagnosed within 11 months of
transplantation, PTLD involved the allograft in 12 (71%) and the GI tract in 1 (p
= 0.01). This "early" PTLD was 85% polymorphic (p = 0.006). Conversely, of the 18
patients diagnosed more than 11 months after transplant, the lung was involved in
5 (28%) and the GI tract in 7 (39%; p = 0.01). "Late" PTLD was 71% monomorphic (p
= 0.006). Median overall survival after diagnosis was 18.57 months. Overall
survival did not differ between all lung transplant recipients and those who
developed PTLD.
CONCLUSIONS: PTLD is an uncommon complication after lung transplantation, and its
incidence declined remarkably in the era of modern immunosuppression. We report
several factors that are important for predisposition toward, progression of, and
treatment of PTLD after lung transplantation.

Copyright Â© 2012 International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2011.10.013 
PMID: 22112992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Hinyokika Kiyo. 2011 Oct;57(10):555-8.

[Myocardial metastasis from renal cell carcinoma treated with sorafenib].

[Article in Japanese]

Tokuyama Y(1), Iwamura M, Fujita T, Sugita A, Maeyama R, Bessho H, Ishikawa W,
Tabata K, Yoshida K, Baba S.

Author information: 
(1)The Department of Urology, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Japan.

We present a case of myocardial metastasis from renal cell carcinoma (RCC) during
the treatment with sorafenib. A 63-year-old male, who had undergone right radical
nephrectomy, received interferon-alpha (IFN), interleukin (IL-2) and
5-flurouracil (5-FU) for the treatment of lung and pleural metastases. However,
since this metastasis showed progressive disease, we administered sorafenib. Nine
months after the introduction of sorafenib, he complained of dyspnea. Chest
computed tomography and cardiac ultrasonography revealed a low density mass at
the cardiac muscle of the left cardiac ventricle, suggesting myocardial
metastasis of RCC. Molecular targeted therapy achieved a longer survival in
advanced RCC patients in comparison with the immunotherapy using cytokines.
Therefore, in metastasis evaluation, some organs which have been regarded as rare
sites should be carefully evaluated.


PMID: 22089153  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Clin Chest Med. 2011 Dec;32(4):865-85. doi: 10.1016/j.ccm.2011.08.006. Epub 2011 
Oct 7.

Gene therapy for lung neoplasms.

Vachani A(1), Moon E, Wakeam E, Haas AR, Sterman DH, Albelda SM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy & Critical Care Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, 3400 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Both advanced-stage lung cancer and malignant pleural mesothelioma are associated
with a poor prognosis. Advances in treatment regimens for both diseases have had 
only a modest effect on their progressive course. Gene therapy for thoracic
malignancies represents a novel therapeutic approach and has been evaluated in
several clinical trials. Strategies have included induction of apoptosis, tumor
suppressor gene replacement, suicide gene expression, cytokine-based therapy,
various vaccination approaches, and adoptive transfer of modified immune cells.
This review considers the clinical results, limitations, and future directions of
gene therapy trials for thoracic malignancies.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccm.2011.08.006 
PMCID: PMC3210443
PMID: 22054892  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Respir Med. 2011 Oct;105 Suppl 1:S20-5. doi: 10.1016/S0954-6111(11)70006-3.

Natural killer T cells in pulmonary disorders.

Rijavec M(1), Volarevic S, Osolnik K, Kosnik M, Korosec P.

Author information: 
(1)University Clinic of Respiratory and Allergic Diseases, Colnik, Slovenia.
matija.rijavec@klinika-golnik.si

Natural killer T (NKT) cells, a unique subgroup of lymphocytes with features of
both T and natural killer (NK) cells, represent a bridge between innate and
adaptive immunity. They have the ability to either promote or suppress immune
responses. With these immunoregulatory functions, NKT cells have emerged as an
important subset of lymphocytes with a protective role in some disorders, such as
infections, cancer, and possibly sarcoidosis, and a pathogenic role in others,
such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and hypersensitivity
pneumonitis. Immunotherapeutic interventions to modulate the immune response by
targeting iNKT cell functions has become a challenging field and has shown
promising results for the development of new therapies.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0954-6111(11)70006-3 
PMID: 22015081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Curr Gene Ther. 2011 Dec;11(6):447-56.

Plasmid DNA gene therapy by electroporation: principles and recent advances.

Murakami T(1), Sunada Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Kawasaki Medical School, 577 Matsushima, Kurashiki,
Japan. tatsum@med.kawasaki-m.ac.jp

Simple plasmid DNA injection is a safe and feasible gene transfer method, but it 
confers low transfection efficiency and transgene expression. This non-viral gene
transfer method is enhanced by physical delivery methods, such as electroporation
and the use of a gene gun. In vivo electroporation has been rapidly developed
over the last two decades to deliver DNA to various tissues or organs. It is
generally considered that membrane permeabilization and DNA electrophoresis play 
important roles in electro-gene transfer. Skeletal muscle is a well characterized
target tissue for electroporation, because it is accessible and allows for
long-lasting gene expression ( > one year). Skin is also a target tissue because 
of its accessibility and immunogenicity. Numerous studies have been performed
using in vivo electroporation in animal models of disease. Clinical trials of DNA
vaccines and immunotherapy for cancer treatment using in vivo electroporation
have been initiated in patients with melanoma and prostate cancer. Furthermore,
electroporation has been applied to DNA vaccines for infectious diseases to
enhance immunogenicity, and the relevant clinical trials have been initiated. The
gene gun approach is also being applied for the delivery of DNA vaccines against 
infectious diseases to the skin. Here, we review recent advances in the mechanism
of in vivo electroporation, and summarize the findings of recent preclinical and 
clinical studies using this technology.


PMID: 22023474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Clin Dev Immunol. 2011;2011:481439. doi: 10.1155/2011/481439. Epub 2011 Oct 4.

Asbestos induces reduction of tumor immunity.

Kumagai-Takei N(1), Maeda M, Chen Y, Matsuzaki H, Lee S, Nishimura Y, Hiratsuka
J, Otsuki T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hygiene, Kawasaki Medical School, Matsushima, Kurashiki, Japan.

Asbestos-related cancers such as malignant mesothelioma and lung cancer are an
important issue in the world. There are many conflicts concerning economical
considerations and medical evidence for these cancers and much confusion
regarding details of the pathological mechanisms of asbestos-induced cancers. For
example, there is uncertainty concerning the degree of danger of the iron-absent 
chrysotile compared with iron-containing crocidolite and amosite. However,
regarding bad prognosis of mesothelioma, medical approaches to ensure the
recognition of the biological effects of asbestos and the pathological mechanisms
of asbestos-induced carcinogenesis, as well as clinical trials to detect the
early stage of mesothelioma, should result in better preventions and the cure of 
these malignancies. We have been investigating the immunological effects of
asbestos in relation to the reduction of tumor immunity. In this paper, cellular 
and molecular approaches to clarify the immunological effects of asbestos are
described, and all the findings indicate that the reduction of tumor immunity is 
caused by asbestos exposure and involvement in asbestos-induced cancers. These
investigations may not only allow the clear recognition of the biological effects
of asbestos, but also present a novel procedure for early detection of previous
asbestos exposure and the presence of mesothelioma as well as the chemoprevention
of asbestos-related cancers.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/481439 
PMCID: PMC3189469
PMID: 22007251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2011 Oct;11(10):1599-605. doi: 10.1586/era.11.155.

Active immunotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer: moving toward a reality.

Perez CA(1), Santos ES, Raez LE.

Author information: 
(1)University of Miami Miller School of Medicine/Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Miami, FL 33136, USA.

Lung cancer remains the number one cause of cancer-related death worldwide.
Active cancer immunotherapy is a growing field that is included as one of the
most important modalities used to modify the host immune system for the treatment
of malignancies. With the recent approval of sipuleucel-T for the treatment of
prostate cancer, immunotherapy has become a reality in the treatment of solid
tumors. Different therapeutic cancer vaccines, aimed to create specific
anti-tumor immunity, are currently under clinical development in non-small-cell
lung cancer (NSCLC). Whole-cell vaccines such as belagenpumatucel-L and
antigen-specific vaccines targeting EGF, mucin 1 and melanoma-associated antigen 
A3 have shown promising results in clinical trials and are currently being
evaluated in Phase III studies. In Cuba, the CIMAvax vaccine targeting EGF has
shown encouraging results, leading to the approval of this therapy there and in
other countries in Central and South America. Immunotherapy lacks long term
clinical experience as chemotherapy does, however, its lower toxicity promises to
be a potential option for the different stages of this disease. The ongoing Phase
III trials on the different therapeutic vaccines like the ones targeting melanoma
associated antigen-3 and blp-25 in NSCLC will probably be completed within the
next few years, and, perhaps, a new era of therapeutic cancer vaccines in NSCLC
will be a reality.

DOI: 10.1586/era.11.155 
PMID: 21999133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2012 Jan;46(1):1-5. doi: 10.1165/rcmb.2011-0215TR.

A current viewpoint of lymphangioleiomyomatosis supporting immunotherapeutic
treatment options.

Dilling DF(1), Gilbert ER, Picken MM, Eby JM, Love RB, Le Poole IC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Cardinal Bernardin Cancer Center, Loyola University,
Chicago, Illinois, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2012 May;46(5):563-5.

Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) leads to hyperproliferation of abnormal smooth
muscle cells in the lungs, associated with diffuse pulmonary parenchymal cyst
formation and progressive dyspnea on exertion. The disease targets women of
child-bearing age. Complications include pneumothoraces and chylous pleural
effusions. Ten-year survival is estimated at 70%, and lung transplantation
remains the only validated treatment. It has been observed that LAM cells express
markers associated with melanocytic differentiation, including gp100 and MART-1. 
Other melanocytic markers have also been observed. The same proteins are targeted
by T cells infiltrating melanoma tumors as well as by T cells infiltrating
autoimmune vitiligo skin, and these antigens are regarded as relatively
immunogenic. Consequently, vaccines have been developed for melanoma targeting
these and other immunogenic melanocyte differentiation proteins. Preliminary data
showing susceptibility of LAM cells to melanoma derived T cells suggest that
vaccines targeting melanosomal antigens can be successful in treating LAM.

DOI: 10.1165/rcmb.2011-0215TR 
PMID: 21940815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Vaccine. 2011 Nov 3;29(47):8501-5. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.09.012. Epub 2011 
Sep 18.

Therapeutic cancer vaccines: why so few randomised phase III studies reflect the 
initial optimism of phase II studies.

Dalgleish AG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Sciences, St George's University of London, London, UK.
dalgleis@sgul.ac.uk

Immunotherapy is showing promise for the treatment of a range of tumours
including prostate cancer, melanoma and non small-cell lung cancer. Phase II
trial data has been extremely encouraging with regards both clinical outcome and 
the investigation of the underlying immunological mode-of-action. However,
despite the positive phase II data there remains a high failure rate in late
stage clinical trials which, in many cases can be ascribed to inappropriate trial
design, poor patient selection and inconsistency in patient management. The
potential impact of standard cancer treatments and other factors which may vary
within patient populations is discussed. A perspective is provided on the failure
of late-stage clinical trials across a range of platforms focusing particularly
on melanoma and prostate cancer.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.09.012 
PMID: 21933695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2012 Jun;82(3):338-60. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.08.003. Epub 2011 Sep 9.

Strategies for maintenance therapy in advanced non-small cell lung cancer:
current status, unanswered questions and future directions.

Custodio A(1), de Castro J.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Paseo de la
Castellana, 261, 28046 Madrid, Spain. anabcustodio@gmail.com

Systemic chemotherapy (CT) with platinum-based doublets result in modest
improvements in both overall survival (OS) and quality of life in good
performance status patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
However, although substantial progress has been made in the therapeutic options
currently available for these patients, the overall outcome remains poor.
Maintenance therapy for patients who achieved at least stable disease after
first-line treatment has been an area of intense investigation in recent years as
a way of improving outcomes in metastatic NSCLC. Several alternative strategies
for prolongation of initial treatment have been evaluated. These include the
prolongation of the initial combination CT regimen until disease progression,
unacceptable toxicity or a predefined greater number of cycles, continuation with
a lower intensity version of the first-line CT regimen or administration of a new
active agent immediately after completion of the first-line therapy
(switch-maintenance or early second-line therapy). Treatments that have been
studied in randomized trials to date include CT, molecularly targeted agents, and
immunotherapy approaches. Phase III trials have not revealed a survival benefit
for extended first-line CT with combination regimens for more than 4-6 cycles.
Nevertheless, early second-line therapy with pemetrexed in nonsquamous tumours
and erlotinib have demonstrated to improve OS results, especially in select
patient groups characterized by histology and/or molecular profile. This article 
reviews recent data with maintenance therapy in advanced NSCLC and discusses the 
implications for routine patient care and future drug development.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.08.003 
PMID: 21908201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


590. J Thorac Oncol. 2011 Oct;6(10):1763-73. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e31822e28fc.

Immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer: novel approaches to improve patient
outcome.

Shepherd FA(1), Douillard JY, Blumenschein GR Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, University Health Network,
Princess Margaret Hospital and the University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada. Frances.Shepherd@uhn.on.ca

Erratum in
    J Thorac Oncol. 2012 Jan;7(1):266.

INTRODUCTION: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is often diagnosed in advanced
stages and is associated with poor outcomes. Existing standards of care for NSCLC
result in low overall cure rates, suggesting that novel treatment approaches are 
needed. In this review, we provide an updated look at the clinical data on
immunotherapeutic interventions, which potentiate the immune system's response to
lung tumor cells.
METHODS: We searched articles on PubMed and abstracts from recent oncology
meetings for publications on immunotherapies with clinical applicability to the
treatment of NSCLC.
RESULTS: Results from phase 2 trials show vaccine therapies, which target either 
tumor cells themselves or aberrantly expressed tumor markers (mucin 1,
melanoma-associated antigen 3, or epidermal growth factor), may be promising
immunotherapeutics for NSCLC. Antigen-independent immunotherapies, such as
anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 monoclonal antibodies, talactoferrin alfa, 
and toll-like receptor 9 agonists, act on a stimulated immune system regardless
of the tumor antigen and may be feasible interventions for metastatic NSCLC.
Several immunotherapies are undergoing phase 3 studies to assess optimal
treatment settings and to determine clinical benefit compared with current
standard treatments for NSCLC.
CONCLUSIONS: A growing body of evidence suggests that immune responses to lung
tumors are present. Immunotherapeutic interventions, including vaccine therapy
and antigen-independent immunomodulatory strategies, may improve outcomes in
NSCLC. Furthermore, treatments that enhance antitumor immune responses may prove 
to be synergistic with chemotherapy. Identification of biomarkers and further
elucidation of immunotherapeutic mechanisms of action will be essential in
determining which patients will experience the greatest benefit from
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e31822e28fc 
PMID: 21876456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Immunotherapy. 2011 Aug;3(8):933-44. doi: 10.2217/imt.11.87.

Development of bavituximab, a vascular targeting agent with immune-modulating
properties, for lung cancer treatment.

DeRose P(1), Thorpe PE, Gerber DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, TX, USA.

Bavituximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody directed against the membrane
phospholipid phosphatidylserine. Phosphatidylserine exposure is increased on
endothelial cells and apoptotic cancer cells in solid tumors, allowing
tumor-specific targeting of bavituximab. Bavituximab binding results in tumor
vessel occlusion and enhanced antitumor immunity. Preclinical investigations have
demonstrated efficacy as monotherapy and in combination with other modalities
against multiple cancer types. Phase I clinical trials of bavituximab monotherapy
and in combination with chemotherapy in adults with refractory solid tumors have 
been completed. Phase II trials of bavituximab in combination with chemotherapy
for the first- and second-line treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer
are currently ongoing. This article summarizes the preclinical development and
clinical experience with bavituximab in non-small-cell lung cancer.

DOI: 10.2217/imt.11.87 
PMID: 21843081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2011 Aug 9;8(12):711-9. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2011.122.

Cancer immunology--analysis of host and tumor factors for personalized medicine.

Ogino S(1), Galon J, Fuchs CS, Dranoff G.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, 450 Brookline Avenue, Boston, MA 02215, USA. shuji_ogino@dfci.harvard.edu

Immune cells in the tumor microenvironment have an important role in regulating
tumor progression. Therefore, stimulating immune reactions to tumors can be an
attractive therapeutic and prevention strategy. Cancer cells and host cells
constantly interact with each other in the tumor microenvironment; thus, cancer
immunology is an interdisciplinary area where integrated analysis of both host
and tumor factors is needed. Cancer represents a heterogeneous group of diseases 
with different genetic and epigenetic alterations; therefore, molecular
classification of cancer (for example lung, prostate and breast cancers) is an
important component in clinical decision making. However, most studies on
antitumor immunity and clinical outcome lack analysis of tumor molecular
biomarkers. In this Review, we discuss colorectal cancer as a prototypical
example of cancer. Common molecular classifiers of colon cancer include KRAS,
BRAF and PIK3CA mutations, microsatellite instability, LINE-1 methylation, and
CpG island methylator phenotype. Since tumor molecular features and immune
reactions are inter-related, a comprehensive assessment of these factors is
critical. Examining the effects of tumor-host interactions on clinical outcome
and prognosis represents an evolving interdisciplinary field of molecular
pathological epidemiology. Pathological immunity evaluation may provide
information on prognosis and help identify patients who are more likely to
benefit from immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2011.122 
PMCID: PMC3227751
PMID: 21826083  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Med Intensiva. 2011 Dec;35(9):569-77. doi: 10.1016/j.medin.2011.06.006. Epub 2011
Jul 30.

[Breathing difficulties in children subjected to bone marrow transplantation].

[Article in Spanish]

García Salido A(1), Nieto Moro M, Casado Flores J.

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Cuidados Intensivos Pediátricos, Hospital Infantil Universitario
Niño Jesús, Madrid, España. citopensis@yahoo.es

Up to 60% of all children that receive to bone marrow transplantation (BMT)
develop respiratory distress. It constitutes a common complication in this kind
of patients, due to the increasing number of therapeutic applications of BMT and 
to improvement in the therapeutic approach to the problems associated with this
procedure. We describe the different causes of respiratory distress after BMT in 
relation to its initiation or the presence of infection in its origin. The
diagnosis and treatment are also reviewed.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier España, S.L. y SEMICYUC. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medin.2011.06.006 
PMID: 21803457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Reumatol Clin. 2011 Jan-Feb;7(1):30-44. doi: 10.1016/j.reuma.2010.11.002. Epub
2010 Dec 17.

[Consensus on the Use of Rituximab in Rheumatoid Arthritis. A document with
evidence-based recommendations. Grupo de Expertos en Rituximab. ].

[Article in Spanish]

Martín Mola E(1), Hernández B, García-Arias M, Alvaro-Gracia JM, Balsa A, Reino
JG, Marenco de la Fuente JL, Martínez-Taboada V, Ivorra JA, Sanmartí R; el grupo 
de Expertos en Rituximab.

Collaborators: Andreu JL, Ballina J, Bonilla Hernán MG, Ibáñez Bosch R, Bustabad 
S, Chamizo Carmona E, Fernández-Nebro A, García-Llorente JF, Gómez A, Manero Ruiz
FJ, Marras C, Marsal S, Muñoz Fernández S, Narváez J, Pantoja Zarza L, Pérez
Sandoval T, Pérez Venegas JJ, Tornero Molina J, Vela P.

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Reumatología, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, España.
emartinmola.hulp@salud.madrid.org

INTRODUCTION: Rituximab has been employed successfully for the treatment of
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). However, its particular mechanism of action, as well
as a lack of concrete guidelines for its management have generated doubts on its 
use.
OBJECTIVE: To establish recommendations that facilitates the use of rituximab in 
common clinical practice.
METHODS: In a first Delphi round, 9 expert rheumatologists got together to
develop questions on those subjects generating most doubts on the efficacy and
safety of the drug. These were adapted to perform a systematic review of the
evidence, which was presented in a second meeting. Nominal groups were formed to 
respond to each question and give a recommendation. These recommendations were
presented in a second Delphi round to a larger group of experts in rheumatology. 
Once again recommendations were discussed, modified and voted upon. Once
approved, a vote on the degree of agreement for each recommendation was carried
out.
RESULTS: 17 recommendations were established, 10 regarding efficacy and 7 safety.
All of the efficacy recommendations except 3 presented a good or moderate degree 
of evidence. Among the safety recommendations, 3 had a good or moderate degree of
evidence while in the rest it was indirect, scarce or non-existent and a product 
of expert recommendation. The degree of agreement between experts was elevated
for most of the recommendations.
CONCLUSIONS: These recommendations attempt to clear doubts on the use of
rituximab and establish guidelines for its use in daily practice. Efficacy
recommendations have a high degree of evidence, allowing the clinician to be
guided in therapeutic decisions. Safety recommendations have a lower degree of
evidence.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.reuma.2010.11.002 
PMID: 21794777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2011 Sep;15(9):1127-37. doi:
10.1517/14728222.2011.599801. Epub 2011 Jul 13.

The role of inflammation in the pathogenesis of lung cancer.

Cho WC(1), Kwan CK, Yau S, So PP, Poon PC, Au JS.

Author information: 
(1)Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Department of Clinical Oncology, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
chocs@ha.org.hk

INTRODUCTION: It is reported that cancer may arise in chronically inflamed
tissue. There is mounting evidence suggesting that the connection between
inflammation and lung cancer is not coincidental but may indeed be causal. The
inflammatory molecules may be responsible for augmented macrophage recruitment,
delayed neutrophil clearance and an increase in reactive oxygen species. The
cytokines and growth factors unusually produced in chronic pulmonary disorders
have been found to have harmful properties that pave the way for
epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and tumor microenvironment. However, the
role of inflammation in lung cancer is not yet fully understood.
AREAS COVERED: The role of chronic inflammation in the pathogenesis of lung
cancer and some of the possible mechanisms involved, with particular focus on
inflammatory mediators, genetic and epigenetic alterations, inflammatory markers,
tumor microenvironment and anti-inflammatory drugs are discussed. A framework for
understanding the connection between inflammation and lung cancer is provided,
which may afford the opportunity to intercede in specific inflammatory damage
mediating lung carcinogenesis and therapeutic resistance.
EXPERT OPINION: Advances in tumor immunology support the clinical implementation 
of immunotherapies for lung cancer. Along with therapeutic benefits,
immunotherapy presents the challenges of drug-related toxicities. Gene
modification of immunocytokine may lower the associated toxic effects.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2011.599801 
PMID: 21751938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Mol Cancer Ther. 2011 Jul;10(7):1127-36. doi: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-11-0042. Epub
2011 Jun 28.

Novel therapeutic options in anaplastic large cell lymphoma: molecular targets
and immunological tools.

Merkel O(1), Hamacher F, Sifft E, Kenner L, Greil R; European Research Initiative
on Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Immunological and Molecular Cancer Research, Third Medical
Department, Paracelsus Medical University Salzburg, Müllner Hauptstrasse 48, 5020
Salzburg, Austria. o.merkel@salk.at

Anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) is a CD30-positive, aggressive T-cell
lymphoma, and about half of the patients with this disease harbor the
t(2;5)(p21;q35) translocation. This chromosomal aberration leads to fusion of the
NPM gene with the ALK tyrosine kinase, leading to its constitutive activation. To
date, treatment options include polychemotherapy (e.g., cyclophosphamide,
doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone), which is sometimes combined with
radiation in the case of bulky disease, leading to remission rates of ∼80%.
However, the remaining patients do not respond to therapy, and some patients
experience chemo-resistant relapses, making the identification of new and better 
treatments imperative. The recent discovery of deregulated ALK in common cancers 
such as non-small cell lung cancer and neuroblastoma has reinvigorated industry
interest in the development of ALK inhibitors. Moreover, it has been shown that
the ALK protein is an ideal antigen for vaccination strategies due to its low
expression in normal tissue. The characterization of microRNAs that are
deregulated in ALCL will yield new insights into the biology of ALCL and open new
avenues for therapeutic approaches in the future. Also, CD30 antibodies that have
been tested in ALCL for quite a while will probably find a place in forthcoming
treatment strategies.

© 2011 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-11-0042 
PMID: 21712478  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Eur Urol. 2011 Oct;60(4):684-90. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2011.06.017. Epub 2011 Jun
24.

ICUD-EAU International Consultation on Kidney Cancer 2010: treatment of
metastatic disease.

Patard JJ(1), Pignot G, Escudier B, Eisen T, Bex A, Sternberg C, Rini B, Roigas
J, Choueiri T, Bukowski R, Motzer R, Kirkali Z, Mulders P, Bellmunt J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Bicetre Hospital, Paris XI University, Le Kremlin
Bicetre, France. jean-jacques.patard@live.fr

Comment in
    J Urol. 2011 Dec;186(6):2207.

CONTEXT: Until the development of novel targeted agents directed against
angiogenesis and tumour growth, few treatment options have been available for the
treatment of metastatic renal-cell carcinoma (mRCC).
OBJECTIVE: This review discusses current targeted therapies for mRCC and provides
consensus statements regarding treatment algorithms.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: Medical literature was retrieved from PubMed up to April
2011. Additional relevant articles and abstract reviews were included from the
bibliographies of the retrieved literature.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Targeted treatment for mRCC can be categorized for the
following patient groups: previously untreated patients, those refractory to
immunotherapy, and those refractory to vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF)-targeted therapy. Sunitinib and bevacizumab combined with interferon alpha
are generally considered first-line treatment options in patients with favourable
or intermediate prognoses. Temsirolimus is considered a first-line treatment
option for poor-risk patients. Either sorafenib or sunitinib may be valid
second-line treatments for patients who have failed prior cytokine-based
therapies. For patients refractory to treatment with VEGF-targeted therapy,
everolimus is now recommended. Pazopanib is a new treatment option in the first- 
and second-line setting (after cytokine failure). Sequential and combination
approaches, and the roles of nephrectomy and tumour metastasectomy will also be
discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: Increasing clinical evidence is clarifying appropriate first- and
second-line treatments with targeted agents for patients with mRCC. Based on
phase 2 and 3 trials, a sequential approach is most promising, while combination 
therapy is still investigational. The role of nephrectomy in mRCC is being
evaluated in ongoing phase 3 clinical trials.

Copyright © 2011 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2011.06.017 
PMID: 21704448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Expert Rev Vaccines. 2011 Jun;10(6):811-23. doi: 10.1586/erv.11.68.

Neuroendocrine cancer vaccines in clinical trials.

Bridle BW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Gene Therapeutics, Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, L8N 3Z5, Canada. bridleb@mcmaster.ca

This article focuses on neuroendocrine cancer vaccines that have been evaluated
in human clinical trials within the last 5 years. The definition of what
constitutes a neuroendocrine tumor requires clarification. Strategies and
barriers common to cancer vaccines are highlighted. In general, neuroendocrine
cancer is rare; however, special attention will be paid to neuroblastoma and
small-cell-lung cancer owing to their relatively higher prevalence. A variety of 
other neuroendocrine tumor vaccine trials will also be addressed. The common
problem of generating only sporadic tumor-specific immune responses that are of
low-magnitude will be discussed in detail, with recommendations for future
directions.

DOI: 10.1586/erv.11.68 
PMID: 21692702  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2011 Aug;11(8):1091-7. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2011.592490. 
Epub 2011 Jun 21.

Emepepimut-S for non-small cell lung cancer.

Corrales-Rodriguez L(1), Blais N, Soulières D.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology and Medical Oncology, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de
Montréal, Montreal, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Immunotherapy as a possible therapeutic option for cancer has been 
of great importance due to the innovative development of vaccines. Various
molecules have been tested and emepepimut-S (Biomira Liposomal Peptide 25 (BLP
25)) has emerged as an option, particularly in lung cancer.
AREAS COVERED: A PubMed literature and ClinicalTrials.gov search was conducted
using the terms: emepepimut, BLP25, NSCLC, cancer immunotherapy, cancer vaccine
and MUC1. This review covers how emepepimut-S acts against the mucin 1 (MUC1)
tumor-associated antigen producing a cellular immune response against the cells
that express MUC1 and the most important clinical data available that led to the 
ongoing Phase III trial.
EXPERT OPINION: The results obtained in the Phase I/II trials are promising,
showing a favorable toxicity with a benefit in survival in NSCLC patients. As
future trials develop, demonstration of the long-term survival benefit,
understanding of the various mechanisms of immune response initiated by the drug 
and the selection of patients that will highly benefit from the immunotherapy
will be elucidated. The safety and extension in survival makes emepepimut-S a
very interesting drug and could, therefore, offer a possibility of treatment and 
maintenance, particularly for good performance status patients with locally
advanced NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2011.592490 
PMID: 21689064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Neurology. 2011 Jun 14;76(24):2089-95. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31821f468f.

Paraneoplastic isolated myelopathy: clinical course and neuroimaging clues.

Flanagan EP(1), McKeon A, Lennon VA, Kearns J, Weinshenker BG, Krecke KN,
Matiello M, Keegan BM, Mokri B, Aksamit AJ, Pittock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, Department of Neurology, Rochester, MN, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To report the clinical phenotype and outcome of isolated
paraneoplastic myelopathy.
METHODS: We systematically reviewed clinical, serologic, and MRI data for 31
patients (20 female) who presented with an isolated myelopathy and coexisting
cancer: carcinoma (lung, 9; breast, 7; kidney, 2; thyroid, 2; ovary/endometrium, 
2), melanoma (2), or other cancer (3), or a paraneoplastic autoantibody with
strong cancer association (amphiphysin-immunoglobulin G [IgG], 9; collapsin
response-mediator protein 5-IgG, 9; Purkinje-cell cytoplasmic autoantibody type
1, 2; antineuronal nuclear autoantibody [ANNA]-1, 1; ANNA-3, 1).
RESULTS: Of 31 patients who presented with a progressive myelopathy, symptom
onset was subacute in 16 (52%). The median age was 62 years. CSF abnormalities
included elevated protein (>45 mg/dL), 22; pleocytosis, 15; excess oligoclonal
bands (normal <4), 7. MRI cord abnormalities identified in 20 patients were
longitudinally extensive (>3 vertebral segments), 14; symmetric tract or gray
matter-specific signal abnormality, 15 (enhancing in 13). Myelopathy preceded
cancer diagnosis in 18 patients (median interval 12 months; range 2-44). After
myelopathy onset, 26 patients underwent oncologic treatment, immunosuppressive
treatment (median delay to commencing immunotherapy 9.5 months [range 1-54]), or 
both; only 8 improved (31%). At last neurologic evaluation (median interval after
onset 17 months; range 1-165 months), 16 patients (52%) were wheelchair-dependent
(median time from onset to wheelchair 9 months [range 1-21]). Ten patients died
after a median of 38 months from symptom onset (range 7-152).
CONCLUSION: Symmetric, longitudinally extensive tract or gray matter-specific
changes on spinal MRI should raise suspicion for a paraneoplastic myelopathy.
Resulting disability is often severe. Only a minority of patients improve with
treatment.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31821f468f 
PMID: 21670438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Bull Cancer. 2011 Jun;98(6):679-87. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2011.1373.

[Pathogenesis and management of refractory malignant ascites].

[Article in French]

Saâda E(1), Follana P, Peyrade F, Mari V, François E.

Author information: 
(1)Centre Antoine-Lacassagne, département d’oncologie médicale, Nice, France.
saadaesma@gmail.com

Malignant ascites are the cancer-associated accumulation of fluids in the
peritoneal cavity. The neoplasms most frequently associated with ascites are
ovarian, breast, colon, stomach and pancreas adenocarcinomas. Symptoms are
abdominal distention, nausea, vomiting, anorexia, dyspnea and limbs oedemas.
Several pathophysiological mechanisms might be implicated such as peritoneal
carcinomatosis, lymphatic vessels' obstruction, portal hypertension or heart
failure. Its diagnosis is most often performed in a context of already known
neoplasia. Malignant ascites are associated with a pejorative evolution. Ascites 
which cannot be mobilized or show early recurrence and cannot be prevented by
medical treatment are defined as refractory ascites. Therefore, management of
refractory malignant ascites takes place in the context of palliative care and
aims at improving the quality of life of these patients. This review lists the
current data reported on the pathophysiology of malignant ascites and describes
the present and future options for refractory malignant ascites management.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2011.1373 
PMID: 21636346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Lung Cancer. 2011 Sep;73(3):256-63. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2011.04.014. Epub 2011
May 28.

Chemotherapy and targeted therapies for unresectable malignant mesothelioma.

Kelly RJ(1), Sharon E, Hassan R.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, Bethesda, MD, USA.

The global burden of mesothelioma is expected to increase in the coming decades. 
As a result the development of more effective therapies with an emphasis on
personalized treatments based on validated prognostic and predictive biomarkers
is an essential requirement. Progress has been made in the last decade with the
development of newer generation anti-folates leading to the current standard of
care of pemetrexed and cisplatin in patients with unresectable disease. However, 
the median overall survival of patients with this combination treatment is only
12 months. There is no consensus regarding second line therapy for patients who
have progressed or not responded to pemetrexed based therapies although
gemcitabine in combination with a platinum compound or single agent vinorelbine
is a reasonable option. The development of effective targeted agents that are
active in mesothelioma has to date been disappointing. Strategies involving the
addition of bevacizumab to pemetrexed and cisplatin in the frontline setting, the
histone deacetylase inhibitor vorinostat as second line therapy and studies
evaluating the utility of maintenance therapy in mesothelioma are all ongoing and
appear promising. In addition clinical trials investigating immunotherapy and
gene therapy in combination with chemotherapy could potentially improve the
prognosis of patients with mesothelioma.

Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2011.04.014 
PMCID: PMC3148297
PMID: 21620512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Surg Today. 2011 May;41(5):606-11. doi: 10.1007/s00595-010-4478-7. Epub 2011 May 
1.

γδ T-cell immunotherapy for lung cancer.

Yoshida Y(1), Nakajima J, Wada H, Kakimi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunotherapeutics (Medinet), Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide, yet there are still
no satisfactory protocols available for treating this disease, emphasizing the
urgency for more effective therapies. Recent clinical trials have provided
encouraging evidence of the benefits of certain forms of immunotherapy. Here, we 
summarize recent developments in the area of γδ T-cell therapy for lung cancer in
our center. γδ T cells constitute 2%-10% of T lymphocytes in human blood and play
a role in immune surveillance against microbial pathogens and, possibly, cancer. 
These T cells recognize phosphoantigens via polymorphic γδ T-cell antigen
receptors (TCR), as well as the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I
chain-related molecules, A and B (MICA and MICB), via nonpolymorphic NKG2D
receptors in an MHC-unrestricted manner. This implies that γδ T cells could
retain antitumor effects despite reduced expression of MHC and tumor antigens on 
cancer cells. Thus, clinical trials have been conducted to evaluate the safety
and efficacy of γδ T-cell-based immunotherapies for non-Hodgkin lymphoma,
multiple myeloma, and solid tumors. This review focuses on the current status of 
γδ T-cell-based immunotherapy for lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-010-4478-7 
PMID: 21533930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Blood. 2011 Jul 21;118(3):499-509. doi: 10.1182/blood-2011-01-325266. Epub 2011
Apr 29.

Autoimmunity associated with immunotherapy of cancer.

Amos SM(1), Duong CP, Westwood JA, Ritchie DS, Junghans RP, Darcy PK, Kershaw MH.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Immunology Research Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, 
Australia.

Erratum in
    Blood. 2012 Dec 20;120(26):5251.

In this age of promise of new therapies for cancer, immunotherapy is emerging as 
an exciting treatment option for patients. Vaccines and cytokines are being
tested extensively in clinical trials, and strategies using monoclonal antibodies
and cell transfer are mediating dramatic regression of tumors in patients with
certain malignancies. However, although initially advocated as being more
specific for cancer and having fewer side effects than conventional therapies, it
is becoming increasingly clear that many immunotherapies can lead to immune
reactions against normal tissues. Immunotoxicities resulting from treatment can
range from relatively minor conditions, such as skin depigmentation, to severe
toxicities against crucial organ systems, such as liver, bowel, and lung.
Treatment-related toxicity has correlated with better responses in some cases,
and it is probable that serious adverse events from immune-mediated reactions
will increase in frequency and severity as immunotherapeutic approaches become
more effective. This review introduces immunotherapeutic approaches to cancer
treatment, provides details of toxicities arising from therapy, and discusses
future potential ways to avoid or circumvent these side effects.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2011-01-325266 
PMID: 21531979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Clin Transl Oncol. 2011 Apr;13(4):240-8. doi: 10.1007/s12094-011-0648-3.

Glioblastoma: changing expectations?

Arribas Alpuente L(1), Menéndez López A, Yayá Tur R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital Fundación IVO (Instituto Valenciano
de Oncología), Valencia, Spain. larribas@fivo.org

Glioblastoma (GB) represents the most aggressive glioma in the adult population. 
Despite recent research efforts, the prognosis of patients with GB has remained
dismal. Lately, the knowledge of genetic information about gliomagenesis has
increased; we even have a classification of the genetic expression of the tumour.
The main problem is that at the moment we do not have any therapeutical resources
to help us better treat these tumours, as we can do, with others tumours like
breast, lung and colorectal cancer. We have also improved on diagnostic imaging, 
especially with the new MRI sequences; we can now better define the
characteristics of the tumour area and the surrounding brain structures, allowing
us to adjust resections. Thanks to the most advanced surgery techniques, such as 
neuronavigation, intraoperative control of the nervous function and the tumour
volume, the neurosurgeon is able to complete tumour exeresis with less morbidity.
These imaging techniques allow the radiation oncologist to better contour the
irradiation target volume, the structures and the organs at risk, to diminish the
irradiation of apparently healthy tissue. Nowadays, knowledge of brain stem cells
provides new expectations for future treatments. Novel targeted agents such as
bevacizumab, imatinib, erlotinib, temsirolimus, immunotherapy, cilengitide,
talampanel, etc. are helping classical chemotherapeutic agents, like
temozolomide, to achieve an increase in overall survival. The main objective is
to improve median overall survival, which is currently between 9 and 12 months,
with a good quality of life, measured by the ability to carry out daily life
activities.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-011-0648-3 
PMID: 21493184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Lung Cancer. 2011 Jul;73(1):11-7. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2011.02.023. Epub 2011
Apr 6.

Vaccines for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer: investigational
approaches and clinical experience.

Mellstedt H(1), Vansteenkiste J, Thatcher N.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Centre Karolinska, Department of Oncology, Karolinska University
Hospital, Solna, SE-171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. hakan.mellstedt@karolinska.se

Globally, lung cancer remains the most common malignancy and the leading cause of
cancer-related death. Whilst resection is a therapeutic option for patients with 
early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), most patients have locally
advanced or metastatic disease at diagnosis, the treatment of which still
presents a considerable challenge for medical oncologists. Therapeutic cancer
vaccines offer a novel approach for the treatment of patients with NSCLC in both 
the adjuvant and advanced disease settings. Although early attempts to use such
technologies were of limited success, increased knowledge of the molecular
pathology of tumors, of the immune system in general, and of tumor immunity in
particular, has facilitated the production of more sophisticated anticancer
vaccines. A number of promising vaccine candidates based on different types of
antigenic stimulus have now been evaluated in clinical studies. These include
belagenpumatucel-L, a vaccine derived from four genetically modified, irradiated 
NSCLC cell lines and target protein-specific vaccines designed to induce
responses against epidermal growth factor (EGF), melanoma-associated antigen A3
(MAGE-A3) and mucin 1 (MUC1). The purpose of this review is to describe the mode 
of action of the vaccine candidates that are most advanced in their clinical
development for the treatment of NSCLC, and to summarize the most recent data
from clinical studies of these vaccines.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2011.02.023 
PMID: 21474197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Cancer Biother Radiopharm. 2011 Feb;26(1):1-64. doi: 10.1089/cbr.2010.0902.

Cancer immunotherapy.

Dillman RO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hoag Cancer Institute of Hoag Hospital , Newport Beach, California 92658, USA.
rdillman@hoaghospital.org

Cancer immunotherapy consists of approaches that modify the host immune system,
and/or the utilization of components of the immune system, as cancer treatment.
During the past 25 years, 17 immunologic products have received regulatory
approval based on anticancer activity as single agents and/or in combination with
chemotherapy. These include the nonspecific immune stimulants BCG and levamisole;
the cytokines interferon-α and interleukin-2; the monoclonal antibodies
rituximab, ofatumumab, alemtuzumab, trastuzumab, bevacizumab, cetuximab, and
panitumumab; the radiolabeled antibodies Y-90 ibritumomab tiuxetan and I-131
tositumomab; the immunotoxins denileukin diftitox and gemtuzumab ozogamicin;
nonmyeloablative allogeneic transplants with donor lymphocyte infusions; and the 
anti-prostate cancer cell-based therapy sipuleucel-T. All but two of these
products are still regularly used to treat various B- and T-cell malignancies,
and numerous solid tumors, including breast, lung, colorectal, prostate,
melanoma, kidney, glioblastoma, bladder, and head and neck. Positive randomized
trials have recently been reported for idiotype vaccines in lymphoma and a
peptide vaccine in melanoma. The anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody ipilumumab,
which blocks regulatory T-cells, is expected to receive regulatory approval in
the near future, based on a randomized trial in melanoma. As the fourth modality 
of cancer treatment, biotherapy/immunotherapy is an increasingly important
component of the anticancer armamentarium.

DOI: 10.1089/cbr.2010.0902 
PMID: 21355777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Clin Immunol. 2011 Aug;140(2):167-76. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2011.01.009. Epub 2011 
Jan 27.

Anti-tumor immune responses induced by iNKT cell-based immunotherapy for lung
cancer and head and neck cancer.

Motohashi S(1), Okamoto Y, Yoshino I, Nakayama T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University,
Japan.

Invariant NKT (iNKT) cells constitute a distinct lymphocyte subset, and upon
activation, iNKT cells modulate the function of a wide variety of other immune
cells including anti-tumor effector cells in both a direct and indirect manner.
Decreased numbers and a reduced function of iNKT cells have been observed in
patients with various malignant diseases, thus correlating with a poor clinical
outcome. Therefore, therapeutic intervention strategies aimed at the recovery of 
functional iNKT cells would be an appropriate rationale for the treatment of
cancer. Early clinical trials of iNKT cell-based immunotherapy demonstrated that 
the infusion of ligand-pulsed antigen presenting cells and/or in vitro activated 
iNKT cells was safe and well tolerated. This review summarizes the results of a
series of clinical trials for lung cancer and head and neck cancer patients in
Chiba University Hospital, Japan, and discusses iNKT cell-induced immune
responses particularly those in the tumor microenvironment.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clim.2011.01.009 
PMID: 21349771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Clin Transl Oncol. 2011 Feb;13(2):84-7. doi: 10.1007/s12094-011-0623-z.

Monoclonal antibodies for medical oncology: a few critical perspectives.

Belda-Iniesta C(1), Ibáñez de Cáceres I, de Castro J.

Author information: 
(1)Biomarkers and Experimental Therapeutics Group, IdiPAZ, University Hospital La
Paz, Madrid, Spain. cbelda.hulp@salud.madrid.org

Incorporation of antibodies as weapons for cancer therapy has meant a turning
point in the survival, clinical and radiological response of many oncology
patients. These drugs are effective, well designed missiles that either alone or 
in combination with chemotherapy are unavoidable weapons for breast, lung and
colon cancer as well as for haematological tumours. In addition, incoming
monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and folder-like proteins will be incorporated into
clinical practice in the near future. This review aims to discuss a few imminent 
indications of current mAbs that are used for solid tumours and to briefly
introduce future mAbs to the reader.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-011-0623-z 
PMID: 21324795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Drug Discov Today. 2012 May;17(9-10):435-42. doi: 10.1016/j.drudis.2011.02.005.
Epub 2011 Feb 21.

Targeting cancer-initiating cell drug-resistance: a roadmap to a new-generation
of cancer therapies?

Alama A(1), Orengo AM, Ferrini S, Gangemi R.

Author information: 
(1)Lung Cancer Unit, National Institute for Cancer Research, Largo R. Benzi 10,
16132 Genoa, Italy. angela.alama@istge.it

The occurrence of drug resistance in oncology accounts for treatment failure and 
relapse of diverse tumor types. Cancers contain cells at various stages of
differentiation together with a limited number of 'cancer-initiating cells' able 
to self-renew and divide asymmetrically, driving tumorigenesis. Cancer-initiating
cells display a range of self-defense systems that include almost all mechanisms 
of drug-resistance. Different molecular pathways and markers, identified in this 
malignant sub-population, are becoming targets for novel compounds and for
monoclonal antibodies, which may be combined with conventional drugs. These
interventions might eliminate drug-resistant cancer-initiating cells and lead to 
remission or cure of cancer patients.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2011.02.005 
PMID: 21315830  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Thorac Oncol. 2011 Apr;6(4):824-33. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e3182037b76.

The role of tumor-infiltrating immune cells and chronic inflammation at the tumor
site on cancer development, progression, and prognosis: emphasis on non-small
cell lung cancer.

Bremnes RM(1), Al-Shibli K, Donnem T, Sirera R, Al-Saad S, Andersen S, Stenvold
H, Camps C, Busund LT.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway.
roy.bremnes@uit.no

In addition to malignant neoplastic cells, cancer tissues also include immune
cells, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells, including an abundant collection of
growth factors, proangiogenic mediators, cytokines, chemokines, and components of
the extracellular matrix. The main physiological function of the immune cells is 
to monitor tissue homeostasis, to protect against invading pathogens, and to
eliminate transformed or damaged cells. Between immune cells and malignant cells 
in the tumor stroma, there is in fact a complex interaction which has significant
prognostic relevance as the immune system has both tumor-promoting and
-inhibiting roles. In non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), there is a marked
infiltration of different types of immune cells, and the distribution, tissue
localization, and cell types are significantly associated with progression and
survival. Cancer immunotherapy has seen a significant progress during the last
decade. An increased understanding of the mechanisms by which lung cancer cells
escape the immune system, and the recognition of the key tumor antigens and
immune system components in tumor ignorance have led to the development of
several lung cancer vaccines. As the NSCLC prognosis in general is dismal, one
may hope that future immunotherapy may be an effective adjunct to standard
therapy, reversing immunologic tolerance in the tumor microenvironment. This
review reports on the tumor stroma and in particular tumor-suppressing and
-promoting roles of the immune system. Furthermore, it presents recent literature
on relevant immune cell-related research in NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e3182037b76 
PMID: 21173711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Zentralbl Chir. 2010 Dec;135(6):508-15. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1262681. Epub 2010
Dec 13.

[Pleural effusions and ascites--surgical and palliative aspects].

[Article in German]

Ströhlein MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Klinikum Köln-Merheim, Universitätsklinikum der Universität Witten/Herdecke,
Köln, Deutschland. stroehleinm@kliniken-koeln.de

BACKGROUND: Pleural effusions and ascites are associated with distressing
symptoms like dyspnoea, intestinal obstruction, vomiting, nausea and pain. In
patients with underlying malignancy, the prognosis is limited to few months.
After unsuccessful medical treatment, surgical and experimental palliative
treatment is indicated.
METHODS: This review includes a systematic analysis of surgical, experimental and
palliative options.
RESULTS: In patients with pleural effusions, thoracocentesis, permanent
percutaneous drainage, thoracoperitoneal shunts as well as pleurodesis by tubes
or thoracoscopy are available, which will be used depending on the re-expansion
of the lung. In patients with ascites, paracentesis is able to control acute
symptoms. For long-lasting treatment, portosystemic shunts (TIPS) are favourable 
for patients with liver cirrhosis. Peritoneovenous shunts can be implanted by
laparotomy, but are correlated with high rates of complications and occlusions.
In patients with malignancy, pleural effusions and ascites may also be controlled
by complete cytoreductive surgery and hyperthermic chemoperfusion. This
aggressive surgical concept is limited to single carefully selected patients. In 
malignant ascites, intraperitoneal immunotherapy by catumaxomab is a novel and
highly effective option, which controls ascites by targeted destruction of
peritoneal cancer cells.
CONCLUSION: Various options for treatment of pleural effusions and ascites are
available. Careful evaluation of the individual patient is necessary to improve
quality of life and survival.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart ˙ New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1262681 
PMID: 21154207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2011 Jan;15(1):31-51. doi:
10.1517/14728222.2011.538682.

Emerging strategies for EphA2 receptor targeting for cancer therapeutics.

Tandon M(1), Vemula SV, Mittal SK.

Author information: 
(1)Purdue University, Department of Comparative Pathobiology, Bindley Bioscience 
Center, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: High mortality rates with cancers warrant further
development of earlier diagnostics and better treatment strategies.
Membrane-bound erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular receptor tyrosine kinase
class A2 (EphA2) is overexpressed in breast, prostate, urinary bladder, skin,
lung, ovary and brain cancers.
AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: EphA2 overexpression in cancers, its signaling
mechanisms and strategies to target its deregulation.
WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: High EphA2 expression in cancer cells is correlated
with a poor prognosis associated with recurrence due to enhanced metastasis.
Interaction of the EphA2 receptor with its ligand (e.g., ephrinA1) triggers
events that are deregulated and implicated in carcinogenesis.
EphrinA1-independent oncogenic activity and ephrinA1-dependent tumor suppressor
roles for EphA2 are described. Molecular interactions of EphA2 with signaling
proteins are associated with the modulation of cytoskeleton dynamics, cell
adhesion, proliferation, differentiation and metastasis. The deregulated
signaling by EphA2 and its involvement in oncogenesis provide multiple avenues
for the rational design of intervention approaches.
TAKE HOME MESSAGE: EphA2 has been tested as a drug target using multiple
approaches such as agonist antibodies, RNA interference, immunotherapy, virus
vector-mediated gene transfer, small-molecule inhibitors and nanoparticles. With 
over a decade of research, encouraging results with targeting of EphA2 expression
in various pre-clinical cancer models necessitate further studies.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2011.538682 
PMCID: PMC3016619
PMID: 21142802  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2010 Dec;136(6):344-7.

[Translational research of NKT cell-based immunotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Motohashi S(1), Nakayama T.

Author information: 
(1)motohashi@faculty.chiba-u.jp


PMID: 21139286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Semin Oncol. 2010 Oct;37(5):460-7. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2010.09.006.

Clinical studies with anti-CTLA-4 antibodies in non-melanoma indications.

Calabrò L(1), Danielli R, Sigalotti L, Maio M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology and Immunotherapy, Department of Oncology,
University Hospital of Siena, Istituto Toscano Tumori, Siena, Italy.
l.calabro@ao-siena.toscana.it

Available medical treatments have limited impact on the survival of patients with
advanced cancer; therefore, new therapeutic strategies able to generate more
effective host's immune responses against neoplastic cells are being actively
pursued. Among these, a recent approach involves targeting of cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4), a key immune checkpoint molecule, by monoclonal 
antibodies (mAbs). Ipilimumab and tremelimumab represent the prototypes of this
new class of immunomodulating mAb and have been extensively tested in metastatic 
melanoma with highly promising results. The clinical activity observed in
melanoma has served as a model to exploit the therapeutic potential of CTLA-4
blockade in a variety of human malignancies. Along this line, early-phase trials 
with anti-CTLA-4 mAbs have been completed or are ongoing in tumors of different
histotype. Results are demonstrating the feasibility, safety, and activity of
these agents, thus suggesting a promising therapeutic role to be further
investigated in phase II/III trials in a wide range of tumors. This review
summarizes the main trials with ipilimumab and tremelimumab in tumors of
different histotypes, excluding cutaneous melanoma, which is extensively
described in other chapters of this issue of Seminars in Oncology.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2010.09.006 
PMID: 21074061  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Cytotherapy. 2011 Jan;13(1):8-18. doi: 10.3109/14653249.2010.530649. Epub 2010
Nov 10.

Tumor vaccines and beyond.

Melenhorst JJ(1), Barrett AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Allogeneic Transplant Section, Hematology Branch, National Heart,
Lung and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

For the last two decades the immunotherapy of patients with solid and
hematopoietic tumors has met with variable success. We have reviewed the field of
tumor vaccines to examine what has worked and what has not, why this has been the
case, how the anti-tumor responses were examined, and how we can make tumor
immunity successful for the majority of individuals rather than for the
exceptional patients who currently show successful immune responses against their
tumors.

DOI: 10.3109/14653249.2010.530649 
PMID: 21067312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2011 Jan;11(1):103-10.

Chronic vaccination with a therapeutic EGF-based cancer vaccine: a review of
patients receiving long lasting treatment.

Gonzalez G(1), Crombet T, Lage A.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Molecular Immunology, Playa, C. Habana, Cuba. gisela@cim.sld.cu

Therapeutic vaccines continue to be one of the most active fields in cancer
research. However, despite clear evidence of antitumor effect in laboratory
animals, and despite the ability of current vaccine candidates to elicit tumor
specific antibodies and T-cells in humans, objective responses in the clinical
trials are rare. The role of therapeutic vaccines in advanced cancer patients, if
any, would be to decrease the rate of disease progression and to increase
survival and quality of life. Due to the redundant regulatory loops contracting
the immune response to antigens that cannot be eliminated, such a role would
require chronic vaccination, which is at first sight at odds with the classic
experience of vaccinology. During the last decade our team has been developing a 
therapeutic vaccine for advanced lung cancer, which consists in human recombinant
Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF) chemically conjugated to a carrier protein from
Neisseria meningitides. Several clinical trials have been carried out, showing
increase in anti-EGF antibody titters, decrease in plasma EGF concentration and
survival advantage in vaccinated patients. In the present paper we review data
from 58 patients who were vaccinated monthly for more than one or two years. Long
term vaccination was feasible and safe, and there was no evidence of cumulative
toxicity. Patients kept high anti-EGF antibody titters during all the time of
vaccination, without evidence of immune response exhaustion. Continued
vaccination increased the probability to get a high antibody response, which has 
been previously shown to be, in turn, associated with a better survival.
Observations done in this series of patients suggest that long term therapeutic
vaccination is a feasible strategy, worth to be further explored in the aim of
transforming advanced cancer into a chronic disease.


PMID: 21062240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Clin Dev Immunol. 2010;2010:814397. doi: 10.1155/2010/814397. Epub 2010 Oct 27.

NGcGM3 ganglioside: a privileged target for cancer vaccines.

Fernandez LE(1), Gabri MR, Guthmann MD, Gomez RE, Gold S, Fainboim L, Gomez DE,
Alonso DF.

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine Department, Center of Molecular Immunology, Havana, Cuba.

Active specific immunotherapy is a promising field in cancer research. N-glycolyl
(NGc) gangliosides, and particularly NGcGM3, have received attention as a
privileged target for cancer therapy. Many clinical trials have been performed
with the anti-NGc-containing gangliosides anti-idiotype monoclonal antibody
racotumomab (formerly known as 1E10) and the conjugated NGcGM3/VSSP vaccine for
immunotherapy of melanoma, breast, and lung cancer. The present paper examines
the role of NGc-gangliosides in tumor biology as well as the available
preclinical and clinical data on these vaccine products. A brief discussion on
the relevance of prioritization of cancer antigens in vaccine development is also
included.

DOI: 10.1155/2010/814397 
PMCID: PMC2965427
PMID: 21048926  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Rev Mal Respir. 2010 Oct;27(8):959-63. doi: 10.1016/j.rmr.2010.07.005. Epub 2010 
Sep 17.

[Targeting insulin-like growth factors in the treatment of cancer].

[Article in French]

Moro-Sibilot D(1), Coudurier M, Lantuejoul S.

Author information: 
(1)UF oncologie thoracique, pole de médecine aiguë communautaire, CHU
Albert-Michallon, BP 217, 38043 Grenoble cedex 9, France.
DMoro.pneumo@chu-grenoble.fr

INTRODUCTION: The insulin-like growth factor I receptor (IGF-IR) pathway plays a 
major role in cancer growth, tumor cell survival and resistance to therapy.
BACKGROUND: Preclinical evidence that targeting the IGF-IR is effective in cancer
treatment has been accumulating for almost 2 decades. Early clinical trials
revealed an acceptable safety profile together with pharmacodynamic evidence that
the receptor can be targeted successfully. It is premature to draw conclusions
regarding the therapeutic potential of this class of compounds but
well-documented single-agent activity was noted during phase I evaluations, and
recent evidence from a phase-II study suggests that co-administration of an
anti-IGF-1R antibody with chemotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
improves objective response rate and progression-free survival.
VIEWPOINTS: These early results are a strong indication for continued research on
the targeting of IGF-R, particularly in the treatment of NSCLC.
CONCLUSIONS: Today, IGF-1R targeting appears a promising approach, more than two 
dozen compounds have been developed and clinical trials are underway.

Copyright © 2010 SPLF. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmr.2010.07.005 
PMID: 20965410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Rev Mal Respir. 2010 Oct;27(8):954-8. doi: 10.1016/j.rmr.2010.08.002.

[Molecular biology of lung cancer series].

[Article in French]

Hiret S(1), Senellart H, Bennouna J.

Author information: 
(1)Centre régional de lutte contre le cancer René-Gauducheau, boulevard
Jacques-Monod, 44805 Saint-Herblain, France.

INTRODUCTION: MAGE-A3 (Melanoma Associated Antigen-A3) is expressed in cancer
cells but not in normal tissues except male germ line cells which are devoid of
Major Histocompatibility Complex molecules and therefore do not present MAGE-A3
antigens.
BACKGROUND: MAGE-A3 is expressed in 30 to 60% of non-small cell lung cancers but 
its function is unknown. Its recognition by cytotoxic T lymphocytes implies its
presentation on the cell surface by HLA type A1 molecules that are absent from
germ cells.
VIEWPOINTS: MAGE-A3 represents a good target for active anticancer immunotherapy.
Some trials, which used MAGE-A3 and an adjuvant showed a strong antigen-specific 
T-cell response with, perhaps, an improved survival.
CONCLUSION: This needs to be confirmed as an adjuvent therapy by current phase
III randomized controlled trials.

Copyright © 2010 SPLF. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmr.2010.08.002 
PMID: 20965409  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Neurol Clin. 2010 Nov;28(4):941-59. doi: 10.1016/j.ncl.2010.03.024.

Management of voltage-gated potassium channel antibody disorders.

Merchut MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University
Chicago, Building 105, Room 2720, 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood, IL 60153,
USA. mmerchu@lumc.edu

Syndromes from antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels include
neuromyotonia (NMT), limbic encephalitis (LE) and Morvan syndrome (MVS). There
are distinct clinical features for NMT (cramps, stiffness, fasciculations,
myokymia, hyperhidrosis; afterdischarges and continuous motor activity on
electromyogram), LE (encephalopathy with seizures, deficient recent memory;
hyponatremia, temporal lobe magnetic resonance imaging and
electroencephalographic abnormalities) and MVS (NMT plus hyperhidrosis,
dysautonomia, encephalopathy, severe insomnia, and sleep disorders). There may be
associated myasthenia gravis or thymoma, and rarely lung cancer (small cell or
adenocarcinoma), mandating that chest imaging be part of the evaluation. Most
cases respond favorably to immunosuppression with plasma exchange, intravenous
immunoglobulin or pulse intravenous methylprednisolone, usually followed by oral 
steroids.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ncl.2010.03.024 
PMID: 20816272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Cancer Treat Rev. 2011 May;37(3):169-77. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2010.08.001. Epub
2010 Aug 25.

Evolving strategies for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma: from
clinical-guided to molecularly-tailored therapeutic options.

Faloppi L(1), Scartozzi M, Maccaroni E, Di Pietro Paolo M, Berardi R, Del Prete
M, Cascinu S.

Author information: 
(1)Scuola di Specializzazione in Oncologia, Università Politecnica delle Marche, 
via Conca, Ancona, Italy.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (hepatocellular carcinoma, HCC) is the commonest primary
liver cancer (80-90%) and represents the leading cause of cancer-related death,
after lung and stomach cancer. The process of neoplastic transformation proceeds 
through the accumulation of mutations in the genes governing cell proliferation
and apoptosis. It is currently difficult to determine the natural history of
patients with untreated early-stage HCC, since most with early-stage tumor
patients undergoes curative therapy. Survival rates at 3 years is 65% in patients
with Child-Pugh A, and single untreated lesion. This proportion increases to 70% 
at 5 years after radical treatment. In patients included in randomized controlled
clinical trials with advanced disease, survival at 1 and 2 years is respectively 
72% and 50%. Surgery is the only potentially curative treatment for HCC. In
carefully selected patients, resection and transplantation in fact, allow a 5
years survival from 60% to 70%. Unfortunately most patients in Western countries 
present with an intermediate or advanced HCC at diagnosis with the consequent
inability to use curative treatments. These patients are therefore candidates to 
palliative therapies that include arterial embolization and chemoembolization and
systemic treatments including chemotherapy, immunotherapy and hormonal therapy.
Only recently the molecular targeted drug, Sorafenib, has been introduced among
the therapeutic options for these patients.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2010.08.001 
PMID: 20800360  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Int Assoc Physicians AIDS Care (Chic). 2010 Jul-Aug;9(4):214-7. doi:
10.1177/1545109710373279.

Lung cancer in HIV-infected patients: the experience of an urban clinic.

Ruiz M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Infectious Diseases and Geriatric Medicine,
Louisiana State University, New Orleans, LA, USA. mruiz@lsuhsc.edu

BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is one of the most common non-AIDS-defining malignancies 
among HIV-infected patients. Recent studies suggest that lung cancer risk is 3 to
4 times higher in HIV-infected patients than in uninfected persons after
adjusting for other factors such as smoking intensity and duration.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review (2002-2009) was conducted in our
institution. An abstraction form was used to compile data that included
demographics, T-cell count, and viral loads before and at the time of diagnosis, 
comordibities, smoking, and use of alcohol and drugs.
RESULTS: A total of 16 patients were found. Of these, 11 (69%) patients were male
and 5 (31%) female. The average age at diagnosis was 49 years (range 36-54). The 
Majority of patients were African American (90%). Their average CD4 counts before
and at the time of diagnoses were 241 and 211 cells/mm( 3), respectively. Their
viral loads before and at the time of diagnosis ranged from <48 to 437 000 and
<48 to 590 760 copies/mL, respectively. Adenocarcinoma was found in 67% of cases.
The majority of cases (85%) were detected at advanced stages (IIIB or IV).
Smoking was found in 100% of cases (average of 15-20 pack/year history), alcohol 
use in 70% of cases, and drug abuse in 50%.
CONCLUSIONS: Lung cancer is very common in HIV-infected populations. It tends to 
occur at a young age, and it is usually diagnosed at very advanced stages (IIIB
or IV). The main risk factors found in our study were extensive smoking history, 
young age, male sex, and potentially prolonged immunosuppression. Based on these 
results, an attempt to construct a high-risk group index might not be appropriate
due to the limited number of cases studied and the need for further evaluation of
the length of immunosuppression and the real impact of HIV RNA viral load in the 
development of lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1177/1545109710373279 
PMID: 20798400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2010 Jul;39(4):424-9.

[Research progress of gammadelta T cell-based immunotherapy].

[Article in Chinese]

Qiu FM(1), Li ZP, Huang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine,
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310009, China.

GammadeltaT cells are considered as linkage between innate and adaptive immune
response, which recognize specific antigen without MHC-restriction.
Vgamma9Vdelta2T cells, isolated from peripheral blood and tumor tissue, can be
activated by non-peptide phosphoantigen through binding to its gammadeltaTCR and 
proliferate under IL-2 stimulation. It has been shown that Vgamma9Vdelta2T cells 
possess anticancer activity against several types of tumor in vitro, as well as
inhibit the growth of lymphoma, breast cancer and malignant melanoma in vivo. The
phase I clinical trial of the application of Vgamma9Vdelta2T cells in treatment
of lung cancer, renal cancer and prostate cancer demonstrated promising results. 
This review summarizes the recent advances in antigen recognition and activation 
of gammadeltaT cells, and the gammadeltaT cell-based immunotherapy for cancer
treatment.


PMID: 20731045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Brain Nerve. 2010 Aug;62(8):838-51.

[Anti-Ma2-associated encephalitis and paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto T(1), Tsuji S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The University of Tokyo Hospital, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Anti-Ma2-associated encephalitis (or anti-Ma2 encephalitis) is a paraneoplastic
neurological syndrome (PNS) characterized by isolated or combined limbic,
diencephalic, or brainstem dysfunction. Anti-Ma2 antibodies detected in the serum
or cerebrospinal fluid of patients are highly specific for this disease entity
and belong to a group of well-characterized onconeuronal antibodies (or classical
antibodies). The corresponding antigen, Ma2 is selectively expressed
intracellularly in neurons and tumors as is the case with other onconeuronal
antigens targeted by classical antibodies. However, in most cases the clinical
pictures are different from those of classical PNS and this creates a potential
risk of underdiagnosis. Although limbic dysfunction is the most common
manifestation in patients with anti-Ma2 encephalitis which is one of the major
causes of paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis (LE), it has been reported that less
than 30% of the patients with anti-Ma2 LE exhibit clinical presentations typical 
of the classical description of LE. Of the remaining, many exhibit excessive
daytime sleepiness, vertical ophthalmoparesis, or both associated with LE,
because of frequent involvement of the diencephalon and/or upper brainstem.
Anti-Ma2 LE can also be manifested as a pure psychiatric disturbance such as
obsessive-compulsive disorder in a few cases. Some patients develop
mesodiencephalic encephalitis with minor involvement of the limbic system, and
some may manifest severe hypokinesis. About 40% of the patients with anti-Ma2
antibodies also have antibodies against different epitopes on Ma1, a homologue of
Ma2. These patients may have predominant cerebellar and/or brainstem dysfunctions
due to more extensive involvement of subtentorial structures. Anti-Ma2
encephalitis is outstanding among other PNS associated with classical antibodies 
in that the response rate to treatment is relatively high. While it can cause
severe neurological deficits or death in a substantial proportion of the
patients, approximately one-third show neurological improvement and another 20 - 
40% stabilize in response to treatment, including immunotherapy and/or tumor
treatment. Patients who have limited CNS involvement and testicular tumors with
complete response to therapy are more likely to show neurological improvement.
This fact emphasizes the importance of early diagnosis and prompt initiation of
therapy. However, it should be noted that even carcinoma in situ, which is
difficult to detect can cause severe neurological disorders. In this respect, it 
is useful to highlight that anti-Ma2 encephalitis is almost always associated
with testicular germ cell tumors in men younger than 50 years. We experienced a
40-year-old patient with severe hypokinesis caused by anti-Ma2 encephalitis
associated with bilateral intratubular germ-cell neoplasm of the testes. In older
men and women, non-small-cell lung cancer is most common but various types of
cancers are reported to be associated. In this study,in addition to reviewing the
above case we have reviewed the significance of anti-Ma2 antibodies in the
diagnosis of anti-Ma2 encephalitis and the clinical features of this disease.


PMID: 20714032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2010 Sep;9(5):843-54. doi: 10.1517/14740338.2010.511611.

Everolimus: efficacy and safety in cardiac transplantation.

Schaffer SA(1), Ross HJ.

Author information: 
(1)University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto General Hospital,
Divisions of Cardiology and Transplantation, 585 University Ave, Toronto, Ontario
M5G 2N2, Canada.

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: Prognosis after cardiac transplantation continues to
improve with long-term outcomes limited by malignancy and coronary allograft
vasculopathy (CAV). Everolimus may potentially reduce these late term
complications, while maintaining the low cellular rejection rates seen with
standard therapy.
AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: Multiple studies have demonstrated the efficacy of 
everolimus in reducing acute rejection in heart transplant patients, progression 
and development of CAV, and the prevention and treatment of common malignancies, 
including skin cancer and Kaposi sarcoma. This review re-examines these studies
with a focus on patient tolerability and safety.
WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: Tolerability and safety of everolimus remain a concern
with pneumonitis, effusions, mouth ulcers, edema and impaired wound healing
associated with morbidity and mortality. Studies have repeatedly demonstrated
renal function deterioration with concomitant everolimus and a standard dose
calcineurin inhibitor (CNI). This impact can be partly reduced with CNI dose
reduction without an increase in the rate of rejection.
TAKE HOME MESSAGE: If future studies confirm reduced CAV and malignancy rates,
everolimus will become an important agent in de novo and maintenance
immunotherapy in cardiac transplantation. Patient centered immunotherapy is
preferred to protocol-based immunotherapy as it allows tailoring of immune
therapy to each individual patient's rejection risk and side profile.

DOI: 10.1517/14740338.2010.511611 
PMID: 20701555  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Cancer J. 2010 Jul-Aug;16(4):325-35. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3181eb33bc.

Chemokines: can effector cells be redirected to the site of the tumor?

Dubinett SM(1), Lee JM, Sharma S, Mulé JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles Lung Cancer
Research Program, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.

Chemokines (ie, chemoattractant cytokines) are a family of small secreted
molecules that mediate leukocyte migration. It is becoming increasingly more
evident that chemokines play an integral role in the initiation of a specific
immune response. With respect to cancer, chemokines are being studied for both
their role in tumor biology and as promising immunotherapy candidates. We review 
several areas of chemokine importance in tumor immunity and discuss the
experimental evidence that is leading to the clinical use of this cytokine family
in new treatment approaches for patients with cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3181eb33bc 
PMCID: PMC3076643
PMID: 20693843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2010 Jun;13(6):637-41. doi:
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2010.06.013.

[Current status and prospects of maintenance therapy in advanced stage non-small 
cell lung cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Quan L(1), Chen W, Shu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical
University, Jiangsu Province Hospital, Nanjing 210029, China.

DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2010.06.013 
PMID: 20681454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Biotinylated anti-Tn MLS128 monoclonal antibody-(125)I-streptavidin.

Shan L.
In: Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) [Internet]. Bethesda
(MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US); 2004-2013.
2009 Jul 21.

Tn antigen is a tumor-associated carbohydrate epitope (N-acetyl-galactosamine
(GalNAc)-O-Ser/Thr (GalNAca-O-Ser/Thr)) (1-3). Two-step targeting with
biotinylated MLS128 murine monoclonal antibody (Bt-MLS128 mAb) and (125)I-labeled
streptavidin ((125)I-SA) was developed for in vivo imaging of Tn
antigen-expressing tumors (4-7). It was designed on the basis of avidin’s
extraordinarily high binding affinity for biotin. Avidin’s high affinity for
biotin was first exploited in histochemical applications in the mid-1970s (8, 9).
This affinity is more than one million times higher than that of most antibodies 
for most antigens. Avidin has four binding sites for biotin, and most proteins,
including enzymes, can be conjugated with several molecules of biotin. The
avidin-biotin binding is essentially irreversible. These properties allow
molecular complexes to be formed between avidin and biotinylated antibodies. In
addition, small molecular sizes of avidin and biotin allow improved tumor uptake 
and rapid intratumoral spatial distribution. Altered glycosylation on the cell
surface is a hallmark of malignant transformation and tumor progression.
Incomplete synthesis of the carbohydrate chains and precursor accumulation result
in loss of the normal carbohydrate antigens and high expression of the
tumor-associated carbohydrate antigens (10-12). Lewis Y, TF, Globo H, GM2,
polysialic acid, sialyl Lewis A, Tn, and sialyl Tn are some of the antigens
investigated intensively as diagnostic markers or as vaccine antigens (11-14). Tn
antigen was first reported as a tumor-associated antigen nearly 40 years ago
(15). It is composed of a single GalNAc glycan residue attached via an α-linkage 
to either the serine (Ser) or the threonine (Thr) of a polypeptide chain (12,
14). In normal tissues, Tn antigen is masked by covalently bound terminal
carbohydrate moieties, but in tumors it is unmasked because of defective
O-glycosylation. Accordingly, Tn antigen is rarely expressed in normal tissues,
but it is widely expressed in human carcinomas or hematological cancers. It has
been reported that the Tn antigen is expressed in 70–90% of breast, colon, lung, 
bladder, cervical, ovarian, stomach, and prostate tumors (1, 3, 10). The
expression levels of Tn antigen are closely associated with tumor aggressiveness 
and poor survival of patients (11, 13). In addition, Tn antigen is recognized by 
the human immune system as a novel epitope, provoking immune responses in
patients. There is a significant correlation among the expression of the Tn
antigen, the development of the spontaneous antibodies against Tn, and the
prognosis for patients with carcinomas. Clinical trials are under way to
deliberately provoke or enhance human immune responses by injecting patients with
synthetic peptide antigens bearing Tn structure (3, 11, 16-18). Tn antigen has
attracted significant interest as a target for tumor diagnosis and immunotherapy.
A number of anti-Tn IgG and IgM antibodies have been generated and investigated
for their imaging feasibilities and anti-tumor activities (2, 4, 5, 19-24). The
results are generally inconsistent. There are still some issues to be resolved,
such as immunogenicity, reduced effectiveness in vivo, and cross-reactivity
against type-A blood antigen. In addition, directly radiolabeled antibodies
usually show a slow and low accumulation in tumors, and their blood clearance is 
also slow. Zhang et al. tested the imaging feasibility of two-step targeting with
Bt-MLS128 and (125)I-SA in mice bearing LS180 human colon cancer xenografts (4). 
Note: Investigators from the same research group as Zhang et al. also labeled the
anti-Tn MLS128 mAb directly with (125)I/(131)I ((125)I/(131)I-MLS128) and (111)In
((111)In-MLS128), separately, and investigated their biodistribution and the
feasibility of imaging tumors in mice bearing LS180 tumor xenografts. They also
tested the imaging feasibility of three-step targeting with Bt-MLS128, SA, and
(111)In-DTPA-biotin (Bt-MLS128-SA-(111)In-biotin) in mice with LS180 tumor
xenografts (4-7, 20).

PMID: 20641881  [PubMed]


630. Biotinylated anti-Tn MLS128 monoclonal antibody-streptavidin-(111)In-DTPA-biotin.

Shan L.
In: Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) [Internet]. Bethesda
(MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US); 2004-2013.
2009 Jul 21.

Tn antigen is a tumor-associated carbohydrate epitope (N-acetyl-galactosamine
(GalNAc)-O-Ser/Thr (GalNAca-O-Ser/Thr)) (1-3). Three-step targeting with
biotinylated MLS128 monoclonal antibody (Bt-MLS128 mAb), streptavidin (SA), and
(111)In-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA)-biotin ((111)In-biotin) was
developed for in vivo imaging of Tn antigen-expressing tumors (4). It was
designed on the basis of avidin’s extraordinarily high binding affinity for
biotin. Avidin’s high affinity for biotin was first exploited in histochemical
applications in the mid-1970s (5, 6). This affinity is more than one million
times higher than that of most antibodies for most antigens. Avidin has four
binding sites for biotin, and most proteins, including enzymes, can be conjugated
with several molecules of biotin. The avidin-biotin binding is essentially
irreversible. These properties allow molecular complexes to be formed between
avidin and biotinylated antibodies. In addition, small molecular sizes of avidin 
and biotin allow improved tumor uptake and rapid intratumoral spatial
distribution. Altered glycosylation on the cell surface is a hallmark of
malignant transformation and tumor progression. Incomplete synthesis of the
carbohydrate chains and precursor accumulation result in loss of the normal
carbohydrate antigens and high expression of the tumor-associated carbohydrate
antigens (7-9). Lewis Y, TF, Globo H, GM2, polysialic acid, sialyl Lewis A, Tn,
and sialyl Tn are some of the antigens investigated intensively as diagnostic
markers or as vaccine antigens (8-11). Tn antigen was first reported as a
tumor-associated antigen nearly 40 years ago (12). It is composed of a single
GalNAc glycan residue attached via an α-linkage to either the serine (Ser) or the
threonine (Thr) of a polypeptide chain (9, 11). In normal tissues, Tn antigen is 
masked by covalently bound terminal carbohydrate moieties, but in tumors it is
unmasked because of defective O-glycosylation. Accordingly, Tn antigen is rarely 
expressed in normal tissues, but it is widely expressed in human carcinomas or
hematological cancers. It has been reported that the Tn antigen is expressed in
70–90% of breast, colon, lung, bladder, cervical, ovarian, stomach, and prostate 
tumors (1, 3, 7). The expression levels of the Tn antigen are closely associated 
with tumor aggressiveness and poor survival of patients (8, 10). In addition, Tn 
antigen is recognized by the human immune system as a novel epitope, provoking
immune responses in patients. There is a strong correlation among the expression 
of the Tn antigen, the development of the spontaneous antibodies against Tn, and 
the prognosis for patients with carcinomas. Clinical trials are under way to
deliberately provoke or enhance human immune responses by injecting patients with
synthetic peptide antigens bearing Tn structure (3, 8, 13-15). Tn antigen has
attracted significant interest as a target for tumor diagnosis and immunotherapy.
A number of anti-Tn IgG and IgM antibodies have been generated and investigated
for their imaging feasibilities and anti-tumor activities (2, 4, 16-22). The
results are generally inconsistent. There are still some issues to be resolved,
such as immunogenicity, reduced effectiveness in vivo, and cross-reactivity
against type-A blood antigen. In addition, directly radiolabeled antibodies
usually show a slow and low uptake by tumors, and their blood clearance is also
slow. Nakamoto et al. tested the imaging feasibility of three-step targeting with
Bt-MLS128, SA, and (111)In-biotin in mice bearing LS180 human colon cancer
xenografts (4). Note: Investigators from the same research group as Nakamoto et
al. also labeled the anti-Tn MLS128 mAb directly with (125)I/(131)I
((125)I/(131)I-MLS128) and (111)In ((111)In-MLS128), separately, and investigated
their biodistribution and the feasibility of imaging tumors in mice bearing LS180
tumor xenografts. They also tested the imaging feasibility of two-step targeting 
with Bt-MLS128 and (125)I-SA (Bt-MLS128-(125)I-SA) in mice with LS180 tumor
xenografts (17, 19, 20, 23, 24).

PMID: 20641742  [PubMed]


631. (131)I-Human recombinant anti-ED-B fibronectin antibody small immunoprotein.

Leung K.
In: Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) [Internet]. Bethesda
(MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US); 2004-2013.
2007 Apr 17.

Angiogenesis is a process of development and growth of new blood vessels from
pre-existing vessels. Tumor growth depends on the formation of new blood vessels 
via this process. Tumor angiogenesis is important in the carcinogenesis, growth
and progression of human solid tumors. Fibronectin (FN) are a widely distributed 
family of universal cell-adhesion molecules (1). FN is a polymorphic glycoprotein
of ~2500 amino acids and has a high molecular mass of 250−280 kDa. FN occurs in
soluble form in plasma and other body fluids and in insoluble form in the
extracellular matrixes (2, 3). The splice variant ED-B FN is highly expressed
during angiogenesis in vasculatures of tumor, normal and fetal tissues (4). In
contrast, normal adult tissues do not express ED-B FN. High levels of ED-B FN
expression have been found in vasculatures of breast, colorectal, and non-small
cell lung tumors (1, 5-7). Angiogenesis is essential for the growth of solid
tumors and their metastases. Imaging angiogenesis may be useful for monitoring
angiogenic treatments of tumors and cardiovascular diseases (8-10). A molecular
probe that targets ED-B FN can be both an early tumor marker and a tool to
monitor the success of antiangiogenic cancer therapy. The single-chain antibody
fragment scFv L19, with a high affinity (Kd = 54 pM) to ED-B FN was developed by 
Pini et al. (11). Radioiodinated L19 showed specific accumulation around tumor
neovasculature and tumor stroma with high ED-B expression (12, 13). Recently, a
bispecific L19 was constructed by fusion of two L19 scFv fragments to form a
divalent scFv small immunoprotein (L19-SIP, 80 kDa). Radiolabeled L19-SIP is
being evaluated for imaging of neovasculature and radio-immunotherapy of cancer
(14).

PMID: 20641425  [PubMed]


632. Clin Lung Cancer. 2010 Jul 1;11(4):228-37. doi: 10.3816/CLC.2010.n.029.

Targeting the immune system in non-small-cell lung cancer: bridging the gap
between promising concept and therapeutic reality.

Kelly RJ(1), Gulley JL, Giaccone G.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

Developing effective immunotherapy for lung cancer is a daunting but hugely
attractive challenge. Until recently, non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) was
thought of as a nonimmunogenic tumor, but there is now evidence highlighting the 
integral role played by both inflammatory and immunologic responses in lung
carcinogenesis. Despite recent encouraging preclinical and phase I/II data, there
are a paucity of phase III trials showing a clear clinical benefit for vaccines
in lung cancer. There are many difficulties to overcome before the development of
a successful therapy. Perhaps a measurable immune response may not translate into
a clinically meaningful or radiologic response. Patient selection may also be a
problem for ongoing clinical studies. The majority of trials for lung cancer
vaccines are focused on patients with an advanced stage of the disease; however, 
the ideal candidates may be patients with a lower tumor burden and stage I or II 
disease. Selecting the exact antigens to target is also difficult. It will likely
require multiple epitopes of a diverse set of genes restricted to multiple
haplotypes to generate a truly effective vaccine that is able to overcome the
various immunologic escape mechanisms that tumors use. This review discusses the 
most promising active immunotherapy using protein/peptide vaccines, whole cell
vaccines, and dendritic cell vaccines and examines current phase I and II
clinical trial data on some novel nonspecific immunomodulating agents.

DOI: 10.3816/CLC.2010.n.029 
PMCID: PMC3474196
PMID: 20630824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Liver Int. 2010 Oct;30(9):1247-58. doi: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2010.02303.x.

Risk factors and incidence of de novo malignancy in liver transplant recipients: 
a systematic review.

Chak E(1), Saab S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA-Oliver View Medical Center, Pfleger Liver
Institute, Sylmar, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

Orthotopic liver transplant (OLT) is an established life saving procedure for
both acute and chronic liver failure, but incidences and risk factors for
development of these malignancies are yet to be established. To determine the
incidences and risk factors associated with de novo malignancy after OLT. We
performed a systematic review of relevant epidemiological studies available on
MEDLINE, which provided information on the incidences and risk factors for the
development malignancies in adult OLT recipients published from 1983 to 2009. All
data was compiled from retrospective studies. Independent risk factors for the
development of de novo malignancy in adult OLT recipients were identified to be
statistically significant including immunosuppression, hepatitis C virus
infection, smoking, alcoholic cirrhosis and sun exposure. OLT recipients with
smoking and alcohol history are of particular risk for head and neck and lung
cancers. Primary sclerosing cholangitis and inflammatory bowel disease were found
to be independent risk factors for colon cancer. Adult OLT recipients are at
increased risk for the development of post-transplant malignancies and obviates
the need for surveillance protocols that are safe and cost-effective. OLT
recipients should be advised on taking proper precautions in the sun, smoking
cessation, and eliminating alcohol consumption. Given the emergence of alcoholic 
cirrhosis as a leading indication for liver transplantation, the early detection 
of lung and head and neck cancers is of particular importance.

© 2010 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2010.02303.x 
PMID: 20602682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2010 Jun;10(6):983-91. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2010.484801.

INGN-225: a dendritic cell-based p53 vaccine (Ad.p53-DC) in small cell lung
cancer: observed association between immune response and enhanced chemotherapy
effect.

Chiappori AA(1), Soliman H, Janssen WE, Antonia SJ, Gabrilovich DI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, H Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research
Institute, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.
alberto.chiappori@moffitt.org

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: Novel approaches are needed for patients with small cell
lung cancer (SCLC), as response after relapse is poor with standard therapies.
p53 gene mutations often occur, resulting in tumoral protein overexpression and
allowing for their recognition by p53-specific cytotoxic T cells.
AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: We describe the characteristics and manufacturing
of INGN-225, a p53-modified adenovirus-tranduced dendritic cell vaccine, and
review available data, to understand INGN-225's role in SCLC treatment. We
discuss our pre-clinical, early Phase I/II, and ongoing randomized Phase II
studies.
WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: INGN-225 was well tolerated (all toxicities <or=grade 
2) in the Phase I/II trial (54 patients receiving at least 1 dose). Specific
anti-p53 immune response was positive in 18/43 (41.8%) patients, with overall
post-INGN-225 response observed in 17/33 (51.5%) and immune response data
available in 29 (14 positive, 15 negative). Post-INGN-225 response was observed
in 11/14 (78.6%) and 5/15 (33%) patients with positive and negative immune
responses, respectively.
TAKE HOME MESSAGE: INGN-225 is safe, induces a significant immune response, and
appears to sensitize SCLC to subsequent chemotherapy. Improvements in immune
response induction and understanding the chemotherapy-immunotherapy synergism
will determine INGN-225's future role as an anticancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2010.484801 
PMCID: PMC3146364
PMID: 20420527  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Brain Nerve. 2010 Apr;62(4):419-26.

[Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS)].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, 
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is a neuromuscular disorder in which
autoantibodies inhibit the presynaptic release of acetylcholine. Autoantibodies
against P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC) are detected in 85% of
patients with LEMS. In addition, autoantibodies to synaptotagmin, an M1-type
muscarinic acetylcholine receptor and SOX1 are also found in the sera of patients
with LEMS. LEMS is closely associated with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) in
50-60% of patients. Patients with SCLC who have anti-VGCC antibodies have been
reported to have a favorable prognosis. In contrast to paraneoplatic LEMS, other 
forms of LEMS may have an autoimmune aspect because of the established
association between human leukocyte antigen and a family history of other
autoimmune disorders in this condition. The clinical features of LEMS include
proximal weakness, areflexia, ptosis, cerebellar ataxia and autonomic
dysfunction. The findings of electrophysiological examination show that LEMS is
characterized by compound muscle action potential potentials with a low amplitude
and increment upon repetitive nerve stimulation at a high rate. Tumor removal is 
the primary treatment of LEMS. The efficacy of 3,4-diaminopyridine for the
treatment of LEMS has also been established. Patients with LEMS require the
immunotherapies such as plasma exchange and the administration of high doses of
immunoglobulin and prednisolone.


PMID: 20420183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Brain Nerve. 2010 Apr;62(4):365-9.

[Paraneoplastic opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome--a review].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsumoto H(1), Ugawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, University of Tokyo,
7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.

The aim of this article is to review the paraneoplastic opsoclonus-myoclonus
syndrome (POMS). Opsoclonus is characterized by involuntary, arrhythmic, chaotic,
multi-directional saccades with horizontal, vertical and torsional components,
and it is commonly accompanied by cerebellar ataxia and myoclonic jerks in the
trunk and limbs. Parainfectious brainstem encephalitis, toxic-metabolic
disturbances and others condition should be considered as potential causes of
these symptoms. In adults, POMS is most commonly associated with small-cell lung 
cancer, breast cancer, and ovarian cancer. In children, a neuroblastoma is
detected in approximately 50% of cases. Many autoantibodies have been detected in
patients with POMS: this finding suggests the involvement of a humoral immune
mechanism. However, most patients are seronegative for these autoantibodies. This
implies that a cell-mediated immune mechanism may also be involved in the
pathogenesis of opsoclonus. Although the exact pathophysiology mechanism of
opsoclonus remains unclear, recent reports suggest that disinhibition of the
fastigial nucleus of the cerebellum is involved. In children, the immunotherapy
with corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin, adrenocorticotropic hormone,
plasma exchange, cyclophosphamide, or rituximab is used. Although opsoclonus is
often responsive to therapy, the high incidence of sequelae related to motor
function, speech, behavior, and sleep is an important problem. In adults, POMS is
less responsive to immunotherapy and improves only with tumor resection. In order
to develop novel and effective therapeutic strategies, further studies on the
immunopathogenesis and pathophysiology of POMS are required.


PMID: 20420176  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Brain Nerve. 2010 Apr;62(4):347-55.

[Limbic encephalitis with antibodies against intracellular antigens].

[Article in Japanese]

Morita A(1), Kamei S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Nihon University School of
Medicine, 30-1 Oyaguchi-kami-cho, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8610, Japan.

Limbic encephalitis is a paraneoplastic syndrome that is often associated with
small cell lung cancer (SCLC), breast cancer, testicular tumors, teratoma,
Hodgkin's lymphoma and thymoma. The common clinical manifestations of limbic
encephalitis are subacute onset, cognitive dysfunction, seizures and psychiatric 
symptoms. Paraneoplastic neurological disorders are considered to occur because
of cytotoxic T cell responses and antibodies against target neuronal proteins
that are usually expressed by an underlying tumor. The main intracellular
antigens related to limbic encephalitis are Hu, Ma2, and less frequently
CV2/CRMP5 and amphiphysin. The anti-Hu antibody, which is involved in cerebellar 
degeneration and extensive or multifocal encephalomyelitis such as limbic
encephalitis is closely associated with a history of smoking and SCLC. The
anti-Ma2 antibody is associated with encephalitis of the limbic system,
hypothalamus and brain-stem. For this reason, some patients with limbic
encephalitis have sleep disorders (including REM sleep abnormalities), severe
hypokinesis and gaze palsy in addition to limbic dysfunction. In men aged less
than 50 years, anti-Ma2 antibody encephalitis is almost always associated with
testicular germ-cell tumors that are occasionally difficult to detect. In older
men and women, the most common tumors are non-SCLC and breast cancer. Limbic
encephalitis associated with cell-surface antigens (e.g., voltage-gated potassium
channels, NMDA receptors) is mediated by antibodies and often improves after a
reduction in the antibody titer and after tumor resection. Patients with
antibodies against intracellular antigens, except for those with anti-Ma2
antibodies and testicular tumors, are less responsive. Early diagnosis and
treatment with immunotherapy, tumor resection or both are important for improving
or stabilizing the condition of limbic encephalitis.


PMID: 20420174  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Oncology. 2010;78(2):150-6. doi: 10.1159/000312657. Epub 2010 Apr 13.

Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes and the role of PET imaging.

Sioka C(1), Fotopoulos A, Kyritsis AP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Ioannina School of Medicine,
University Campus, Ioannina, Greece. csioka@yahoo.com

Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes are immune-mediated effects of cancer that 
involve the nervous system and are associated with various anti-neuronal
antibodies. They can be associated with several cancers such as lung,
gynecologic, thymic, testicular and others, but the diagnosis of cancer often
becomes a challenge, since paraneoplastic neurological syndromes usually precede 
the cancer presentation by months or even years. Furthermore, even when the
cancer develops, the tumor size remains small and usually undetectable by
conventional diagnostic tests and imaging. Positron emission tomography imaging
may be an adjunct to timely diagnosis of the occult malignancy in order to employ
the specific cancer treatment. Furthermore, positron emission tomography can
assess the extent of the functional abnormality in the brain and monitor its
response to treatment.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000312657 
PMID: 20389137  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


639. MEDICC Rev. 2010 Winter;12(1):17-23.

Clinical development and perspectives of CIMAvax EGF, Cuban vaccine for
non-small-cell lung cancer therapy.

Rodríguez PC(1), Rodríguez G, González G, Lage A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Immunology Center, Havana, Cuba. camilo@cim.sld.cu

INTRODUCTION: CIMAvax EGF is a therapeutic anticancer vaccine developed entirely 
in Cuba and licensed in Cuba for use in adult patients with stage IIIB/IV
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The vaccine is based on active immunotherapy 
by which an individual's immune response is manipulated to release its own
effector antibodies (Abs) against the epidermal growth factor (EGF).
OBJECTIVE: Review pre-clinical and clinical research conducted during development
of CIMAvax EGF, primarily studies published by Cuban investigators in
international peer-reviewed scientific journals. Methods An automated search for 
"vaccine" and "EGF" was conducted in PubMed, resulting in 17 articles published
by Cuban authors between January 1, 1994 and September 30, 2009. Main findings
were described and discussed, along with unpublished preliminary findings of an
initial ongoing phase III clinical trial.
RESULTS: Articles reviewed describe five phase I/II and one phase II clinical
trials conducted in Cuba in 1995-2005. A non-controlled 1995-1996 study resulted 
in the earliest published scientific evidence of the feasibility of inducing an
immune response against autologous EGF in patients with different advanced stage 
tumors. Subsequent controlled, randomized trials included patients with advanced 
stage (IIIB/IV) NSCLC. The 2 and 3rd phase I/II trials differentiated immunized
patients as poor antibody responders (PAR) and good antibody responders (GAR),
according to their anti-EGF antibody response, and confirmed greater
immunogenicity with Montanide ISA 51 adjuvant in the vaccine formulation, as well
as the benefits of low-dose cyclophosphamide treatment 72 hours before the first 
immunization. The 4th phase I/II trial found increased immunogenicity with an
increased dose divided in 2 anatomical sites and also established correlation
between Ab titers, serum EGF concentration and length of survival. In the first 4
phase I/II trials and the phase II trial, vaccine was administered after
chemotherapy (ChTVV schedule). In the 5th phase I/III trial, longer survival and 
increased immunogenicity were achieved using a VChTV schedule and dividing the
vaccine dose in 4 anatomical sites. The phase II clinical trial confirmed results
of earlier studies as well as the mild-to-moderate adverse event profile
associated with CIMAvax EGF Longer survival was observed in all vaccinated
patients compared to controls, and the difference was significant (p < 0.05) in
the group aged <60 years.
CONCLUSIONS: CIMAvax EGF's benefits in earlier NSCLC stages and in other tumor
locations, as well as in patients unfit for chemotherapy, need to be evaluated.
Evidence of the vaccine's safety for chronic use also needs to be systemized.

Publisher: Introducción CIMAvax EGF es una vacuna terapéutica contra el cáncer
enteramente desarrollada en Cuba y licenciada en el país para su uso en pacientes
adultos con cáncer de pulmón de células no pequeñas (CPCNP) en etapas IIIB/IV. La
vacuna se basa en la inmunoterapia activa; o sea, manipula la respuesta inmune de
un individuo para que genere sus propios anticuerpos efectores (Acs) contra el
factor de crecimiento epidérmico (EGF). Objetivo Revisar los estudios clínicos y 
preclínicos realizados durante el desarrollo de CIMAvax EGF, principalmente los
publicados por investigadores cubanos en revistas científicas internacionales
arbitradas. Métodos Se efectuó una búsqueda automatizada en PubMed con el uso de 
las palabras claves “vacuna” y “EGF”, que dio como resultado 17 artículos
publicados por autores cubanos entre el 1 de enero de 1994 y el 30 de septiembre 
del 2009. Se describieron y discutieron los principales resultados, junto con los
hallazgos preliminares no publicados aún de un ensayo clínico inicial fase III en
ejecución. Resultados Los artículos revisados describen cinco ensayos clínicos
fase I/II y uno fase II realizados en Cuba de 1995–2005. Un estudio no controlado
de 1995–1996 fue la primera evidencia científicas de la factibilidad de inducir
una respuesta inmune contra el EGF autólogo en pacientes con diferentes tumores
en etapas avanzadas. Ensayos posteriores controlados y aleatorizados incluyeron
pacientes con CPCNP en etapas avanzadas (IIIB/IV). En los ensayos segundo y
tercero de fase I/ II, los pacientes inmunizados se diferenciaron en buenos
respondedores (BR) y malos respondedores (MR) según las respuestas de anticuerpos
contra el EGF y se conformó mayor inmunogenicidad al utilizar el adyuvante
Montanide ISA 51 en la formulación vacunal, así como los beneficios del
tratamiento de ciclofosfamida a baja dosis 72 horas antes de la primera
inmunización. En el cuarto ensayo fase I/II se encontró un aumento de la
inmunogenicidad con el aumento de la dosis, dividida en dos sitios anatómicos, y 
además se estableció la correlación entre los títulos de Acs, la concentración de
EGF sérico y la supervivencia. En los primeros cuatro ensayos fase I/II, la
vacuna se administró después de la quimioterapia (esquema QVV). En el quinto
ensayo fase I/II, se lograron mayor supervivencia e inmunogenicidad utilizando un
esquema VQV y dividiendo la dosis vacunal en cuatro sitios anatómicos. El ensayo 
clínico de fase II conforrmó los resultados de los estudios anteriores, así como 
un perfil de eventos adversos leves a moderados asociados a CIMAvax EGF. Se
observó mayor supervivencia en todos los pacientes vacunados en comparación con
los controles y la diferencia fue estadísticamente significativa (p <0.05) en el 
grupo de <60 años. Conclusiones Es necesario evaluar los beneficios de CIMAvax
EGF en etapas tempranas del CPCNP y en otras localizaciones tumorales, así como
en los pacientes no aptos para recibir quimioterapia. La evidencia de que la
vacuna es segura para uso mantenido también debe ser sistematizada. Palabras
clave Factor de crecimiento epidérmico, receptor del EGF, cáncer de pulmón de
células no pequeñas, tratamiento vacunal, inmunoterapia, vacunas oncológicas

PMID: 20387330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


640. J Thorac Oncol. 2010 May;5(5):723-34. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e3181d86e8b.

Maintenance therapy in advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Coate LE(1), Shepherd FA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology of the University Health
Network, Princess Margaret Hospital Site and the University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the leading cause of cancer death in the
industrialized world, and survival rates for advanced disease remain low with
standard platinum-based chemotherapy. One treatment strategy that has been
investigated extensively in NSCLC is that of "maintenance" therapy. Options for
maintenance include maintaining response to initial therapy by continuing the
initial combination chemotherapy regimen, continuing only single agent
chemotherapy, or by introducing a new agent. Treatments that have been studied in
randomized trials to date include chemotherapy, molecularly targeted agents, and 
immunotherapy approaches. After the development of multiple new agents that show 
activity in NSCLC and have a tolerable side effect profile, there has been
increasing interest recently in this treatment strategy. In this study, we
examine the evolution of this strategy by reviewing trials investigating the main
treatment paradigms used in maintenance therapy for NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e3181d86e8b 
PMID: 20354450  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Lung Cancer. 2010 Nov;70(2):119-28. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2010.02.001. Epub 2010
Feb 25.

Maintenance or consolidation therapy in small-cell lung cancer: a systematic
review and meta-analysis.

Rossi A(1), Garassino MC, Cinquini M, Sburlati P, Di Maio M, Farina G, Gridelli
C, Torri V.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, SG Moscati Hospital, Città Ospedaliera, Contrada
Amoretta 8, 83100 Avellino, Italy. arossi it@yahoo.it

OBJECTIVE: To assess the role of maintenance or consolidation therapy in the
treatment of small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), a meta-analysis of all published
randomized clinical trials (RCTs) was performed in order to provide an overall
meta-analysis and indirectly compare the effect of chemotherapy, interferons, and
other biologic agents.
METHODS: Electronic databases were searched for publication reporting of RCTs
comparing maintenance or consolidation therapy versus placebo or follow-up alone 
until December 2008. Hazard ratios (HRs) for progression-free survival (PFS) and 
overall survival (OS), with their relative 95% confidence intervals (CI), were
derived. In the calculation of HRs, the "no maintenance" arm served as a
reference. The a priori value of p<0.05 was chosen as significant level for
statistical tests.
RESULTS: Twenty-one RCTs, encompassing 3,688 patients, were eligible for the
present analysis: 11 RCTs employing chemotherapy, 6 interferons (4 alpha and 2
gamma), and 4 other biological agents. Overall, no statistical advantage in OS
(HR 0.93, 95% CI 0.87-1.00; p = 0.05) or in PFS (HR 0.98, 95% CI 0.91-1.06; p =
0.63) was reported for maintenance or consolidation therapy. Statistical evidence
of different effects among the four types of therapy was detected for OS (χ(2)
test for heterogeneity: 8.07 [3 df]; p = 0.04), but not for PFS. A statistically 
significant reduction of mortality was detected in those studies assessing the
efficacy of chemotherapy (HR 0.89, 95% CI 0.81-0.98; p = 0.02) and of
interferon-alpha (HR 0.78, 95% CI 0.64-0.96; p = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: The maintenance or the consolidation approach failed to improve the 
outcomes of SCLC. A survival advantage is suggested for maintenance chemotherapy 
and interferon-alpha, but its clinical impact needs to be confirmed by further
studies.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2010.02.001 
PMID: 20188431  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Langenbecks Arch Surg. 2010 Nov;395(8):1129-38. doi: 10.1007/s00423-010-0595-4.
Epub 2010 Feb 18.

Sequential surgical resection of hepatic and pulmonary metastases from colorectal
cancer.

Limmer S(1), Oevermann E, Killaitis C, Kujath P, Hoffmann M, Bruch HP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital of Schleswig-Holstein, Campus
Luebeck, Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23538, Luebeck, Germany. stefan.limmer@uk-sh.de

BACKGROUND: Resection of isolated hepatic or pulmonary metastases from colorectal
cancer is widely accepted and associated with a 5-year survival rate of 25-40%.
The value of aggressive surgical management in patients with both hepatic and
pulmonary metastases still remains a controversial area.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of 1,497 patients with colorectal
carcinoma (CRC) was analysed. Of 73 patients identified with resection of CRC
and, at some point in time, both liver and lung metastases, 17 patients underwent
metastasectomy (resection group). The remaining 56 patients comprised the
non-resection group. Primary tumour, hepatic and pulmonary metastases of all
patients were surgically treated in our department of surgery, and the results
are that of a single institution.
RESULTS: The resection group had a 3-year survival of 77%, a 5-year survival of
55% and a 10-year survival of 18%; median survival was 98 months. The longest
overall survival was 136 months; six patients are still alive. In the resection
group, overall survival was significantly higher than in the non-resection group 
(p < 0.01). Independent from the chronology of metastasectomy, 5-year survival
was 55% with respect to the primary resection, 28% with respect to the first
metastasectomy and 14% with respect to the second metastasectomy. A disease-free 
interval (>18 months), stage III (UICC) and age (<70 years) were found to be
significant prognostic factors for overall survival.
CONCLUSION: Our report strongly supports aggressive surgical therapy in patients 
with both hepatic and pulmonary metastases from CRC. Overall survival for
surgically treated selected patients with both hepatic and pulmonary metastases
from CRC is comparable to hepatic or pulmonary metastasectomy. Simultaneous
metastases tend to have a poorer outcome than metachronous metastases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00423-010-0595-4 
PMCID: PMC2974188
PMID: 20165954  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2010 Apr;42(4):385-93. doi: 10.1165/rcmb.2010-0026RT. 
Epub 2010 Feb 16.

Gene therapy for mesothelioma and lung cancer.

Vachani A(1), Moon E, Wakeam E, Albelda SM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Pennsylvania, 1016B Abramson Research Center, 3615 Civic Center 
Blvd., Philadelphia, PA 19104-6160, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2010 Apr;42(4):383-4.

Both malignant pleural mesothelioma and advanced stage lung cancer are associated
with a poor prognosis. Unfortunately, current treatment regimens have had only a 
modest effect on their progressive course. Gene therapy for thoracic malignancies
represents a novel therapeutic approach and has been evaluated in a number of
clinical trials over the last two decades. Using viral vectors or anti-sense RNA,
strategies have included induction of apoptosis, tumor suppressor gene
replacement, suicide gene expression, cytokine-based therapy, various vaccination
approaches, and adoptive transfer of modified immune cells. This review will
consider the clinical results, limitations, and future directions of gene therapy
trials for thoracic malignancies.

DOI: 10.1165/rcmb.2010-0026RT 
PMID: 20160042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Cancer Res. 2010 Feb 15;70(4):1281-5. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-09-3276. Epub
2010 Feb 9.

Dendritic cell-derived exosomes for cancer immunotherapy: what's next?

Viaud S(1), Théry C, Ploix S, Tursz T, Lapierre V, Lantz O, Zitvogel L, Chaput N.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale U805, Villejuif,
France.

Exosomes are nanovesicles originating from late endosomal compartments and
secreted by most living cells in ex vivo cell culture conditions. The interest in
exosomes was rekindled when B-cell and dendritic cell-derived exosomes were shown
to mediate MHC-dependent immune responses. Despite limited understanding of
exosome biogenesis and physiological relevance, accumulating evidence points to
their bioactivity culminating in clinical applications in cancer. This review
focuses on the preclinical studies exploiting the immunogenicity of dendritic
cell-derived exosomes (Dex) and will elaborate on the past and future vaccination
trials conducted using Dex strategy in melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer
patients.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-09-3276 
PMID: 20145139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


645. J BUON. 2009 Sep;14 Suppl 1:S153-7.

Tumor specific CD8+ T cells in patients with lung cancer and healthy individuals.

Karanikas V(1), Germenis A.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Immunology Unit, Department of Immunology and Histocompatibility,
School of Medicine, University of Thessaly, Larissa, Greece. vkaran@med.uth.gr

Lung cancer, one of the leading causes of cancer death in the developed world,
presents with a poor 5-year survival, despite improvements in conventional
treatments such as surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Lung cancer-directed
immunotherapy promises to harness the body's ability to mount antitumor immune
responses and destroy cancer cells. Improving our understanding of tumor biology 
and the host immune response promises to have a positive impact on the
development of novel therapeutic strategies for this disease. This article will
present our current understanding on immunotherapy from the perspective of the
CD8+ cytolytic T cell response in lung cancer and how elucidation of the
mechanisms that affect T-cell memory lineage commitment could improve the outcome
of current immunotherapeutic attempts.


PMID: 19785058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J BUON. 2009 Sep;14 Suppl 1:S147-52.

Clinical relevance of monoclonal antibodies in non small cell lung cancer.

Filipits M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cancer Research, Department of Medicine I, Medical University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria. martin.filipits@meduniwien.ac.at

Targeted therapies with monoclonal antibodies have been shown to improve the
outcome of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Current strategies focus on the
blockade of growth factor receptors and the inhibition of angiogenesis. Epidermal
growth factor receptor (EGFR)-directed monoclonal antibodies in combination with 
platinum-based first-line chemotherapy have shown promising efficacy in phase II 
trials. In a phase III trial, cetuximab combined with cisplatin/ vinorelbine
resulted in superior survival compared to chemotherapy alone in patients with
advanced EGFR-positive NSCLC. Inhibition of angiogenesis has also been
successfully applied as a new treatment strategy. Bevacizumab added to palliative
chemotherapy has improved progression-free survival in two phase III trials and
overall survival in one of these trials in selected patients with advanced
non-squamous cell lung cancer. Bevacizumab is now approved for selected patients 
with advanced NSCLC in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy. Figitumumab 
is a monoclonal antibody against the insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor
(IGF-1R) which demonstrated activity in preclinical models of NSCLC and in a
phase II trial. Because of these promising results, three randomized, open-label,
international phase III trials of figitumumab in patients with locally advanced
or metastatic NSCLC are in progress.


PMID: 19785057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Bull Cancer. 2010 May;97(5):535-45. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2010.1035.

[Molecular targeted therapies in small-cell lung cancer].

[Article in French]

Levy A(1), Malouf GG, Besse B, Massard C, Soria JC.

Author information: 
(1)Service des Innovations Thérapeutiques Précoces, Département de Médecine,
Institut Gustave-Roussy, Université Paris-XI, Villejuif, France.

Small-cell lung cancers (SCLC) are aggressive malignancies, however,
characterized by high primary chemosensitivity. Unfortunately, for the vast
majority of patients, relapse is the rule with emergence of secondary resistance 
mechanisms. In the era of molecular targeted therapies, characterization of a
number of molecular abnormalities has encouraged implementation of several
clinical trials. This literature review summarizes the various pharmacological
approaches used in SCLC to improve survival in localized and extensive forms of
the disease. Initial trials with molecular targeted therapies have not been able 
to improve clinical outcome compared to the standard etoposide-cisplatin
chemotherapy regimen in extensive forms. However, new targets continue to be
identified and many treatments are currently being assessed, including blockade
of angiogenesis, signal transduction, cell cycle or induction of apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2010.1035 
PMID: 20093224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Arch Neurol. 2010 Mar;67(3):322-9. doi: 10.1001/archneurol.2009.336. Epub 2010
Jan 11.

Positron emission tomography-computed tomography in paraneoplastic neurologic
disorders: systematic analysis and review.

McKeon A(1), Apiwattanakul M, Lachance DH, Lennon VA, Mandrekar JN, Boeve BF,
Mullan B, Mokri B, Britton JW, Drubach DA, Pittock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905,
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cancer detection rate of whole-body positron emission 
tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) in a paraneoplastic neurologic context.
DESIGN: Retrospective medical record review.
SETTING: Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
PATIENTS: Fifty-six consecutive patients with clinically suspected paraneoplastic
neurologic disorders who underwent PET-CT after negative standard evaluations,
including CT.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Rate of cancer detection.
RESULTS: Abnormalities suggestive of cancer were detected using PET-CT in 22
patients (39%); 10 patients (18%) had cancer confirmed histologically. Cancers
detected (limited stage in 9 of 10 patients and extratruncal in 4) were as
follows: 2 thyroid papillary cell carcinomas, 3 solitary lymph nodes with unknown
primary (2 adenocarcinomas and 1 small cell carcinoma), 1 tonsil squamous cell
carcinoma, 3 lung carcinomas (1 adenocarcinoma, 1 small cell, and 1 squamous
cell), and 1 colon adenocarcinoma. Detection of a well-characterized neuronal
nuclear or cytoplasmic paraneoplastic autoantibody was associated with a
successful PET-CT-directed cancer search (P < .001). Detection of limited-stage
cancer facilitated early initiation of oncologic treatments and immunotherapy;
cancer remission was reported in 7 patients, and sustained improvements in
neurologic symptoms were reported in 5 (median follow-up, 11 months; range, 2-48 
months). Combined data from 2 previous studies using conventional PET alone (123 
patients) revealed that 28% of patients had a PET abnormality suggestive of
cancer and that 12% had a cancer diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: In a paraneoplastic neurologic context, PET-CT improves the detection
of cancers when other screening test results are negative, particularly in the
setting of seropositivity for a neuronal nuclear or cytoplasmic autoantibody
marker of cancer.

DOI: 10.1001/archneurol.2009.336 
PMID: 20065123  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2010 May;37(5):1117-21. doi:
10.1016/j.ejcts.2009.11.028. Epub 2009 Dec 31.

Low incidence of malignancy in heart-transplant recipients in Taiwan: an update
and comparison with kidney-transplant recipients.

Hsu RB(1), Chang CI, Tsai MK, Lee PH, Chou NK, Chi NH, Wang SS, Chu SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University Hospital, National Taiwan
University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan. ronbin@ntuh.gov.tw

OBJECTIVE: Malignancy is the leading cause of death among heart-transplant
recipients. There is a higher incidence of post-transplant malignancy in
heart-transplant recipients than in kidney-transplant recipients. This study
sought to assess the incidence of malignancy in heart-transplant recipients in
Taiwan.
METHODS: This is a retrospective chart review.
RESULTS: From 1987 to 2008, 291 patients who underwent heart transplantation and 
survived for more than 1 month were enrolled. Seventeen patients (5.8%) developed
de novo malignancies including skin cancers (three), post-transplant
lymphoproliferative diseases (seven) and solid-organ malignancies (seven).
Solid-organ malignancies affected prostate, liver, urinary bladder, kidney, lung,
larynx, pancreas and brain in seven patients. Malignancy was responsible for 7%
and 13% of all death for heart-transplant recipients who lived for more than 1
year and more than 5 years. The cumulative incidence of 1.03% at 1 year, 4.2% at 
5 years and 8.1% at 10 years in our patients was much lower than the incidences
reported in the multicentre registry of the International Society for the Heart
and Lung Transplantation and in the Western series. The incidence was especially 
low for skin cancers. Compared with previous reports of kidney-transplant
recipients in Taiwan, the incidence of post-transplant malignancy was not
significantly increased.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of post-transplant malignancy was low in Chinese
heart-transplant recipients compared with heart-transplant recipients in Western 
countries. It resulted from a relative rarity of skin cancers in the Chinese
population.

Copyright 2009 European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2009.11.028 
PMID: 20045346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Lung Cancer. 2010 Jun;68(3):319-31. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2009.11.018. Epub 2009
Dec 24.

Recent issues in first-line treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer:
Results of an International Expert Panel Meeting of the Italian Association of
Thoracic Oncology.

Gridelli C(1), Ardizzoni A, Douillard JY, Hanna N, Manegold C, Perrone F, Pirker 
R, Rosell R, Shepherd FA, De Petris L, Di Maio M, de Marinis F.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology, S.G. Moscati Hospital, Avellino, Italy. cgridelli@libero.it

Platinum-based chemotherapy is the standard first-line treatment for patients
with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, randomized trials have
recently demonstrated the efficacy of several new drugs (pemetrexed, bevacizumab,
cetuximab, erlotinib, gefitinib) in this setting. Hence, the choice of optimal
treatment is no longer limited to the different platinum-based doublets. In order
to guide clinical management of patients with advanced NSCLC, assess the
strengths and limitations of available evidence, and to suggest priorities for
clinical research, the Italian Association of Thoracic Oncology organized an
International Expert Panel Meeting on the first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC,
which took place in Sperlonga (Italy) in May 2009. Experts recommended that every
effort should be made to obtain adequate tumor tissue before initiating
treatment. Tumor histology/cytology subtyping is now important for the correct
choice of treatment. In particular, considering efficacy data obtained with
pemetrexed and safety concerns with bevacizumab, a division between squamous and 
non-squamous tumors is necessary. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
mutation analysis, at present, is not recommended in all patients, but should be 
performed in subgroups of patients characterized by higher prevalence of
sensitizing mutations (Asians, never smokers, women, adenocarcinoma). When a
mutation is present, first-line treatment with single-agent EGFR tyrosine-kinase 
inhibitor may be considered. Finally, the potential benefit of maintenance
treatment for patients without progression at the end of first-line should be
carefully discussed with each patient. Although the number of treatment options
for patients with advanced NSCLC has increased recently, their results remain
modest and further research is mandatory.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2009.11.018 
PMID: 20036027  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


651. J Neurol. 2010 Apr;257(4):509-17. doi: 10.1007/s00415-009-5431-9. Epub 2009 Dec
25.

Antibodies and neuronal autoimmune disorders of the CNS.

Graus F(1), Saiz A, Dalmau J.

Author information: 
(1)Servei de Neurologia, Hospital Clinic, Institut d' Investigació Biomèdica
August Pi i Sunyer, Villarroel 170, 08036, Barcelona, Spain. fgraus@clinic.ub.es

We review the neuronal antibodies described in CNS disorders in order to clarify 
their diagnostic value, emphasize potentials pitfalls and limitations in the
diagnosis of paraneoplastic neurological syndromes (PNS), and examine the current
evidence for a possible pathogenic role. We propose to classify the neuronal
antibodies associated with syndromes resulting from CNS neuronal dysfunction into
two groups according to the location of the antigen: inside the neuron or in the 
cell membrane. Group I includes antibodies which target intracellular antigens
and probably are not pathogenic. They are further subdivided into three groups.
Group Ia comprises well-characterized onconeural antibodies (Hu (ANNA1), Yo
(PCA1), Ri (ANNA2), CV2 (CRMP5), amphiphysin, Ma2) that are useful for the
diagnosis of PNS. Group Ib antibodies (SOX and ZIC) are cancer-specific but there
is no evidence that the immune response is in any way pathogenically related to
the PNS. Antibodies in group Ic (glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), adenylate
kinase 5 and Homer 3) identify non-PNS: stiff-person syndrome (SPS), cerebellar
ataxia, and limbic encephalitis (LE). Group II antibodies recognize neuronal
surface antigens. Antibodies in group IIa associate with characteristic CNS
syndromes but their detection does not indicate that the disorder is
paraneoplastic. Antibodies to potassium channels, AMPA and GABA(B) receptors are 
associated with LE, NMDA receptor antibodies identify a well-defined
encephalitis, and antibodies against glycine receptors associate with SPS with
encephalitis. A pathogenic role of the antibodies is suggested by the response of
symptoms to immunotherapy and the correlation between antibody titers and
neurological outcome. Lastly, Group IIb includes antibodies that are found in
patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar ataxia associated with lung cancer (P/Q
type calcium channels antibodies) or Hodgkin disease (metabotropic glutamate
receptor type 1 antibodies).

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-009-5431-9 
PMID: 20035430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Minerva Chir. 2009 Dec;64(6):643-53.

Cancer vaccines for non-small-cell lung cancer.

Palma M(1), Choudhury A, Mellstedt H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Karolinska Institutet, Cancer Centrum Karolinska
(CCK), Solna, Sweden.

Lung cancer is globally the second most common form of cancer in both men and
women and the single largest cause of cancer-related mortality in the world. It
is a disease with poor prognosis and the survival statistics have scarcely
improved since historical times. The advent of targeted therapies has caused an
incremental increase in survival figures. Nevertheless, significant progress in
treatment outcomes need to be achieved before any perceptible improvement in
overall survival of lung cancer patients becomes evident. The use of
active-specific immunotherapy or cancer vaccines for the treatment of lung cancer
is still in its infancy. Nevertheless several cancer vaccines have demonstrated
clinical effects and improvements in overall survival in phase II and phase III
trials and several more clinical trials are currently ongoing. This review
summarizes the recent developments in NSCLC vaccines.


PMID: 20029360  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Cancer Treat Rev. 2010 Apr;36(2):101-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.11.007. Epub
2009 Dec 16.

Treatment of the pregnant mother with cancer: a systematic review on the use of
cytotoxic, endocrine, targeted agents and immunotherapy during pregnancy. Part I:
Solid tumors.

Azim HA Jr(1), Peccatori FA, Pavlidis N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Institute, Cairo University,
55 Abdel Monem Riad Street, Mohandeseen, Cairo, Egypt. hatemazim@cairocure.com

The association of cancer and pregnancy is increasingly encountered nowadays in
clinical practice. Due to the relative rarity of the situation, it lacks a
systematized approach. Different systemic therapies are used in managing cancer
with uncertainty regarding the potential hazards they could pose on the pregnancy
and/or the fetus. We have performed a systematic review of literature to identify
all reports addressing cancer patients who were exposed to any of the known
systemic therapies during the course of the pregnancy. The results were discussed
in two parts; part I addresses pregnant patients with solid tumors while part I
for those with hematological malignancies. In part I, we identified different
solid tumors diagnosed and treated during the course of pregnancy. Breast cancer 
was the most commonly treated followed by ovarian cancer. Other tumors were
treated as well including lung cancer, cervical cancer, sarcoma and melanomas. It
is important to acknowledge the intent of therapy (palliative vs. curative) and
the patients has to be properly counseled to reach an informed decision. We aim
to provide a more robust consensus on how to approach these cases and provide a
higher degree of evidence to support the safety of applying certain management
strategies over the other.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.11.007 
PMID: 20015593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2009 Dec;28(3-4):355-67. doi: 10.1007/s10555-009-9192-9.

Emerging targeted therapies for bladder cancer: a disease waiting for a drug.

Dovedi SJ(1), Davies BR.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer and Infection Research Area, AstraZeneca, Mereside, Alderley Park,
Macclesfield, Cheshire SK10 4TG, UK.

Urothelial cell carcinoma is the fifth most common cancer and the costliest to
treat. This is largely because of all new cases, about 70% present as superficial
disease and this while rarely fatal, tends to recur, requiring long-term
follow-up and repeat interventions. The standard of care, intravesical chemo- and
immunotherapy, while effective, is associated with a considerable side-effect
profile and approximately 30% of patients either fail to respond to treatment or 
suffer recurrent disease within 5 years. Muscle-invasive bladder cancer is life
threatening, showing modest chemosensitivity, and usually requires radical
cystectomy. Although bladder cancer is fairly well-genetically characterized,
clinical trials with molecularly targeted agents have, in comparison to other
solid tumors such as lung, breast and prostate, been few in number and largely
unsuccessful, with no new agents being registered in the last 20 years. Hence,
bladder cancer represents a considerable opportunity and challenge for
molecularly targeted therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10555-009-9192-9 
PMID: 19997963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Semin Immunol. 2010 Apr;22(2):97-102. doi: 10.1016/j.smim.2009.10.002. Epub 2009 
Nov 24.

Adjuvant activity mediated by iNKT cells.

Fujii S(1), Motohashi S, Shimizu K, Nakayama T, Yoshiga Y, Taniguchi M.

Author information: 
(1)Research Unit for Cellular Immunotherapy, RIKEN Research Center for Allergy
and Immunology, 1-7-22, Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Japan.

Invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells have adjuvant activity due to their
ability to produce large amounts of IFN-gamma, which activates other cells in
innate and acquired systems, and orchestrates protective immunity. Based on these
adjuvant mechanisms, we developed iNKT cell-targeted adjuvant therapy and carried
out a phase I/IIa trial on advanced lung cancer patients. The patient group with 
increased numbers of IFN-gamma-producing cells showed prolonged survival with a
median survival time of 31.9 months. Sixty percent of the patients in this group 
survived for more than 2 years with only a primary treatment and without tumor
progression and metastasis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.smim.2009.10.002 
PMID: 19939703  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


656. BioDrugs. 2009;23(6):361-75. doi: 10.2165/11316930-000000000-00000.

CpG oligodeoxynucleotides as TLR9 agonists: therapeutic applications in cancer.

Murad YM(1), Clay TM.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Department of Surgery, Program in Molecular
Therapeutics, Comprehensive Cancer Center, 401 MSRB, Research Drive, Durham, NC
27710, USA.

Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are part of the innate immune system, and they belong 
to the pattern recognition receptors (PRR) family. The PRR family is designed to 
recognize and bind conserved pathogen-associated molecular patterns, which are
not generated by the host and are restricted and essential to micro-organisms.
TLR9, which recognizes unmethylated CpG (cytosine guanosine dinucleotide), is a
very promising target for therapeutic activation. Stimulation of TLR9 activates
human plasmacytoid dendritic cells and B cells, and results in potent T helper-1 
(T(h)1)-type immune responses and antitumor responses in mouse tumor models and
in patients. Several pharmaceutical companies, such as Pfizer, Idera, and
Dynavax, are developing CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) for the treatment of
cancer, along with other conditions, such as infections and allergy. CpG ODNs
have shown promising results as vaccine adjuvants and in combination with cancer 
immunotherapy. Several TLR9 agonists are being developed and have entered
clinical trials to evaluate their safety and efficacy for the treatment of
several hematopoietic and solid tumors. In this review, we discuss the use of CpG
ODNs in several phase I and II clinical trials for the treatment of NHL, renal
cell carcinoma, melanoma, and non-small cell lung cancer, either alone or in
combination with other agents.

DOI: 10.2165/11316930-000000000-00000 
PMID: 19894778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Med Oncol. 2010 Dec;27(4):1127-32. doi: 10.1007/s12032-009-9348-z. Epub 2009 Nov 
5.

Regression of advanced melanoma upon withdrawal of immunosuppression: case series
and literature review.

Dillon P(1), Thomas N, Sharpless N, Collichio F.

Author information: 
(1)The Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Dermatology,
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 130 Manning Dr, CB 7305, Chapel
Hill, NC 27516, USA. pdillon@unch.unc.edu

We report two cases of stage IV malignant melanoma arising in patients treated
with azathioprine for myasthenia gravis. In both cases, the melanoma metastases
regressed upon withdrawal of immunosuppression. One patient remains melanoma free
at 10 years, and the second patient experienced an 18-month disease free period. 
There is one prior case report in the medical literature to support full immune
reconstitution for treatment in advanced immunosuppression-related melanoma, and 
one case series suggesting that transplant patients developing melanoma may
benefit from a switch to sirolimus. Virtually, no data exist for the medical
management of early stage melanoma in the immunosuppressed patients. We review
the limited preclinical data in support of immune reconstitution and the data on 
immunosuppression as a risk factor for melanoma. We conclude that reduction or
withdrawal of immunosuppression may be beneficial in patients with advanced stage
melanoma and warrants further consideration in patients with early stage
melanoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s12032-009-9348-z 
PMCID: PMC3725585
PMID: 19890737  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Mol Oncol. 2009 Dec;3(5-6):409-24. doi: 10.1016/j.molonc.2009.09.001. Epub 2009
Sep 10.

Immunotherapy in the landscape of new targeted treatments for non-small cell lung
cancer.

Gérard C(1), Debruyne C.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Immunotherapeutics, GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals R&D, 1330 Rixensart,
Belgium. catherine.gerard@gskbio.com

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the leading cause of cancer-related death
worldwide. Active immunotherapies and molecules targeting tyrosine kinase
receptors both offer new avenues for the treatment of NSCLC. Furthermore, their
combinations or their administration along with standard treatments enlarges the 
potential for clinical benefit. Moreover, the discovery of biomarkers predicting 
the response to these new therapies should allow a better selection of patients
susceptible to optimally benefit from these treatments. In this paper, we review 
the most promising active immunotherapies, antibodies and small molecules in the 
context of NSCLC management, focusing on compounds in phase III clinical
development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molonc.2009.09.001 
PMID: 19846354  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Ann Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2009 Aug;15(4):213-20.

A translational approach to lung cancer research: From EGFRs to Wnt and cancer
stem cells.

Yagui-Beltrán A(1), Jablons DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of California San Francisco, Helen
Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, 94143, USA.

Lung cancer remains the main cause of all cancer deaths in the United States. The
prognosis for non-small cell lung cancer, despite advances in current therapies, 
is disappointing. Fortunately, we are steadily gaining significant insights into 
the heterogeneous molecular pathogenesis of lung cancer, which seems to occur in 
a stepwise manner, mainly secondary to tobacco smoking. With the emerging power
of gene expression signatures for individual lung tumors and with the advancing
field of stem cell biology and the paradigm of cancer stem cells, we are most
certainly paving the way to developing novel tools for the early detection,
chemoprevention, and treatment of these vastly morbid pathologies with enormous
global burden. We will explore some of these issues and highlight how we are
starting to translate them into clinically relevant tools for lung cancer
patients.


PMCID: PMC3066262
PMID: 19763051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Gen Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2009 Sep;57(9):449-57. doi:
10.1007/s11748-008-0433-6. Epub 2009 Sep 13.

Lung cancer-associated tumor antigens and the present status of immunotherapy
against non-small-cell lung cancer.

Yasumoto K(1), Hanagiri T, Takenoyama M.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, University of Occupational
and Environmental Health, Iseigaoka 1-1, Yahatanishi-ku, Kitakyushu, 807-8555,
Japan. k-yasumo@med.uoeh-u.ac.jp

Despite recent advances in surgery, irradiation, and chemotherapy, the prognosis 
of patients with lung cancer is still poor. Therefore, the development and
application of new therapeutic strategies are essential for improving the
prognosis of this disease. Significant progress in our understanding of tumor
immunology and molecular biology has allowed us to identify the tumor-associated 
antigens recognized by cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Immune responses and
tumor-associated antigens against not only malignant melanoma but also lung
cancer have been elucidated at the molecular level. In a theoretical sense, tumor
eradication is considered possible through antigen-based immunotherapy against
such diseases. However, many clinical trials of cancer vaccination with defined
tumor antigens have resulted in objective clinical responses in only a small
number of patients. Tumor escape mechanisms from host immune surveillance remain 
a major obstacle for cancer immunotherapy. A better understanding of the immune
escape mechanisms employed by tumor cells is necessary before we can develop a
more effective immunotherapeutic approach to lung cancer. We review recent
studies regarding the identification of tumor antigens in lung cancer, tumor
immune escape mechanisms, and clinical vaccine trials in lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s11748-008-0433-6 
PMID: 19756930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Oncologist. 2009 Sep;14(9):909-20. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2009-0017. Epub
2009 Sep 2.

Vaccines for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer: a renewed anticancer
strategy.

Gridelli C(1), Rossi A, Maione P, Ferrara ML, Castaldo V, Sacco PC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, S.G. Moscati Hospital, Avellino, Italy.
cgridelli@libero.it

Carcinoma of the lung is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide, with
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) constituting about 85% of all new diagnoses.
Standard approaches for each NSCLC stage have reached a plateau in effectiveness.
A variety of novel approaches are now being investigated to improve the outcome
of this disease. Despite decades of research, no specific active cancer vaccine
has, to date, been approved for NSCLC therapy; nevertheless, vaccine therapy has 
recently re-emerged as a potential therapeutic approach. In particular, several
new paradigms have stemmed from recent clinical findings both in the use of
combination therapy approaches with more sophisticated specific vaccines and in
clinical trial design and endpoint analyses. Several vaccine therapies have been 
investigated in NSCLC, including in the early and advanced disease stages. The
best results appear to be in the adjuvant settings and in locally advanced NSCLC.
In fact, in these two settings, phase III randomized trials are ongoing
evaluating the melanoma-associated antigen A3 vaccine and the liposomal BLP25
vaccine. This paper reviews the main clinical trials involving several different 
cancer vaccines employed in the treatment of early and advanced stage NSCLC,
focusing on those in advanced stages of development.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2009-0017 
PMID: 19726457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2009 Dec;65(1):187-90. doi:
10.1007/s00280-009-1104-8. Epub 2009 Aug 21.

Hepatic portal venous gas in a patient with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer
on bevacizumab therapy: a case report and review of the literature.

Ortega J(1), Hayes JM, Antonia S.

Author information: 
(1)Immunotherapy Program, Department of Oncology/Hematology, H. Lee Moffitt
Cancer Center and Research Institute, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.

BACKGROUND: The presence of hepatic portal venous gas (HPVG) is a rare finding.
It is most commonly caused by bowel necrosis and typically carries a grave
prognosis. Bevacizumab has emerged as an effective standard therapy in the
frontline management of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Although
bevacizumab is associated with gastrointestinal perforation, it has not been
shown to cause HPVG.
CASE: A 75-year-old man, diagnosed with metastatic NSCLC, was treated with
palliative chemotherapy consisting of paclitaxel, carboplatin, and bevacizumab
for six cycles. He continued on maintenance bevacizumab after that for a total of
six doses, given every 3 weeks, with continued stable disease. During a
surveillance CT scan 4 weeks after the last dose of bevacizumab, HPVG was shown.
CONCLUSION: This is the first case of HPVG associated with bevacizumab therapy in
a patient with metastatic NSCLC. The HPVG may have been an early warning sign of 
impending bowel perforation, and bevacizumab was immediately discontinued, with
HPVG completely resolving on follow-up CT scan 2 weeks later. We recommend that
bevacizumab therapy be immediately and permanently discontinued whenever HPVG is 
observed, as this may help avoid a potentially catastrophic outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-009-1104-8 
PMID: 19697030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2009;48(32):5798-808. doi: 10.1002/anie.200901917.

The search for infectious causes of human cancers: where and why (Nobel lecture).

zur Hausen H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum, Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, 60120 Heidelberg,
Germany. zurhausen@dkfz-heidelberg.de

Slightly more than 20% of the global cancer burden can currently be linked to
infectious agents, including viruses, bacteria, and parasites. In this Review the
reasons for their relatively late discovery are analyzed, and epidemiological
observations that may point to an involvement of additional infectious agents in 
specific human cancers are highlighted. Emphasis is placed on hematopoietic
malignancies, breast and colorectal cancers, as well as basal cell carcinomas of 
the skin and lung cancers in nonsmokers.

DOI: 10.1002/anie.200901917 
PMID: 19588476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Methods Mol Biol. 2009;542:499-514.

Gene immunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer.

Nemunaitis JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mary Crowley Medical Research Center, Dallas, Texas, USA.

Historically, limited results have been observed with immunity in non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). In the last 5 years, however, several immune-stimulating
products have demonstrated enhancement of tumor antigen recognition through
activation of dendritic cell-involved processes. Moreover, clinical benefit has
been demonstrated in subsets of patients, justifying ongoing phase III
investigation. Results of key gene immunotherapies being tested in NSCLC are
reviewed. Preliminary results in advanced NSCLC suggest evidence of
well-tolerated immune activation with suggested evidence of clinical benefit with
respect to survival and response.


PMID: 19565919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Clin Transl Oncol. 2009 Jun;11(6):382-6.

Biochemotherapy in the treatment of metastatic melanoma in selected patients.

González Astorga B(1), Jiménez Rubiano B, Delgado Pérez JR, Valdivia Bautista J, 
Sánchez Toro C, González Flores E, Luque Caro R, Castellón Rubio V.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Service, Virgen de las Nieves University Hospital, ES-18014
Granada, Spain. bea_astorga@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Bioimmunochemotherapy (BCT) is a combination of biological agents
and cytostatics that has shown an increase in response rate (RR) in metastatic
melanoma patients. The aim of the study is to evaluate RR, progression- free
survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and treatment toxicity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective analysis of 11 metastatic melanoma patients 
treated from January 2002 to June 2008 with cisplatin 20 mg/m(2) i.v. days 1.4,
dacarbazine 800 mg/m(2) i.v. day 1, vinblastine 1.5 mg/m(2) i.v. days 1.4,
interleukin (IL)-2 9 MIU/m(2) s.c. 5.8 days and interferon (IFN)-alpha-2b 5
MIU/m2 s.c. days 5.9, 11, 13 and 15, with the support of granulocyte
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and antibiotics. Patients with ECOG 0, age < or
= 65 years and with measurable disease were included. The planned number of
courses was 4. RR was measured by Revised Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumour
(RECIST) criteria (computed tomography [CT]+/-proton emission tomography [PET]). 
Toxicity was measured according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) common
toxicity criteria.
RESULTS: Observed RRs were 18% complete response (CR), 27% partial response (PR),
9% stable disease (SD) and 46% disease progression. The median PFS was 4 months
(95% CI, 0.10 m), with a 23% one-year PFS. Median OS was 4.6 months (95% CI,
0.9.19 m), with a 29% one-year OS. Eighty-three percent of patients experienced
grade 3-4 toxicity, mainly due to neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and flu-like
syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with BCT shows an increase in RR, some achieving durable
CR; nevertheless it cannot be considered a standard treatment and should be
employed only in selected patients.


PMID: 19531453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


666. J Cell Physiol. 2009 Oct;221(1):26-30. doi: 10.1002/jcp.21851.

Tumor liberated protein from lung cancer and perspectives for immunotherapy.

Tarro G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Center for Biotechnology, Sbarro Institute for Cancer
Research and Molecular Medicine, Temple University, Philadelphia, USA.
gitarro@tin.it

This review addresses peptide regions of human tumor liberated protein (TLP)
complexes with antigenic activity. The review also deals with antibodies reacting
with such proteins, to be used for diagnostic and clinical purposes. We
identified peptide sequences of the TLP 100 kDa protein. Lung cancer cells were
found positive with an immuno-histochemical test, by peroxidase-anti-peroxidase, 
using a specific antiserum. This test turned out negative in the presence of the 
synthesized peptide (blocking test). Several tumors were used to obtain antigens 
by various purification procedures (cell homogenization, ultracentrifugation at
100,000g, gel filtration and chromatography, preparative and analytical
isoelectric focusing, IEF). The molecular weight on SDS-PAGE of an immunogenic
peak detected on IEF was determined to be a value of 214,000 Da, with monomers of
54,000 Da. In vivo TLP yields delayed hypersensitivity reactions in both
autologous and homologous hosts, and does not seem to have any nonspecific
mytogenic activity, but does have mytogenic-specific activity since lymphocyte
blastogenesis (TLP-induced in pre-sensitized patients), in the case of
intradermal inoculation, could mean its ability to sensitize a lymphocytic clone.

Copyright 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.21851 
PMID: 19507190  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Ann Pharm Fr. 2009 May;67(3):203-12. doi: 10.1016/j.pharma.2009.02.004. Epub 2009
Mar 27.

[Vaccines for the future].

[Article in French]

Girard MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Académie nationale de médecine, université Paris-7 Denis-Diderot, Lyon,
France. Marc.girard36@wanadoo.fr

The field of vaccines and vaccinology has seen remarkable progress during the
past 20 years. Many vaccines, however, still need to be improved, either because 
the protection they provide is relatively short-lived and would greatly benefit
from the development of booster formulations (as is the case for tuberculosis),
or because they only cover part of the many serotypes of the pathogen that causes
the disease (rotaviruses, papillomaviruses, or Streptococcus pneumoniae). In
addition, still many diseases lack a proper preventive vaccine, such as AIDS,
hepatitis C, malaria, viral pneumonias, croup and bronchiolitis, dengue fever,
leishmaniasis, Staphylococcus aureus, groups A and B Streptococcus, Shigellas and
enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli, to only name a few. These are the current
targets of vaccines under development, a great many of which will hopefully reach
the market within the coming 10 years. The development of preventive vaccines
against chronic diseases such as AIDS and hepatitis C will probably require more 
time, due to basic science complexities to be overcome first. It is likely that
the future will also see an emphasis on therapeutic vaccines targeted against
noninfectious diseases such as cancers (lung, skin, prostate, etc) and metabolic 
or neurologic diseases (atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease). This review will
focus on examples of preventive vaccines under development that target infectious
diseases with a heavy global burden on public health.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharma.2009.02.004 
PMID: 19446671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Hinyokika Kiyo. 2009 Mar;55(3):137-40.

[Gastric metastasis from renal cell carcinoma 20 months after radical
nephrectomy: a case report].

[Article in Japanese]

Maeda T(1), Kozakai N, Nishiyama T, Ishii T, Sugiura H, Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Kawasaki Munidaal Kawasaki Hospital.

Metastatic lesions from renal cell carcinoma (RCC) commonly occur in the lung and
bone, gastric metastasis has rarely been reported in the literature. We present
herein a case of a man with gastric metastasis from RCC. A 49-year-old male was
admitted to our hospital complaining of dyspnea on exercise. He had undergone
right radical nephrectomy due to RCC two years ago (T3a NO MI), followed by
postoperative immunotherapy with interferon-alpha and interleukin 2.
Gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a solitary polypoid lesion about 20 mm in
diameter in the greater curvature of the middle gastric body. Endoscopic needle
biopsy revealed poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. Partial gastrectomy was
performed and histologic examination of the resected specimen confirmed diagnosis
of clear cell renal carcinoma. Metastasis of any cancer to the stomach is quite
uncommon. In particular, gastric metastasis from RCC is extremely rare. To our
knowledge, this is the 15th case of gastric metastasis from RCC reported in
Japan.


PMID: 19378824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Clin Lung Cancer. 2009 Mar;10(2):99-105. doi: 10.3816/CLC.2009.n.012.

Immunotherapy in non-small-cell lung carcinoma: from inflammation to vaccination.

Van den Heuvel MM(1), Burgers SA, van Zandwijk N.

Author information: 
(1)Netherlands Cancer Institution, Antoni Van Leeuwenhoek Hospital, Thoracic
Oncology, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. m.vd.heuvel@nki.nl

The treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) on an immunologic basis has
been both welcomed and rejected in the past decades. Negative outcomes of
immunotherapy studies have been commonly explained by the poor immunogenicity of 
tumors arising in the lungs. On the other hand, there is an overwhelming body of 
literature on the importance of the inflammatory and immune responses in lung
carcinogenesis. Interaction between inflammatory cells and tumor cells
facilitates pro-cancer processes, such as angiogenesis and tumor cell migration. 
In addition to these interactions, antigen-specific antitumor responses are
overtly present in NSCLC. These data suggest a role for immunotherapy in the
treatment of NSCLC when properly applied. Targeting the antigen-specific immune
response with modern vaccines has shown promising results. In this review the
inflammatory process in NSCLC is described. The relevance of the specific immune 
response and immunotherapy studies and potential targets for future immunotherapy
are discussed.

DOI: 10.3816/CLC.2009.n.012 
PMID: 19362952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Clin Lung Cancer. 2009 Mar;10 Suppl 1:S41-6. doi: 10.3816/CLC.2009.s.007.

Novel targeted agents for lung cancer.

West HJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Oncology Program, Swedish Cancer Institute, Seattle, WA 98104, USA.
howard.west@swedish.org

It has been quite challenging to demonstrate significant improvements in survival
for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) over the past decade, but
targeted therapies such as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors and
angiogenesis inhibitors have been associated with benefits sufficient to alter
our treatment standards. In addition to variations within these classes and
combinations of such agents, several novel targeted therapy strategies have been 
introduced and are now emerging with encouraging results in early clinical trials
for patients with advanced NSCLC. Immunotherapies targeting the MUC1 protein,
MAGE-A3, and EGFR have shown early evidence of clinical benefits.
Belagenpumatucel-L is a nonspecific allogeneic vaccine derived from multiple lung
cancer cell lines, and the agent talactoferrin alfa might improve clinical
outcomes based on broad immune system activation and stimulation. Other
approaches that inhibit insulin-like growth factor receptor or heat-shock
protein, both involved with multiple pathways involved with cell growth and
survival, have shown activity in early trials and are moving forward in trials
that specifically focus on patients with advanced NSCLC. This article reviews
current data and future directions for each of these approaches.

DOI: 10.3816/CLC.2009.s.007 
PMID: 19362946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Proc Am Thorac Soc. 2009 Apr 15;6(2):224-32. doi: 10.1513/pats.200806-048LC.

Immunotherapy for lung cancer.

Hirschowitz EA(1), Yannelli JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Kentucky, Chandler Medical
Center, Lexington, KY, USA. eahirs2@uky.edu

Immunotherapy is a conceptually attractive approach, because it is highly
specific and can deal with disseminated disease with minimal impact on normal
tissues. Ability to induce antigen-specific immune responses in patients with
lung cancer is now well established in early-phase clinical trials using a
variety of immunotherapeutic approaches. Although no immunotherapy is likely to
be a panacea, randomized phase IIB studies offer promise of therapeutic activity 
in both early- and late-stage lung cancer. This review will cover basic concepts 
of immunotherapy, provide perspective on vaccine development, and update the
status of ongoing clinical trials in lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1513/pats.200806-048LC 
PMID: 19349492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Clin Lung Cancer. 2009 Jan;10(1):36-41. doi: 10.3816/CLC.2009.n.005.

Neoadjuvant and intrapleural therapies for malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Tsao AS(1), Mehran R, Roth JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic/Head & Neck Medical Oncology, The University of Texas
M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. astsao@mdanderson.org

Historically, malignant pleural mesothelioma patients with potentially resectable
disease have been treated with surgery and radiation alone. With improvements in 
systemic and intrapleural treatment options, a movement toward multi-modality
therapy has become more common. Systemic treatment options largely consist of
neoadjuvant chemotherapy with platinum doublets and most recently novel targeted 
agents, such as dasatinib. Intrapleural strategies have included injecting
chemotherapy, chemotherapy with hyper thermic per fusion, gene therapy, and
immunotherapy. The following review discusses the latest results in neoadjuvant
and intrapleural therapies in malignant pleural mesothelioma.

DOI: 10.3816/CLC.2009.n.005 
PMID: 19289370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2009 Oct;64(5):917-24. doi:
10.1007/s00280-009-0943-7. Epub 2009 Feb 17.

Irinotecan and oxaliplatin combination as the first-line treatment for patients
with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Chang MH(1), Kim KH, Jun HJ, Kim HS, Yi SY, Uhm JE, Park MJ, Lim DH, Ji SH, Hwang
IG, Lee J, Park YH, Ahn JS, Ahn MJ, Park K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical
Center, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: We conducted a prospective phase II trial of IrOx in patients with
advanced non-small cell lung cancer to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with histologically or cytologically proven
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), aged > or =18 years, Eastern Cooperative
Oncology Group performance status 0-1, at stage IIIB (pleural effusion)/IV or
with recurrent disease not suitable for primary surgical treatment, with no
palliative chemotherapy or radiotherapy to the chest or immunotherapy or biologic
therapy, the presence of measurable disease by RECIST, and who had given signed
written informed consent, were eligible. Treatment consisted of irinotecan 65
mg/m(2) on days 1 and 8 and oxaliplatin 130 mg/m(2) on day 1, repeated every 3
weeks.
RESULTS: A total of 18 patients were enrolled in June and August 2007, the median
age was 59 years (47-73). In total, 71 cycles were administered with a median of 
4 cycles per patient (range, 1-6 cycles) and 18 patients were evaluable for
treatment response. An independent review of tumor responses gave an overall
response rate of 27.7% (CR: 0, PR: 5/18; 95% CI, 7-48.4%) by intent-to-treat
analysis. The median overall survival of all patients was 14 months and the
median time-to-progression was 4.2 months (95% CI, 1.959-6.441). The most common 
grade 3/4 toxicities were diarrhea (7% of all cycles) and neutropenia (5.6% of
all cycles). Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy occurred in one patient and one
patient died due to sepsis.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that IrOx combination therapy has moderate
activity with a tolerable toxicity profile. However, it was not warranted to
evaluate further this regimen as first-line treatment for patients with advanced 
or metastatic NSCLC using the current dosages and schedule.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-009-0943-7 
PMID: 19221753  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2008 Nov;48(11):871-4.

[Limbic encephalitis and variants related to neuronal cell membrane
autoantigens].

[Article in Japanese]

Dalmau J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuro-Oncology, Department of Neurology, Hospital of the
University of Pennsylvania, 3400 Spruce Street Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Limbic encephalitis refers to an inflammatory process involving the hippocampi.
amygdala and less frequently frontobasal and insular regions. This disorder used 
to be considered extremely rare, invariably associated with cancer, and
unresponsive to treatment. However, recent studies suggest that limbic
encephalitis is more frequent than it was previously thought, and a substantial
number of patients may recover. This is due in part to the development of
clinical diagnostic criteria and identification of antibodies directed against
two broad categories of antigens: (1) intracellular or classical paraneoplastic
antigens, including Hu, Ma2, and CV2 CRMP5, among others, and (2) cell surface
antigens including, voltage-gated potassium channels (VGKC), N-methyl-D-aspartate
receptor (NMDAR), and others expressed in the neuropil of the hippocampus. While 
the disorders related to the first category of antibodies associate with cancer
(lung, testis and other), prominent brain infiltrates of T-cells, and limited
response to treatment, the disorders related to the second category of antibodies
associate with other tumors (thymoma. teratoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma), appear to be
antibody-mediated, and respond better to immunotherapy. Of particular interest in
the later group is the disorder that associates with antibodies to extracellular 
epitopes of NR1/NR2 heteromers of the NMDA receptor. Patients with this syndrome 
may present as limbic encephalitis but more frequently manifest severe
psychiatric symptoms, seizures, dyskinesias, autonomic instability or
hypoventilation. In all, the study of these disorders provides a link between
immunologic processes and neuronal events involved in memory, cognition,
seizures, and neuronal degeneration.


PMID: 19198103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Immunotherapy. 2009 Jan;1(1):19-25. doi: 10.2217/1750743X.1.1.19.

MAGE A3 antigen-specific cancer immunotherapeutic.

Peled N(1), Oton AB, Hirsch FR, Bunn P.

Author information: 
(1)University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, USA.

Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and melanoma are devastating diseases with
high rates of recurrence. Current clinical recommendations include postoperative 
adjuvant chemotherapy in stages II and IIIA NSCLC, while there is a debate
regarding its clinical benefit in stage IB. Recent Phase II trials have
demonstrated a clinical benefit by postoperative vaccine with melanoma-specific
antigen A3 (MAGE A3) in NSCLC and in stage IV melanoma. These trials have led to 
the current Phase III trials. MAGE A3 is a tumor-specific shared antigen that is 
frequently expressed in lung cancer and melanoma, as well as in few other tumors.
Its level is associated with disease burden and with prognosis, while normal
tissues do not express it, except the testis and the placenta. This review will
summarize the recent developments and clinical experience with the MAGE A3
vaccine.

DOI: 10.2217/1750743X.1.1.19 
PMID: 20635969  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Cytotherapy. 2008;10(8):775-83. doi: 10.1080/14653240802648181.

Natural killer cell immunotherapy for cancer: a new hope.

Srivastava S(1), Lundqvist A, Childs RW.

Author information: 
(1)National Heart Lung and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Recently there has been a substantial gain in our understanding of the role
NK-cells play in mediating innate host immune responses. Although NK cells have
long been known to mediate antigen independent tumor cytotoxicity, the
therapeutic potential of NK cell-based immunotherapy has yet to be realized.
Manipulating the balance between inhibitory and activating NK receptor signals,
sensitization of tumor target cells to NK cell-mediated apoptosis, and recent
discoveries in NK-cell receptor biology have fueled translational research that
has led to clinical trials investigating a number of novel methods to potentiate 
NK cytotoxicity against human malignancies.

DOI: 10.1080/14653240802648181 
PMID: 19089686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2009 Dec;58(12):1935-9. doi:
10.1007/s00262-008-0636-9. Epub 2008 Dec 13.

Mechanisms of murine dendritic cell antitumor dysfunction in aging.

Grolleau-Julius A(1), Abernathy L, Harning E, Yung RL.

Author information: 
(1)Divisions of Geriatric Medicine and Rheumatology, Department of Internal
Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-0940, USA.
grolleau@umich.edu

Effective cancer immunotherapy depends on the body's ability to generate tumor
antigen-presenting cells and tumor-reactive effector lymphocytes. As the most
potent antigen presenting cells (APCs), dendritic cells (DCs) are capable of
sensitizing T cells to new and recall antigens. Clinical trials of antigen-pulsed
autologous DCs have been conducted in patients with a number of hematological and
solid cancers, including malignant melanoma, lymphoma, myeloma, and non-small
cell lung cancer. These studies suggest that antigen-loaded DC vaccination is a
potentially safe and effective cancer therapy. However, the clinical results have
been variable. Since the elderly are preferentially affected by diseases targeted
by DC-directed immunotherapy, it is quite striking that few studies to date have 
focused on the effect of aging on DC function, a key aspect of optimal
immunotherapy design in an aging population. In the present paper, we will
discuss the consequences of aging on murine bone marrow-derived DC function and
their use in cancer immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-008-0636-9 
PMCID: PMC2773435
PMID: 19082999  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Lung Cancer. 2009 Jul;65(1):1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2008.10.018. Epub 2008
Dec 4.

Active specific immunotherapy and cell-transfer therapy for the treatment of
non-small cell lung cancer.

Kakimi K(1), Nakajima J, Wada H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunotherapeutics (Medinet), Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.
kakimi@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Lung cancer is an intractable disease urgently requiring more effective treatment
approaches. The potential of immunotherapy in this context remains promising,
although presently there are no satisfactory protocols available for lung cancer.
However, encouraging evidence of clinical benefits from immunotherapy is
beginning to accumulate in several lung cancer trials. Better understanding of
tumor-specific immune responses, identifying tumor-associated antigens, and
manipulating the immunoregulatory environment of the tumor is likely to further
increase the efficacy of immune-mediated cancer therapies. Here, we review recent
advances in cellular immunotherapy and vaccines for lung cancer, emphasizing an
important paradigm shift in the analysis of clinical benefit away from "tumor
response" towards "patient response".

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2008.10.018 
PMID: 19062127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


679. World J Surg. 2009 Apr;33(4):685-97. doi: 10.1007/s00268-008-9825-0.

Nonviral delivery for genomic therapy of cancer.

Templeton NS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, One 
Baylor Plaza, M/S 390, Houston, TX 77030, USA. NANCYT@bcm.tmc.edu

We have developed improved liposomal nanoparticles that efficiently condense
nucleic acids, proteins, viruses, drugs, and mixtures of these agents on the
interior of bilamellar invaginated structures (BIVs) produced by a novel
extrusion procedure. The liposomal complexes have extended half-life in the
circulation, serum stability, and broad biodistribution; are targetable to
specific organs and cell types; can penetrate through tight barriers in several
organs; are fusogenic with cell membranes and avoid endosomes; are optimized for 
nucleic acid:lipid ratio and colloidal suspension in vivo; can be size
fractionated to produce totally homogeneous populations of complexes prior to
injection; are nontoxic, nonimmunogenic, and can be repeatedly administered; and 
they are stable in liquid suspensions and freeze-dried formulations. We can add
specific ligands either by ionic interactions or by covalent attachments to the
surface of these nucleic acid-liposome complexes to accomplish targeted delivery 
to specific cell surface receptors. Furthermore, the charge on the surface of
these complexes can be modified to avoid uptake by nontarget cells using our
novel technology called "reversible masking." We have also achieved high-dose
systemic delivery of these complexes without toxicity in vivo by further
purification of plasmid DNA. At present, these complexes are injected
intravenously into patients in clinical trials to treat lung cancer and will be
used in upcoming trials to treat breast, pancreatic, and head and neck cancers.
Notably, BIV complexes are being injected intravenously into patients with
non-small-cell lung carcinoma who have failed to respond to chemotherapy. These
patients are living longer and have demonstrated objective responses, including
tumor regression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-008-9825-0 
PMID: 19023615  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2008 Nov;17(11):1703-15. doi:
10.1517/13543784.17.11.1703 .

Novel bone cancer drugs: investigational agents and control paradigms for primary
bone sarcomas (Ewing's sarcoma and osteosarcoma).

Anderson P(1), Kopp L, Anderson N, Cornelius K, Herzog C, Hughes D, Huh W.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Pediatrics,
Houston, TX 77030-4009, USA. pmanders@mdanderson.org

BACKGROUND: New investigational agents and chemotherapy regimens including
cyclophosphamide + topotecan, temozolomide + irinotecan, and anti-IGF-1R
antibodies in Ewing's sarcoma (ES) and liposomal muramyltripeptide
phosphatidylethanolamine (L-MTP-PE), aerosol therapy, and bone-specific agents in
osteosarcoma (OS) may improve survival and/or quality of life on 'continuation'
therapy.
OBJECTIVE: Review of investigational approaches and control paradigms for
recurrent or metastatic primary bone tumors.
METHODS: Analyze temozolomide + irinotecan data and review in the context of
other newer approaches including antiangiogenesis, anti-IGF-1R antibodies and
bisphosphonates for ES. Review some current state-of-the-art approaches for OS
including L-MTP-PE, anti-IGF-1R inhibition, aerosol therapies and bone specific
agents.
RESULTS/CONCLUSION: L-MTP-PE with chemotherapy in OS has been shown to improve
survival; compassionate access is available for recurrence and/or metastases.
Aerosol therapy (granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor, cisplatin,
gemcitabine) for lung metastases is a promising approach to reduce systemic
toxicity. The bone-specific agents including denosumab (anti-receptor activator
of NF-kappaB ligand antibody) and bisphosphonates may have benefit against giant 
cell tumor, ES and OS. Anti-IGF-1R antibody SCH717454 has preclinical activity in
OS but best effectiveness will most likely be in combination with chemotherapy
earlier in therapy. Both temozolomide + irinotecan and cyclophosphamide +
topotecan combinations are very active in ES and are likely to be tested with
anti-IGF-1R antibodies against ES.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.17.11.1703	 
PMID: 18922107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Rev Mal Respir. 2008 Jun;25(6):683-94.

[Respiratory complications after oesophagectomy for cancer].

[Article in French]

D'journo XB(1), Michelet P, Avaro JP, Trousse D, Giudicelli R, Fuentes P, Doddoli
C, Thomas P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Chirurgie Thoracique et des Maladies de l'oesophage, Hôpital Sainte
Marguerite, Marseille, France.

Surgery is the cornerstone of treatment for resectable tumours of the oesophagus.
Recent advances of surgical techniques and anaesthesiology have led to a
substantial decrease in mortality and morbidity. Respiratory complications affect
about 30% of patients after oesophagectomy and 80% of these complications occur
within the first five days. Respiratory complications include sputum retention,
pneumonia and ARDS. They are the major cause of morbidity and mortality after
oesophageal resection and numerous studies have identified the factors associated
with these complications. The mechanisms are not very different from those
observed after pulmonary resection. Nevertheless, there is an important lack of
definition, and evaluation of the incidence is particularly difficult.
Furthermore, respiratory complications are related to many factors. Careful
medical history, physical examination and pulmonary function testing help to
identify the risk factors and provide strategies to reduce the risk of pulmonary 
complications. Standardized postoperative management and a better understanding
of the pathogenesis of pulmonary complications are necessary to reduce hospital
mortality. This article discusses preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative
factors affecting respiratory complications and strategies to reduce the
incidence of these complications after oesophagectomy.


PMID: 18772826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Curr Med Chem. 2008;15(17):1655-73.

Combination of photodynamic therapy with anti-cancer agents.

Zuluaga MF(1), Lange N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Biopharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, University of Geneva, University of Lausanne, 30 Quai Ernest-Ansermet, 
1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.

Degenerative diseases such as cancer usually involve more than one pathological
process. Therefore, attempts to combat such diseases with monotherapeutic
approaches may not always do so efficiently. For this reason, the use of
combination therapy with modalities that target different disease pathways
represents an alternative strategy. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) has already been
established as an alternative therapy for the treatment of various types of
malignant disorders, including oesophageal, lung and bladder cancer as well as
other degenerative diseases. This technique involves the administration of a
tumor localizing photosensitizer followed by its activation with light of a
specific wavelength. In the presence of tissue oxygen, the photoactive sensitizer
triggers a series of photochemical and photobiological processes that may lead to
direct cancer cell damage, tumor microvascular occlusion and host immune
response. Due to these multiple actions, PDT has increasingly gained recognition 
as a potential adjuvant for conventional cancer treatments. Several preclinical
studies and some clinical trials suggest that the use of PDT in combination with 
established treatments or with newly-developed modalities may be of benefit as
compared to the individual modalities. In this review, we briefly introduce the
reader to the main photobiological aspects of PDT, and then discuss the use of
PDT in combination with other pharmacological approaches for the treatment of
cancer.


PMID: 18673216  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Vaccine. 2008 Sep 15;26(39):4984-90. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.06.092. Epub
2008 Jul 14.

The use of mycobacterial adjuvant-based agents for immunotherapy of cancer.

Grange JM(1), Bottasso O, Stanford CA, Stanford JL.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Infectious Diseases and International Health, Windeyer Institute
for Medical Sciences, University College London, 46 Cleveland Street, London W1T 
4JF, UK.

A heat-killed preparation of Mycobacterium vaccae (SRL172) has been shown, in
recent studies, to be effective in the treatment of adenocarcinoma of the lung
and renal cell cancer. It is postulated that the mechanisms of this form of
immunotherapy is, at least in part, due to immune regulation, reflected in the
selective enhancement of Th1 and down-regulation of Th2 T cell activity. These
beneficial effects are attributed to the ability of adjuvants in the bacterial
cell walls to modify and optimise the response to antigens shared by the bacteria
and stressed host tissues, resulting in the destruction of cancer cells by
programmed cell death or apoptosis. The M. vaccae-induced apoptosis appears to be
most effective against carcinomas, perhaps especially those of glandular tissue, 
in contrast to pyrexia-induced necrosis which is most effective against tumours
of mesodermal origin. In view of the great range of adjuvants, especially in the 
genus Mycobacterium and related genera, it may prove possible to develop a range 
of immunotherapeutic agents with useful activity against a wide range of cancers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.06.092 
PMID: 18625281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2008 Sep;6(9):988-92. doi: 10.1016/j.cgh.2008.04.009.
Epub 2008 Jul 2.

Serologic profiles aiding the diagnosis of autoimmune gastrointestinal
dysmotility.

Dhamija R(1), Tan KM, Pittock SJ, Foxx-Orenstein A, Benarroch E, Lennon VA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester,
Minnesota 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Autoimmune gastrointestinal dysmotility is a limited
autoimmune dysautonomia occurring idiopathically or in the context of an
anatomically remote neoplasm, previously documented or unsuspected. Here we
report 24 Mayo Clinic patients in whom the profile of serum autoantibodies aided 
this diagnosis.
METHODS: All patients were ascertained serologically in the course of service
evaluation for autoantibodies consistent with neurologic autoimmunity. Review of 
their histories, motility studies, and laboratory findings revealed that all had 
presented with subacute gastrointestinal dysmotility.
RESULTS: Recorded motility abnormalities included esophageal dysmotility 8 (6 had
achalasia), delayed gastric emptying 12, slow small intestinal transit 7, slow
colonic transit 4, and pelvic floor dyssynergia 4. Four patients underwent
abdominal surgery; 2 commenced total parenteral nutrition. Plasma membrane cation
channel autoantibodies were detected in 23 patients: neuronal voltage-gated
calcium channel (5 N-type and 1 P/Q-type), acetylcholine receptor (11
ganglionic-type and 4 muscle-type), and neuronal voltage-gated potassium channel 
autoantibodies (4). Two patients had antineuronal nuclear autoantibodies, type 1.
Approximately half of the patients had neural autoantibodies (including skeletal 
muscle striational and glutamic acid decarboxylase, 65kd isoform) or other
antibody markers of organ-specific autoimmunity (thyroid or gastric parietal cell
specificities). Neoplasia was diagnosed in 11 patients (9 recent, 2 remote):
lung, breast and endometrial, gastrointestinal and thymoma. Moderate to dramatic 
improvement in gastrointestinal symptoms was reported after immunotherapy in 4 of
4 patients treated and after pyridostigmine treatment in 2 of 2 patients treated.
CONCLUSIONS: Autoimmune serology aids the diagnosis of autoimmune
gastrointestinal dysmotility, both paraneoplastic and idiopathic, and might guide
management.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2008.04.009 
PMCID: PMC2741093
PMID: 18599359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


685. J Thorac Oncol. 2008 Jun;3(6 Suppl 2):S164-70. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e318174e9a7.

Immunotherapy for lung cancer.

Bradbury PA(1), Shepherd FA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, University Health Network, Princess
Margaret Hospital, and University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Reports of tumor regression after infection date back as far as 1550 bc. In the
twentieth century, Dr. William Coley, witnessing regression of a malignant tumor 
in one of his patients after a bacterial infection, developed the first cancer
treatment vaccine derived from killed bacteria, with some reported success.
However, despite decades of research, no specific, active tumor vaccine has been 
approved for the treatment of cancer. In lung cancer, initial attempts to
modulate the immune system with nonspecific therapies were unsuccessful. However,
more sophisticated specific vaccines have now been developed, and an increasing
number are being evaluated in randomized phase 3 trials, raising hopes that
vaccines may be an additional novel therapy for patients with lung cancer. This
article reviews the following seven vaccines, which have entered randomized
trials: L-BLP25 (Stimuvax), BEC-2, 1E10, PF-3512676 (Promune),
melanoma-associated antigen A3 immunotherapeutic, granulocyte-macrophage
colony-stimulating factor-transduced allogeneic cancer cellular immunotherapy,
and belagenpumatucel-L (Lucanix).

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e318174e9a7 
PMID: 18520304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Br J Haematol. 2008 Sep;142(6):877-88. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2008.07260.x.
Epub 2008 Jun 28.

Understanding and harnessing the graft-versus-leukaemia effect.

Barrett AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1220, USA. barrettj@nhlbi.nih.gov

The graft-versus-leukaemia (GVL) effect is a central component of the stem cell
allograft's ability to cure haematological malignancies. The GVL effect is
mediated by donor-derived natural killer cells and T lymphocytes, which have
distinct mechanisms of recognizing and targeting the recipient's malignant cells.
After transplantation the cytokine milieu is favourable to the early
establishment of a GVL effect, but the need to prevent graft-versus-host disease 
limits the full potential of this process. Clinical studies have identified some 
critical components of the transplant preparation, donor selection, stem cell
source (peripheral blood versus bone marrow) and post-transplant management that 
can be manipulated to optimize the GVL effect. However, further developments
focusing on the selective depletion of unwanted alloreactivity with preservation 
of GVL effects, and the use of vaccines or the adoptive transfer of
leukaemia-specific lymphocytes, will be required to enhance the GVL effect to
reliably eradicate more resistant leukaemias.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2008.07260.x 
PMID: 18564358  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2008 Jul;8(7):951-68. doi: 10.1517/14712598.8.7.951 .

Cancer immunotherapy targeting tumour-specific antigens: towards a new therapy
for minimal residual disease.

Brichard VG(1), Lejeune D.

Author information: 
(1)GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Cancer Immunotherapeutics R&D, Rue de l'Institut,
89, B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium. vincent.brichard@gskbio.com

BACKGROUND: Clinical investigation of cancer immunotherapy has been very active
and several approaches have been evaluated in Phase III trials. In particular,
the characterisation at the molecular level of tumour-specific antigens, together
with expert knowledge from GSK Biologicals in recombinant protein manufacturing
and immunological Adjuvant Systems, has led the company to develop
Antigen-Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic (ASCI).
OBJECTIVE/METHODS: This paper reviews the different cancer immunotherapy
approaches that have reached Phase III clinical development. A special attention 
is given to GSK's ASCI approach.
CONCLUSION: Based on encouraging data in a double-blind Phase II trial in
non-small-cell lung cancer, the selection of the most suitable adjuvant system in
melanoma and the choice of the adequate clinical setting for the clinical
development of cancer immunotherapy, the ASCI approach offers the perspective
that the long quest towards a new cancer treatment approach is about to succeed.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.8.7.951	 
PMID: 18549325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Clin Lung Cancer. 2008 Feb;9 Suppl 1:S37-44.

The future of cancer vaccines for non-small-cell lung cancer: ongoing trials.

Choudhury A(1), Palma M, Mellstedt H.

Author information: 
(1)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Oncology-Pathology, Cancer Centrum
Karolinska, Stockholm, Sweden.

Lung cancer represents one of the malignancies in which the 3 elements of
conventional therapy (ie, surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy) have limited
effectiveness in curbing progressive disease. In this context, there is
burgeoning interest in the use of vaccine therapy as a nontoxic adjunct to
increase the treatment success rates over those obtained with traditional
regimens alone. Several clinical trials using a variety of vaccination strategies
have been reported or are ongoing. In this review, we have provided an overview
of these trials, with a special focus on the clinical efficacy of the vaccines.
The future prospects and challenges of vaccine therapy in lung cancer have also
been discussed.


PMID: 18540533  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Clin Lung Cancer. 2008 Feb;9 Suppl 1:S28-36.

Current state of vaccine therapies in non-small-cell lung cancer.

Romero P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Onco-Immunology, Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research,
Lausanne Branch, Lausanne, Switzerland. pedro.romero@isrec.unil.ch

A large variety of cancer vaccines have undergone extensive testing in
early-phase clinical trials. A limited number have also been tested in randomized
phase II clinical trials. Encouraging trends toward increased survival in the
vaccine arms have been recently observed for 2 vaccine candidates in patients
with non-small-cell lung cancer. These have provided the impetus for the
initiation of phase III trials in large groups of patients with lung cancer.
These vaccines target 2 antigens widely expressed in lung carcinomas:
melanoma-associated antigen 3, a cancer testis antigen; and mucin 1, an antigen
overexpressed in a largely deglycosylated form in advanced tumors. Therapeutic
cancer vaccines aim at inducing strong CD8 and CD4 T-cell responses. The majority
of vaccines recently tested in phase I clinical trials show efficacy in terms of 
induction of specific tumor antigen immunity. However, clinical efficacy remains 
to be determined but appears limited. Efforts are thus aimed at understanding the
basis for this apparent lack of effect on tumors. Two major factors are involved.
On one hand, current vaccines are suboptimal. Strong adjuvant agents and
appropriate tumor antigens are needed. Moreover, dose, route, and schedule also
need optimization. On the other hand, it is now clear that large tumors often
present a tolerogenic microenvironment that hampers effective antitumor immunity.
The partial understanding of the molecular pathways leading to functional
inactivation of T cells at tumor sites has provided new targets for intervention.
In this regard, blockade of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 and programmed
death-1 with humanized monoclonal antibodies has reached the clinical testing
stage. In the future, more potent cancer vaccines will benefit from intense
research in antigen discovery and adjuvant agents. Furthermore, it is likely that
vaccines need to be combined with compounds that reverse major tolerogenic
pathways that are constitutively active at the tumor site. Developing these
combined approaches to vaccination in cancer promises new, exciting findings and,
at the same time, poses important challenges to academic research institutions
and the pharmaceutical industry.


PMID: 18540532  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Clin Lung Cancer. 2008 Feb;9 Suppl 1:S20-7.

Early clinical trial experience with vaccine therapies in non-small-cell lung
cancer.

Ho C(1), Ochsenbein AF, Gautschi O, Davies AM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada. cho@bccancer.bc.ca

Cancer immunotherapy has made great progress because of advances in immunology
and molecular biology. Increased understanding of mechanisms by which lung cancer
cells escape the immune system and recognition of key tumor antigens and immune
system components involved in tumor ignorance have led to the development of a
variety of lung cancer vaccines. Immunotherapy has advanced from using
nonspecific immunomodulatory agents to lung cancer-specific tumor antigens and
tumor cell-derived vaccines. While understanding of immune processes and
malignancy has improved, there is great opportunity for further research of
vaccine therapies in non-small-cell lung cancer. Herein, we review the
development and evolution of early lung cancer vaccine trials.


PMID: 18540531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Clin Lung Cancer. 2008 Feb;9 Suppl 1:S13-9.

Immune modulation as a therapeutic strategy for non-small-cell lung cancer.

Holt GE(1), Disis ML.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary Critical Care Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA 98109, USA. gregholt@u.washington.edu

Active tumor immunotherapy may provide hope for patients with non-small-cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) because, in more than 20 years, current therapies have yet to
change mortality statistics. Creating an efficacious vaccine involves selection
of important tumor antigens and formulation of their immunogenic epitopes into a 
construct for delivery to antigen-presenting cells. The method of immunization
will confer significant properties to the potency of the vaccine and might
require augmentation with certain adjuvant agents like interleukin-12 and
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. So far, clinical trials in
NSCLC immunotherapy have shown promise with the Induction of Immune responses and
the presence of clinical responses compared with historical controls treated with
standard therapy. Immunotherapy could merge seamlessly into the current standard 
of care for NSCLC with the emergence of data supporting a beneficial role of
chemotherapy and radiation in the production of antitumor immune responses. With 
continued work in this field, active immunotherapy may provide the necessary
therapy for the successful treatment of this common disease.


PMID: 18540530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 2008 Jun;60(2):123-35.

[Spontaneous regression of lung metastases from renal cell carcinoma: the
importance of immunogenetic factors and a review of the literature].

[Article in Italian]

Crisci A(1), Corsale I, Abrami F, Politi L, Andreani M, Borgianni S, Barale D,
Porfirio B.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Area Critica, Medico Chirurgica Urologia I, Università degli
Studi di Firenze, viale Pieraccini 18, Florence, Italy. Alfonso.crisci@unifi.it

Spontaneous regression of renal cell cancer (RCC) metastases most frequently
occurs after nephrectomy, since reducing target size makes possible a more
effective immune response. RCC is immunotherapy-sensitive, as are RCC metastases,
especially metastases to the lungs (organs are rich in immune cells and
continually exposed to antigens), which have an antigenic effect. Immunotherapy
could be perfected if a renal antigen that could be incorporated into a vaccine
were identified. This would have played an important role in treatment and
follow-up. Vaccine therapy for RCC is no longer far out of reach. The
characteristics of RCC make it a fertile field for the study of prometastatic and
endogenous antiangiogenic factors.


PMID: 18500227  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2008 Jun;8(6):839-44. doi: 10.1517/14712598.8.6.839 .

Allovectin-7 therapy in metastatic melanoma.

Bedikian AY(1), Del Vecchio M.

Author information: 
(1)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Melanoma
Medical Oncology, 1515 Holcombe Blvd, Box 430, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
abedikia@mdanderson.org

BACKGROUND: Patients with metastatic melanoma are immunosuppressed by the growing
tumor. Allovectin-7 therapy is a form of active immunotherapy that aims at
immunization of the host with substances designed to elicit an immune reaction
that will eliminate or slow down the growth and spread of the cancer.
OBJECTIVE: to describe the rationale for immunotherapy with Allovectin-7 and
assess its safety profile and efficacy based on the results of completed melanoma
clinical trials.
METHODS: we reviewed both the published medical literature and the results of
trials pending publication.
RESULTS/CONCLUSION: Allovectin-7 is a safe and active immunotherapeutic agent. It
induces local and systemic durable responses in patients with metastatic
melanoma.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.8.6.839	 
PMID: 18476795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Feb 16;152(7):371-5.

[Angiogenesis inhibitors for the systemic treatment of metastatic renal cell
carcinoma: sunitinib, sorafenib, bevacizumab and temsirolimus].

[Article in Dutch]

de Mulder PH(1), Haanen JB, Sleijfer S, Kruit WH, Gietema JA, Richel DJ,
Groenewegen G, Voest EE, van den Eertwegh AJ, Osanto S, Jansen RL, Mulders PF.

Author information: 
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum St Radboud, Nijmegen.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Feb 16;152(7):376-80.

Treatment of patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma is evolving rapidly
due to the advent of novel targeted therapies. Improved knowledge of the
underlying pathogenesis has led to the development of drugs that modulate the
dominant signal transduction pathways for this disease, which results in
inhibition of angiogenesis. Recent evidence indicates that the receptor tyrosine 
kinase inhibitor sunitinib prolongs progression-free survival compared with
interferon-alpha, especially in patients with intermediate risk. Immunotherapy
with interferon-alpha or high-dose interleukin-2 should still be considered for
low-risk patients, particularly those with clear-cell tumours and metastases of
the lung only. In patients who fail treatment with interferon-alpha, sorafenib
has been shown to improve progression-free survival. High-risk patients may
benefit from treatment with temsirolimus, which inhibits mammalian target of
rapamycin (mTOR) kinase activity and has shown to improve overall survival. These
angiogenesis inhibitors did not receive mention in the recently published
guideline 'Renal cell carcinoma'.


PMID: 18380383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Immunol Rev. 2008 Apr;222:117-28. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-065X.2008.00613.x.

Oral DNA vaccines target the tumor vasculature and microenvironment and suppress 
tumor growth and metastasis.

Xiang R(1), Luo Y, Niethammer AG, Reisfeld RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, 
USA.

Four novel oral DNA vaccines provide protection against melanoma, colon, breast, 
and lung carcinoma in mouse models. Vaccines are delivered by attenuated
Salmonella typhimurium to secondary lymphoid organs and respectively target
vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2, transcription factor Fos-related
antigen-1, anti-apoptosis protein survivin and Legumain, an asparaginyl
endopeptidase specifically overexpressed on tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs)
in the tumor microenvironment (TME). These vaccines are all capable of inducing
potent cell-mediated protective immunity against self-antigens, resulting in
marked suppression of tumor growth and dissemination. Key mechanisms induced by
these DNA vaccines include efficient suppression of angiogenesis in the tumor
vasculature and marked activation of cytotoxic T cells, natural killer cells, and
antigen-presenting dendritic cells. The vaccine targeting Legumain establishes
the new paradigm whereby a reduction in the density of TAMs in the TME decreases 
the release of factors potentiating tumor growth and angiogenesis. This, in turn,
remodels the TME and decreases its immunosuppressive milieu and thereby
potentiates the DNA vaccine's ability to effectively suppress tumor cell
proliferation, vascularization, and metastasis. It is anticipated that such
research efforts will lead to novel DNA-based vaccines that will be effective for
the treatment of cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-065X.2008.00613.x 
PMID: 18363997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Semin Neurol. 2008 Apr;28(2):212-27. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1062260.

Autoimmune disorders of neuromuscular transmission.

Mahadeva B(1), Phillips LH 2nd, Juel VC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Virginia, Box 800394, Charlottesville, 
VA 22908, USA.

Myasthenia gravis and Lambert-Eaton syndrome are autoimmune disorders of the
neuromuscular junction. The most common form of myasthenia gravis is associated
with antibodies directed against the acetylcholine receptor on the postsynaptic
membrane. In Lambert-Eaton syndrome, antibodies are directed against P/Q-type
voltage-gated calcium channels on presynaptic cholinergic nerve terminals at the 
neuromuscular junction and in the autonomic nervous system. Lambert-Eaton
syndrome may represent a paraneoplastic disease that is most commonly associated 
with small-cell lung carcinoma or an autoimmune disorder. In both myasthenia
gravis and Lambert-Eaton syndrome, the approach to treatment includes symptomatic
and immune therapy. Symptomatic therapy in both disorders includes
acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. In Lambert-Eaton syndrome, agents that augment
the quantal release of acetylcholine are also effective. Immune therapy includes 
immune suppression with various medications, short-term immune modulation with
plasma exchange and intravenous immunoglobulin, and thymectomy in myasthenia
gravis. When Lambert-Eaton syndrome is associated with cancer, the disease may
improve or remit with effective treatment of the underlying malignancy. Current
treatment options will be summarized for both disorders.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1062260 
PMID: 18351523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Med Sci (Paris). 2008 Mar;24(3):306-13. doi: 10.1051/medsci/2008243306.

[Kinoids: a novel generation of specific immune therapy against cytokines].

[Article in French]

Bensussan A(1), Bizzini B, Pouletty P, Gallo RC, Zagury D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Inserm U841,
Créteil, France. armand.bensussan@creteil.inserm.fr

The abnormal cytokine release in the stromal microenvironment of pathologic
tissues, contributes to the pathogenesis of viral infections such as AIDS, cancer
and auto-immune diseases. Neovacs developed therapeutic vaccines, named Kinoids, 
which induce anti-cytokine Antibodies. Kinoids are non toxic but immunogenic
cytokine derivatives. Kinoid immunizations induce high titre of neutralizing Abs 
to the corresponding cytokine, is well tolerated and experimentally effective. In
transgenic mice expressing huTNFalpha, the TNFalpha kinoid decreases clinical
signs of Rheumatoid Arthritis and in mice challenged with syngenic CT26 tumor
cell line huVEGF kinoid inhibits lung metastases. After validation by clinical
trials, kinoid vaccines could represent a second generation of specific immune
therapy to be used to combat ectopic cytokines.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2008243306 
PMID: 18334181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Gen Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2008 Feb;56(2):43-53. doi: 10.1007/s11748-007-0211-x.
Epub 2008 Feb 24.

From cancer genomics to thoracic oncology: discovery of new biomarkers and
therapeutic targets for lung and esophageal carcinoma.

Daigo Y(1), Nakamura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Human Genome Center, Institute of Medical
Science, The University of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Shirokanedai, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, 
Japan.

Over the last decade, many genetic and epigenetic alterations involved in the
development and progression of lung and esophageal cancers have been reported,
but their precise molecular mechanisms have remained unclear. Although novel
drugs targeting some of these molecular targets have been developed, they provide
limited survival benefits to only a small subset of cancer patients, and only a
small number of practically useful biomarkers are presently available. To
identify the molecules involved in lung and esophageal carcinogenesis and those
applicable as novel tumor biomarkers and for the development of new molecular
therapies, we performed gene expression profile analysis of 101 archived lung
cancers and 19 esophageal squamous cell carcinomas whose tumor cells were
purified by laser microdissection. Through a subsequent systematic approach using
tissue microarray, RNA interference, and high throughput enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay techniques as well as bioinformatics, we have identified a
set of molecules that fall into the category of oncoantigens. These molecules are
potentially promising candidates for the development of novel diagnostic
biomarkers, therapeutic drugs, and/or immunotherapy; there is also a small subset
of biomarkers for predicting the presence of lymph node metastasis in surgically 
treated patients. In this article, we introduce our sophisticated and integrated 
cancer genomics strategy for improving the treatment of cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11748-007-0211-x 
PMID: 18297458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Arch Immunol Ther Exp (Warsz). 2007 Sep-Oct;55(5):281-7.

Dendritic/tumor fusion cell-based vaccination against cancer.

Koido S(1), Hara E, Homma S, Fujise K, Gong J, Tajiri H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
The Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. shigeo_koido@jikei.ac.jp

A promising area of investigation is the use of cancer vaccines to eliminate
residual tumor cells. Dendritic cells (DCs) are potent professional
antigen-presenting cells able to induce primary immune responses. DCs capture and
process antigens into peptides and present them to T cells and B cells through
MHC class I and II molecules. An alternative approach to the induction of
antitumor immunity is the use of fusions of DCs and tumor cells. In this
approach, a broad spectrum of tumor-associated antigens, including those known
and unidentified, are processed endogenously and presented by MHC class I and II 
pathways in the context of costimulatory signals. In animal studies, vaccination 
with DC/tumor fusion cells results in the elimination of established lung
metastasis. Preclinical human studies have demonstrated that DC/tumor fusion
cells induce antigen-specific polyclonal cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responses against
autologous tumor in vitro. In clinical studies, vaccination of cancer patients
with autologous DC/tumor fusion cells is associated with immunological and
clinical responses in a subset of patients. Future studies should be investigated
to improve the immunogenicity of DC/tumor fusion cell preparations. This review
provides a general overview of the DC/tumor fusion cell-based vaccine and
summarizes some of the recent advances in this field.


PMID: 18219758  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Rev Pneumol Clin. 2007 Dec;63(6):354-64.

[Malignant pleural mesothelioma: interrogations and hopes concerning the expected
epidemic].

[Article in French]

Margery J(1), Ruffié P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital d'Instruction des Armées Percy, 101, avenue
Henri-Barbusse, 92140 Clamart. j.margery@free.fr

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rare incurable tumor. Interest in MPM
has increased in recent years due to a steadily increasing incidence subsequent
to the intensive use of asbestosis, the main causal agent, but also due to better
awareness in the political and scientific communities faced with a serious public
health issue. Our knowledge of MPM has improved regularly in terms of pathologic 
diagnosis and the mechanisms underlying the mesothelial carcinogenesis. MPM is
also the subject of many technological innovations as illustrated by the recent
identification of new biological markers, access to metabolic imaging, and
clinical research on targeted treatments. Proper management implies the
participation of the general population since the implementation of
administrative procedures for social indemnities. In 2007, a more aggressive
therapeutic approach is becoming common practice with the use of radiotherapy and
the emergence of the concept of multimodal care centered on wide
pleuropneumonectomy. These advances create real hope for improvement, but also
many interrogations since no standard treatment protocol has been clearly
identified.


PMID: 18166941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Oncology (Williston Park). 2007 Oct;21(11 Suppl Nurse Ed):11-7; discussion 18.

Cancer vaccines: a new frontier in prevention and treatment.

Giarelli E(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing, Philadelphia, USA.

Vaccines have been exceptionally effective against diseases such as smallpox,
measles, chickenpox, and polio. They are among the safest and most cost-effective
agents for disease prevention. In recent years, vaccination has been considered
for other diseases, including AIDS and cancer. Cancer vaccines can be categorized
as preventive or therapeutic. Preventive vaccines, which are commercially
available for cervical cancer and liver cancer, block infection with the
causative agents of human papillomavirus and hepatitis B virus, respectively. The
benefit of cancer treatment vaccines lies in their ability to "boost" the immune 
system response to cancer cells, which is generally low. Using vaccines in the
treatment of cancer is relatively new, however, and chiefly experimental.
Therapeutic vaccines for breast, lung, colon, skin, renal, prostate, and other
cancers are now being investigated in clinical trials. Oncology nurses may play a
significant role in reducing barriers to uptake of preventive vaccines among the 
general public and in increasing patients' acceptance of therapeutic cancer
vaccines.


PMID: 18154203  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2008;177:131-6.

Targeted therapy of the epidermal growth factor receptor in the treatment of
pancreatic cancer.

Heeger S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Merck Pharma GmbH, Darmstadt, Germany.

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mediated pathway is one of the most
promising targets for the development of new strategies in anticancer treatments.
The so-called "small molecule" tyrosine kinase inhibitor erlotinib has gained
marketing authorization in the United States for advanced adenocarcinoma of the
lung and for pancreatic cancer, whereas the antibody cetuximab is registered for 
metastatic colorectal cancer and cancers of the head and neck. Ongoing studies
are evaluating the impact of EGFR-targeting therapy in the treatment of locally
advanced and metastatic pancreatic cancer.


PMID: 18084955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


703. J Nucl Med. 2008 Jan;49(1):158-63. Epub 2007 Dec 12.

Multifunctional antibodies by the Dock-and-Lock method for improved cancer
imaging and therapy by pretargeting.

Goldenberg DM(1), Rossi EA, Sharkey RM, McBride WJ, Chang CH.

Author information: 
(1)Garden State Cancer Center, Center for Molecular Medicine and Immunology,
Belleville, New Jersey 07109, USA. dmg.gscancer@att.net

The Dock-and-Lock (DNL) method, which makes bioactive molecules with multivalency
and multifunctionality, is a new approach to develop targeting molecules for
improved cancer imaging and therapy. It involves the use of a pair of distinct
protein domains involved in the natural association between cyclic adenosine
monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) and A-kinase anchoring
proteins (AKAPs). The dimerization and docking domain found in the regulatory
subunit of PKA and the anchoring domain (AD) of an interactive AKAP are each
attached to a biologic entity, and the resulting derivatives, when combined,
readily form a stably tethered complex of a defined composition that fully
retains the functions of the individual constituents. The DNL method has
generated several trivalent, bispecific, binding proteins, each consisting of 2
identical Fab fragments linked site-specifically to a different Fab fragment. For
example, 2 identical Fabs reacting with carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) are bound 
to a Fab reacting with a hapten peptide that bears a diagnostic or therapeutic
radionuclide. Using a 2-step, pretargeting method that separates the bivalent
anti-CEA antibody targeting of tumor from the delivery of the radioactive peptide
that is captured by the second Fab of the tri-Fab construct, an improved method
of cancer imaging and therapy has been developed and shows very sensitive and
specific targeting of CEA-expressing tumors for either diagnostic imaging, such
as with immunoSPECT and immunoPET, or radioimmunotherapy. Improved therapeutic
efficacy is shown with pretargeting in a pancreatic cancer xenograft model given 
a tri-Fab to a pancreatic cancer MUC1 and the hapten peptide labeled with (90)Y.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.107.046185 
PMID: 18077530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Rev Med Interne. 2008 Jan;29(1):39-45. Epub 2007 Oct 25.

[Sarcoidosis and sarcoid reactions in cancer].

[Article in French]

Pavic M(1), Debourdeau P, Vacelet V, Rousset H.

Author information: 
(1)Service de médecine interne, hôpital d'instruction des armées Desgenettes, 108
boulevard Pinel, Lyon, France. m.pavic@numericable.com

PURPOSE: Relationships between granulomatosis and cancers have been suspected for
a long time. Nevertheless, few evidence has been reported until recently. Here,
we present a literature review about the association of granulomatosis and
neoplasia.
CURRENT KNOWLEDGE AND KEY POINTS: Aside from granulomatosis due to infectious
disease, granulomas can be observed in cancer patients, mainly in two situations.
Patients may rarely present with typical sarcoidosis occurring before, during or 
after the diagnosis of cancer. Recent studies have documented such a relationship
particularly with lymphomas, testicular and lung cancers, melanomas and
hepatocarcinomas. Secondly granulomas may be found as a sarcoid reaction in the
vicinity of the tumour itself or more frequently in regional lymph nodes. Sarcoid
reaction, reported in Hodgkin's disease and gastric adenocarcinomas, may be
associated with a better prognosis. Granulomatous reaction could play an
important role in the host's defences against metastatic extension. Immunotherapy
such as interferon has been reported to induce systemic sarcoidosis probably by
reproducing some physiopathological mechanisms involved in sarcoidosis.
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND PROJECTS: Clinicians need novel non invasive diagnostic
methods to differentiate neoplasia from benign sarcoid reactions. The
18-fluorodeoxyglucose (18-FDG) PET-scan has failed in this indication but the
adjunction of a [3-(18)F]-alpha-methyltyrosine ((18)F-FMT) PET-scan could be
useful. Biopsies is still necessary in most of cases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2007.09.041 
PMID: 18054124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Surg Oncol Clin N Am. 2007 Oct;16(4):901-18, x.

Current immunotherapeutic strategies in lung cancer.

Rüttinger D(1), Hatz RA, Jauch KW, Fox BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Tumor
Immunology, Grosshadern Medical Center, Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich,
Marchioninistrasse 15, 81377 Munich, Germany.
dominik.ruettinger@med.uni-muenchen.de

New treatment modalities, such as immunotherapeutic strategies, may help improve 
the currently poor prognosis and outcome of patients suffering from lung cancer. 
However, thus far, lung cancer has not been considered an immune-sensitive
malignancy. Now, there is increasing evidence that specific humeral and cellular 
anti-tumor immune responses can be evoked. This article reviews immunotherapeutic
strategies that are already in clinical use or well-progressed in early clinical 
trials. A special focus is put on non-small cell lung cancer as the most frequent
type of all lung cancers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soc.2007.07.004 
PMID: 18022551  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2007 Nov;26(11):1206-8. Epub 2007 Sep 29.

Single-lung transplant complicated by unexpected explant carcinoma: a management 
dilemma.

Ritchie AJ(1), Mussa S, Sivasothy P, Stewart S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Papworth Hospital, Papworth Everard,
Cambridge, UK. ritchie25@hotmail.com

Interstitial pneumonia is well known to increase the risk of lung cancer. We
describe a young man who underwent single-lung transplantation for confirmed
usual interstitial pneumonia and who was unexpectedly found to have multifocal
adenocarcinoma in the explanted lung. Induction immunosuppression therapy was
decreased and full screening for further tumor development was undertaken.
Post-operatively further consolidative changes developed in the remaining native 
lung and, after diagnosis and staging, a native pneumonectomy was performed for
adenocarcinoma. The good early outcome and management dilemmas are discussed,
together with a review of the literature.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2007.07.017 
PMID: 18022089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Front Biosci. 2008 Jan 1;13:1959-67.

Cancer targeting using tumor suppressor genes.

Chada S(1), Menander KB, Bocangel D, Roth JA, Ramesh R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Research and Development, Introgen Research Institute, 
Introgen Therapeutics Inc., Houston, Texas 77030, USA. s.chada@introgen.com

Conventional cancer treatments include cytotoxic chemotherapies and radiotherapy,
which result in significant collateral toxicities. The goal for future cancer
treatments is to leverage improved understanding of cancer biology mechanisms and
thereby develop targeted drugs that display exquisite tumor selectivity and avoid
iatrogenic damage. In this review, we discuss the potential of tumor suppressor
genes for development of cancer-selective drugs using the tumor suppressor p53 as
an archetype.


PMID: 17981683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Cancer Lett. 2007 Dec 8;258(1):9-21. Epub 2007 Oct 18.

Targeting the neural cell adhesion molecule in cancer.

Jensen M(1), Berthold F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatric Oncology and Haematology, University of Cologne,
Kerpener Strasse 62, 50924, Cologne, Germany. jensen@uni-koeln.de

NCAM is a tumour associated antigen expressed on small cell lung cancer,
neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarkoma, brain tumours, multiple myelomas and acute
myeloid leukaemia. Constant and strong expression of NCAM is a prerequisite for
the development of antibody-based immunotherapies. From the spectrum of existing 
anti-NCAM compounds, radioimmunoconjugates and immunotoxins represent the
clinically most advanced and successful strategies. Here we provide an overview
of the evolving field of anti-NCAM immunotherapy for cancer and discuss its
indications and limitations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2007.09.004 
PMID: 17949897  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Eur J Cancer. 2008 Jan;44(1):46-53. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

Mesothelin targeted cancer immunotherapy.

Hassan R(1), Ho M.

Author information: 
(1)Solid Tumor Immunotherapy Section, Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Center for
Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892-4264, USA.
hassanr@mail.nih.gov

Mesothelin is a tumour differentiation antigen that is normally present on the
mesothelial cells lining the pleura, peritoneum and pericardium. It is, however, 
highly expressed in several human cancers including malignant mesothelioma,
pancreatic, ovarian and lung adenocarcinoma. The normal biologic function of
mesothelin is unknown but recent studies have shown that it binds to CA-125 and
may play a role in the peritoneal spread of ovarian cancer. The limited
mesothelin expression in normal tissues and high expression in many cancers makes
it an attractive candidate for cancer therapy. Three mesothelin targeted agents
are in various stages of clinical evaluation in patients. These include SS1P
(CAT-5001) a recombinant immunotoxin targeting mesothelin, MORAb-009 a chimeric
anti-mesothelin monoclonal antibody and CRS-207 a live-attenuated Listeria
monocytogenes vector encoding human mesothelin. These ongoing clinical trials
will help define the utility of mesothelin as a target for cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.08.028 
PMCID: PMC2265108
PMID: 17945478  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


710. MMW Fortschr Med. 2007 Sep 6;149(35-36):27-30.

[Neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapies for solid tumours].

[Article in German]

Heinemann V(1), Moosmann N.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik III, Klinikum Grosshadern LMU München.
Volker.Heinemann@med.uni-muenchen.de

Today adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapies are standard treatment for many types of 
cancer. Chemotherapy, radiotherapy, hormone therapy or immunotherapy applied
before, during or after an operation can lower the risk of relapse and hence,
increase the chances of a cure. After neoadjuvant therapy, frequently the organ
does not have to be removed in the subsequent operation. Depending on the risk of
relapse, adjuvant therapies are employed after due consideration of benefit, risk
and duration of treatment. In ongoing clinical studies, the possibilities of
influencing the effect of epidermal growth factor (EGF) as well as vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) are being investigated.


PMID: 17944281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Drugs. 2007;67(15):2135-52.

Modern management of small-cell lung cancer.

Ferraldeschi R(1), Baka S, Jyoti B, Faivre-Finn C, Thatcher N, Lorigan P.

Author information: 
(1)Christie Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.

In this article, we review best standard practice for the management of
small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) and indicate the likely areas of development over
the next 5-10 years. A number of prognostic scores have been developed and these 
allow more rational decisions on treatment. Treatment with cisplatin plus
etoposide with early, concurrent radiotherapy is the standard of care for
patients with limited-stage disease (LD) suitable for this approach. A 5-year
survival rate of 25% has been reported for concurrent hyperfractionated
radiotherapy; however, the applicability of this in most busy hospitals is
uncertain and this treatment is currently being compared with a high-dose,
once-daily regimen. Patients unsuitable for concurrent chemo-radiotherapy are
treated with a sequential approach. Patients with LD responding to treatment
should be offered prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI). A variety of strategies
for improving survival have been investigated. Intensification of chemotherapy
has not shown any clear survival advantage, but maintenance of dose intensity in 
patients with good prognosis is important. The evidence around maintenance
therapy is conflicting and this is not routinely used. Patients with
extensive-stage disease but few other adverse prognostic factors should be
treated with a platinum compound plus etoposide, and carboplatin is a reasonable 
choice. Responding patients should be offered PCI as this is associated with a
survival benefit. The initial positive results for irinotecan have not been
repeated in a larger study. Age is not a prognostic factor, but caution needs to 
be exercised as prognostic scores do not reflect co-morbidity. Patients with
relapsed disease have a poor prognosis, but there is evidence of a survival
benefit for salvage chemotherapy in those fit for treatment. The choice of
treatment will depend on a number of factors, including the disease-free
interval. Topotecan is the only drug licensed in this indication, but
myelosuppression is considerable. A number of new drugs are under evaluation and 
showing promise in SCLC. One of the most promising of these is amrubicin. A large
randomised study has failed to show any benefit from the addition of thalidomide 
to chemotherapy with carboplatin and etoposide in extensive-stage disease
patients responding to chemotherapy. Studies of a number of targeted treatments
are also ongoing. The challenge for the future is to identify new targets,
overcome drug-resistance mechanisms and redundancy in biological systems, and
incorporate these new treatments into concurrent chemo-radiotherapy schedules.


PMID: 17927281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Mol Pharm. 2007 Sep-Oct;4(5):631-51. Epub 2007 Sep 20.

From combinatorial chemistry to cancer-targeting peptides.

Aina OH(1), Liu R, Sutcliffe JL, Marik J, Pan CX, Lam KS.

Author information: 
(1)U.C. Davis Cancer Center, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of
Internal Medicine, University of California-Davis, 4501 X Street, Sacramento, CA 
95817, USA.

Several monoclonal antibodies that target cell surface receptors have gained
approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and are widely used in the
treatment of some cancers. These include but are not limited to the anti-CD20
antibody Rituximab, used in lymphoma treatment, as well as anti-HER-2 antibody
for breast cancer therapy. The efficacy of this cancer immunotherapy modality is,
however, limited by the large size of the antibody (160 kd) and its relatively
nonspecific binding to the reticuloendothelial system. This latter property is
particularly problematic if the antibody is used as a vehicle to deliver
radionuclides, cytotoxic drugs, or toxins to the tumor site. Peptides,
peptidomimetic, or small molecules are thus attractive as alternative cell
surface targeting agents for cancer imaging and therapy. Cancer cell surface
targeting peptides can be derived from known native peptide hormones such as
somatostatin and bombesin, or they can be identified through screening
combinatorial peptide libraries against unknown cell surface receptor targets.
Phage-display peptide library and one-bead one-compound (OBOC) combinatorial
library methods have been successfully used to discover peptides that target
cancer cells or tumor blood vessel endothelial cells. The phage-display peptide
library method, because of its biological nature, can only display l-amino acid
peptides. In contrast, the OBOC combinatorial library method allows for
bead-surface display of peptides that contain l-amino acids, d-amino acids,
unnatural amino acids, or other organic moieties. We have successfully used the
OBOC method to discover and optimize ligands against unique cell surface
receptors of prostate cancer, T- and B-cell lymphoma, as well as ovarian and lung
cancers, and we have used some of these peptides to image xenografts in nude mice
with high specificity. Here, we (i) review the literature on the use of
phage-display and OBOC combinatorial library methods to discover cancer and tumor
blood vessel targeting ligands, and (ii) report on the use of an ovarian cancer
targeting ligand, OA02, as an in vivo PET imaging probe in a xenograft model in
nude mice.

DOI: 10.1021/mp700073y 
PMID: 17880166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Neurologist. 2007 Sep;13(5):261-71.

Limbic encephalitis and variants: classification, diagnosis and treatment.

Tüzün E(1), Dalmau J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuro-Oncology, Department of Neurology, Hospital of the
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Recent studies suggest that a substantial number of
patients with autoimmune limbic encephalitis may improve if properly diagnosed
and treated. This is due, in part, to the increasing recognition of disorders
that associate with antibodies to neuronal cell membrane antigens. This review
focuses in these disorders, framed in a clinically useful immunologic
classification of limbic encephalitis.
REVIEW SUMMARY: Patients with limbic encephalitis usually present with rapidly
progressive short-term memory deficits, psychiatric symptoms, and seizures. After
excluding viral and systemic autoimmune disorders, many patients with limbic
encephalitis (paraneoplastic or not) have cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory
findings, EEG or MRI abnormalities in the temporal lobes, and antineuronal
antibodies. These antibodies are directed against 2 broad categories of antigens:
(1) intracellular or classic paraneoplastic antigens, including Hu, Ma2,
CV2/CRMP5, and amphiphysin among others, and (2) cell membrane antigens,
including voltage-gated potassium channels, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, and
others expressed in the neuropil of hippocampus and cerebellum (pending
characterization). Whereas the disorders related to the first category of
antibodies associate with cancer (lung, testis and other), prominent brain
infiltrates of cytotoxic T-cells, and limited response to treatment, the
disorders related to the second category of antibodies associate less frequently 
with cancer (thymoma, teratoma), seem to be antibody-mediated, and respond
significantly better to immunotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Once considered an extremely rare disorder, almost always related to
cancer, and refractory to treatment, limbic encephalitis is now regarded as a
relatively frequent disorder, often unrelated to cancer, and with
clinical-immunologic variants that respond to treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/NRL.0b013e31813e34a5 
PMID: 17848866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2007 Sep;26(9):944-52.

Epstein-Barr virus-associated multifocal leiomyosarcomas arising in a cardiac
transplant recipient: autopsy case report and review of the literature.

Nur S(1), Rosenblum WD, Katta UD, Islam H, Brown K, Ramaswamy G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Heart Failure and Transplant Service, New York
Medical College at Westchester Medical Center, Valhalla, New York, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) associated smooth muscle tumors (SMTs) have been
described in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and, more
recently, in association with immunosuppression after solid-organ
transplantation. We present the autopsy findings of multiple leiomyosarcomas
(LMSs) in a 24-year old man who died 18 months after undergoing orthotopic
cardiac transplantation for idiopathic cardiomyopathy. The recognition of
EBV-driven LMS developing in cardiac transplant recipients in multiple unusual
sites is crucial for the management of these patients and should include complete
surgical removal anti-viral therapy and modulation of immunosuppression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2007.05.022 
PMID: 17845934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2007 Aug;7(8):1257-66.

CPG-7909 (PF-3512676, ProMune): toll-like receptor-9 agonist in cancer therapy.

Murad YM(1), Clay TM, Lyerly HK, Morse MA.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Department of Surgery, Program in Molecular
Therapeutics, Comprehensive Cancer Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.
yanal.murad@duke.edu

Stimulation of toll-like receptor (TLR)9 activates human plasmacytoid dendritic
cells and B cells, and induces potent innate immune responses in preclinical
tumor models and in patients. CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) are TLR9 agonists 
that show promising results as vaccine adjuvants and in the treatment of cancers,
infections, asthma and allergy. PF-3512676 (ProMune) was developed as a TLR9
agonist for the treatment of cancer as monotherapy and as an adjuvant in
combination with chemo- and immunotherapy. Phase I and II trials have tested this
drug in several hematopoietic and solid tumors. Pfizer has initiated Phase III
trials to test PF-3512676 in combination with standard chemotherapy for
non-small-cell lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.7.8.1257	 
PMID: 17696823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Anticancer Res. 2007 Jul-Aug;27(4B):2141-53.

Does homeobox-related "positional" genomic information contribute to implantation
of metastatic cancer cells at non-random sites?

Anderson KM(1), Darweesh M, Jajah A, Tsui P, Guinan P, Rubenstein M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cell Biology, Hektoen Medical Research Institute LLC, 627 S. Wood 
Street, Chicago 60612, USA. Kanderso427@aol.com

Reasons for the lodgment of metastases from several types of solid cancer at
apparently non-random sites have not been established. Recently, a group of genes
expressed in human fibroblasts obtained from different anatomic locations was
implicated in "positional" genomic information. Essentially, a Cartesian
coordinate system identifying fibroblasts originally resident at anterior or more
posterior, proximal or distal and dermal or non-dermal (heart, lung, etc.)
locations was proposed. The determinants used for these identifications included 
HOX genes, central to embryonic segmental development, some of which are
expressed in differentiated, post-embryonic cells. To the extent that HOX or
other homeobox genes are expressed in ectodermal, mesodermal or
endodermally-derived, malignantly transformed cells, they might contribute
"positional" information to nidation of specific malignant clones at non-random
sites. As understood in the past, interdiction of HOX or homeobox-related gene
expression might reduce the probability of cancer cell implantation or alter
their destinations in complex ways. Ideally, by interfering with HOX or other
homeobox gene-related expression of antigenic determinants potentially
contributing to their "homing" and nidation, reduced implantation of circulating 
cancer cells could render them more susceptible to systemic chemotherapy or
immunotherapy, as demonstrated in mice. Furthermore, HOX or other homeobox genes 
or their products could provide novel intra- or extracellular targets for
therapy.


PMID: 17695497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Respirology. 2007 Jul;12(4):471-7.

Lung cancer: future directions.

Lam WK(1), Watkins DN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital,
Pokfulam, Hong Kong, China.

Increasingly, basic research is being translated into clinical benefits for
patients. Recent studies have shed more light on the clinical use of targeted
therapies such as tyrosine kinase and angiogenesis inhibitors, and predictive
factors for their clinical benefit and their role in different clinical settings 
are now being elucidated. New insights into the basic biology of lung cancer hold
translational promise in risk assessment, early detection, molecular staging,
treatment response prediction and novel therapies. New targeted agents directed
at apoptotic and developmental pathways have the potential to exploit newly
discovered vulnerabilities in the basic machinery of cancer. In addition,
exploration of the cancer stem cell phenomenon in lung cancer may generate new
approaches to prevent recurrence in surgically respectable lung cancer, and for
the long-term control of extensive disease. Molecular profiling may also allow
for highly individualized prognostic, predictive and therapeutic treatment plans 
tailored for each patient based on the molecular diagnostic profile of their
tumour. Advances in genetic susceptibility, early detection and individualized
therapy based on each tumour's unique biological properties all hold promise for 
the future management of lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1843.2007.01105.x 
PMID: 17587411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Oncogene. 2007 May 28;26(25):3691-8.

Bevacizumab in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer.

Stinchcombe TE(1), Socinski MA.

Author information: 
(1)Multidisciplinary Thoracic Oncology Program, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer
Center, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7305,
USA.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the United States. The
majority of patients present with advanced disease, and treatment with standard
cytotoxic chemotherapy improves survival and quality of life in patients with a
preserved functional status. However, the prognosis is poor with the majority of 
patients dying in less than a year. Treatment with standard cytotoxic
chemotherapy has reached a therapeutic plateau, and new therapeutic approaches
have investigated therapies that target the specific molecular pathways involved 
in carcinogenesis and angiogenesis. The most promising strategy for inhibiting
angiogenesis involves agents that either target the proangiogenesis growth
factor, vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF) by preventing binding to the 
receptor or inhibiting the downstream signaling of the vascular endothelial
growth factor receptor. The only therapeutic agent approved for the treatment of 
lung cancer is bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody that binds to VEGF. A recent
phase III trial revealed a statistically significant improvement in response
rate, progression free and overall survival with combination of bevacizumab with 
chemotherapy over chemotherapy alone. Attempts to identify surrogate markers of
antiangiogenesis activity are currently ongoing, and may assist in the selection 
of patients for antiangiogenesis therapy and the development of this class of
agents.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1210366 
PMID: 17530022  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Biotechnol J. 2007 Jul;2(7):863-70.

Atemonate and Imuteran: novel Russian monoclonal antibody-based therapeutic
agents.

Ivanov PK(1), Blokhin DY, Chmutin EF, Grinevich AS, Perlin DV, Sokolsky AS,
Yakubovskaya RI, Baryshnikov AY.

Author information: 
(1)Research and Manufacturing Center Medbiospectr Ltd, Moscow, Russia.

The N. Blokhin National Cancer Research Center is one of the few Russian
scientific institutions in which hybridoma technology of monoclonal antibody
(mAb) production has been successfully established. Using this technology,
several dozens of mAbs to various antigens of human leukocytes have been
elaborated. These mAbs are widely used for immune status evaluation and for
differential diagnostics of leukemias. Two mAbs were used to develop therapeutic 
drugs. Imuteran is a pharmaceutical form of mAb ICO-25 against a mucin-like
antigen of human milk fat globules and proposed for treatment of epithelial
cell-originating cancers (breast, intestinal, ovarian, lung cancer, etc.).
ThePhase II clinical study of this agent is now nearly completed, and preliminary
results suggest Imuteran to be a promising anticancer agent with
tumor-stabilizing activity, but patients should be carefully monitored for signs 
of allergic reactions. mAb ICO-90 against the CD3 antigen of human T lymphocytes 
was used to develop the therapeutic agent Atemonate proposed for treatment of
acute transplant rejection. At present, the Phase II clinical study of this agent
is over, and the results confirm the drug safety and efficacy for this
indication. The drug is being registered at the Ministry of Healthcare and Social
Development, and transfer to serial production is expected shortly.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.200600254 
PMID: 17526052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Kyobu Geka. 2007 May;60(5):349-54.

[Molecular biology in diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Mitsudomi T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Aichi Cancer Center Hospital, Nagoya, Japan.

Progress in translational research for lung cancer achieved during the last 10
years was reviewed. Since the discovery of oncogenes in 1980s, evidences of
molecular basis of human cancer were rapidly accumulated and since the
determination of draft sequences of human genome, the progress was further
accelerated. With these molecular knowledge, it is now possible to
comprehensively and extensively analyze human cancer using deoxyribonucleic acid 
(DNA) chips. The most remarkable event in this field was discovery of mutations
of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene in a subset of patients with 
pulmonary adenocarcinoma with a high response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor. 
In the next 10 years, individualization of cancer treatment especially by
targeted drugs based on molecular characteristics of each tumor using patients'
tissue will be increasingly more important.


PMID: 17515077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


721. J Thorac Oncol. 2006 Sep;1(7):756-61.

Immune-modulating vaccines in non-small cell lung cancer.

Nemunaitis J(1), Murray N.

Author information: 
(1)Mary Crowley Medical Research Center, Dallas, Texas, USA.

The limited efficacy and moderate toxicity of chemotherapy for non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) have given the search for a more effective and safer systemic
treatment a sense of urgency. NSCLC has historically been regarded as a
non-immunogenic cancer, and immunotherapy has yielded little benefit in humans.
However, encouraging clinical results in patients immunized with novel vaccines
directed toward enhancement of tumor antigen recognition have been published. In 
this review, we describe the scientific basis and updates the clinical results of
three vaccine approaches (GVAX, Lucanix, and L-BLP25) and discuss preliminary
work on a novel Ras mutation targeted immune therapy. Further studies are needed 
to demonstrate whether these novel therapies can potentially complement or
replace current therapeutic approaches.


PMID: 17409955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


722. J Thorac Oncol. 2006 Jan;1(1):93-104.

Vaccines for lung cancer.

Hirschowitz EA(1), Hiestand DM, Yannelli JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care
Medicine, University of Kentucky Chandler Medical Center, Lexington, Kentucky
40536-0289, USA. eahirs2@uky.edu

Immunotherapy is based on the knowledge that the immune system can distinguish
cancerous cells from normal cells. Conceptually, this is an attractive adjuvant
approach because it is highly specific and can deal with disseminated disease
with minimal impact on normal tissues. In this review, we focus on strategies
that use host immune machinery to generate anti-tumor effects, known as active
immunotherapy. Proof of principle in lung cancer is now well established in
clinical trials, although no superior approach has been defined and therapeutic
efficacy remains unknown. In this review, we discuss rationale, biological
theory, application, and clinical implementation to date.


PMID: 17409835  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Eur J Pharmacol. 2007 Jun 1;563(1-3):1-17. Epub 2007 Feb 17.

Cancer relapse under chemotherapy: why TLR2/4 receptor agonists can help.

Garay RP(1), Viens P, Bauer J, Normier G, Bardou M, Jeannin JF, Chiavaroli C.

Author information: 
(1)EA2381, Université Paris 7, Paris, France. ricardo.garay@wanadoo.fr

Liver or lung metastases usually relapse under chemotherapy. Such
life-threatening condition urgently needs new, systemic anticancer compounds,
with original and efficient mechanisms of action. In B16 melanoma mice treated
with cyclophosphamide, D'Agostini et al. [D'Agostini, C., Pica, F., Febbraro, G.,
Grelli, S., Chiavaroli, C., Garaci, E., 2005. Antitumour effect of OM-174 and
Cyclophosphamide on murine B16 melanoma in different experimental conditions.
Int. Immunopharmacol. 5, 1205-1212.] recently found that OM-174, a chemically
defined Toll-like receptor(TLR)2/4 agonist, reduces tumor progression and
prolongs survival. Here we review 149 articles concerning molecular mechanisms of
TLR2/4 agonists, alone or in combination with chemotherapy. It appears that
TLR2/4 agonists induce a well controlled tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) 
secretion, at plasma levels known to permeabilize neoangiogenic tumor vessels to 
the passage of cytotoxic drugs. Moreover, TLR2/4 agonists induce inducible nitric
oxide synthase (iNOS) expression, and nitric oxide is able to induce apoptosis of
chemotherapy-resistant tumor cell clones. Finally, TLR2/4-stimulation activates
dendritic cell traffic and its associated tumor-specific, cytotoxic T-cell
responses. Therefore, parenteral TLR2/4 agonists seem promising molecules to
prolong survival in cancer patients who relapse under chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2007.02.018 
PMID: 17383632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


724. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2007 Mar;26(3):205-9.

Induction therapy in heart transplantation: is there a role?

Uber PA, Mehra MR.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2007.01.002 
PMID: 17346621  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Curr Opin Oncol. 2007 Mar;19(2):103-8.

Small cell lung cancer and targeted therapies.

Blackhall FH(1), Shepherd FA.

Author information: 
(1)Christie Hospital NHS Trust, Manchester, UK.
Fiona.Blackhall@christie-tr.nwest.nhs.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Small cell lung cancer is a chemosensitive malignancy, yet
long-term survival remains elusive for the majority of patients. Here, we report 
on progress in evaluating novel targeted therapies for the treatment of this
disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: Interferons, matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors, thalidomide,
bevacizumab, ZD6474, imatinib, gefitinib, oblimersen and aplidine have all
entered clinical trial in patients with small cell lung cancer. Immunotherapy
approaches targeting cell surface antigens such as CD-56 (BB10901) and GD3
ganglioside are also being evaluated. Interferons, matrix metalloproteinase
inhibitors, imatinib and gefitinib have failed to demonstrate efficacy for this
disease. Preliminary data for thalidomide are promising and so results from
trials of other antiangiogenics such as bevacizumab and ZD6474 are awaited with
interest.
SUMMARY: Although the promise of targeted therapy has yet to be realized in
patients with small cell lung cancer, the number of agents available for
evaluation provides new optimism that progress will be made over the next
decades.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e328011bec3 
PMID: 17272981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Lung. 2006 Sep-Oct;184(5):267-72.

The role of c-erbB-2 expression on the survival of patients with small-cell lung 
cancer.

Canoz O(1), Ozkan M, Arsav V, Er O, Coskun HS, Soyuer S, Altinbas M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Erciyes University Medical Faculty, Kayseri, Turkey. 
ozlemorcan@yahoo.com

The aim of this study was to determine the incidence and role of c-erbB-2
overexpression as a predictive/prognostic marker in small-cell lung carcinoma
(SCLC). We performed a retrospective study on subjects with a biopsy-proven
diagnosis of SCLC. A chart review for demographic and clinical data was performed
on patients with SCLC diagnosed between 1998 and 2004. c-erbB-2 overexpression
was evaluated using immunohistochemistry performed on archival paraffin-embedded 
specimens. Sixty-seven patients with SCLC were identified (6 females, 61 males;
median age- 56.5 yr, range-34-75) all of whom had adequate tissue specimens
available for c-erB-2 testing. Of the 67 specimens, 12 (17.9%) showed c-erbB-2
overexpression. Seventy-five of the cases were positive for c-erbB-2, had
extensive disease. The median overall survival of patients with SCLC whose tumors
were positive and negative for c-erbB-2 were 8 +/- 0.9 months (95%CI 6.3-9.7) and
11 +/- 1.5 months (95%CI 8.0-14.0), respectively. c-erbB-2 overexpression
detected using immunohistochemistry is observed in 17.9% of patients with SCLC
and has statistically significant prognostic value. Our findings suggest that
c-erbB-2 may be a potential target for site-specific immunotherapy in SCLC.
Considering one technique examined, further molecular investigation is needed to 
confirm these preliminary findings.

DOI: 10.1007/s00408-005-2591-y 
PMID: 17235726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Radiologe. 2007 May;47(5):393-400.

[Radiologic diagnosis of lung tuberculosis].

[Article in German]

Eisenhuber E(1), Mostbeck G, Bankier A, Stadler A, Rumetshofer R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Röntgendiagnostik, Otto-Wagner-Spital, Sanatoriumsstr 2, A-1140, 
Wien, Austria. edith.eisenhuber@univie.ac.at

The radiologic knowledge of tuberculosis-associated lung disease is an essential 
tool in the clinical diagnosis of tuberculosis. Chest radiography is the primary 
imaging method, but the importance of CT is still increasing, as CT is more
sensitive in the detection of cavitation, of hilar and mediastinal
lymphadenopathie, of endobronchial spread and of complications in the course of
the disease. In addition, CT has been proven as a valuable technique in the
assessment of tuberculosis activity, especially in patients where M. tuberculosis
has not been detected in the sputum or in patients with multidrug-resistant
tuberculosis. Depending on the immune status of the patient, the morphologic
spectrum of tuberculosis is quite variable. Early diagnosis of tuberculosis is
essential to prevent further spread of the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-006-1458-4 
PMID: 17225185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Ann Pathol. 2006 Sep;26(4):257-66.

[MUC1 (EMA): A key molecule of carcinogenesis?].

[Article in French]

Leroy X(1), Buisine MP, Leteurtre E, Aubert S, Buob D, Porchet N, Copin MC.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Anatomie Pathologique, Pôle Eurasanté, Bâtiment Biologie-Pathologie,
CHRU, 59037 Lille. x-leroy@chru-lille.fr

MUC1 is a large trans-membrane highly glycosylated mucin which is expressed at
the apical pole of normal cells in glandular epithelia. MUC1 is implicated in
many physiological mechanisms such as adhesion, development and differentiation. 
Also, MUC1 is frequently deregulated and over-expressed with a membrane
circumferential and/or cytoplasmic expression. The intracellular tail of MUC1 is 
phosphorylated and can interact with many signalling proteins and transcriptional
factors. Indeed, MUC1 can interact with B-catenin competitively for E-cadherin,
thus destabilizing intercellular junctions and favouring metastatic
dissemination. In carcinomas, the overexpression and membrane delocalization of
MUC1 is associated with a worse prognosis and a shorter survival in breast,
colon, kidney, prostate or gastro-intestinal cancers. MUC1 appears to be a novel 
therapeutic target for immunotherapy or anti-tumour vaccines.


PMID: 17128152  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Drugs. 2006;66(15):1919-31.

Novel therapies for the treatment of small-cell lung cancer: a time for cautious 
optimism?

Board RE(1), Thatcher N, Lorigan P.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK Department Medical Oncology, Christie Hospital, Manchester,
UK. Ruth.Board@christie-tr.nwest.nhs.uk

Small-cell lung cancer accounts for up to one-fifth of all lung cancers
diagnosed. While the response rates to chemotherapy are high, ultimately the
majority of patients will relapse and die from their disease. Long-term outcomes 
are poor. A number of new agents and novel strategies for the treatment of
small-cell lung cancer are under evaluation, and this review outlines the current
most promising agents and pivotal trials. Oblimersen, an antisense oligonuclide
to the oncogene bcl-2, has been safely combined with chemotherapy. The proteosome
inhibitor bortezomib has not demonstrated single-agent activity in phase II
trials but is now being evaluated with proapoptotic triggers. A number of
anti-angiogenic strategies have been evaluated in small-cell lung cancer. The
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antibody bevacizumab and a number of
VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors are in the early phases of clinical
trials. Results from trials have not demonstrated any survival advantage with the
addition of matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors. A phase III trial has reported
improvements in median survival with the addition of thalidomide to chemotherapy,
but toxicity has been problematic. Immunotherapy with p53 vaccines and BEC2
antibodies have shown some promise and require further evaluation to determine
whether humoral responses can predict for response. Trials with the
immunoconjugate BB-10901 and temirolimus are ongoing.


PMID: 17100404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2006 Oct;10(5):595-8.

Carboplatin hypersensitivity reactions.

Winkeljohn D(1), Polovich M.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Oncology Associates, Albuquerque, NM, USA. dwinkeljohn@comcast.net

Carboplatin is used widely to treat cancers such as lung, breast, and ovarian.
Hypersensitivity reactions (HSRs) to carboplatin can occur, often after numerous 
doses. The reactions can range from mild to life threatening. Oncology nurses
witness the reactions and are instrumental in providing interventions to assist
patients. Symptoms include flushing, rashes, itchy palms, nausea, difficulty
breathing, back pain, hypotension, and tachycardia. Interventions include support
of patients with oxygen and IV hydration along with administration of certain
medications to diffuse HSRs. Predictive measures may include skin testing on
patients who have received more than seven total doses of carboplatin,
Desensitization protocols may be useful for patients with positive skin tests.
Ultimately, with the potential for life-threatening reactions, patients and
physicians need to consider the risk-to-benefit ratio of using the drug.

DOI: 10.1188/06.CJON.595-598 
PMID: 17063613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2007 Aug;49(2):117-26.

Pulmonary dysfunction in pediatric hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients:
overview, diagnostic considerations, and infectious complications.

Collaco JM(1), Gower WA, Mogayzel PJ Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Eudowood Division of Pediatric Respiratory Sciences, The Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland.

Pulmonary complications are among the most common and serious sequelae seen in
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) recipients. This two-part review
addresses the incidence and impact of pulmonary complications in pediatric HSCT
patients. In this first part we review the available data for the use of
diagnostic modalities in this population, including flexible bronchoscopy with
bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and open lung biopsy (OLB). We also review the many 
infectious pulmonary complications that may occur in pediatric HSCT recipients,
utilizing the traditional chronologic divisions of neutropenic phase (0-30 days
following HSCT), early phase (30-100 days), and late phase (>100 days).

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.21061 
PMID: 17029246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2006 Oct;6(10):1031-9.

Telomerase-based immunotherapy of cancer.

Carpenter EL(1), Vonderheide RH.

Author information: 
(1)Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute, University of Pennsylvania School
of Medicine, 551 BRBII/III, 421 Curie Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

The progression from the cloning of human telomerase reverse transcriptase
(hTERT) in 1997 to the first clinical trials of hTERT as an antitumour
immunotherapy target has been swift. hTERT is overexpressed in the vast majority 
of human cancers yet has limited expression in normal adult tissue. It plays a
critical role in oncogenesis and may be expressed by cancer stem cells. However, 
despite being a self antigen, hTERT is immunogenic both in vitro and in vivo.
Several Phase I studies of hTERT immunotherapy have been completed in patients
with breast, prostate, lung and other cancers, and clinical and immunological
results are encouraging. Immunotherapy induces functional, antitumour T cells in 
patients in the absence of clinical toxicity. The opportunity for vaccinating
individuals as an immunoprevention strategy can also be envisioned for
hTERT-based therapies.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.6.10.1031	 
PMID: 16989585  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Clin Med Res. 2006 Sep;4(3):218-27.

Gene therapy for cancer treatment: past, present and future.

Cross D(1), Burmester JK.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Genetics, Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation, 1000 North
Oak Avenue, Marshfield, WI 54449, USA. cross.deanna@mcrf.mfldclin.edu

The broad field of gene therapy promises a number of innovative treatments that
are likely to become important in preventing deaths from cancer. In this review, 
we discuss the history, highlights and future of three different gene therapy
treatment approaches: immunotherapy, oncolytic virotherapy and gene transfer.
Immunotherapy uses genetically modified cells and viral particles to stimulate
the immune system to destroy cancer cells. Recent clinical trials of second and
third generation vaccines have shown encouraging results with a wide range of
cancers, including lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer and malignant 
melanoma. Oncolytic virotherapy, which uses viral particles that replicate within
the cancer cell to cause cell death, is an emerging treatment modality that shows
great promise, particularly with metastatic cancers. Initial phase I trials for
several vectors have generated excitement over the potential power of this
technique. Gene transfer is a new treatment modality that introduces new genes
into a cancerous cell or the surrounding tissue to cause cell death or slow the
growth of the cancer. This treatment technique is very flexible, and a wide range
of genes and vectors are being used in clinical trials with successful outcomes. 
As these therapies mature, they may be used alone or in combination with current 
treatments to help make cancer a manageable disease.


PMCID: PMC1570487
PMID: 16988102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Onkologie. 2006 Sep;29 Suppl 2:25-8. Epub 2006 Sep 6.

[New perspectives in the management of non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC)].

[Article in German]

Brockmöller J(1), Junker K, Multhoff G.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Klinische Pharmakologie, Universitätsklinikum Göttingen,
Deutschland.

DOI: 10.1159/000094952 
PMID: 16974125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Chest. 2006 Sep;130(3):879-84.

Gene therapy for pulmonary diseases.

Kolb M(1), Martin G, Medina M, Ask K, Gauldie J.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Gene Therapeutics, Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, 
McMaster University, 1200 Main St W, Hamilton, ON, Canada L8N 3Z5.

Gene therapy has not yet met the high expectations of "the early days." However, 
it is a promising new treatment for lung diseases. Not only single gene disorders
such as CF are potential candidates for gene therapy, but also cancer and chronic
lung diseases characterized by an imbalance of damaging and protective
mechanisms. This review summarizes the recent advances in the development of more
efficient gene transfer systems and highlights areas of clinical application of
gene therapy.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.130.3.879 
PMID: 16963689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2006 Oct;38(8):527-37. Epub 2006 Sep 4.

The second international meeting on allogeneic transplantation in solid tumors.

Bregni M(1), Ueno NT, Childs R.

Author information: 
(1)Oncology-Hematology-Bone Marrow Transplant Unit, Department of Oncology,
Istituto Scientifico San Raffaele, San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy.
marco.bregni@hsr.it

In October 2005, the second international meeting on allogeneic transplantation
in solid tumors was convened in Stresa (Italy). The aim of this second meeting
was to share clinical experiences of allografting in solid tumors, to discuss
preclinical data on the mechanisms of graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effect, and to
review methods for more efficacious transplant approaches. On the first day, the 
most recent results in cancer immunotherapy were reviewed; head-to head
comparisons of clinical results achieved by standard therapy and by allografting 
in renal, breast, and ovarian cancer were presented. On the second day, GVT
mechanisms and preclinical models were examined; anecdotal reports of a GVT
effect in sarcoma, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer and lung
cancer were presented; new strategies for optimizing transplant outcome were
discussed, including patient selection, tumor debulking, auto-allo approaches,
selective T-cell depletion, targeting with monoclonal antibodies, use of killer
cell immunoglobulin-like receptor-ligand mismatched natural killer cells. In
conclusion, allografting in solid tumors is feasible with limited toxicities and 
transplant-related mortality; a GVT effect has been documented in many different 
solid tumors; targeting of the immune response to the tumor by new strategies and
identification of the target antigen(s) of the GVT effect are promising areas of 
research.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1705479 
PMID: 16953213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Expert Opin Emerg Drugs. 2006 Sep;11(3):445-59.

Present and future of lung cancer vaccines.

Raez LE(1), Rosenblatt JD, Podack ER.

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Oncology Group, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, Division of
Hematology-Oncology, University of Miami School of Medicine, 1475 NW 12 Avenue,
Miami, FL 33136, USA. LRaez@med.miami.edu

New approaches are needed to improve the current treatment of lung cancer.
Inducing an immune response against lung tumour cells with vaccines represents an
attractive therapy. However, lung tumours had not been considered good targets
for vaccine therapy and, therefore, immune approaches have not been studied
extensively in this setting. Current experimental strategies for antitumour
vaccines include the generation of active immune responses against specific
tumour antigens. Understanding the mechanisms of antitumour immunity and
identifying relevant tumour-specific antigens will probably improve therapeutic
strategies and provide avenues for the future of lung cancer therapy. There have 
been a number of preclinical immunotherapy trials suggesting activity, and a
smaller number of human clinical trials using various vaccines in lung cancer.
Initial data from these trials have shown preliminary evidence of induction of
immune responses and suggest clinical activity. This paper reviews some of the
most important developments in vaccines for lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1517/14728214.11.3.445	 
PMID: 16939384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Histopathology. 2006 Aug;49(2):161-9.

AQUA and FISH analysis of HER-2/neu expression and amplification in a small cell 
lung carcinoma tissue microarray.

Giltnane JM(1), Murren JR, Rimm DL, King BL.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Medical Oncology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06510, USA.

AIMS: Most small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) patients have metastatic disease at
the time of diagnosis and are faced with poor prognosis and limited treatment
options. Reports of HER-2/neu gene amplification and overexpression in this
malignancy have raised the possibility of applying targeted immunotherapy with
trastuzumab, the monoclonal antibody used to treat metastatic breast cancer.
However, a review of the studies measuring HER-2/neu gene amplification and
protein expression in SCLC reveals discordant results. The aim of the present
study was to re-examine HER-2/neu expression in SCLC in relation to gene copy
number using the new, highly sensitive, immunofluorescence automated quantitative
analysis (AQUA) technology.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was used to
measure HER-2/neu gene copy number and amplification status and AQUA was used to 
measure protein expression in a series of 23 SCLC tumours on a tissue microarray.
None of the 17 SCLC specimens assessable by FISH exhibited HER-2/neu gene
amplification as defined by a HER-2/neu/chromosome 17 ratio = or > 2. Twelve of
17 (70.1%) SCLC samples were polysomic for chromosome 17 with corresponding
increases in HER-2/neu gene copy numbers. Intermediate levels of protein
expression corresponding to AQUA scores in the range of 4-24 were detected in all
23 specimens. High protein expression levels corresponding to AQUA scores up to
83, observed previously in association with gene amplification and poor prognosis
in breast cancer cases, were not detected in the present study. No statistically 
significant association was observed between absolute chromosome 17 or HER-2/neu 
gene copy numbers and protein expression levels in tumour cells (P > 0.45).
CONCLUSIONS: The lack of gene amplification and robust HER-2/neu protein
expression in SCLC tumour cells in this series does not suggest a prominent role 
for the HER-2/neu gene in SCLC tumour progression and does not support the
general applicability of targeted immunotherapy with trastuzumab to this
malignancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2559.2006.02479.x 
PMID: 16879393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Adv Cancer Res. 2006;95:147-202.

Clinical results of vaccine therapy for cancer: learning from history for
improving the future.

Choudhury A(1), Mosolits S, Kokhaei P, Hansson L, Palma M, Mellstedt H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Cancer Centre Karolinska, Karolinska University,
Hospital Solna, SE-171 76 Stockholm, Sweden.

Active, specific immunotherapy for cancer holds the potential of providing an
approach for treating cancers, which have not been controlled by conventional
therapy, with very little or no associated toxicity. Despite advances in the
understanding of the immunological basis of cancer vaccine therapy as well as
technological progress, clinical effectiveness of this therapy has often been
frustratingly unpredictable. Hundreds of preclinical and clinical studies have
been performed addressing issues related to the generation of a therapeutic
immune response against tumors and exploring a diverse array of antigens,
immunological adjuvants, and delivery systems for vaccinating patients against
cancer. In this chapter, we have summarized a number of clinical trials performed
in various cancers with focus on the clinical outcome of vaccination therapy. We 
have also attempted to draw objective inferences from the published data that may
influence the clinical effectiveness of vaccination approaches against cancer.
Collectively the data indicate that vaccine therapy is safe, and no significant
autoimmune reactions are observed even on long term follow-up. The design of
clinical trials have not yet been optimized, but meaningful clinical effects have
been seen in B-cell malignancies, lung, prostate, colorectal cancer, and
melanoma. It is also obvious that patients with limited disease or in the
adjuvant settings have benefited most from this targeted therapy approach. It is 
imperative that future studies focus on exploring the relationship between immune
and clinical responses to establish whether immune monitoring could be a reliable
surrogate marker for evaluating the clinical efficacy of cancer vaccines.

DOI: 10.1016/S0065-230X(06)95005-2 
PMID: 16860658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Nihon Rinsho. 2006 Jul;64(7):1339-44.

[Non-small cell lung cancer--immunocell BAK (BRM activated killer) therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Ebina T(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Sendai Institute for Microbiology, Immunotherapy Center.

We enrolled in this study 14 immunosuppressed non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
outpatients whose IAP level in serum were over 580 microg/ml and 26
immunoreactive outpatients whose IAP level in serum were under 580 microg/ml.
After giving informed consent, patients were treated with BAK therapy on an
outpatient basis. Treated with BAK therapy, the mean survival of immunosuppressed
patients was 5.2 months, on the other hand, one of immunoreactive patients was
26.3 months. The difference in survival between 2 groups was significant
(p<0.01). A stage IV NSCLC patient whose serum IAP is under 580 microg/ml is good
indication for BAK therapy. The favorable clinical response in lung cancer
patients to BAK treatment may be due to the fact that lungs are the first exposed
to BAK cells via the blood stream. BAK therapy has a life prolonging effect with 
no apparent adverse effects for advanced NSCLC patients.


PMID: 16838654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Nihon Rinsho. 2006 Jul;64(7):1281-5.

[Treatment of renal cell carcinoma with interferons].

[Article in Japanese]

Oya M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Keio University School of Medicine.

Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is considered to be an immunogenic cancer. RCC is
refractory to chemotherapy and radiation. Immunotherapy including interferon
(IFN)-alpha, gamma and interleukin-2 are the treatment of choice for metastatic
RCC. IFN-alpha is most widely used in Japan. The response rate of IFN-alpha is
10-20 %. Lung lesions and lymphnodes are the usual effective sites. The survival 
benefit of IFN-alpha in patients with metastatic RCC has been shown in
prospective randomized studies. Nephrectomy is recommended before interferon
therapy if the patients have good performance status. Adjuvant interferon therapy
failed to show any survival benefit after curative excision of primary RCC. The
place of IFN-alpha is going to be changed due to the recent use of molecular
targeting drugs.


PMID: 16838645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2006 Jul;7(10):1323-36.

Available treatment options for the management of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic
syndrome.

Verschuuren JJ(1), Wirtz PW, Titulaer MJ, Willems LN, van Gerven J.

Author information: 
(1)Leiden University Medical Centre, Department of Neurology, PO Box 9600, 2300
RC Leiden, Leiden, The Netherlands. j.j.g.m.verschuuren@lumc.nl

Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome is a rare, but reasonably well-understood,
antibody-mediated autoimmune disease that is caused by serum auto-antibodies and 
results in muscle weakness and autonomic dysfunction. One half of the patients
have an idiopathic form, the other half a tumour-associated form of the disease. 
Three randomised trials and a large number of smaller clinical studies have
resulted in a number of drugs becoming available for the treatment of
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. Several drugs are available for the
symptomatic treatment of the disease, including guanidine, aminopyridines or
acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. Other therapies aim to deplete the serum
autoantibodies or to suppress the immune system. For this purpose,
immunomodulating strategies, such as intravenous immunoglobulins or
plasmapheresis, or several immunosuppressive agents are available. Chemotherapy
has successfully ameliorated the course of disease in Lambert-Eaton myasthenic
syndrome patients with an underlying tumour.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.7.10.1323	 
PMID: 16805718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Laryngorhinootologie. 2006 Jul;85(7):520-9; quiz 530-1.

[New substances in the therapy of head and neck cancer].

[Article in German]

Bogeschdorfer F(1), Gronau S, Riechelmann H.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-HNO-Klinik Ulm. fellixb@yahoo.com

During the last 3 years the FDA approved numerous innovative drugs for cancer
therapy. Drugs relevant to the otolaryngologist are presented and discussed.
These new therapeutic tools may play a future part also in the therapy of head
and neck cancer.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-925261 
PMID: 16791768  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2006 Jun;25(2):233-42.

Immune responses in the draining lymph nodes against cancer: implications for
immunotherapy.

Shu S(1), Cochran AJ, Huang RR, Morton DL, Maecker HT.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Surgery Research, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH,
USA. shus@ccf.org

Regional lymph nodes are the first site for melanoma metastases. The sentinel
node (SN), on the direct lymphatic drainage pathway, which usually harbors first 
metastases, demonstrates significant suppression in its ability to respond to
antigenic stimulation. This down-regulation of SN immunity is likely the basis of
its susceptibility to tumor metastases, suggesting a potential role of the immune
system in the control of malignant tumors. Despite immune dysfunction in the SN, 
phase II trials of systemic post-operative immunotherapy with a polyvalent
melanoma vaccine developed at the John Wayne Cancer Institute showed improved
5-year overall survival in patients with melanoma metastatic to regional nodes.
However, most immunotherapy clinical trials have failed to demonstrate a
significant clinical response, and analyses of immune responses to
tumor-associated antigens that correlate clinical responses have not been
established. Therefore, refinements in assay methodologies and improvements in
vaccine designs are critical to the success of cancer immunotherapy. Antigen
presentation by dendritic cells (DCs) is the most potent means to initiate a T
cell immunity. Dendritic cell-based immunotherapies have been vigorously
attempted in the past decade. To improve the immunogenicity of cancer vaccines,
we recently generated heterokaryons of DCs and tumor cells by electrofusion. The 
fusion hybrids retained their full antigen-presenting capacity and all natural
tumor antigens. In pre-clinical animal experiments, a single injection of the
DC-tumor fusion hybrids was sufficient to mediate the regression of tumors
established in the lung, skin and brain. Most interestingly, successful therapy
required the delivery of fusion hybrids directly into lymphoid organs such as
lymph nodes. A clinical trial is now being carried out to test the immunogenicity
and therapeutic effects of fusion hybrids for the treatment of metastatic
melanoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s10555-006-8503-7 
PMID: 16770535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J Thorac Imaging. 2006 May;21(2):146-53.

Preoperative evaluation of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma: role of 
integrated CT-PET imaging.

Truong MT(1), Marom EM, Erasmus JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Unit 57, University of Texas M.D. Anderson
Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA. mtruong@mdanderson.org

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is an uncommon neoplasm arising from
mesothelial cells of the pleura. The prognosis is poor with a median survival of 
8 to 18 months after diagnosis. Multimodality regimens combining chemotherapy,
radiotherapy, immunotherapy, and surgery are being used more frequently in
patient management. Extrapleural pneumonectomy is the surgical treatment of
choice in 10% to 15% of patients who present with resectable disease and is
reported to prolong survival. Accurate staging is important to distinguish
patients who are resectable from those requiring palliative therapy. Integrated
computed tomography-positron emission tomography (CT-PET) increases the accuracy 
of overall staging in patients with MPM and significantly improves the selection 
of patients for curative surgical resection. Specifically, CT-PET detects more
extensive disease involvement than that shown by other imaging modalities and is 
particularly useful in identifying occult distant metastases. This article
reviews aspects of imaging performed in the initial staging of patients with MPM 
according to the International Mesothelioma Interest Group staging system and
will emphasize the appropriate role of CT-PET imaging in determining the T, N,
and M descriptors.


PMID: 16770231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Clin Lung Cancer. 2006 May;7 Suppl 4:S111-7.

Current approaches to advanced-stage non-small-cell lung cancer: first-line
therapy in patients with a good functional status.

Stinchcombe TE(1), Lee CB, Socinski MA.

Author information: 
(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill 27599-7305, USA.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death among men and women in
the United States. Approximately 80-85% of lung cancer cases are non-small-cell
lung cancer (NSCLC), and approximately 65% of these patients have advanced-stage 
(IIIB/IV) disease at diagnosis. The median survival for patients with
advanced-stage NSCLC treated with platinum-based chemotherapy is a disappointing 
8-10 months. This article reviews the current status of chemotherapy in patients 
with a good functional status and evaluates the treatments in terms of efficacy, 
toxicity, survival, and impact on quality of life in the first-line treatment.
Biologic agents such as bevacizumab and erlotinib have been investigated in phase
III trials in the first- and second-line setting. These agents could play a role 
in select patient populations. This article also highlights some of the more
promising new strategies, such as advances in pharmacogenomics and immune-based
therapy. There is a clear need for improvement in the current standard of care.
Well-designed clinical trials with appropriate patient selection, as well as
continued efforts in translational research and pharmacogenomics, are crucial for
progress in this disease.


PMID: 16764751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


747. J Environ Pathol Toxicol Oncol. 2006;25(1-2):281-91.

Photoimmunotherapy for cancer treatment.

Chen WR(1), Huang Z, Korbelik M, Nordquist RE, Liu H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Engineering, University of Central Oklahoma, 100
North University Drive, Edmond, OK 73034, USA.

Phototherapy, with its effective dose control and light delivery, has become a
promising modality for treating malignant and nonmalignant diseases.
Photochemical interaction, specifically photodynamic therapy (PDT), and
photothermal interaction have been the primary mechanisms for direct cell
destruction in the treatment of cancers. Preclinical studies demonstrate that, in
addition to direct local cytotoxicity, PDT can also induce systemic immune
responses, which may enhance therapeutic effects on primary tumors and on
metastases at distant sites. Selective photothermal therapy, using an in situ
application of light-absorbing dye, has also proven to be an effective method for
local treatment of tumors. When combined with immunotherapy, the effects of
phototherapy can be amplified, potentially making the photoimmunotherapy a
systemic treatment modality. This phototherapy-immunotherapy combination,
particularly in conjunction with immunoadjuvant, has been used in preclinical
studies. The efficacy and long-term effects of such a combination are summarized 
and the recent experimental results are presented. A new immunoadjuvant, glycated
chitosan (GC), has been used to enhance photochemical and photothermal therapies.
The PDT-GC combination in the treatment of mammary tumors and lung tumors in mice
provided significant improvement in the long-term survival of tumor-bearing
animals. The use of GC in dye-assisted laser photothermal therapy also provided
long-term curative effects and antitumor immune responses in the treatment of
metastatic tumors in rats. The immune responses induced by phototherapy and
enhanced by immunotherapy could become important mechanism in the control of
metastatic tumors.


PMID: 16566724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2006 Apr;16(2):131-5.

Treatment of oligometastases after successful immunotherapy.

Yang JC(1), Abad J, Sherry R.

Author information: 
(1)Surgery Branch, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Local destruction of individual metastases by any of a number of effective
modalities fails as a treatment for most patients with disseminated cancer
because of the presence of either undetected micrometastases or simply too many
lesions. The availability of a systemic therapy that could reduce the number of
metastases to a manageable few would dramatically increase the utility of
surgical metastasectomy or other locally ablative measures. Interleukin-2-based
immunotherapy can serve exactly this function in some patients with renal cancer 
or melanoma. We review the effectiveness of surgery in treating limited relapses 
or residual disease in patients who have responded to systemic immunotherapy.
These data indicate that a surprising percentage of such patients can enjoy
durable disease-free survival after surgical removal of their oligometastases,
and, for a significant minority, it appears to be curative.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2005.12.008 
PMID: 16564448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2006 Apr;16(2):120-30.

Solitary metastases: illusion versus reality.

Rubin P(1), Brasacchio R, Katz A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, James P. Wilmot Cancer Center at the
University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY 14642,
USA. oncophilip@bellsouth.net

"Suddenly a solitary horseman appeared on the horizon, then another, then
another...in a few moments a whole crowd of horsemen swooped down upon
him."-Leacock The illusion of solitary metastases is counterintuitive but has
generated a sizable literature on the subject. The reality is that there are more
metastatic deaths each year than the total number of true long-term survivors of 
solitary metastases combining all organ sites in the literature of the past
century up to the present time. The largest number of solitary metastases
survivors had metastases primarily in the lung and/or liver. With innovations in 
molecular imaging and advances in molecular oncology, the stage is set to detect 
truly solitary metastases early. Then, aggressive treatment by surgical excision,
stereotactic body radiosurgery, targeted chemotherapy, or immunotherapy could
eradicate the lesion. A comprehensive review of solitary metastases in a large
variety of anatomic sites is presented. A broader staging system is recommended
to encompass a solitary metastasis (M1) and oligometastases (M2) as distinct from
multiple metastases (M3).

DOI: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2005.12.007 
PMID: 16564447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Onkologie. 2006 Feb;29(1-2):33-8.

Immunotherapy of lung cancer: an update.

Rüttinger D(1), Winter H, van den Engel NK, Hatz RA, Schlemmer M, Pohla H,
Grützner S, Schendel DJ, Fox BA, Jauch KW.

Author information: 
(1)Chirurgische Klinik und Poliklinik, Abteilung für Transfusionsmedizin und
Hämostaseologie, Klinikum Grosshadern, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München,
München, Germany. dominik.ruettinger@med.uni-muenchen.de

In Germany lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-associated death in men.
Surgery, chemotherapy and radiation may enhance survival of patients suffering
from lung cancer but the enhancement is typically transient and mostly absent
with advanced disease; eventually more than 90% of lung cancer patients will die 
of disease. New approaches to the treatment of lung cancer are urgently needed.
Immunotherapy may represent one new approach with low toxicity and high
specificity but implementation has been a challenge because of the poor antigenic
characterization of these tumors and their ability to escape immune responses.
Several different immunotherapeutic treatment strategies have been developed.
This review examines the current state of development and recent advances with
respect to non-specific immune stimulation, cellular immunotherapy (specific and 
non-specific), therapeutic cancer vaccines and gene therapy for lung cancer. The 
focus is primarily placed on immunotherapeutic cancer treatments that are already
in clinical trial or well progressed in preclinical studies. Although there seems
to be a promising future for immunotherapy in lung cancer, presently there is not
standard immunotherapy available for clinical routine.

DOI: 10.1159/000090341 
PMID: 16514254  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Curr Opin Mol Ther. 2006 Feb;8(1):31-8.

Exosomes as novel therapeutic nanodevices.

Delcayre A(1), Le Pecq JB.

Author information: 
(1)ExoThera LLC, 675 Olive Street, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA.
adelcayre@exothera.com

Exosomes are small vesicles (60 to 100 nm) that are released by many cell types. 
Their heterogeneous protein and lipid compositions, in addition to their enduring
physicochemical features have led to the idea of using these natural vesicles as 
nanodevices for the development of new therapeutic applications. The first
exosome-based nanodevices evaluated in the clinic consisted of autologous
dexosomes (patient-specific exosomes released by dendritic cells and loaded with 
tumor antigen-derived peptides). They were tested in two phase I trials as
immunotherapeutic regimens for melanoma and nonsmall-cell lung cancer. These
studies revealed that dexosome immunotherapy was feasible, safe and led to the
induction of both innate and adaptive immune responses, disease stabilization and
long-term survival for several patients. The recent steps made towards
transforming exosomes into product candidates for immunotherapy are summarized.
In addition, recent developments in the field of exosome research that we believe
will lead to improved and/or new therapeutic applications are highlighted. For
example, a technology known as exosome display can be utilized to develop genetic
vaccines that could induce exosome-mediated immunity without requiring the
preparation of patient-derived exosomes.


PMID: 16506523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2006 May;32(4):385-94. Epub 2006 Feb 28.

Monoclonal antibodies in the treatment of lung cancer.

Egri G(1), Takáts A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital, 89-91 Maglódi
Street, Budapest 1106, Hungary. rgriga@freemail.hu

BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is an aggressive disease and its conventional therapy is 
far from success. There is a strong need for new, better approaches to improve
survival, symptom control and quality of life.
METHODS: The authors searched the literature for indexed articles published over 
the past 30 years from Pubmed concentrating on all possibilities of monoclonal
antibodies in the therapy of tumours and especially of lung cancer.
RESULTS: The search resulted in more then 200 published articles. Important major
reports of the pre-clinical/clinical investigations of monoclonal antibodies in
the therapy of tumours, with an emphasis on lung cancer were reviewed, screened
and tracked for other relevant publications and the yielded data were summarized 
and systematized.
CONCLUSION: It is concluded, that immunotherapy and the reviewed use of
monoclonal antibodies in the therapy of tumours (including lung cancer) certainly
carries a hope. However, studies of this topic are in a wide range of phases,
from experiments to clinical trials, thereby their results are not comparable
with each other. Based on the data available though the authors feel that active 
immunization with monoclonal antibodies as anti-idiotype vaccines, and antibody
targeting with immunoconjugates (immunotoxins, radioimmunoconjugates and
chemoimmunoconjugates) are the most promising methods. Radioimmunoguided surgery 
and immunoguided focal ablation are also valuable. Anti-growth factor monoclonal 
antibodies are the most evaluated agents so far. They certainly have an objective
effect, though they are still not the 'magic bullets', waited for by many
clinicians. The use of monoclonal antibodies against the escape mechanisms of
tumours can be a good auxiliary method. There are too little data on the value of
antibodies directly targeting tumour cells and on combined passive immunotherapy.
Due to constant research, other modalities, such as prodrug activation, T cell
activation, the use of intrabodies, T bodies, and conjugated antibody fragments
might also prove to be valuable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2006.01.007 
PMID: 16504454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Curr Gene Ther. 2005 Dec;5(6):619-28.

Genetically modified dendritic cells for cancer immunotherapy.

Ribas A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, University of California at Los Angeles, CA
90095-1782, USA. aribas@mednet.ucla.edu

The ability to grow and differentiate dendritic cells (DC) ex vivo has allowed
their genetic manipulation to enhance immune activation against tumor antigens.
Gene engineering of DC can be achieved with a variety of physical methods and
using different viral vectors. RNA or DNA transfection, either alone (naked),
coated with liposomes or using electroporation or gene guns leads to T cell
activation while transgene expression is frequently undetectable. Adenoviral and 
retroviral vectors have proven to be highly efficient in DC genetic modification,
and have been widely used in preclinical models. Other vectors like lentivirus,
poxvirus, herpes virus and adeno-associated virus (AAV) can also lead to foreign 
transgene expression in DC leading to immune cell activation. DC have been
genetically engineered to provide constitutive and high level of tumor antigen
expression or to introduce genes that further enhance their immune stimulatory
ability. The promising results from preclinical animal models and from in vitro
human immune cell culture systems have provided a strong rationale to initiate
pilot clinical trials. Recently published or communicated clinical experiences
and ongoing trials have used defined tumor antigen RNA transfection for prostate 
carcinoma and melanoma, liposome-encoated DNA transfection for breast or
pancreatic cancer, adenoviral vector tumor antigen gene modification for melanoma
and small cell lung cancer, and poxvirus-mediated expression of costimulatory
molecules for colon carcinoma. These preliminary experiences suggest that
genetically modified DC can safely induce T cell responses but few clinical
responses.


PMID: 16457651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Oncology (Williston Park). 2005 Nov;19(12):1557-65; discussion 1566, 1568 passim.

Novel vaccines for the treatment of gastrointestinal cancers.

Marshall JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center,
Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA.
marshalj@georgetown.edu

Continuing advances in immunology and molecular biology during the past several
decades have provided optimism that immunomodulatory strategies may be clinically
useful in patients with cancer. Key advances have included: (1) recognition of
the critical role of the antigen-presenting cell and greatly improved
understanding of antigen processing and presentation, including the molecular
interactions between HLA molecules and antigenic epitopes on the
antigen-processing cell and the receptors on T cells, and (2) the roles of
costimulatory molecules such as B7.1, ICAM-1, and LFA-3 in the induction and
maintenance of an immune response. In addition, new techniques have allowed us to
identify immunogenic antigenic determinants, alter their binding affinities, and 
evaluate the overall success of the intervention through both in vivo and in
vitro assays. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is overexpressed in a large number
of gastrointestinal, lung, and breast cancers. Clinical trials have established
treatment protocols using viral vectors to immunize patients to CEA without
producing deleterious autoimmune phenomena. By combining various vectors to
include MUC-1 and/or CEA plus costimulatory molecules in a prime-and-boost
regimen, we are beginning to see signs that this intervention can not only
produce changes in immune function but also potentially improve clinical
outcomes. Phase III studies to test these hypotheses are under way.


PMID: 16396151  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


755. J Clin Oncol. 2006 Feb 10;24(5):823-34. Epub 2005 Dec 27.

Antibody pretargeting advances cancer radioimmunodetection and
radioimmunotherapy.

Goldenberg DM(1), Sharkey RM, Paganelli G, Barbet J, Chatal JF.

Author information: 
(1)Garden State Cancer Center, Center for Molecular Medicine and Immunology,
Belleville, NJ 07109, USA. dmg.gscancer@att.net

This article reviews the methods of pretargeting, which involve separating the
targeting antibody from the subsequent delivery of an imaging or therapeutic
agent that binds to the tumor-localized antibody. This provides enhanced
tumor:background ratios and the delivery of a higher therapeutic dose than when
antibodies are directly conjugated with radionuclides, as currently practiced in 
cancer radioimmunotherapy. We describe initial promising clinical results using
streptavidin-antibody constructs with biotin-radionuclide conjugates in the
treatment of patients with malignant gliomas, and of bispecific antibodies with
hapten-radionuclides in the therapy of tumors expressing carcinoembryonic
antigen, such as medullary thyroid and small-cell lung cancers.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.03.8471 
PMID: 16380412  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Curr Opin Hematol. 2006 Jan;13(1):15-20.

Neutrophil granule proteins as targets of leukemia-specific immune responses.

Barrett J(1), Rezvani K.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart Lung and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. barrettjj@mail.nih.gov

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Recent progress in the identification of leukemia antigens has
stimulated the development of vaccines to treat hematological malignancies. Here 
we review the identification and characterization of the myeloid
leukemia-specific antigens proteinase 3 and neutrophil elastase found in the
primary (azurophil) granule proteins of granulocytes and their precursors. A
peptide 'PR1' derived from these proteins induces powerful HLA-A0201-restricted
CD8 T-cell proliferation. PR1-specific T cells are cytotoxic to leukemia and
myelodysplastic syndrome progenitors, and occur at low frequencies in normal
individuals. Frequencies are higher in patients with myeloid leukemias, and
highest in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia entering molecular remission
after allogeneic stem cell transplantation.
RECENT FINDINGS: These observations, together with the known association of
autoimmunity to proteinase 3 and neutrophil elastase in Wegener's granulomatosis,
support the concept that there is a natural immunity to primary granule proteins 
which can be boosted to enhance immunity to leukemia. Preliminary reports
indicate that PR1 peptide vaccination induces significant increases in
PR1-specific cytotoxic T cells with rapid and durable remissions in some patients
with advanced myeloid leukemias.
SUMMARY: These promising developments in antileukemia vaccines have stimulated
research to optimize vaccine delivery and modify regulation of natural T-cell
immunity to primary granule proteins to improve treatment of otherwise refractory
myeloid leukemias and myelodysplastic syndrome.


PMID: 16319682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Anticancer Drugs. 2006 Jan;17(1):1-12.

Interleukin-2 for the treatment of solid tumors other than melanoma and renal
cell carcinoma.

Grande C(1), Firvida JL, Navas V, Casal J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Vigo University Hospital Complex, Vigo, Spain.
jolmo@correo.cesga.es

Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a lymphokine produced by T cells whose main function is
to stimulate the growth and cytotoxic response of activated T lymphocytes. It has
been used to stimulate the immune system for the treatment of multiples tumors.
This article is intended to review the reports published from 1990 to 2004 on the
IL-2 treatment of tumors other than melanoma and renal carcinoma. A literature
search was made in various databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE and BioAssay), focused on
IL-2 clinical efficacy in such tumors. A selection was made over 150 publications
reporting on administration of IL-2 in multiple tumors: lung carcinoma (small
cell and non-small cell), colorectal, gastric, pancreatic, ovarian and breast
cancer, sarcomas, hepatocarcinoma, mesothelioma, and brain, urological, and head 
and neck tumors. IL-2 was mainly used in metastatic disease, associated with
other immunotherapy or chemotherapy schedules. We conclude that adjuvant IL-2 may
be of value in early stages combined with standard treatment for colon and
pancreas cancers. In other neoplasms, the indication for adjuvant IL-2 has been
sporadic and does not allow conclusions to be drawn. Assessment of the efficacy
of IL-2 combined with chemotherapy as treatment for advanced stages is complex,
due to the lack of a control, and the variety of dosages and schemes. The
activity of IL-2 in monotherapy or in association with immunotherapy is
clinically relevant in hepatocarcinoma, mesothelioma and in malignant overflows
as palliative treatment. Randomized trials would be required in order to be able 
to draw conclusions about its indication in other tumors.


PMID: 16317284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Curr Med Chem Anticancer Agents. 2005 Nov;5(6):603-12.

Current drug therapy for prostate cancer: an overview.

Stewart AB(1), Lwaleed BA, Douglas DA, Birch BR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Southampton University Hospitals NHS Trust,
Southampton, Hampshire SO16 6YD, UK.

Prostate cancer is the most common cancer amongst men in the USA and the second
most common malignant cause of male death worldwide after lung cancer. The life
time risk of having microscopic evidence of prostate cancer for a 50 year old man
is 42%. Prostate cancer is thus becoming an increasingly significant global
health problem in terms of mortality, morbidity, as well as economically. This
review, discusses current medical therapeutic options for prostate cancer
including traditional treatments using luteinising hormone releasing analogues
(LHRH), anti-androgens and estrogen treatments, and the use of novel drugs
directed against molecular targets considered important in oncogenesis and
metastasis. Prostate cancer chemoprevention using 5alpha-reductase inhibitors and
the role of gene therapy are also considered.


PMID: 16305482  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Clin Med Res. 2005 Nov;3(4):221-8.

Lung cancer immunotherapy.

Raez LE(1), Fein S, Podack ER.

Author information: 
(1)Epidemiology and Public Health, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center,
University of Miami School of Medicine, FL 33136, USA. lraez@med.miami.edu

Recent insights into anti-tumor immunotherapy have led to a wave of clinical
trials involving immunotherapy for lung cancer. Vaccines have evolved from
nonspecific immune stimulants, like Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG), to much more 
specific and potent strategies, some of which generate active immune responses
against tumor-associated antigens. Understanding the mechanisms of anti-tumor
immunity and identifying target antigens will likely improve these therapeutic
strategies and provide them with a niche in the future of lung cancer therapy.


PMCID: PMC1288407
PMID: 16303887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Int J Infect Dis. 2006 Jan;10(1):72-8. Epub 2005 Nov 9.

Cryptococcosis in human immunodeficiency virus-negative patients.

Kiertiburanakul S(1), Wirojtananugoon S, Pracharktam R, Sungkanuparph S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol
University, 270 Rama 6 Rd, Bangkok 10400, Thailand. rasal@mahidol.ac.th

OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical characteristics, treatment, and outcomes of
cryptococcosis in HIV-negative patients.
METHODS: HIV-negative adult patients with positive culture for Cryptococcus
neoformans who attended Ramathibodi Hospital between 1987 and 2003 were
retrospectively reviewed.
RESULTS: During the 17 year review period, 40 HIV-negative patients with
cryptococcosis were identified. Of these, 37 patients had medical records
available for study. The mean age was 49+/-18 (range 16-83) years and 73% were
female. Twenty-four patients (65%) had associated underlying conditions. The most
common associated conditions included immunosuppressive drug treatment (41%),
presence of systemic lupus erythematosus (16%), malignancies (16%), and diabetes 
mellitus (14%). C. neoformans was mainly recovered from cerebrospinal fluid
(32%), blood (28%), and sputum/bronchoalveolar lavage/lung tissue (28%).
Twenty-three patients (62%) had disseminated cryptococcosis. Six of 14 patients
with cryptococcal meningitis were asymptomatic. About half of the patients were
treated with amphotericin B and subsequent fluconazole. Five patients (14%) were 
initially misdiagnosed and treated for tuberculosis or bacterial infection. The
overall mortality rate was 27%.
CONCLUSIONS: Cryptococcosis is not rare in HIV-negative patients. The mortality
rate is high. Early recognition of cryptococcosis and use of appropriate
antifungal therapy in these patients may improve clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2004.12.004 
PMID: 16288998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Immunol Cell Biol. 2005 Dec;83(6):709-17.

Three-dimensional structures of carbohydrate determinants of Lewis system
antigens: implications for effective antibody targeting of cancer.

Yuriev E(1), Farrugia W, Scott AM, Ramsland PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Victorian College of Pharmacy, Monash
University, Victoria, Australia.

Lewis system carbohydrate antigens have been shown to be expressed at high levels
in many cancers of epithelial cell origin, including those of colon, breast,
lung, prostate and ovary. The type 1 (Le(a) and Le(b)) antigens are important
histo-blood groups, while type 2 (Le(x) and Le(y)) antigens in healthy
individuals are only expressed, at relatively low levels, by a few tissues,
including some epithelial cells. Thus, the type 2 antigens are considered to be
tumour-associated antigens and are promising targets for cancer treatment,
including antibody-based immunotherapy. In this review, we discuss the
conformational characteristics of the free and bound forms of Lewis
oligosaccharides and the 3D structures of antibodies in complex with Le(y) and
Le(x) antigens. Collectively, the structural studies have demonstrated that the
Lewis determinants are rigid structures, which generally maintain the same
conformation in the free and bound states. The rigid nature and similarities in
shape of type 1 and 2 Lewis oligosaccharides appear to make them perfectly suited
to driving a structurally convergent immune response (at least in the case of
Le(y) specific antibodies) toward a highly specific recognition of individual
carbohydrate determinants, which is a goal in the development of effective
antibody-based cancer treatments.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1711.2005.01374.x 
PMID: 16266323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Clin Oncol. 2005 Dec 10;23(35):9022-8. Epub 2005 Oct 11.

Non-small-cell lung cancer vaccine therapy: a concise review.

O'Mahony D(1), Kummar S, Gutierrez ME.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Clinical Research Unit, Center for Cancer Research, 10 Center
Dr, Building 10, Room 12N226, Bethesda, MD 20892-1906, USA. omahonyd@mail.nih.gov

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States and
throughout the world; globally, there are more than 1.1 million deaths each year.
Treatment modalities currently employed are significantly limited; 50% of
patients experience disease recurrence after surgery, and less than a quarter of 
patients respond to systemic chemotherapy. These statistics have fueled the
search for a safer, more effective treatment modality. Despite significant
advances in our understanding of the molecular basis of cancer immunology, many
obstacles remain. However, encouraging clinical results in patients immunized
with autologous tumor cell vaccines expressing granulocyte macrophage
colony-stimulating factor strongly advocate further investigation of
immunotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Further studies are needed
to demonstrate whether these novel therapies can potentially complement or even
replace current therapeutic approaches. We present a review of the various
vaccine-based strategies employed to target and treat NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.02.3101 
PMID: 16219932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Hepatogastroenterology. 2005 Sep-Oct;52(65):1567-84.

Recent advances in the treatment of colorectal liver metastases.

Jain S(1), Sacchi M, Vrachnos P, Lygidakis NJ, Andriopoulou E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Henry Dunant Hospital, Athens, Greece.

Liver metastases are the major cause of death coloroctal resection for cancer.
Colorectal liver metastases are unique because of the potential for cure.
Presently surgical resection is the gold standard of treatment. Complete R0
resection gives 5-year survival of up to 24-44%. Over the years there have been
extensive efforts in devising new modalities of treatment for this disease. These
include methods to increase the resectability such as portal after vein
emolization & two-stage surgery, py with newer drugs and methods such
chronotherapy & hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy, newer methods of
radiotherapy, local ablative therapies such as cryoablation, radiofequency
ablation, microwave ablation & laser interstitial thermal therapy, and biological
therapy. Biological therapy is largely investigational, but holds great promise
for the future.


PMID: 16201121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2005 Sep 2;51(1):103-11.

Different approaches of gene therapy used in prostate cancer.

Ghosh A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Cancer Biology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195,
USA. ghosha@ccf.org

Prostate cancer is the second leading malignancy next to lung cancer among
American males. Estimated number of new cases of prostate cancer by the year 2004
will be 230,110 and number of deaths due to this disease will be 29,900 (American
Cancer Society, Surveillance Research, 2004). Major progress have been made in
gene therapy due to significant advancement of biology including specialized
fields like Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, Immunology and Molecular Virology
which includes development of viral and non-viral vectors and delivery system, of
which targeted delivery of suicide genes using tissue specific promoter-enhancer,
combined therapy, gene replacement therapy are most notable. In this report, we
will review about various aspects of gene therapy including most recent
discoveries in this field.


PMID: 16171569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2004 May;2(5):295-302.

Mechanisms and treatment for bone metastases.

Clines GA(1), Guise TA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, University
of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22908-1419, USA.

Alterations in bone architecture and mineral metabolism are common complications 
of malignancy. Cancers such as breast, prostate, and lung can affect the skeleton
either indirectly through the elaboration of factors that act to disrupt normal
calcium homeostasis at the level of the kidney and bone; or directly via
secondary spread of tumor to bone. Although the pathophysiology of these skeletal
complications is diverse, it is clear that the osteoclast and osteoblast are not 
just bystanders but are active participants in the development and progression of
hypercalcemia and bone metastasis. Our understanding of the molecular mechanisms 
of metastasis leading to tumor cell escape, homing, adhesion, and secondary
growth in a hospitable environment are evolving. Treatment modalities aimed at
not only reducing tumor burden but altering the skeletal response to tumor have
shown benefit. Newer generation bisphosphonates are quite effective in
controlling hypercalcemia of malignancy and have been shown to delay progression 
of skeletal metastases. Clearly, cancer-associated bone morbidity remains a major
public health problem. To improve therapy and prevention it is important to
understand the pathophysiology of the effects of cancer on bone. This review will
detail scientific advances regarding this area.


PMID: 16163196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2005 Sep-Oct;20(5 Suppl):S88-98.

Adherence to the therapeutic regimen in heart, lung, and heart-lung transplant
recipients.

De Geest S(1), Dobbels F, Fluri C, Paris W, Troosters T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Nursing Science, University of Basel, Bernoullistrasse 28,
CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland. Sabina.DeGeest@unibas.ch

Optimal outcome after heart, lung, and heart-lung transplantation can only be
obtained if patients are supported in adhering to a lifelong therapeutic regimen.
The transplant patient's therapeutic regimen consists of a lifelong medication
regimen, including immunosuppressive drugs; monitoring for signs and symptoms
related to complications; avoidance of risk factors for cardiovascular disease
and cancer (ie, diet and exercise prescriptions, nonsmoking); avoidance of
abuse/dependence of alcohol or illegal drugs, as well as attending regular
clinical checkups. Nonadherence to all aspects of this regimen is substantial.
Nonadherence has been related to negative clinical outcome in view of acute
rejections, graft vasculopathy, higher costs, and mortality. This review focuses 
on the prevalence, correlates, and consequences of nonadherence to the
therapeutic regimen in heart, lung, and heart-lung transplantation. The current
state of the-art on adherence-enhancing interventions is reported. Priorities for
future research are outlined.


PMID: 16160588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Curr Opin Neurol. 2005 Oct;18(5):598-603.

Paraneoplastic syndromes of the peripheral nerves.

Rudnicki SA(1), Dalmau J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little
Rock, Arkansas, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To describe the paraneoplastic disorders of the motor and
sensory nerves and neurons, and their immunologic associations.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recently proposed diagnostic criteria for paraneoplastic
disorders may assist in determining the likelihood a given neuropathy or
neuronopathy is related to an underlying malignancy. Of this group of disorders, 
paraneoplastic sensory neuronopathies are the most frequent; many of these
patients have anti-Hu antibodies and small-cell lung cancer. There is often
motor, autonomic, or central nervous system involvement, and electrophysiological
studies may demonstrate not only sensory changes, but also motor abnormalities.
While cancer has been found more frequently than expected in patients with
Guillain-Barré syndrome, this association is extremely rare. A limited number of 
reports have described chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy,
multifocal motor neuropathy with conduction block, vasculitic neuropathies, and
motor neuron disease as paraneoplastic disorders. Anti-CV2 antibodies are
frequently associated with a paraneoplastic sensorimotor axonal neuropathy and
small-cell lung cancer. Peripheral nerve hyperexcitability may occur with or
without a cancer association, and in both instances patients often have
antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels; thymoma and small-cell lung
cancer are the most common underlying tumors. Plasma cell proliferative disorders
are frequently associated with neuropathies, particularly demyelinating ones.
SUMMARY: There is increasing recognition of an extensive variety of
paraneoplastic disorders of the peripheral nerves. In many of these disorders
onconeuronal antibodies are absent. Whole body fluorodeoxyglucose positron
emission tomography scanning helps uncover the associated tumor, and recently
proposed criteria may assist in the diagnosis. In many instances, prompt
treatment of the tumor and immunotherapy result in symptom stabilization or
neurologic improvement.


PMID: 16155447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Nat Biotechnol. 2005 Sep;23(9):1147-57.

Monoclonal antibody therapy of cancer.

Adams GP(1), Weiner LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, 333 Cottman Avenue,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111, USA.

The most significant recent advances in the application of monoclonal antibodies 
(mAbs) to oncology have been the introduction and approval of bevacizumab
(Avastin), an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor antibody, and of cetuximab 
(Erbitux), an anti-epidermal growth factor antibody. In combination with standard
chemotherapy regimens, bevacizumab significantly prolongs the survival of
patients with metastatic cancers of the colorectum, breast and lung. Cetuximab,
used alone or with salvage chemotherapy, produces clinically meaningful
anti-tumor responses in patients with chemotherapy-refractory cancers of the
colon and rectum. In addition, the anti-HER2/neu antibody trastuzumab
(Herceptin), in combination with standard adjuvant chemotherapy, has been shown
to reduce relapses and prolong disease-free and overall survival in high-risk
patients after definitive local therapy for breast cancer. These exciting recent 
results provide optimism for the development of mAbs that bind novel targets,
exploit novel mechanisms of action or possess improved tumor targeting. Progress 
in the clinical use of radioimmunoconjugates remains hindered by complexity of
administration, toxicity concerns and insufficiently selective tumor targeting.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt1137 
PMID: 16151408  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Respir Care. 2005 Sep;50(9):1161-76.

The expanding role of aerosols in systemic drug delivery, gene therapy, and
vaccination.

Laube BL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland 21287, USA. blaube@jhmi.edu

Aerosolized medications have been used for centuries to treat respiratory
diseases. Until recently, inhalation therapy focused primarily on the treatment
of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and the pressurized
metered-dose inhaler was the delivery device of choice. However, the role of
aerosol therapy is clearly expanding beyond that initial focus. This expansion
has been driven by the Montreal protocol and the need to eliminate
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) from traditional metered-dose inhalers, by the need
for delivery devices and formulations that can efficiently and reproducibly
target the systemic circulation for the delivery of proteins and peptides, and by
developments in medicine that have made it possible to consider curing lung
diseases with aerosolized gene therapy and preventing epidemics of influenza and 
measles with aerosolized vaccines. Each of these drivers has contributed to a
decade or more of unprecedented research and innovation that has altered how we
think about aerosol delivery and has expanded the role of aerosol therapy into
the fields of systemic drug delivery, gene therapy, and vaccination. During this 
decade of innovation, we have witnessed the coming of age of dry powder inhalers,
the development of new soft mist inhalers, and improved pressurized metered-dose 
inhaler delivery as a result of the replacement of CFC propellants with
hydrofluoroalkane. The continued expansion of the role of aerosol therapy will
probably depend on demonstration of the safety of this route of administration
for drugs that have their targets outside the lung and are administered long term
(eg, insulin aerosol), on the development of new drugs and drug carriers that can
efficiently target hard-to-reach cell populations within the lungs of patients
with disease (eg, patients with cystic fibrosis or lung cancer), and on the
development of devices that improve aerosol delivery to infants, so that early
intervention in disease processes with aerosol therapy has a high probability of 
success.


PMID: 16122400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Expert Rev Vaccines. 2005 Aug;4(4):503-12.

Cancer immunotherapy targeting Wilms' tumor gene WT1 product.

Sugiyama H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Functional Diagnostic Science, Osaka University Graduate School 
of Medicine, Suita City, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. sugiyama@sahs.med.osaka-u.ac.jp

The Wilms' tumor gene WT1 is expressed at high levels in leukemic blast cells in 
most acute myeloid and lymphoblastic leukemias. In myelodysplastic syndrome, WT1 
mRNA expression levels increase along with disease progression; thus, WT1 mRNA is
a tumor marker for leukemic blast cells. WT mRNA is also expressed at high levels
in various types of solid cancers, including cancers of the lung, breast, colon
and pancreas. Patients with WT1-expressing tumors produce antibodies and
cytotoxic T-lymphocytes against WT1 protein, indicating that WT1 protein is
highly immunogenic and a promising tumor antigen. Major histocompatibility
complex class I-restricted cytotoxic T-lymphocyte and class II-restricted helper 
epitopes of WT1 protein were identified, and clinical studies of cancer
immunotherapy using these cytotoxic T-lymphocyte epitope peptides were performed 
without significant adverse effect and with clinical results promising enough to 
encourage further clinical trials. The clinical efficacy of cancer immunotherapy 
targeting the WT1 protein should be clarified by a large-scale clinical study.

DOI: 10.1586/14760584.4.4.503 
PMID: 16117707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2005 Aug;5(4):635-44.

Clinical trials targeting lung cancer with active immunotherapy: the scope of
vaccines.

Raez LE(1), Santos ES, Mudad R, Podack ER.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center,
University of Miami School of Medicine, 1475 NW 12 Avenue, Miami, FL 33136, USA. 
lraez@med.miami.edu

Successful active immunotherapy is expected to be specific and nontoxic. Until
now, the success of immunotherapy in cancer has been sporadic and unpredictable. 
This has been attributable in part to the lack of a full understanding of the
mechanistic underpinnings of immune regulation. Furthermore, the lack of
systematic success of immunotherapy, as argued in this review, stems from failing
to effectively target tumors such as non-small cell lung cancer. In this review, 
the rationale and design for induction of immunity to non-small cell lung cancer 
and clinical trials of the most important lung cancer vaccines in development are
discussed.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.5.4.635 
PMID: 16111464  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Curr HIV/AIDS Rep. 2005 Aug;2(3):146-53.

Non-AIDS-defining cancers and HIV infection.

Lim ST(1), Levine AM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Southern California, 1441 Eastlake Avenue, Los Angeles, CA
90033, USA.

With fewer patients now succumbing to infectious complications of AIDS, other
HIV-related morbidities, such as malignancies, have become increasingly
important. Apart from Kaposi's sarcoma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and cervical
cancer, which are considered as AIDS-defining, several additional cancers,
referred to as non-AIDS-defining cancers, are also statistically increased in
HIV-infected persons. These include Hodgkin's disease, anal carcinoma, lung
cancer, nonmelanomatous skin cancer, and testicular germ cell tumors, among
others. However, the types of cancer observed at an increased frequency and the
relative risks reported vary widely among studies. Although immunosuppression is 
consistently associated with an increased risk of AIDS-related malignancies, the 
role of immunosuppression in the pathogenesis of non-AIDS- defining cancers is
controversial. Although data regarding the optimal management of these cancers
are lacking, current studies suggest that patients with HIV-associated
malignancies should be treated with similar approaches to those of their
counterparts in the general population.


PMID: 16091262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Glas Srp Akad Nauka Med. 2002;(47):21-32.

[Accomplishments and perspectives in tumor diagnostics and treatment].

[Article in Serbian]

Spuzić I.

In contemporary medicine cancer has an exceptionally important role, even though 
it is not a new disease. Tumors are found in all animals and plants, and today
are more frequent than before, when they were found predominantly in advanced
ages. The frequency occurrence depends of many factors, and it is more frequent
in countries with higher degree of civilization, what is the consequence of
irradiation of other diseases as well as more pronounced industrialization,
leading to in proper nourishment, many sources of intoxication with carcinogenic 
factors arising from environmental pollution, and even by the use of some
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Cancer is the result of disturbance in
cell growth and differentiation. In the appearance and spreading of tumors many
factors are involved. In the Department of Experimental and Clinical Oncology of 
the Institute for Oncology and Radiology, we in the first place investigated the 
role of immunity, hormones and central nervous system, predominantly in
experimental conditions, based on the investigations on animals, the in vitro
investigations is tissue cultures and some disturbances which are found in blood 
of patients with tumors. As in the processes of carcinogenesis the immune system 
has in important role, in the immunological investigations we primarily
investigated parameters of the status of the immune system in patients with
malignant processes. The number and function of particular cell subsets of the
immune system was investigated, namely T and B lymphocytes and their subclasses, 
NK cells and monocytes-macrophages. In the majority of analyzed patients with
breast and lung cancer, lymphoproliferative diseases and other malignancies, it
was shown that the majority of them had a decreased number of immune cells that
correlated with the clinical advances of disease and applied cytostatic therapy. 
However, it was shown that the function of these cells, primarily NK, but also of
T lymphocytes, was markedly decreased even before changes in the cell number,
indicating that a functional impairment is present even before the cell number
decrease and proportional to the advancement of the disease. As the results of
exploring of investigation of the immunological status indicate the concrete
defects in the function of the separate components of the immune system, these
findings make it possible to direct immunotherapy for the correction of existing 
defects. The activity and pathways of mechanisms of NK cells and the possibility 
of their modulation were also investigated. Also, the possibility of the
application of mAbs in the precise diagnostics of some malignancies was explored.
The role in carcinogenesis was investigated in tumors whose appearance, growth
and spreading is hormone-dependent. One of the hormone-dependent tumors is breast
cancer. It was shown that they are significantly dependent on estrogen and growth
factor presence, steroid-receptor content, and that these characteristics can
change during the disease and do not have to be identical in their metastasis.
Numerous investigations that we performed were in the in vitro conditions, i.e.
in cell cultures. The obtained data show how some tumor cells react to applied
agents, cytostatical and biological. However their effect in vivo is very often
different, as in the in vivo conditions many other factors are involved,
suggesting a need for further investigations of these factors. The role of the
central nervous system neurotransmiters in carcinogenesis in experimental animals
exposed to chemical cancerogen (5-methylcholantrene) with simultaneous treatment 
of the monoamine system was investigated. It was shown that monoamines expressed 
their influence on carcinogenesis by regulating the brain homeostasis, as well as
by direct influence on the intracellular processes during cell development and
differentiation. The obtained results will direct our further investigations
toward obtaining mAbs for receptors for TNFalpha and IFNgamma, transfection of
suppressor gene into tumor cell cultures and genes for IL-2 and TNFalpha. At the 
same time we will work on isolation of malignant melanoma tumor antigen and
construction of a vaccine using some epitopes and adjuvantes. We will try to
introduce appropriate immunotherapy in the advancedehZAD.


PMID: 16078439  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2005 Aug;32(8):980-9.

Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma by means of radiopharmaceuticals.

Lambert B(1), Van de Wiele C.

Author information: 
(1)Nuclear Medicine Division, Ghent University Hospital, De Pintelaan 185, 9000, 
Ghent, Belgium.

Several techniques have been developed for radionuclide therapy of hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC). Medical literature databases (Pubmed, Medline) were screened for
available literature and articles were critically analysed as to their scientific
relevance. In a palliative setting, intra-arterial administration of
131I-Lipiodol yields responses in 17-92% of patients. According to a randomised
study, 131I-Lipiodol was far better tolerated than classic chemo-embolisation.
The additive value of a single 131I-Lipiodol administration following partial
liver resection for HCC was evaluated and evidence is available that adjuvant
radionuclide treatment reduces the recurrence rate. Data concerning the role of
131I-Lipiodol in bridging patient to liver transplantation are scarce but suggest
a potential benefit in terms of reducing the drop-out rate while patients are
listed for transplantation. 188Re- and 90Y-labelled conjugates are emerging and
initial clinical data are promising. Treatment of HCC with 90Y-labelled
microspheres is likely as efficacious as treatment with radiolabelled Lipiodol
but pretreatment 99mTc-MAA scintigraphy is required in order to exclude patients 
with significant lung shunting. Several antibodies targeting antigens expressed
on HCC have been radiolabelled, almost exclusively with 131I, and evaluated in a 
preclinical or clinical setting. The use of radiolabelled Lipiodol and
microspheres allows for selective targeting of HCC with limited toxicity.
Prospective, randomised controlled trials demonstrating that both treatment
modalities may provide a survival benefit in a palliative setting are mandatory. 
In addition, future research should focus on the complementary role of
radionuclide treatment in patients at risk for recurrent disease following
partial liver resection or while awaiting liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-005-1859-z 
PMID: 16032439  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Internist (Berl). 2005 Aug;46(8):847-8, 850-4, 856-60.

[Molecular target structures in oncology].

[Article in German]

Spiekermann K(1), Hiddemann W.

Author information: 
(1)Klinische Kooperationsgruppe Leukämie, Medizinische Klinik III, Klinikum
Grosshadern der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München und GSF-Hämatologikum,
Marchioninistrasse 15, 81377, München, Germany.
karsten.spiekermann@med.uni-muenchen.de

Substantial progress has been made in recent years in understanding the molecular
pathogenesis of malignant disorders, especially in identification of molecular
targets for therapeutic interventions ("targeted therapies"). An important group 
of therapeutical targets are signaling cascades, e.g. protein tyrosine kinases
(PTK) that are activated by mutations, translocations or overexpression. Small
molecule inhibitors that compete with ATP and inhibit kinase activity have
produced clinical impressive responses in chronic myeloid leukemia,
gastrointestinal stroma tumors and non-small cell lung cancer. Another group of
cellular targets is represented by tumor-selective cell surface proteins that can
serve as target structures for antibodies. Therapeutical concepts using
monoclonal antibodies have substantially improved response rates in patients with
malignant lymphomas and are currently evaluated in other types of cancer. The
definition of molecular target structures critical for the malignant phenotype is
driving a new era of integrated diagnostics and therapeutics in the field of
oncology.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-005-1463-0 
PMID: 16007411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2005 Jun;5(3):537-47.

Dendritic cell-derived exosomes in cancer immunotherapy: exploiting nature's
antigen delivery pathway.

Delcayre A(1), Shu H, Le Pecq JB.

Author information: 
(1)Anosys Inc., 1014 Hamilton Court, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA.
adelcayre@anosys.com

Dendritic cells release large quantities of exosomes, known as dexosomes. These
dexosomes are heat-stable, small vesicles (60-90 nm in diameter) made up of a
lipid bilayer displaying an enrichment in sphingomyelin and a decrease in
phosphatidylcholine content with no measurable asymmetry. They incorporate a
characteristic set of proteins, including a large quantity of tetraspanins such
as CD9 and CD81, all the known antigen presenting molecules (major
histocompatibility complex class I and II, CD1 a, b, c and d) and the
costimulatory molecule CD86. The function of dexosomes is to transfer
antigen-loaded major histocompatibility complex class I and II molecules, and
other associated molecules, to naive dendritic cells, potentially leading to the 
amplification of the cellular immune response. In preclinical mouse models,
antigen-loaded dexosomes elicit strong antitumor activity. Human dexosomes can be
prepared ex vivo relatively easily from dendritic cells derived from monocytes
isolated by leukapheresis of healthy individuals or cancer patients. The
feasibility of using dexosomes as a cancer therapeutic vaccine has been tested in
two Phase I clinical studies in melanoma and lung cancer patients, respectively. 
These studies demonstrate that dexosomes can be prepared from cancer patient
blood cells and be safely administered. Clinical observations suggested that
dexosomes can stimulate both the adaptive (T-cells) and innate (natural killer
cells) cellular immune responses. This review focuses on the perspective of using
dexosomes in cancer immunotherapy. Concepts for using the exosome pathway in
other possible pharmacologic applications are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.5.3.537 
PMID: 16001959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


777. J Immunother. 2005 Jul-Aug;28(4):281-8.

Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation as immunotherapy for solid tumors: 
current status and future directions.

Lundqvist A(1), Childs R.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1652, USA.

Although myeloablative conditioning can cytoreduce or debulk malignancies, the
curative antitumor effects of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
(HCT) are mostly mediated by transplanted donor immune cells. A heightened
awareness and appreciation of the immune-mediated anticancer effects that occur
after allogeneic transplantation has led to the increasing use of
reduced-intensity stem cell transplantation (RIST) approaches to treat advanced
malignancies. The graft-versus-leukemia effects that occur against hematologic
cancers after RIST have recently attracted oncologists to explore the therapeutic
potential of allogeneic HCT for treatment-refractory solid tumors. Delayed tumor 
regression after RIST in a subset of patients with metastatic renal cell, breast,
ovarian, pancreatic, and colon carcinoma has recently been reported, confirming
the existence of a graft-versus-tumor effect in solid tumors. Advanced disease
states, rapidly growing tumors, and accrual of patients with extremely short
survival are factors that have been identified to limit the efficacy of
allogeneic immunotherapy. This review discusses results of allogeneic HCT for
solid tumors and the development of newer transplant strategies to optimize the
potential of the graft-versus-tumor effect.


PMID: 16000944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2005 Oct;56(1):101-13.

Incidence of cancer after immunosuppressive treatment for heart transplantation.

Ippoliti G(1), Rinaldi M, Pellegrini C, Viganò M.

Author information: 
(1)Divisione di Medicina Interna, Ospedale Civile, V. Volturno 14, 27048 Voghera,
Pavia, Italy. g-ippoliti@libero.it

Prolonged or intensive immunosuppressive therapy used after organ transplantation
is complicated by an increased incidence of cancer. Striking differences in
incidence are observed in heart and heart-lung transplant recipients when
compared with renal transplant patients. The most significant increase was in the
incidence of lymphomas in cardiac versus renal patients. Moreover, a two-fold
greater increase of all neoplasms was found in cardiac recipients, with nearly a 
six-fold increase in visceral tumors. Several factors may account for these
differences. In cardiac allograft recipients, intensive immunosuppression is
frequently used to reverse acute rejection and the highest number of cardiac
transplants was performed in the era of polypharmacy, usually consisting of
triple therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2005.03.013 
PMID: 15979322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Nihon Rinsho. 2005 Jun;63(6):1101-9.

[WT1 peptide-based immunotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugiyama H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Functional Diagnostic Science, Osaka University Graduate School 
of Medicine.

The Wilms' tumor gene WT1 is overexpressed in leukemia and various types of solid
cancers and its product is a tumor rejection antigen. A phase I clinical trials
of WT1 peptide-based cancer immunotherapy were performed with good clinical
response but with only skin reaction at the injection sites of WT1 vaccine. Thus,
WT1-targeting immunotherapy should be promissing.


PMID: 15948398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2006 Jan;55(1):85-95. Epub 2005 Oct 27.

Immunogenic HER-2/neu peptides as tumor vaccines.

Baxevanis CN(1), Sotiriadou NN, Gritzapis AD, Sotiropoulou PA, Perez SA,
Cacoullos NT, Papamichail M.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Immunology and Immunotherapy Center, St. Savas Hospital, 171 Alexandras
Ave, 11522, Athens, Greece. baxevanis@ciic.gr

During the last decade, a large number of tumor-associated antigens (TAA) have
been identified, which can be recognized by T cells. This has led to renewed
interest in the use of active immunization as a modality for the treatment of
cancer. HER-2/neu is a 185-KDa receptor-like glycoprotein that is overexpressed
by a variety of tumors including breast, ovarian, lung, prostate and colorectal
carcinomata. Several immunogenic HER-2/neu peptides recognized by cytotoxic T
lymphocytes (CTL) or helper T lymphocytes (TH) have been identified thus far.
Patients with HER-2/neu over-expressing cancers exhibit increased frequencies of 
peripheral blood T cells recognizing immunogenic HER-2/neu peptides. Various
protocols for generating T cell-mediated immune responses specific for HER-2/neu 
peptides have been examined in pre-clinical models or in clinical trials.
Vaccination studies in animals utilizing HER-2/neu peptides have been successful 
in eliminating tumor growth. In humans, however, although immunological responses
have been detected against the peptides used for vaccination, no clinical
responses have been described. Because HER-2/neu is a self-antigen, functional
immune responses against it may be limited through tolerance mechanisms.
Therefore, it would be interesting to determine whether abrogation of tolerance
to HER-2/neu using appropriate adjuvants and/or peptide analogs may lead to the
development of immune responses to HER-2/neu epitopes that can be of relevance to
cancer immunotherapy. Vaccine preparations containing mixtures of HER-2/neu
peptides and peptide from other tumor-related antigens might also enhance
efficacy of therapeutic vaccination.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-005-0692-3 
PMID: 15948002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2005 Apr;5(4):565-75.

Yeasts encoding tumour antigens in cancer immunotherapy.

Franzusoff A(1), Duke RC, King TH, Lu Y, Rodell TC.

Author information: 
(1)GlobeImmune, Inc., 12635 E. Montview Blvd, Aurora, CO 80010, USA.

Immunotherapy for cancer represents an attractive therapeutic target because of
its specificity and lack of toxicity, but products investigated so far have been 
limited by neutralisation, complexity of manufacturing and requirement for
patient-specific products. Recombinant yeast cells are capable of stimulating the
immune system to produce highly specific and potent cellular responses against
target protein antigens with little toxicity. Data from animal models suggest
that Tarmogens (yeast-based immunotherapeutics) can elicit protective immunity
against xenografted and chemically induced tumours. This concept is now being
tested in a Phase I trial in patients with colorectal, pancreatic and non-small
cell lung cancers.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.5.4.565	 
PMID: 15934834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Magy Onkol. 2005;49(1):19-25. Epub 2005 May 18.

[Retrospective study of uveal melanoma].

[Article in Hungarian]

Tóth J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Altalános Orvostudományi Kar, Szemészeti Klinika, 1085
Budapest, Tömó u. 25-29, Hungary. tj@szem1.sote.hu

PURPOSE: To report the results of a retrospective study carried out at the 1st
Department of Ophthalmology of Semmelweis University, Budapest, among patients
treated for ocular melanoma. Clinical data of the patients, histopathological
characteristics of the tumours and follow-up results are reported.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Retrospective review of patients' charts, histopathological
data and statistical analysis of collected data.
RESULTS: From 120 patients treated by enucleation or exenteration for uveal
melanoma, 22 had died by the end of the study. The medium survival after
operation was 34.0+/-25.4 months, the majority of deaths occurred within three
years following surgery. Statistically significant relationship was demonstrated 
between extraocular extension of the tumour and death, and between epithelioid
cell tumours and death. Most large tumours involved the ciliary body, the
prognosis of these tumours tended to be worse than for those infiltrating only
the choroid, but the difference was not statistically significant. Uveal melanoma
almost exclusively gives haematogenous metastases, liver metastases being the
most frequent; rarely lung metastases are also reported. Since extraocular
extension and epithelioid tumours carry a very poor prognosis, the possibility of
providing adjuvant chemo-immunotherapy for patients harbouring these tumours
should be entertained, even if liver metastases are not demonstrated at the time 
of diagnosis.

DOI: HUON.2005.49.1.0019 
PMID: 15902329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nihon Rinsho. 2005 Apr;63 Suppl 4:574-8.

[Clinical application of NKT cell system for lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Motohashi S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University.


PMID: 15861713  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2005 Apr;6(2):131-50.

Targeting therapeutic and imaging agents to folate receptor positive tumors.

Reddy JA(1), Allagadda VM, Leamon CP.

Author information: 
(1)Endocyte, Inc., 1205 Kent Ave., West Lafayette, IN 47906, USA.

The membrane-bound folate receptor (FR) is overexpressed on a wide range of human
cancers, such as those originating in ovary, lung, breast, endometrium, kidney
and brain. The vitamin folic acid is a high affinity ligand of the FR which
retains its receptor binding properties when conjugated to other molecules.
Consequently, "folate targeting" technology has successfully been applied for the
delivery of protein toxins, chemotherapeutic agents, radio-imaging and
therapeutic agents, MRI contrast agents, liposomes, gene transfer vectors,
antisense oligonucleotides, ribozymes and immunotherapeutic agents to FR-positive
cancers. These folate-bearing delivery systems have produced major enhancements
in cancer cell specificity and selectivity over their non-targeted formulation
counterparts. Hence, it is hopeful that this targeting strategy will lead to
improvements in the safety and efficacy of clinically-relevant anti-cancer
agents. Therefore, the focus of this review will be to highlight the current
status of folate-targeted technology with particular emphasis on the recent
advances in this field as well as possible directions for future development.


PMID: 15853692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Vaccine. 2005 Mar 18;23(17-18):2087-9.

Paediatric infections: prevention of transmission and disease--implications for
adults.

McIntosh ED(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wyeth Medical Division, Huntercombe Lane South, Taplow, Maidenhead, Berkshire 
SL6 0PH, UK. mcintod@wyeth.com

Congenital and neonatal viral infections usually display their acute
manifestations in highly recognisable ways, for example, congenital rubella,
cytomegalovirus (CMV), varicella, human immunodeficiency (HIV) and herpes simplex
virus (HSV) infection. By contrast, congenital hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection 
may go undetected for years. Some of these are preventable, but what is not
immediately apparent is that the long-term consequences are being prevented as
well. The long-term consequences of congenital and neonatal infections include
endocrine, immunological and cardiovascular disease, deafness, visual problems,
intellectual handicap and cerebral palsy. With the survival of HIV-infected
infants into adulthood the long-term consequences will soon be described.
Maternally and neonatally transmitted HBV infection predisposes to carriage,
liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma in young adults. Neonatal HBV
vaccination prevents adult cancer. Acquired viral infections may predispose to
subsequent lung disease, malabsorption, fertility problems or neurological
disability. In the prevention of acquired rubella, varicella, HBV, influenza,
poliovirus, measles and hepatitis A, one should mention the added bonus of
preventing secondary cases by preventing transmission from infants and children
to other children and adults. Preventing paediatric HSV, HBV and HIV infection in
females may even be preventing subsequent transmission to future generations.
Turning to paediatric bacterial infections, vaccinating infants and young
children against pertussis could not only prevent transmission to older children 
and adults but also break the cycle, which then transmits from adults back to
infants and young children. There is evidence that disease in older age groups,
including adults, has been prevented by virtue of herd immunity from paediatric
vaccination, e.g. Neisseria meningitidis Group C and Streptococcus pneumoniae.
The add-on benefits for other generations, including for adults, arising from the
prevention of paediatric infections are considerable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2005.01.067 
PMID: 15755576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Ann Ital Chir. 2004 May-Jun;75(3):279-89.

Gene therapy for lung cancer: practice and promise.

Vattemi E, Claudio PP.

Gene therapy has emerged as an exciting and promising strategy of cancer therapy.
Improved molecular biology techniques and a greater understanding of the
mechanisms involved in lung cancer pathogenesis allowed a variety of genes to be 
validated as molecular targets for gene therapy. A variety of gene therapy
strategy have been explored in the pre-clinical research. These include
replacement of defective tumor suppressor genes, inactivating oncogenes,
introducing suicide genes, immunogenic therapy, and antiangiogenesis-based
approach. Clinical trials of gene therapy for lung cancer showed the feasibility 
of delivering a variety of agent as well as highlighted problems with the
delivery of therapeutic constructs. Although some may consider the initial
results of these novel therapies to be disappointing, they underscore the
complexity of these approaches and the likelihood that these approaches will be
effective only when used in a coordinated fashion in the proper clinical context.
This review provides an update on our current understanding of lung cancer
biology and examines several important issues in cancer gene therapy. In
addition, recent results of clinical trials of gene therapy for lung cancer are
presented.


PMID: 15605515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Methods Mol Med. 2005;109:403-8.

Intravenous immunoglobulin treatment for fibrosis, atherosclerosis, and malignant
conditions.

Krause I(1), Shoenfeld Y.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Autoimmune Diseases, Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel.

We describe our experience with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) treatment in
fibrotic conditions and our results and experience with the effect of IVIg
therapy to prevent metastases in malignancy. We have delineated the mechanisms by
which IVIg can affect atherosclerosis (i.e., effect on MMP-9, antiidiotypes to
anti-OxLDL), which led to reduced atherosclerosis in animal models. The effect of
IVIg on skin fibrosis was assessed in a murine model of scleroderma-like disease.
Collagen expression was decreased in the skin of mice treated with mouse IVIg,
associated with decreased type I collagen gene expression, and accompanied by
inhibition of transforming growth factor (TGF)beta and interleukin (IL)-4
secretion by splenocytes. We also described a favorable response to IVIg
treatment in patients with either systemic sclerosis or myelofibrosis. The
administration of IVIg to mice inoculated with melanoma or sarcoma cells induced 
a statistically significant inhibition of metastatic lung foci and prolongation
of survival time. IVIg was found to stimulate the production of IL-12, an
anti-tumor and anti-angiogenic cytokine. Positive staining of the cytoplasm, cell
membrane, and nuclear membrane of several types of malignant tumors by IVIg was
immunohistochemically demonstrated.


PMID: 15585934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Expert Rev Vaccines. 2004 Oct;3(5):521-7.

M-Vax: an autologous, hapten-modified vaccine for human cancer.

Berd D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Kimmel Cancer Center, Thomas Jefferson University,
1015 Walnut Street, Suite 1024, PA 19107, USA. d_berd@mail.jci.tju.edu

The author has devised a novel approach to the immunotherapy of cancer based on
modification of autologous tumor cells with the hapten, dinitrophenyl (DNP). This
technology is being developed by AVAX Technologies (MO, USA) as a treatment for
melanoma under the brand name, M-Vax. The treatment program consists of multiple 
intradermal injections of DNP-modified autologous tumor cells mixed with bacille 
Calmette-Guerin as an immunological adjuvant. Administration of DNP vaccine to
patients with metastatic melanoma induces a unique reaction--the development of
inflammation in metastatic masses. Following DNP-vaccine treatment, almost all
patients develop delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) to autologous, DNP-modified 
melanoma cells and about half also exhibit DTH to autologous, unmodified tumor
cells. The toxicity of the vaccine is mild, consisting mainly of papules or
pustules at the injection sites. Clinical trials have been conducted in two
populations of melanoma patients: Stage IV with measurable metastases, and
clinical Stage III patients rendered tumor-free by lymphadenectomy. There were 11
antitumor responses in 83 patients with measurable metastases: two complete, four
partial and five mixed. In 214 Stage III patients the 5-year overall survival
rate was 44%, which compares favorably with the reported surgical rate of 20-25%.
In both populations, the induction of DTH to unmodified autologous tumor cells
was associated with significantly longer survival. This is a platform technology 
that is adaptable to other human cancers and early trials indicate immunological 
activity in ovarian and renal cell carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1586/14760584.3.5.521 
PMID: 15485331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Oncology. 2004;66(6):502-9.

Clear cell renal cell carcinoma associated with bilateral atypical acute
posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy.

Parmeggiani F(1), Costagliola C, D'Angelo S, Incorvaia C, Perri P, Sebastiani A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ferrara, Italy. sbd@dns.unife.it

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CCRCC) is a malignant
neoplasm frequently associated with an increase in circulating immune complexes
(CIC). Acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy (APMPPE) is a
disease involving the chorioretinal structures of the eye, and it is commonly
observed in association with several immunogenic disorders. We report here the
clinical association between humoral immunologic modifications during tumoral
diseases (long-standing CIC increase) and chorioretinal changes resembling
atypical APMPPE.
CASE REPORT: A 52-year-old white male affected by metastatic CCRCC is described. 
Histopathologic review of his surgically removed organs (kidney and lung),
periodical laboratory immunologic tests and ophthalmologic examinations,
including fluorescein and indocyanine green angiographies, were performed.
RESULTS: The patient underwent total left nephrectomy (May 1997) and total left
pneumonectomy (March 2001) for the presence of stage III CCRCC and CCRCC lung
metastasis, respectively. On both occasions, postoperative immunotherapy was
started. From June 1997 to February 2003, laboratory analyses demonstrated the
presence of marked CIC peaks. During the follow-up period, an atypical APMPPE
pattern, complicated by asynchronous choroidal neovascularization, occurred in
both eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-standing tumorous disease, through a pathogenic mechanism
triggered by CIC spreading, can be responsible, over time, for a progressive
choroidal occlusive microangiopathy (atypical APMPPE pattern), associated with a 
high risk of poor visual outcome. Therefore, bilateral APMPPE could be related to
a systemic disease able to increase CIC levels.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000079505 
PMID: 15452380  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Clin Cancer Res. 2004 Sep 15;10(18 Pt 2):6353S-9S.

Nonmyeloablative transplantation: an allogeneic-based immunotherapy for renal
cell carcinoma.

Takahashi Y(1), Childs RW.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, NIH, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892-1652, USA.

High-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation has been explored as a method to enhance the efficacy of
chemotherapy for advanced solid tumors. The failure of autologous hematopoietic
stem cell transplantation to prolong survival in patients with metastatic solid
tumors has sparked interest recently in studies exploring the potential of
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for such patients. Allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is widely accepted as a potent form of
immunotherapy capable of curing patients with chemotherapy-refractory hematologic
malignancies. However, it was not until the end of the 20th century that
investigators initiated trials to test the potential of allogeneic hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation as immunotherapy in malignancies of epithelial origin. 
Early pilot trials have established proof-of-principle that graft-versus-tumor
effects can induce complete or partial remission in some treatment-refractory
metastatic solid tumors. In this review, we discuss the rationale for pilot
trials investigating the potential of nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic
stem cell transplantation in advanced cytokine-refractory renal cancer,
highlighting the preliminary success, limitations, and future clinical directions
of this approach.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-050009 
PMID: 15448030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Cancer. 2004 Oct 1;101(7):1545-51.

Active chemotherapy for sarcomatoid and rapidly progressing renal cell carcinoma.

Nanus DM(1), Garino A, Milowsky MI, Larkin M, Dutcher JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York,
New York, USA. dnanus@med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy is generally ineffective in patients with sarcomatoid
renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and in patients with rapidly progressive metastatic or
locally recurrent disease, with a median time to progression of approximately 2
months and a median survival of 4-7 months. Gemcitabine-based regimens have
modest antitumor activity, whereas doxorubicin is often used to treat sarcomatoid
RCC. Based on the antitumor activity of doxorubicin and gemcitabine in collecting
duct carcinoma of the kidney, the authors used this combination to treat selected
patients with sarcomatoid or rapidly progressing RCC.
METHODS: Eighteen patients (11 males and 7 females; median age, 53 years; range, 
31-81 years) with RCC (56% sarcomatoid; 44% other) were treated at 2 institutions
in a collaborative study that was not institutional review board reviewed. Seven 
patients received previous treatment with interferon or interleukin-2. Sites of
metastases included the lung, soft tissue, bone, liver, and brain with 88% of
patients having > or = 3 sites of disease. Treatment consisted of doxorubicin (50
mg/m2) and gemcitabine (1500 or 2000 mg/m2) every 2-3 weeks with
granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor support.
RESULTS: A median of 5 courses was administered (range, 2-12 cycles). Therapy was
well tolerated with no Grade 4 toxicities. Two patients had a complete response, 
five had a partial response, three had a mixed response, and one had stable
disease. The median duration of response was 5 months (range, 2-21+ months).
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggested that the combination of doxorubicin and
gemcitabine has antitumor activity in patients with sarcomatoid RCC or with
rapidly progressing RCC. A prospective investigation of this combination in RCC
is warranted.

(c) 2004 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.20541 
PMID: 15378501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Oct 5;101 Suppl 2:14567-71. Epub 2004 Aug 27.

Gene-based vaccines and immunotherapeutics.

Liu M(1), Acres B, Balloul JM, Bizouarne N, Paul S, Slos P, Squiban P.

Author information: 
(1)Transgene, 11 Rue de Molsheim, 67082 Strasbourg, France. liu@transgene.fr

DNA vaccines, comprised of plasmid DNA encoding proteins from pathogens,
allergens, and tumors, are being evaluated as prophylactic vaccines and
therapeutic treatments for infectious diseases, allergies, and cancer; plasmids
encoding normal human proteins are likewise being tested as vaccines and
treatments for autoimmune diseases. Examples of in vivo prophylaxis and
immunotherapy, based on different types of immune responses (humoral and
cellular), in a variety of disease models and under evaluation in early phase
human clinical trials are presented. Viral vectors continue to show better levels
of expression than those achieved by DNA plasmid vectors. We have focused our
clinical efforts, at this time, on the use of recombinant viral vectors for both 
vaccine as well as cytokine gene transfer studies. We currently have four
clinical programs in cancer immunotherapy. Two nonspecific immunotherapy programs
are underway that apply adenoviral vectors for the transfer of cytokine genes
into tumors in situ. An adenovirus-IFN gamma construct (TG1042) is currently
being tested in phase II clinical trials in cutaneous lymphoma. A similar
construct, adenovirus-IL2 (TG1024), also injected directly into solid tumors, is 
currently being tested in patients with solid tumors (about one-half of which are
melanoma). Encouraging results are seen in both programs. Two cancer vaccine
immunotherapy programs focus on two cancer-associated antigens: human papilloma
virus E6 and E7 proteins and the epithelial cancer-associated antigen MUC1. Both 
are encoded by a highly attenuated vaccinia virus vector [modified vaccinia
Ankara (MVA)] and both are coexpressed with IL-2. Encouraging results seen in
both of these programs are described.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0404845101 
PMCID: PMC521989
PMID: 15333750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Clin Lung Cancer. 2004 Jul;6(1):48-57.

Angiogenesis inhibitors: a rational strategy for radiosensitization in the
treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer?

Raben D(1), Helfrich B.

Author information: 
(1)Tobacco Related Malignancy Program, University of Colorado Cancer Center and
Department of Radiation Oncology, Aurora 80010-0510, USA. david.raben@uchsc.edu

Angiogenesis is a precondition to invasion and metastasis for all solid tumors.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its family of receptors (VEGFR)
play a critical role in cancer progression by promoting new blood vessel
formation. Overexpression of VEGF and VEGFR has been correlated with poor
prognosis in a variety of malignancies. In this era of targeted therapies for
cancer, inhibiting angiogenesis through antiangiogenic and/or vascular targeting 
agents seems logical. Disturbing the angiogenesis process is an alternative or
complementary strategy to inhibition of growth factor signaling. Blocking
angiogenesis may enhance conventional anticancer treatments such as radiation
therapy in situations where tumors are unresponsive to current antigrowth factor 
efforts. Compounds currently under investigation in cancer therapy include
anti-VEGF/VEGFR antibodies, small molecule VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors,
antisense suppression of VEGF, immunotherapy, viral-directed targeting of VEGFR
signaling, ribozymes, and various toxin conjugates. Preclinical investigations
are exploring the benefits of combining angiogenic inhibitors with radiation.
This article will provide an overview of these preclinical studies and the
rationale for this therapeutic strategy in the treatment of non-small-cell lung
cancer.

DOI: 10.3816/CLC.2004.n.021 
PMID: 15310417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Scand J Surg. 2004;93(2):150-5.

Surgery for metastases of renal cell carcinoma.

Swanson DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA. dswanson@mdanderson.org

The role of surgery for RCC in the era of emerging effective systemic therapy
(usually immunotherapy) is not yet defined except for solitary metastasis. The
retrospective analysis of patients subjected to aggressive surgical management
after systemic therapy reinforces the need to find better therapeutic modalities 
in order to achieve complete eradication of metastatic disease. In the meantime, 
however, we propose these guidelines. First, we would encourage aggressive
surgical resection of the clinically solitary metastasis, whether synchronous or 
metachronous. Continue to follow those patients indefinitely, because relapse is 
quite likely, but do not give adjuvant systemic therapy unless on protocol.
Second, limited metastases in only one organ may behave similarly to a solitary
metastasis, and if the metastases are in a site amenable to surgical resection,
e.g., lung, initial surgery might be reasonable. Systemic therapy for these
patients is highly recommended and need not necessarily wait for recurrence.
Third, for patients with multiple metastases, initial systemic therapy followed
then by resection of any residual disease in selected patients seems to be
supported by the experience at several medical centers. Apparently prolonged
survival times have been observed after systemic therapy followed by surgery in
highly selected patients, despite finding viable cancer in the overwhelming
majority of specimens. One must be mindful of the morbidity of an attempt to
remove all known disease, however, and try to weigh this against potential
benefit. Only a prospective, randomized trial could ever confirm the value of an 
aggressive surgical approach to metastatic RCC. In the meantime, however,
metastasectomy offers, at the very least, the opportunity to confirm the
histologic response to systemic therapy, render some patients disease-free, and
possibly promote long-term survival in selected patients.


PMID: 15285568  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Lung Cancer. 2004 Aug;45 Suppl 1:S129-31.

Malignant mesothelioma. Medical oncology: standards, new trends, trials--the
French experience.

Bard M(1), Ruffié P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Institut Gustave-Roussy, 39 rue Camilles Desmoulins,
94800 Villejuif, France. martin.bard@wanadoo.fr

Clinical trials investigating new trends in the treatment of stage I and II
malignant mesothelioma have shown both intra-pleural immunotherapy and systemic
chemo-immunotherapy to be efficacious. Intra-pleural gamma-interferon (gamma-IFN)
therapy was associated with tolerable toxicity and an overall response (ORR) rate
of 19%, while treatment with intra-pleural recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) was
more toxic, but yielded an ORR of 47% in phase I trial and 55% in a phase II
study. The association of intravenous cisplatin and subcutaneous alpha-interferon
(alpha-IFN) was also associated with an encouraging ORR of 40% and a median
survival of 12 months. Treatment with cisplatin, alpha-IFN and mitomycin C was
associated with moderate toxicity and an ORR of 21% and a median survival of 12
months. The association of cisplatin, alpha-IFN and IL-2 was, however, extremely 
toxic and resulted in an ORR of 15%. The majority of patients responding to
intra-pleural immunotherapy and systemic chemo-immunotherapy had epithelial type 
mesothelioma. The most encouraging results obtained from trials investigating
systemic chemotherapy were following treatment with cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil,
mitomycin C and etoposide, where an ORR of 38% and an overall median survival
rate of 16 months were achieved. Toxicity was mainly haematological and
tolerable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2004.04.023 
PMID: 15261446  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2004 Jul;51(1):45-53.

The role of new targeted therapies in small-cell lung cancer.

Rossi A(1), Maione P, Colantuoni G, Guerriero C, Gridelli C.

Author information: 
(1)Unità Operativa di Oncologia Medica, Azienda Ospedaliera S.G. Moscati, Via
Circumvallazione 68, 83100-Avellino, Italy.

Lung cancer is the leading world-wide cause of cancer death. Small-cell lung
cancer (SCLC) accounts for 20-25% of lung carcinomas. Chemotherapy is the
cornerstone of treatment of SCLC. In limited disease, median survival is about
12-16 months with 4-5% of long-term survivors, in extensive disease median
survival is 7-11 months. Improving the survival rate of patients with SCLC
requires a better understanding of tumour biology and the subsequent development 
of novel therapeutic strategies. Several targeted agents have been introduced
into clinical trials in SCLC and some phase III studies have already produced
definitive results. Currently, the minority of these new agents offers a promise 
of improved outcomes, and negative results are more commonly reported than
positive ones. To date, no targeted therapy has been approved for use in the
treatment of patients with SCLC. This review will focus on the main novel
biologic agents investigated in the treatment of SCLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2004.02.003 
PMID: 15207253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2004 Jul;51(1):29-44.

The role of targeted therapy in non-small cell lung cancer.

Maione P(1), Rossi A, Airoma G, Ferrara C, Castaldo V, Gridelli C.

Author information: 
(1)Unité Opertive di Oncologia Medica, S.G. Moscati Hospital, Via
Circumvallazione 68, 83100 Avellino, Italy.

The therapy of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has reached a plateau in
improving patient survival, with overall disappointing results. Thus, clinical
research for new treatment strategies is warranted. Advances in the singling out 
molecular targets for NSCLC treatment has granted the development of several new 
biological agents. In the present paper we describe the main clinical data
currently available on targeted agents in the treatment of NSCLC, focusing on
epidermal growth factor receptor family inhibitors, angiogenesis inhibitors,
signal transduction inhibitors, eicosanoid pathway inhibitors, vaccines and gene 
therapy. Several targeted agents have been introduced into clinical trials in
NSCLC, mainly in advanced disease, with the first phase III study results being
recently made available. To date, few of these new agents can offer hope of a
substantial impact on the natural history of NSCLC, and negative results are more
commonly reported than positive ones. Nevertheless, clinically-meaningful
advances have already been achieved in chemotherapy refractory advanced NSCLC
patients, with gefitinib, an epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase
inhibitor, representing a further chance of tumor control and symptom palliation.
Moreover, important lessons can be learned from this first generation of clinical
trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2004.02.002 
PMID: 15207252  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2004 Jun;10(6):366-72.

Graft-versus-host disease of the skin: life and death on the epidermal edge.

Hofmeister CC(1), Quinn A, Cooke KR, Stiff P, Nickoloff B, Ferrara JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Loyola University
Medical Center/Cardinal Bernardin Cancer Center, Maywood, Illinois 60153, USA.

Despite impressive advances in the field of allogeneic hematopoietic
transplantation, graft versus host disease (GVHD) remains a significant obstacle 
to be overcome; it would enhance the safety and efficacy of this life-saving
therapy. This review provides a framework for understanding the molecular and
cellular basis underlying GVHD. We propose a 3-phase model of GVHD that
highlights the importance of the conditioning regimen on the recipient tissues
administered prior to infusion of donor bone marrow inoculum. A novel skin
explant model, designed to take into consideration the immunobiological
consequences of conditioning regimens on resident host cells, is proposed to
advance our understanding of GVHD and serve as a potential prognostic tool when
allogeneic recipient/donor combinations are being contemplated in the clinic.
Within this review, specific emphasis is placed on the importance of defining the
apoptotic machinery engaged in epidermal keratinocytes triggered by both
conditioning regimens, and by host resident and recruited immunocytes and soluble
mediators produced at sites of injury. The review is completed with a working
model for cutaneous GVHD. Although the skin is highlighted because of its
accessibility for clinical observations and serial sampling opportunities,
lessons learned from studies of cutaneous GVHD are likely to provide valuable
insights into GVHD occurring in the gastrointestinal tract, lung, and liver. With
new insights designed to better predict and prevent GVHD and novel agents
designed to treat GVHD, overcoming this current impediment to successful bone
marrow transplantation should become increasingly feasible.

Copyright 2004 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2004.03.003 
PMID: 15148490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Hum Cell. 2003 Dec;16(4):183-9.

Adoptive immunotherapy of cancer using activated autologous lymphocytes--current 
status and new strategies.

Yamaguchi Y(1), Ohshita A, Kawabuchi Y, Ohta K, Shimizu K, Minami K, Hihara J,
Miyahara E, Toge T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Research Institute for Radiation Biology and 
Medicine, Hiroshima University. shogo@hiroshima-u.ac.jp

After the discovery of interleukin-2 (IL-2), lymphokine-activated killer (LAK)
cells, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) 
sensitized with the mixed lymphocyte-tumor culture (MLTC) system have been
conducted in adoptive immunotherapy (AIT) trials during past 15 years. Although
the overall response rate of tumor shrinkage was marginal (9%), locoregional
administration of TILs for malignant effusions was effective (77%) for a decrease
or disappearance of the effusions even in terminally-ill patients, resulting in
an improvement of QOL. Recent advances for molecular understanding of antigen
presentation and recognition have promoted us to enhance the efficacy of AIT by
using cultured dendritic cells (DCs) for generating antigen-specific CTLs in
vitro. The peptide-pulsed DC-activated killer (PDAK) cells showed tumor
recognition against antigen-expressing cells, and were efficiently propagated
with the IL2 plus immobilized anti-CD3 antibody (IL-2/CD3) culture system.
Clinical trials using PDAK cells against patients with lung metastases are now
progressed, in which peptides suitable for generating CTLs were chosen in
individual patients using the method designated as host-oriented peptide
evaluation (HPOE) approach. Moreover, DCs were introduced with tumor-derived RNA,
which was amplified with the T7 promoter system, and then were used for
stimulating lymphocytes. The tumor RNA-introduced DC-activated killer (TRiDAK)
cells showed tumor-specific interferon-gamma spots even in a patient in whom we
failed to generate PDAK cells using DCs and peptides, suggesting that the
clinical trial of AIT using TRiDAK cells is warranted for the treatment of
patients with metastatic cancer. Thus, more understanding of antigen-presentation
and -recognition mechanisms and immune regulation systems may promote clinical
applications of AIT to establish a novel modality of cancer treatment.


PMID: 15147038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Hum Cell. 2003 Dec;16(4):175-82.

Dendritic cell-based combined immunotherapy with autologous tumor-pulsed
dendritic cell vaccine and activated T cells for cancer patients: rationale,
current progress, and perspectives.

Morisaki T(1), Matsumoto K, Onishi H, Kuroki H, Baba E, Tasaki A, Kubo M,
Nakamura M, Inaba S, Yamaguchi K, Tanaka M, Katano M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Therapy and Research, Station for Collaborative Research,
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi,
Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.

Effective adoptive cancer immunotherapy depends on an ability to generate
tumor-antigen-presenting cells and tumor-reactive effector lymphocytes and to
deliver these effector cells to the tumor. Dendritic cells (DCs) are the most
potent antigen-presenting cells, capable of sensitizing T cells to new and recall
antigens. Many studies have shown that tumors express unique proteins that can be
loaded on DCs to trigger an immune response. The current experimental and
clinical statuses of adoptive transfer of tumor antigen-pulsed DCs and
vaccine-primed activated T cells are summarized herein. Clinical trials of
antigen-pulsed DCs have been conducted in patients with various types of cancer, 
including non-Hodgkin lymphoma, multiple myeloma, prostate cancer, renal cell
carcinoma, malignant melanoma, colorectal cancer, and non-small cell lung cancer.
These studies have shown that antigen-loaded DC vaccination is safe and promising
for the treatment of cancer. In addition, tumor vaccine-primed T cells have been 
shown to induce antitumor activity in vivo. Several clinical studies are being
conducted on the use of vaccine-primed T cells such as tumor-drainage lymph node.
It is reasonable to consider using both tumor antigen-pulsed DCs and
vaccine-primed lymphocytes as adjuvants. We are now investigating the use of
autologous whole tumor antigen-pulsed DCs and the DC vaccine-primed activated
lymphocytes in patients with multiple metastasis of solid tumors.


PMID: 15147037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2004 Apr;18(2):499-518.

Novel approaches for the treatment of small cell lung cancer.

Wakelee H(1), Kelly K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of
Medicine, 875 Blake Wilbur Drive, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. hwakelee@Stanford.edu

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2004.01.001 
PMID: 15094184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Clin Lung Cancer. 2004 Mar;5(5):290-8.

Integration of multimodality approaches in the management of malignant pleural
mesothelioma.

Martino D(1), Pass HI.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiothoracic Surgery, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA.

More than half a century after the first descriptions of mesothelioma as a
pathologic entity, satisfactory treatment is still elusive. Although relatively
uncommon, the incidence of mesothelioma will most likely increase over the next
10-20 years. Advances have been made in understanding the pathogenesis,
diagnosis, and staging, but they have not translated into markedly improved
survival. Some use palliative treatment as the primary means of therapy even now.
On the other hand, a cadre of individuals have studied how surgery, chemotherapy,
and radiation therapy affect the disease. Although each individual modality has
had limited success by itself, a multimodality approach has been documented to
improve survival and quality of life. In addition, intriguing discoveries in
immunology and gene profiling and therapy promise hope for further improvement.
In this article, we will illustrate the current views on integrating these
different approaches and delineate areas of active research.

DOI: 10.3816/CLC.2004.n.008 
PMID: 15086967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Acta Otolaryngol. 2004 Mar;124(2):197-201.

Uncommon metastatic site of renal adenocarcinoma: the oral tongue.

Marioni G(1), Gaio E, Poletti A, Derosas F, Staffieri A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Padua,
Italy. g_marioni@virgilio.it

Primary tumours metastasizing to the tongue are very unusual and only anecdotal
cases have been reported. An exhaustive literature review covering the period
from 1970 onwards disclosed only 22 cases of renal adenocarcinoma metastasizing
to the tongue. We report the case of an 87-year-old female patient with oral
tongue, lung, liver, thyroid gland, pancreas and renal adenocarcinoma metastases.
She had undergone contralateral nephrectomy for clear cell carcinoma 10 years
before diagnosis of the metastases. The tongue lesion was surgically removed
under local anaesthesia. Tongue metastasis of renal adenocarcinoma is usually a
manifestation of widespread disease. The prognosis for patients with lingual
metastasis of renal adenocarcinoma is poor, the mean interval from diagnosis of
tongue metastasis to death being 5.8 months. In our patient, metastatic
involvement of the tongue was detected approximately 5 months before death.
Treatment of renal adenocarcinoma metastasis to the tongue is usually palliative 
and aims to provide patient comfort by means of pain relief and prevention of
bleeding and infection. Surgical excision is recommended as the primary
treatment, with emphasis on preservation of tongue structure and function. Recent
data regarding immunotherapy or immunochemotherapy for metastatic renal
adenocarcinoma are encouraging.


PMID: 15072424  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Eur Respir J. 2004 Mar;23(3):440-5.

Low incidence of pulmonary complications following nonmyeloablative stem cell
transplantation.

Nusair S(1), Breuer R, Shapira MY, Berkman N, Or R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pulmonology, Hadassah University Hospital, Hebrew
University-Hadassah School of Medicine, Jerusalem, Israel. samjack@shani.net

Comment in
    Eur Respir J. 2004 Mar;23(3):357-8.

Bone marrow transplantation is associated with pulmonary opportunistic infections
and immune-mediated pulmonary processes such as idiopathic pneumonia syndrome and
bronchiolitis obliterans. The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis
that nonmyeloablative stem cell transplantation (NST) has less adverse effects on
the lungs. A review was undertaken of the pulmonary complications occurring in 53
patients with various haematological malignancies, some of whom were considered
high-risk patients with chemoresistant disease, who underwent fludarabine-based
irradiation-free conditioning for NST performed between March 1996 and October
1998. All data related to transplant procedure, disease outcome,
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), chest imaging, microbial cultures and lung
biopsies, were retrieved from information collected prospectively at the time of 
transplantation. The median follow-up period after transplantation was 45 months,
with 35 patients surviving > 100 days. Approximately half of the patients
displayed some form of GVHD, with 11% developing severe chronic GVHD. In 17 (32%)
patients, the lungs were somehow adversely affected. Only two (3.8%) patients
developed a clinical picture consistent with idiopathic pneumonia syndrome and
none developed diffuse alveolar haemorrhage or bronchiolitis obliterans.
Dose-reduced conditioning is associated with a low rate of pulmonary toxicity and
side-effects. These findings may extend understanding of significant
immune-mediated complications occurring after bone marrow transplantation.


PMID: 15065836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Hautarzt. 2004 Feb;55(2):195-213.

[Therapy of malignant melanoma at the stage of distant metastasis].

[Article in German]

Garbe C(1), Eigentler TK.

Author information: 
(1)Sektion Dermatologische Onkologie, Universitäts-Hautklinik,
Eberhard-Karls-Universität, Tübingen. claus.garbe@med.uni-tuebingen.de

Treatment of melanoma in the stage of distant metastasis aims on palliation and
achievement of durable tumor remission with prolongation of survival. As long as 
metastasis is confined to one organ system and is removable, surgery remains the 
treatment of first choice. In limited metastasis radiotherapy may likewise be
indicated, particularly in bone and brain metastasis. More extensive metastasis
should be treated by chemotherapy or chemoimmunotherapy. Monochemotherapy with
dacarbazine, temozolomide, fotemustine and vindesine or its combinations with
interferon-alpha are currently preferred. Polychemotherapy or its combinations
with interferon-alpha and interleukin-2 are suitable to produce higher response
rates but failed to prolong survival. As these treatments are associated with
substantially higher toxicity they have been widely abandoned. Combined treatment
with dacarbazine and interferon-alpha obtain tumor responses or stable disease in
40-50% and objective tumor remissions in 15-20% of patients. Effective cancer
vaccination strategies and blockade of melanoma specific target molecules are
currently developed as new treatment options.


PMID: 15043023  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Semin Oncol. 2004 Feb;31(1):47-55.

Allogeneic stem cell transplantation as immunotherapy for nonhematological
cancers.

Srinivasan R(1), Barrett J, Childs R.

Author information: 
(1)National Institutes of Health, National Heart, Lung, and Blood INstitue,
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Over the past two decades biologic therapy has played an increasing role in the
treatment of cancer. While this field is still early in its development, there
now exists compelling evidence that the immune system is capable of detecting and
eliminating cancer cells. Although the majority of immunotherapy approaches for
metastatic cancer involve strategies designed to enhance autologous immunity,
most would agree that the graft-versus-leukemia reaction induced following
allogeneic stem cell transplantation represents modern day's most potent form of 
cancer immunotherapy. While allogeneic stem cell transplantation has gained
recognition as a potentially curative "immunotherapy" for a growing number of
different hematological malignancies, its efficacy in inducing antimalignancy
effects against nonhematological cancers has only recently begun to be
investigated. The historical basis, development, and preliminary clinical results
of allogeneic stem cell transplantation as a form of immunotherapy for treatment 
refractory solid tumors are reviewed.


PMID: 14970937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Curr Probl Surg. 2004 Jan;41(1):15-132.

Immunotherapy of surgical malignancies.

Morse MA(1), Lyerly HK, Clay TM, Abdel-Wahab O, Chui SY, Garst J, Gollob J,
Grossi PM, Kalady M, Mosca PJ, Onaitis M, Sampson JH, Seigler HF, Toloza EM,
Tyler D, Vieweg J, Yang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/S0011384003001321 
PMID: 14749625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Annu Rev Med. 2004;55:459-75.

Nonmyeloablative allogeneic immunotherapy for solid tumors.

Childs RW(1), Barrett J.

Author information: 
(1)Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplant Unit, Hematology Branch, National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institutes, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA. childsr@nih.gov

Over the past decade, considerable advances have been made in the field of
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Recognition that transplanted
donor immune cells can cure patients with leukemia has led to the development of 
nonmyeloablative or "low-intensity" conditioning regimens, which have expanded
the application of allogeneic transplantation to a growing number of
hematological malignancies. The improved safety and preliminary success of this
transplant approach have justified applying allogeneic immunotherapy to patients 
with treatment-refractory solid tumors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.med.55.091902.104511 
PMID: 14746531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Expert Rev Vaccines. 2003 Dec;2(6):817-23.

Ganglioside-based vaccines and anti-idiotype antibodies for active immunotherapy 
against cancer.

Fernández LE(1), Alonso DF, Gomez DE, Vázquez AM.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Molecular Immunology, PO Box 16040, Havana 11600, Cuba.
luis@ict.cim.sld.cu

This review shall present an update in anticancer ganglioside-based
immunotherapies, with particular emphasis on molecular vaccines and anti-idiotype
mAbs produced by the Center of Molecular Immunology (Havana, Cuba). The project
comprises vaccines of N-acetyl or N-glycolylneuraminic acid GM3 ganglioside
incorporated into very small proteoliposomes and anti-idiotype antibodies to
glycolylated gangliosides. Development of these vaccine preparations from
preclinical models of melanoma, breast and lung cancer to human investigation is 
summarized. A brief discussion on the progress and limitations of present-day
clinical trials and future prospects is also included.

DOI: 10.1586/14760584.2.6.817 
PMID: 14711364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Urol Clin North Am. 2003 Nov;30(4):843-52.

Surveillance after radical or partial nephrectomy for localized renal cell
carcinoma and management of recurrent disease.

Janzen NK(1), Kim HL, Figlin RA, Belldegrun AS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, University of California at Los Angeles School of
Medicine, 10833 Le Conte Avenue, CHS 66-118, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1738, USA.

Surveillance after surgery for RCC is important because approximately 50% of
these patients will develop a disease recurrence, two thirds of who will recur
within the first year. Although the prognosis is generally poor in these
patients, some may respond favorably to immunotherapy. The small subset of
patients who develop solitary metastases has the greatest chance to achieve
long-term survival. Aggressive surgical resection is an integral part of this
success. Proposed surveillance protocols using a stage-based approach or an
integrated approach combining stage with other important prognostic factors
attempt to provide a rational approach to identifying treatable recurrences while
minimizing unnecessary examinations and patient anxiety. However, strict
adherence to follow-up guidelines may not be appropriate for all patients.
Factors including patient comorbidities and patient willingness to pursue
aggressive management in the event of recurrence may alter the follow-up for each
individual.


PMID: 14680319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Lung Cancer. 2003 Dec;42 Suppl 2:S29-34.

Adjuvant therapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Keller SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert
Einstein College of Medicine, 3400 Bainbridge Ave, Suite 5B, Bronx, NY 10467,
USA. skeller@montefiore.org


PMID: 14644533  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Int J Urol. 2003 Nov;10(11):610-4; discussion 615.

Reduced-intensity stem cell transplantation in two cases of metastatic renal cell
carcinoma.

Aoyama Y(1), Nakamae H, Yamamura R, Makita K, Shima E, Ohta K, Takubo T, Yamane
T, Sugimura K, Kawashima H, Nakatani T, Hino M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Hematology and Clinical Diagnostics, Graduate School of
Medicine, Osaka City University, Asahimachi, Osaka, Japan.

Allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation can induce curative
graft-versus-leukemia reactions in patients with hematological malignancies.
There is also evidence of such an effect in patients with solid tumors. We report
two patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma who underwent RIST. In both
patients, disease progression was observed 6 months after transplantation.
However, one patient had transient symptoms of tumor progression after the
occurrence of acute graft-versus-host disease, consistent with graft-versus-tumor
effects.


PMID: 14633087  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2003 Sep;52(9):555-60.

Life-prolonging effect of immunocell BAK (BRM-activated killer) therapy for
advanced solid cancer patients: prognostic significance of serum
immunosuppressive acidic protein levels.

Ebina T(1), Ogama N, Shimanuki H, Kubota T, Isono N.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology, Miyagi Cancer Center Research Institute, 47-1
Nodayama, Medeshima-shiode, 981-1293 Natori, Miyagi, Japan.
takebina@mcc.pref.miyagi.jp

We devised an innovative type of immunocell therapy called BRM (biological
response modifier)-activated killer (BAK) therapy, which utilizes most of non-MHC
(major histocompatibility complex) restricted lymphocytes, CD56+ cells including 
gammadelta T cells and NK cells. Peripheral blood lymphocytes were selected by
immobilizing them with anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody, cultured for 2 weeks with
serum-free medium containing IL-2, and then were reactivated by 1,000 U/ml of
IFN-alpha for 15 min. The patients were infused with about 6x10(9) BAK cells by
intravenous drip infusion at 1-month intervals. All advanced solid cancer
patients who had received chemotherapy but for whom it was not effective or have 
refused chemotherapy were included in the present study. A good marker of
impairment of host immune response by chemotherapy is an immunosuppressive acidic
protein (IAP) level in serum above 580 microg/ml; survival rates were compared
with the high (> 580 microg/ml) and the low (< or = 580 microg/ml) serum IAP
groups. We enrolled in this study 23 immunosuppressed patients whose IAP levels
in serum were over 580 microg/ml, and 42 immunoreactive solid cancer outpatients 
whose IAP level in serum were under 580 degreesg/ml and whose performance
statuses were over 80% on the Karnofsky scale. After giving informed consent,
patients were treated with BAK therapy on an outpatient basis at our hospital.
The ethical review board of the Miyagi Cancer Center approved this pilot study.
Treated with BAK therapy, the mean survival of immunosuppressed patients was 4.6 
months. On the other hand, survival for one of immunoreactive advanced
postoperative patients (stage IV) and inoperable lung cancer patients (stage
IIIb) was 24.7 months. The difference in survival between the 2 groups was
significant (P < 0.01). This shows that BAK therapy is not indicated for an
advanced cancer patient whose serum IAP is over 580 microg/ml, perhaps due to
extensive chemotherapy. Overall response to BAK therapy was complete response
(CR) in 5 cases, partial response (PR) in 1 case, and prolonged no change (NC) in
26 cases, with an effectiveness rate at 76.2% in 42 advanced stage IIIb and IV
cancer patients. BAK therapy has a life-prolonging effect without any adverse
effects and maintains satisfactory quality of life (QOL) for advanced cancer
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-003-0393-8 
PMID: 14627127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2003 Sep;998:500-8.

Lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome: diagnosis and treatment.

Sanders DB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
donald.sanders@duke.edu

A high index of suspicion is essential in arriving at the correct diagnosis of
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS). LEMS should be considered in the
differential in any patient who has proximal weakness, reduced or absent muscle
stretch reflexes, and dry mouth. Weakness predominates in hip and shoulder
muscles, but may also affect ocular and oropharyngeal muscles to a lesser extent.
The diagnosis is confirmed by demonstrating characteristic electromyographic
findings-low-amplitude muscle responses that increase dramatically after
activation. Most patients also have circulating antibodies to the voltage-gated
calcium channel. Half the patients with LEMS have a malignancy, usually
small-cell lung cancer. The diagnosis should trigger an intensive search for
malignancy, especially in older patients with a history of smoking. Younger,
nonsmoking patients are likely to have LEMS as part of a more general autoimmune 
state. Successful treatment of the underlying cancer leads to improvement in many
patients. More than 85% of patients have clinically significant benefit from
3,4-diaminopyridine (DAP). In over half of these, the improvement is marked. If
severe weakness persists despite DAP, immunotherapy should be considered. Plasma 
exchange and high-dose immunoglobulin induce transient improvement in many
patients, but function rarely becomes normal. Combinations of prednisone,
azathioprine, or cyclosporine have been used with variable success. Improvement, 
if any, occurs only after many months and requires chronic administration of
immunosuppressive medications at significant doses. The long-term prognosis in
LEMS is determined by the presence of cancer or other autoimmune disease.


PMID: 14592920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Conn Med. 2003 Sep;67(8):469-74.

Overcoming the challenges of immunosenescence in the prevention of acute
respiratory illness in older people.

McElhaney JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Immunotherapy of Cancer and Infectious Diseases, University of
Connecticut Center on Aging, University of Connecticut School of Medicine,
Farmington, CT, USA. kuchel@nso1.uchc.edu

This article describes the impact of acute respiratory illness (ARI) and the
challenges to primary prevention of viral ARI and related morbidity in the age 65
and older population. Immunosenescence, the immune system's "memory loss" with
aging, compromises both host defense mechanisms against ARI and effective
responses to vaccination. Atypical presentations of illness common in older
people often lead to delayed or missed diagnoses of ARI and disabling
consequences. Thus, preventing ARI will be more effective than treatment. Even
with the limited efficacy of current influenza vaccines in older people,
vaccination is a cost-saving intervention especially in high-risk groups
including those with chronic heart or lung diseases. Significant opportunities to
further reduce the morbidity of ARI include developing more effective influenza
vaccines and vaccines against other ARI. Combining vaccination with antiviral or 
immunoenhancing agents particularly in high-risk groups could optimize the cost
benefit of additional preventive strategies.


PMID: 14587126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Curr Opin Urol. 2003 Nov;13(6):451-6.

Renal cell carcinoma: novel treatments for advanced disease.

Huland E(1), Heinzer H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany.
huland@uke.uni-hamburg.de

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: IL-2 or IFN-alpha induce remissions and prolong life in
patients carefully selected for a possibly toxic treatment. However, there is a
need for better-tolerated and more effective therapies, especially in patients
with co-morbidities and those resistant to systemic immunotherapy. Recent
achievements in the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma highlight
potentially significant improvements.
RECENT FINDINGS: Cytoreductive surgery or radiation of metastases seems
beneficial in well-selected patients, especially as immunotherapy is available.
Immune cells within the tumour correlate with response and survival, indicating
the importance of local immune modulation. Such modulation has allowed the
introduction of well-tolerated treatments such as the inhalation of IL-2 to
control lung metastases, which results in a significant survival benefit for
high-risk patients, as suggested by a recent outcome study in 200 patients.
Antibody-based tumour targeting against cG250, specifically expressed on renal
cell carcinoma, seems to stabilize progressive metastatic disease and does not
induce toxicity. Vaccination strategies are also well tolerated, but have not yet
shown convincing results in advanced disease. Other approaches have not fulfilled
expectations. Thalidomide has significant neurotoxicity and its efficacy was not 
confirmed in recent studies. Stem cell transplantation has significant toxicity, 
and cannot yet be recommended, but may have future potential.
SUMMARY: Cytokine-based immunotherapy can now be considered standard in the
treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. There is good evidence that
additional local procedures such as surgery, radiation or the inhalation of IL-2 
improve response and survival in metastatic disease with moderate toxicity,
resulting in a significant improvement for patients suitable for these
approaches.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mou.0000098065.95211.34 
PMID: 14560137  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Urology. 2003 Oct;62(4):636-40.

Nephrectomy for metastatic renal cell carcinoma: Indiana University experience.

Mosharafa A(1), Koch M, Shalhav A, Gardner T, Logan T, Bihrle R, Foster R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis,
Indiana 46202-5289, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To report on the short-term morbidity of radical nephrectomy in 32
patients with poorer performance status and more advanced primary renal cell
carcinoma (RCC). Nephrectomy followed by immunotherapy has been shown to improve 
survival in selected, good performance status patients with metastatic RCC.
METHODS: We report on 32 patients who underwent radical nephrectomy (20 open
procedures and 12 laparoscopic) in the setting of metastatic RCC at Indiana
University between 1999 and 2002. The study group included patients with advanced
primary tumors (inferior vena cava involvement, large size, and involvement of
adjacent structures). The patients' performance status score ranged from 0 to 2.
RESULTS: The average hospital stay was 5.1 days. No significant intraoperative
complications were encountered, and postoperative complications occurred in 6
patients, including one perioperative death. At 4 weeks postoperatively, 21
(72.4%) of 29 assessable patients had a performance status equal to, or better
than, their preoperative status, including 4 patients who converted from a
preoperative performance status of 2 to 0 or 1 postoperatively. Eleven patients
(34.4%) went on to receive postoperative immunotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study demonstrated that radical nephrectomy in
the setting of metastatic RCC has a low morbidity and acceptable recovery in
these patients with advanced primary tumors and poorer performance status.


PMID: 14550433  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Ann Thorac Surg. 2003 Oct;76(4):1319-26.

Active, specific immunotherapy for lung cancer: hurdles and strategies using
genetic modification.

Korst RJ(1), Crystal RG.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Weill
Medical College of Cornell University, New York, New York10021, USA.
rjk2002@med.cornell.edu

Active immunotherapy for lung cancer has been a challenge because of the poor
antigenic characterization of these tumors and their ability to escape the immune
response. However, knowledge of the mechanisms of anti-tumor immunity has
expanded significantly over the past decade, leading to the development of more
novel, specific strategies for augmenting the immune response. Genetic
manipulation of tumor cells, immune cells, or both, may help overcome some of the
previously encountered difficulties of immunotherapy. Laboratory and clinical
investigations are currently ongoing to evaluate the feasibility and potential
benefit of these novel approaches.


PMID: 14530047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Rev Mal Respir. 2003 Sep;20(4):566-79.

[Immune responses in broncho-pulmonary cancer].

[Article in French]

Meert AP(1), Berghmans T, Mascaux C, Sculier JP.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Médecine Interne, HJ Tagnon, Institut Jules Bordet, Bruxelles, 
Belgique.

INTRODUCTION: The anti-tumoral immune response is essentially cellular and
numerous studies have been conducted with the aim of augmenting it from the
therapeutic aspect.
STATE OF ART: Activation of the immune system has been reported in the early
stages of bronchial carcinoma. On the other hand numerous studies have
demonstrated a degree of immuno-suppression in patients with advanced cancer
prior to any immuno-suppressant treatment, particularly an alteration of cell
mediated immunity. The presence of white cells, infiltrating the tumour is an
indication of an active host response to the tumour. Several para-neoplastic
syndromes associated with the presence of auto-antibodies have been described,
particularly in small cell bronchial carcinoma. Other antibodies not associated
with para-neoplastic syndromes have also been found, principally directed against
the tumour suppressant gene P53. Non-specific active immuno-therapy (BCG,
interferons, interleukins.), passive immuno-therapy (monoclonal antibodies) and
adoptive immuno-therapy have been studied for many years without encouraging
results. Specific active immuno-therapy (anti-tumour vaccines and gene therapy)
is the route being most actively explored at present.
PERSPECTIVES: Correct targeting of patients likely to benefit from
immuno-therapy, specificity and effectiveness of the agents, the expression of
transfected genes and the risk of infection and dissemination during clinical
trials are all problems currently under investigation.
CONCLUSIONS: Manipulations of the immune response have been and are being
undertaken with the aim of improving its effectiveness. Anti-tumour vaccines and 
gene therapy are the routes most studied.


PMID: 14528159  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Mol Biotechnol. 2003 Oct;25(2):139-48.

Gene therapy for lung cancer.

Haura EB(1), Sotomayor E, Antonia SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Oncology Program, The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research
Institute. MRC3 East, Room 3056, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612-9497, USA.
haura@moffitt.usf.edu

Lung cancer continues to be the largest killer of Americans due to cancer.
Although progress has been made, with advances in chemotherapy, the majority of
patients diagnosed with lung cancer ultimately succumb to the disease. A better
understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of lung cancer is demonstrating how
alterations in oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes control lung cancer
initiation, growth, and survival. In this article, attempts to target molecular
alterations in lung cancer using gene therapy techniques are reviewed. These
include introducing suicide genes into tumor cells, replacement of defective
tumor suppressor genes, inactivating oncogenes, and immunotherapy-based
approaches using gene therapy technology. The major barrier for these techniques 
continues to be the inability to specifically target tumor cells while sparing
normal cells. Nonetheless, these approaches are likely to yield important
biologic and clinical data which will further the progress of lung cancer
treatment.

DOI: 10.1385/MB:25:2:139 
PMID: 14526124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2003 Oct;3(7):1051-60.

Allogeneic immune replacement as cancer immunotherapy.

Chakrabarti S(1), Childs R.

Author information: 
(1)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Hematology branch, 9000 Rockville
Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

The graft-versus-leukaemia (GVL) reaction that occurs after allogeneic
haematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) can cure patients with a variety of
haematological malignancies. A heightened appreciation of the GVL effect has
resulted in the development of reduced intensity transplant approaches, where
antitumour effects occur predominantly as a consequence of the transplanted donor
immune system. The recent success of these transplants in patients with acute and
chronic leukaemias has led to trials investigating for graft-versus-tumour (GVT) 
effects in patients with treatment-refractory metastatic solid tumours. This
review discusses evidence that immune replacement following allogeneic HCT is a
potent form of cancer immunotherapy for patients with haematological and
non-haematological malignancies.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.3.7.1051	 
PMID: 14519070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


822. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2003 Sep;126(3):877-9.

Epstein-Barr virus-associated pulmonary leiomyosarcoma arising twenty-nine years 
after renal transplantation.

Ferri L(1), Fraser R, Gaboury L, Mulder D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal General
Hospital, Room D10.168, 1650 Cedar Avenue, Montréal, Quebec H3G 1A4, Canada.
lferri@po-box.mcgill.ca


PMID: 14502177  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


823. J Neurooncol. 2003 Aug-Sep;64(1-2):161-76.

The history, evolution, and clinical use of dendritic cell-based immunization
strategies in the therapy of brain tumors.

Fecci PE(1), Mitchell DA, Archer GE, Morse MA, Lyerly HK, Bigner DD, Sampson JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710,
USA.

Despite advancements in therapeutic regimens, the prognosis remains poor for
patients with malignant gliomas. Specificity has been an elusive goal for current
modalities, but immunotherapy has emerged as a potential means of designing more 
tumor-specific treatments. Dendritic cells (DC) are the specialized antigen
presenting cells of the immune system and have served now as a platform for
therapeutic immunizations against such cancers as lymphoma, multiple myeloma,
melanoma, prostate cancer, renal cell carcinoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma,
colon cancer, and even malignant gliomas. DC-based immunizations offer a number
of advantages over traditional immunotherapeutic approaches to brain tumors,
approaches that have proved promising despite concerns over central nervous
system immune privilege and glioma-mediated immunosuppression. The future success
of clinical trials will depend on the optimization and standardizing of
procedures for DC generation, loading, and administration.


PMID: 12952297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2003 Oct;4(5):385-90.

Metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

Flanigan RC(1), Campbell SC, Clark JI, Picken MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Loyola University Medical Center, Cardinal Bernardin
Cancer Center and Hines VA Hospital, Maywood, IL 60153, USA. rflanig@lumc.edu

Patients with renal cell cancer (RCC) develop metastatic spread in approximately 
33% of cases. The clinical management of patients with metastatic RCC is
complicated by the lack of significant efficacy from available therapies. Common 
sites of metastases include the lung, liver, bone, brain, and adrenal gland, with
case reports detailing the capacity of RCC to appear almost anywhere in the body.
More than one organ system is often involved in the metastatic process.
Metastases may be found at diagnosis or at some interval after nephrectomy.
Approximately 20% to 50% of patients will eventually develop metastatic disease
after nephrectomy. A shorter interval between nephrectomy and the development of 
metastases is associated with a poorer prognosis. Patients with metastatic RCC
face a dismal prognosis, with a median survival time of only 6 to 12 months and a
2-year survival rate of 10% to 20%. Recent advances in biologic response modifier
therapy have brought new hope to a small percentage of patients who respond to
this therapy and rekindled interest in cytoreductive nephrectomy as an integral
part of the management of these patients.


PMID: 12941198  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2003 Aug;3(4):443-55.

Role of targeted therapy in non-small cell lung cancer: hype or hope?

Langer CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA 19111, USA. cj_langer@fccc.edu

New cytotoxic therapies, including the taxanes, gemcitabine (Gemzar), vinorelbine
(Navelbine) and irinotecan (Campto), have improved treatment outcome and expanded
treatment options in advanced non-small cell lung cancer. However, despite their 
promise, a therapeutic plateau with response rates of 20-30% and 1-year survival 
rates of 30-40% has been reached. It is doubtful if exchanging one agent for
another in various combinations will lead to any significant improvement. The
thrust of current research focuses on targeted therapy and its careful
integration into the standard treatment paradigm. These agents include compunds
targeted at growth factor receptors, angiogenesis, cyclooxygenase, farnesyl
transferase and protein kinase C-alpha. Preclinical models have demonstrated
synergy for many of these agents in combination with either chemotherapy or
radiation, although clinical challenges exist. These include the identification
of an optimal biologic dose, the proper integration of these agents into systemic
chemotherapy regimens, and selecting the best setting in which to test the
compounds.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.3.4.443 
PMID: 12934657  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


826. J Control Release. 2003 Aug 28;91(1-2):17-29.

Immunotherapy of folate receptor-expressing tumors: review of recent advances and
future prospects.

Lu Y(1), Low PS.

Author information: 
(1)Endocyte, Inc., 1205 Kent Ave., West Lafayette, IN 47906, USA.

The cell surface receptor for the vitamin folic acid (termed the folate
receptor), is often elevated in cancers of the ovary, kidney, lung, mammary
gland, brain, endometrium, and myeloid cells of hematopoietic origin. Because the
folate receptor (FR) is either absent from normal tissues or localized to the
apical surfaces of polarized epithelia, where it is inaccessible to circulating
drugs, folate-linked drugs do not normally accumulate in healthy tissues.
However, since the same receptor is fully accessible on cancer cells, it has
frequently been exploited as a target for receptor-directed cancer therapies,
including chemotherapies and immunotherapies. In fact, most strategies for the
immunotherapy of cancer have at some time been adapted to treat FR-expressing
tumors. In this article, recent progress in the retargeting of the immune system 
to folate receptor-expressing cancers is summarized and future strategies for
redirecting natural killer cells, antibodies and cytotoxic T lymphocytes to this 
large class of malignancies are proposed.


PMID: 12932634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Curr Opin Investig Drugs. 2003 Jun;4(6):710-5.

Vaccinating against GD3 ganglioside using BEC2 anti-idiotypic monoclonal
antibody.

Chapman PB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Immunology Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering 
Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021, USA. chapmanp@mskcc.org

GD3, a ganglioside expressed on tumors of neuroectodermal origin such as melanoma
and small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC), is an attractive vaccine target but is
poorly immunogenic. Our group has pursued several strategies designed to immunize
patients against GD3 including using BEC2, an anti-idiotypic monoclonal antibody 
that mimics GD3. Pilot trials in melanoma and SCLC indicate that BEC2 can induce 
an anti-GD3 antibody response in a subset of patients and also suggests that
immunization with BEC2 is associated with improved survival. A phase III trial is
underway in SCLC patients to determine the effects of BEC2 on overall survival.


PMID: 12901230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Semin Oncol. 2003 Jun;30(3 Suppl 8):30-6.

Carcinoembryonic antigen-based vaccines.

Marshall J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Therapeutics, Georgetown University Medical
Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA.

Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a glycoprotein that is normally expressed in
certain parts of the body and commonly overexpressed in most carcinomas of the
colon, rectum, breast, lung, pancreas, and gastrointestinal tract. Increased
expression of CEA promotes increased intercellular adhesions, which may lead to
metastasis. Carcinoembryonic antigen is often used as a serologic marker of
malignancy because of its overexpression in cancer as well as its measurability
in serum. However, because CEA is normally expressed in the body, the immune
system commonly becomes tolerant to it. If this tolerance can be overcome without
leading to autoimmune disease, CEA vaccination therapy could be immensely
beneficial to cancer patients. A number of preclinical and clinical studies have 
been conducted on the use of recombinant CEA-vaccinia virus vaccines and
recombinant ALVAC-CEA vaccines. In general, the vaccines have been well tolerated
and effective at inducing CEA-specific cytotoxic T-cell responses, especially
when used in the presence of the T-cell costimulatory molecule B7.1. "Prime and
boost" techniques combining both types of vaccines and the addition of cytokines 
such as granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor have resulted in
enhanced T-cell responses. The combination of vaccinia or ALVAC vaccines with a
triad of costimulatory molecules (B7.1, ICAM-1, and LFA-3) has also stimulated
significant T-cell increases. This review summarizes these studies and discusses 
the role of CEA in cancer immunotherapy.


PMID: 12881810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Semin Oncol. 2003 Jun;30(3 Suppl 8):23-9.

Dendritic cell-based cancer immunotherapy.

Engleman EG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stanford Medical School Blood Center, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA, USA.

The development of effective cancer vaccines depends heavily on the ability to
deliver target antigens to generate an immune response. Dendritic cells are the
most potent antigen-processing cells, capable of sensitizing T cells to new and
recall antigens. Dendritic cells express high levels of major histocompatibility 
complex class I and II antigens, which are crucial to cancer immunotherapy, as
well as a variety of important immunomodulatory proteins, adhesins, and a potent 
cytokine. Dendritic cells must undergo activation to induce an immune response,
and this can be achieved through the use of certain carrier proteins, adjuvants, 
cytokines, or genetically engineered viruses. Dendritic cells are scattered
throughout many tissues of the body, as well as bone marrow and peripheral blood.
Most studies have used dendritic cells from peripheral blood; however, these
cells are not prevalent in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The cytokine,
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, has been found to induce the
maturation and enhance the viability of dendritic cells isolated from peripheral 
blood. Numerous clinical trials of antigen-pulsed dendritic cells have been
conducted in various types of cancer, including non-Hodgkin lymphoma, multiple
myeloma, prostate cancer, malignant melanoma, colorectal cancer, and non-small
cell lung cancer. These studies show that antigen-loaded dendritic cell
vaccinations are safe and promising in the treatment of cancer. This review
discusses the use of dendritic cells in immunotherapy and some of the clinical
trials that have been conducted.


PMID: 12881809  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2003 Aug;3(4):265-73.

Targeting the lung: preclinical and comparative evaluation of anticancer aerosols
in dogs with naturally occurring cancers.

Khanna C(1), Vail DM.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Oncology Program, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
khannac@mail.nih.gov

Pet dogs with naturally occurring cancers offer a novel opportunity for the study
of both cancer biology and therapy. The following review will provide the
rationale for the use of these spontaneous cancer models in translational
research, particularly in the development of anticancer aerosols. A summary of
work involving pet dogs with primary and metastatic cancers to the lung and the
investigation of therapeutic chemotherapy and cytokine immunotherapy aerosols
will be presented.


PMID: 12871057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Int Immunopharmacol. 2003 Aug;3(8):1061-71.

Immunodeficiency and cancer: prospects for correction.

Hadden JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Immuno-Rx, Inc., 140 West 57th Street, Suite 9C, New York, NY 10019, USA.

Cellular immunodeficiency is associated with human cancer. Extensive reviews on
cancer of the head and neck, lung, esophagus and breast convince the author that 
for these diseases the immunodeficiency is reasonably well established yet the
mechanisms are poorly understood. Evidence indicates that other tumors are
similarly associated with cellular immune deficiency. The advent of recombinant
cytokines and of antitumor monoclonal antibodies has served to focus attention
toward direct tumoricidal mechanisms. As tumor antigens relating to cellular and 
humoral immune mechanisms are being defined and vaccine strategies are
increasingly being attempted, it is critical to confront issues of the mechanism 
of anergy and effective immunorestoration in order to maximize the potential of
cellular immune response to address these tumor antigens. Intrinsic to this
approach is the introduction of contrasuppressive therapy to alleviate the
tumor-associated immune suppression. Encouraging attempts have been made with
plasmapheresis, indomethacin, low-dose cyclophosphamide, anti CTLA-4, anti FAS
ligand and, perhaps in the future, more judiciously applied chemotherapy. In
contrast to the popular notion that thymic involution cannot be reversed in the
adult, studies from the author's laboratory indicate that in aged hydrocortisone 
stressed mice, a natural Type 1-cytokine mixture (IRX-2) hastens the reversal of 
thymic involution and promotes T-cell responses to cytokines and mitogens.
Recombinant IL-1 and IL-2 by themselves, and in combination, were inactive.
Similar positive effects were observed with oral zinc, zinc-thymulin and thymosin
alpha(1). The combination of a natural cytokine mixture (IRX-2) with thymosin
alpha1 had a very large effect and increased the absolute number of peripheral T 
lymphocytes as measured in the spleen. In studies of combination immunotherapy in
lymphocytopenic squamous cell head and neck cancer patients using IRX-2 (18
patients) and IRX-2 plus thymosin alpha(1) (IRX-3) in IRX-2-refractory patients
(7 patients), marked increases in CD(45)RA(+) 'naïve' T cells (>250/mm(3)) were
observed. These are among the first insights into how to generate T lymphocyte
replacement in the adult. These and many other experimental efforts point to ways
to achieve more effective immunotherapy of human cancer in the future,
particularly if tumor-induced immune deficiency can be effectively addressed.

DOI: 10.1016/S1567-5769(03)00060-2 
PMID: 12860163  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Ann Oncol. 2003 Jun;14(6):894-7.

CD117 (c-KIT) overexpression in patients with extensive-stage small-cell lung
carcinoma.

Potti A(1), Moazzam N, Ramar K, Hanekom DS, Kargas S, Koch M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology and Department of Internal
Medicine, University of North Dakota School of Medicine, ND 58102, USA.
apotti@medicine.nodak.edu

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to determine the incidence and role of
CD117 (c-KIT) overexpression as a predictive/prognostic marker in extensive-stage
small-cell lung carcinoma (ESSCLC). We performed a retrospective study on
subjects with a biopsy-proven diagnosis of ESSCLC.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A chart review for demographic and clinical data was
performed on patients with ESSCLC diagnosed between 1991 and 2001. CD117
overexpression was evaluated using immunohistochemistry (A4052 polyclonal
antibody) performed on archival paraffin-embedded specimens.
RESULTS: Two hundred and twenty-three patients with ESSCLC were identified, of
whom 193 (84 females, 109 males) with a mean age of 68.5 years (range 42-90) had 
adequate tissue specimens available for CD117 testing. The most commonly
presenting symptom was weight loss, seen in 61 patients (31.6%). Of the 193
specimens, 54 (27.9%) showed CD117 overexpression. The median length of survival 
for CD117-positive patients was 9 months as compared with the CD117-negative
population, in whom the survival was 6 months (P = 0.025, Cox proportional hazard
method).
CONCLUSIONS: CD117 overexpression detected using immunohistochemistry is observed
in about a third of patients with ESSCLC and does not have statistically
significant prognostic value. However, CD117 may be a potential target for
site-specific immunotherapy in ESSCLC. Our findings suggest a role for clinical
trials assessing the role of selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor STI-571 (alone
or in combination with conventional therapy) in patients with ESSCLC.


PMID: 12796027  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Adv Enzyme Regul. 2003;43:183-95.

Raf kinases in lung tumor development.

Rapp UR(1), Fensterle J, Albert S, Götz R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische, Strahlenkunde und Zellforschung (MSZ), Bayerische
Julius-Maximilians-Universität, Universität Würzburg, Versbacher-Strasse 5,
D-97078, Würzburg, Germany. rappur@mail.uni-wuerzburg.de


PMID: 12791391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Curr Oncol Rep. 2003 Jul;5(4):334-41.

Advances in the management of malignant mesothelioma.

Khalil MY(1), Mapa M, Shin HJ, Shin DM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of Pittsburgh Cancer
Institute, UPMC Cancer Pavilion, 5150 Centre Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232, USA.

Malignant mesotheliomas are very aggressive tumors that originate from
mesothelial cells, which form the serosal lining of the pleura, pericardial, and 
peritoneal cavities. Finding effective chemotherapeutic treatment for malignant
mesothelioma is a challenge. There is no standard treatment because this tumor is
relatively resistant to therapy. A resurgence of interest has been expressed in
novel therapies and conventional treatments used in different ways. Several
treatment modalities have been studied, including chemotherapy, radiotherapy,
surgery, and immunotherapy. Chemotherapy can be administered systemically or
directly into the pleura. This review presents the results of the most recent
trials and highlights the most promising advances in the battle against this
aggressive disease.


PMID: 12781077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Curr Opin Mol Ther. 2003 Apr;5(2):204-7.

Technology evaluation: TriGem, Titan.

Razis E(1), Fountzilas G.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki
Medical School, Thessaloniki, Macedonia, Greece.

Titan (formerly Trilex) is developing TriGem, a monoclonal antibody directed
against I17, for the potential treatment of advanced cancers that express the GD2
ganglioside, including melanoma, small-cell lung cancer, neuroblastoma and
sarcoma. Phase II trials of TriGem for use in advanced melanoma were ongoing by
June 2002. TriGem also has potential for the treatment of psoriasis, for which
phase II trials had begun by 1996.


PMID: 12772513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Surg Clin North Am. 2003 Apr;83(2):431-51.

The Sydney Melanoma Unit--a multidisciplinary melanoma treatment center.

Thompson JF(1), Shaw HM, Stretch JR, McCarthy WH, Milton GW.

Author information: 
(1)Sydney Melanoma Unit, Sydney Cancer Center, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
Missenden Road, Camperdown, New South Wales, Australia 2050.
john@mel.rpa.cs.nsw.gov.au

The undoubted success of the SMU as a specialist multidisciplinary melanoma
treatment center has clearly been the result of many factors. Perhaps chief among
these was the vision and commitment that led Dr. Milton to establish it in the
first place, and the sharing of that vision and commitment by those who were
associated with him and by those who joined the SMU later. Another vitally
important element, however, has been the continuing sense of unity and purpose
fostered by the weekly SMU clinical meetings, which are truly multidisciplinary, 
in which all staff are encouraged to participate, and at which the desirability
of adherence to agreed, evidence-based treatment guidelines is emphasized. A
further influential factor has been the SMU's strong commitment to clinical and
basic research as a concomitant of high quality clinical care, with stimulation, 
encouragement, and advice provided at its monthly multidisciplinary research
meetings, where all current and proposed clinical and laboratory studies are
discussed. As a result of these activities, despite an ever-increasing number of 
people working within it, the SMU has been able to present to referring doctors, 
to patients, and to the community a unified commitment to the best possible
patient care and to high quality clinical and laboratory research. These groups
have responded by recognizing the SMU as the major referral center for melanoma
in Australia, as evidenced by the steadily increasing number of patients referred
to it for treatment each year. Melanoma is a more pressing health problem in
Australia than elsewhere, because it is the third most common cancer in women
(after breast cancer and colorectal cancer), and the fourth most common cancer in
men (after prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, and lung cancer). Nevertheless the
experiences of the SMU as a large multidisciplinary melanoma treatment center are
likely to have relevance and application in other countries, where the incidence 
of melanoma is lower but continues to rise, and may within a few years approach
rates currently recorded in Australia.

DOI: 10.1016/S0039-6109(02)00090-7 
PMID: 12744618  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


837. J Med Assoc Ga. 2003 Winter-Spring;92(1):39-46.

Monoclonal antibody therapy of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: the Rituximab story.

Saleh M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Georgia Cancer Specialist Inc., USA.

The advent of monoclonal antibodies targeted at tumor associated or tumor
specific antigens provides a novel approach for the treatment of a broad range of
malignancies. Such targeting agents can either be used as unlabeled molecules to 
induced antibody dependent cytotoxicity, or complement mediated lysis and/or
apoptosis, or be conjugated with cytotoxic moieties such as toxins and/or
radioactive nucleids. The applicability of this strategy has been expanded beyond
the treatment of NHL as demonstrated by the clinical application of the chimeric 
monoclonal antibody directed at the Her2/neu receptor in breast cancer, the
epidermal growth factor receptor in colon and head/neck cancer, and the vascular 
endothelial growth factor in lung and colon cancer, among others. In a variety of
settings this strategy demonstrates clinical anti-tumor activity in patients who 
have failed to respond to or are refractory to conventional cytotoxic
chemotherapy. Furthermore, given the modest toxicity of these naked antibodies,
they avail themselves as ideal partners for combining with conventional
chemotherapy to produce results that often appear to be greater than additive.
With the discovery of newer targets and means to manipulate the immunoglobulin
molecule to generate tailor made antibody fragments, the field of antibody based 
targeted therapy of cancer appears to be on the threshold of making major strides
in the fight against cancer.


PMID: 12743905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2003;4(5):333-46.

Improving survival in patients with high-risk and metastatic melanoma:
immunotherapy leads the way.

Agarwala S(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213,
USA. agarwalass@msw.upmc.edu

Melanoma is a neoplasm with an incidence in the US that is rising at a rate
second only to lung cancer in women. Early stage melanoma is curable, but
advanced metastatic melanoma is almost uniformly fatal, even in 2003. The close
relationship of melanoma with the immune system has led to a recent resurgence in
the investigation of immunotherapy in the treatment of this disease. The two most
widely investigated immunotherapy drugs for melanoma are interferon (IFN)-alpha
and interleukin-2 (IL-2). The role of IFNalpha-2b in the adjuvant therapy of
patients with localized melanoma at high risk for relapse has recently been
established by the results of three large randomized trials conducted by the US
Intergroup; all three trials demonstrated an improvement in relapse-free survival
and two in overall survival. Recombinant IL-2 (rIL-2) has an overall response
rate of 15-20% in metastatic melanoma and is capable of producing complete and
durable remissions in about 6% of patients treated. Based upon these data, the US
FDA has recently approved the use of high-dose bolus administration of rIL-2 for 
the therapy of patients with metastatic melanoma. Results of combination
chemotherapy and immunotherapy regimens containing rIL-2 and IFNalpha
(biochemotherapy) are promising, but conclusions regarding an advantage for this 
therapy in terms of survival must await the completion of ongoing randomized
trials. The use of therapeutic vaccines is an ongoing area of research, and
clinical trials of several types of vaccines (whole cell, carbohydrate, peptide) 
are being conducted in patients with intermediate and late-stage melanoma. In the
setting of adjuvant therapy, to date, no vaccine has demonstrated a survival
benefit in comparison with either observation or IFNalpha. Vaccines are also
being tested in patients with metastatic melanoma to determine their immune
effects and to define their activity in combination with other immunotherapeutic 
agents such as IL-2 or IFNalpha.


PMID: 12688838  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Curr Urol Rep. 2003 Feb;4(1):36-40.

Cytoreductive nephrectomy in metastatic renal cancer.

Flanigan RC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Loyola University Stritch School of Medicine, Building 
54, Room 237A, 2160 S. First Avenue, Maywood, IL 60153, USA. rflanig@lumc.edu

Recent randomized prospective trials have suggested that cytoreductive
nephrectomy confers a survival advantage in patients with metastatic renal cancer
who receive immunotherapy with interferon-alfa-2b. It appears that the patients
most benefiting from this approach are those with good performance status,
lung-only metastases, and adequate cardiac and pulmonary reserve. Nonrandomized
trials have further suggested that this survival advantage may be extended in
patients who receive more aggressive interleukin-2-based immunotherapy.


PMID: 12537937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Cancer Gene Ther. 2003 Jan;10(1):1-13.

Prospects for CD40-directed experimental therapy of human cancer.

Tong AW(1), Stone MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Immunology Research Laboratory, Baylor Sammons Cancer Center, Baylor
University Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75246, USA. alext@baylorhealth.edu

CD40, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNF-R) family, is a surface
receptor best known for its capacity to initiate multifaceted activation signals 
in normal B cells and dendritic cells (DCs). CD40-related treatment approaches
have been considered for the experimental therapy of human leukemias, lymphomas, 
and multiple myeloma, based on findings that CD40 binding by its natural ligand
(CD40L), CD154, led to growth modulation of malignant B cells. Recent studies
also exploited the selective expression of the CD40 receptor on human epithelial 
and mesenchymal tumors but not on most normal, nonproliferating epithelial
tissues. Ligation of CD40 on human breast, ovarian, cervical, bladder, non small 
cell lung, and squamous epithelial carcinoma cells was found to produce a direct 
growth-inhibitory effect through cell cycle blockage and/or apoptotic induction
with no overt side effects on their normal counterparts. CD154 treatment also
heightened tumor rejection immune responses through DC activation, and by
increasing tumor immunogenicity through up-regulation of costimulatory molecule
expression and cytokine production of epithelial cancer cells. These
immunopotentiating features can produce a "bystander effect" through which the
CD40-negative tumor subset is eliminated by activated tumor-reactive cytotoxic T 
cells. However, the potential risk of systemic inflammation and autoimmune
consequences remains a concern for systemic CD154-based experimental therapy. The
promise of CD154 as a tumor therapeutic agent to directly modulate tumor cell
growth, and indirectly activate antitumor immune response, may depend on
selective and/or restricted CD154 expression within the tumor microenvironment.
This may be achieved by inoculating cancer vaccines of autologous cancer cells
that have been transduced ex vivo with CD154, as documented by recently clinical 
trials. This review summarizes recent findings on CD154 recombinant protein- and 
gene therapy-based tumor treatment approaches, and examines our understanding of 
the multifaceted molecular mechanisms of CD154-CD40 interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.cgt.7700527 
PMID: 12489023  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Tumori. 2002 Sep-Oct;88(5):361-6.

CD40 activation as potential tool in malignant neoplasms.

Ottaiano A(1), Pisano C, De Chiara A, Ascierto PA, Botti G, Barletta E, Apice G, 
Gridelli C, Iaffaioli VR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology B, National Cancer Institute G Pascale, Naples,
Italy. ale.otto@libero.it

BACKGROUND: CD40, a cell surface molecule, is expressed on B-cell malignancies
and many different solid tumors. It is capable of mediating diverse biological
phenomena such as the induction of apoptosis in tumors and stimulation of the
immune response. It has thus been studied as a possible target for antitumor
therapy. The general aim of this review is to focus the attention of clinical
oncologists on the involvement of CD40 in tumors and the rationale of
CD40-activation-based therapies in new, biologically oriented antitumor
protocols.
METHODS: A Medline review of published papers about the role of CD40 activation
in cancer therapy.
RESULTS: Many authors have shown that CD40 activation promotes apoptotic death of
tumor cells and that the presence of the molecule on the surface of carcinoma
lines is an important factor in the generation of tumor-specific T-cell responses
that contribute to tumor cell elimination. The CD40 ligand (CD40L) is the natural
ligand for CD40; it is expressed primarily on the surface of activated T
lymphocytes. Preclinical studies suggest that CD40-CD40L interaction could be
useful for cytotoxicity against CD40-expressing tumors and for immune
stimulation. Tumor inhibition was observed when tumor cells were treated with
agonistic anti-CD40 monoclonal antibodies or with the soluble form of CD40L. The 
results of the first phase I clinical trial to treat cancer patients with
subcutaneous injection of recombinant human CD40L have been recently reported.
Immunohistochemical studies have revealed that detection of CD40 in primary
cutaneous malignant melanoma and lung cancer may have a negative prognostic
value. Interestingly, up-regulation of CD40 was observed in the tumor vessels of 
renal carcinomas and Kaposi's sarcoma, suggesting possible involvement of CD40 in
tumor angiogenesis. Recently, it has also been shown that CD40 engagement on
endothelial cells induces in vitro tubule formation and expression of matrix
metalloproteinases, two processes involved in the neovascularization and
progression of tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: CD40 activation represents an exciting target for hematological
malignancies and solid tumors expressing the molecule, but its functional role in
cancer development still remains unclear and controversial.


PMID: 12487551  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Dec;30(12):975-8.

Treatment of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage after allogeneic bone marrow transplant 
with recombinant factor VIIa.

Hicks K(1), Peng D, Gajewski JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage (DAH) is a potentially life-threatening pulmonary
toxicity that occurs in 1-21% of patients following bone marrow transplantation. 
The syndrome is associated with a high mortality rate; and current treatment
options are limited. Recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa, Novoseven) has recently
been approved for the treatment of bleeding in patients with hemophilia A/B with 
inhibitors. A greater understanding of the mechanism by which rFVIIa restores
hemostasis has recently become available; with in vitro evidence supporting that 
the thrombin burst achieved by rFVIIa is independent of the presence or binding
to tissue factor. This insight has suggested a range of other potential clinical 
uses for the drug; including the setting of pulmonary hemorrhage. We review our
experience with using rFVIIa for treatment of DAH in a patient with acute
myelogenous leukemia following a matched unrelated donor bone marrow transplant. 
Boluses of 90 microg/kg rFVIIa were given every 3 h x 4 doses/day, concurrently
with high-dose corticosteroids and maintenance of a platelet count >50 000/mm(3).
Rapid clinical and radiological improvement was noted within several doses of
rFVIIa, with discontinuation of the drug after eight doses. However, the
patient's clinical condition began to rapidly deteriorate following cessation of 
rVIIa, resulting in reinstitution of therapy 24 h later. The patient again
exhibited rapid clinical improvement; and rFVIIa was continued for an additional 
16 doses with no further evidence of pulmonary hemorrhage noted. No toxicity or
adverse events were observed with rFVIIa treatment. Our experience indicates that
rFVIIa may be an effective treatment option for DAH post bone marrow transplant; 
although further clinical studies are needed before recommendations can be made
regarding off label use of rFVIIa in this clinical setting.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703731 
PMID: 12476294  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Clin Cancer Res. 2002 Dec;8(12):3696-701.

Active immunotherapy of metastatic melanoma with allogeneic melanoma lysates and 
interferon alpha.

Vaishampayan U(1), Abrams J, Darrah D, Jones V, Mitchell MS.

Author information: 
(1)Karmanos Cancer Institute, Department of Medicine, Wayne State University,
Detroit, Michigan 48201, USA.

PURPOSE: A therapeutic lyophilized melanoma vaccine consisting of two
mechanically disrupted allogeneic melanoma cell lines and the immunological
adjuvant Detox-PC (Melacine) has demonstrated encouraging activity in metastatic 
malignant melanoma, often in regimens containing pretreatment with low-dose
cyclophosphamide. In addition, IFN-alpha2b (INTRON A; Schering-Plough
Corporation, Kenilworth, NJ) has shown efficacy in melanoma refractory to
Melacine. In this Phase II trial, the combination of cyclophosphamide, Melacine, 
and IFNalpha was tested in metastatic malignant melanoma.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Eligibility criteria included measurable disease, no prior
systemic therapy for a minimum of 4 weeks, and adequate marrow, renal, and
hepatic function. Cyclophosphamide was administered once at a dose of 300 mg/m(2)
i.v. on day -3 before the first dose of Melacine. Melacine was administered at a 
dose of 2 x 10(7) tumor cell equivalents per dose admixed with 0.25 ml of
Detox-PC s.c. once a week on weeks 1-4 and week 6. Melacine maintenance was then 
given monthly from the 8th week, until progression or intolerable toxicity. IFN
was started in the evening after the fourth dose of Melacine at a dose of
5,000,000 units/m(2) 3 times a week, and continued until progression.
RESULTS: Forty-seven patients were enrolled, of whom 39 completed the full course
and were considered evaluable. The toxicity of the regimen was minimal and
consisted mainly of pain at injection sites and granulomas caused by Detox-PC,
and constitutional symptoms attributable to IFN. In 39 evaluable patients, the
overall objective response rate was 10.2%, but 64% of patients had stabilization 
of their disease for at least 16 weeks. The median time to disease progression in
evaluable patients was 8 months [95% confidence interval (CI), 6-13 months].
Median survival time for all of the 47 patients enrolled was 12.5 months (95% CI,
8-15 months) with a median time to disease progression of 4 months (95% CI, 3-7
months).
CONCLUSION: Despite a low objective response rate, this combination holds great
promise because of its tolerability and the high proportion of prolonged
durations of remission or disease stabilization that it elicited.


PMID: 12473578  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Surg Clin North Am. 2002 Aug;82(4):797-831.

Malignant mesothelioma: options for management.

Singhal S(1), Kaiser LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, 3400 Spruce 
Street, 4th Floor Silverstein, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

In the past, there has been a tendency to think of diffuse malignant pleural
mesothelioma as one disease in therapeutic terms, regardless of histological type
and tumor stage. This does not happen with other tumors, yet it is equally
illogical and inappropriate in mesothelioma. As with other tumors, early
diagnosis-while the disease is still in stage I, or even at an in situ stage-must
be the goal so that therapy can be maximized, particularly if immunotherapy or
gene therapy is to be used. Patients with pure epithelial mesothelioma have a
better prognosis and respond better to trimodality therapy. Stage I patients who 
meet fitness criteria should be offered the option of radical surgery in
combination with chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Further research is required to
determine the optimum neoadjuvant and adjuvant modalities, particularly the
timing of individual drugs, use of hyperthermia, and route of administration. The
place of immunotherapy and gene therapy as adjunctive treatments also remains to 
be defined. For example, it may be possible to reduce tumor bulk and perhaps
downstage the disease with immunotherapy before radical surgery, if treatment is 
started early enough. Gene therapy may have a role either preoperatively or in
destroying the microscopic disease that remains after radical surgery. These and 
other combinations of treatment need to be tested in well-designed clinical
trials, probably on a multicenter basis (to enroll a sufficient number of
patients). Finding the means to improve treatment for sarcomatous and mixed
histology mesothelioma remains a challenge. At present, radical surgery does not 
seem worthwhile for these patients when combined with currently employed
chemotherapy and radiotherapy; however, chemotherapy combinations used for
treating other sarcomas need to be evaluated as adjunctive therapy before radical
surgery is abandoned altogether as a mode of treatment. A collaborative approach 
involving thoracic surgeons, basic scientists and oncologists, and physicians
with experience in treating mesothelioma is essential. Despite its increasing
frequency, mesothelioma is still a relatively rare tumor, so treatment should be 
concentrated in relatively few supraregional centers to maximize expertise and
allow innovative treatment combinations to be implemented with the greatest
chance of success. Evaluation of new therapeutic approaches will be achieved more
rapidly if these supraregional centers collaborate in multicenter trials. The
nihilistic approach of simply waiting until the mesothelioma epidemic eventually 
begins to decline spontaneously in 20 or 30 years is untenable in view of the
hundreds of thousands of deaths that will result if no effective treatment is
found.


PMID: 12472131  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


845. MedGenMed. 2002 Jun 26;4(3):13.

Immunotherapy of solid tumors: nonmyeloablative allogeneic stem cell
transplantation.

Childs RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Transplant Unit, Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.


PMID: 12466756  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Bull Cancer. 2002 Aug;89 Spec No:S134-44.

[Updates on gemcitabine at the American Society of Clinical Oncology congress
(ASCO, 2002) ].

[Article in French]

Gligorov J(1), André T, Epaud C, Culine S.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'oncologie médicale, Hôpital Tenon, 4, rue de la Chine, 75020 Paris.

The efficacy of gemcitabine containing regimens has been explored in a large
number of studies presented at ASCO 2002. The activity of gemcitabine-platinum
based combinations was confirmed in lung cancer and bladder cancer. In pancreatic
cancer, single agent gemcitabine remains the reference treatment, but newer
combinations with oxaliplatin or docetaxel show promising activity in phase II
trials and are currently being evaluated in phase III. Gemcitabine has
demonstrated promising activity in phase II studies in metastatic breast cancer
and gynaecologic tumors; phase III trials are ongoing. Concomitant
chemo-radiation using gemcitabine as a radiosensitizer have been shown to be
highly effective in pancreatic and in bladder cancer and deserve further
investigation. The growing interest in gemcitabine-based combinations in various 
tumor types together with the results presented at ASCO 2002 confirm the broad
range of activity of this drug. This is a review of papers presented at ASCO
2002.


PMID: 12449045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Immunol Rev. 2002 Oct;188:114-21.

Antitumor cytotoxic T-lymphocyte response in human lung carcinoma: identification
of a tumor-associated antigen.

Mami-Chouaib F(1), Echchakir H, Dorothée G, Vergnon I, Chouaib S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Cytokines et Immunologie des tumeurs Humaines, U487 INSERM,
Institut Fédératif de Recherche-54, Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.
cfathia@igr.fr

We have isolated several cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) clones from lymphocytes
infiltrating a lung carcinoma of a patient with long survival. These clones
showed a CD3+, CD8+, CD4-, CD28- phenotype and expressed a T-cell receptor (TCR) 
encoded either by Vbeta8-Jbeta1.5 or Vbeta22-Jbeta1.4 rearrangements. Functional 
studies indicated that these clones mediated a high human leukocyte antigen
(HLA)-A2.1-restricted cytotoxic activity against the autologous tumor cell line. 
Interestingly, TCRbeta chain gene usage indicated that CTL clones identified in
vitro were selectively expanded in vivo at the tumor site as compared to
autologous peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL). These findings provide evidence
that an immune response may take place in non-small cell lung carcinoma and that 
effector T cells may contribute to tumor regression. Further study indicated that
the CTL clones recognized the same decamer peptide encoded by a mutated
alpha-actinin-4 gene. Using tetramers of soluble HLA-A2 molecules loaded with the
mutated antigenic peptide, we have derived several anti-alpha-actinin-4 T-cell
clones from patient PBL. These CTL, recognizing a truly tumor-specific antigen,
may play a role in the clinical evolution of this lung cancer patient. Adoptive
transfer of CTL clones in a SCID/NOD mice model transplanted with autologous
tumor supported their antitumor effect in vivo.


PMID: 12445285  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Immunol Rev. 2002 Oct;188:65-80.

Enhancing antitumor immune responses: intracellular peptide delivery and
identification of MHC class II-restricted tumor antigens.

Wang RF(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Cell and Gene Therapy and Department of Immunology, Baylor
College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
rongfuw@bcm.tmc.edu

The importance of T-cell-mediated antitumor immunity has been demonstrated in
both animal models and human cancer therapy. The identification of major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-restricted tumor antigens has generated 
a resurgence of interest in immunotherapy for cancer. However, recent studies
suggest that therapeutic strategies that have mainly focused on the use of CD8+ T
cells (and MHC class I-restricted tumor antigens) may not be effective in
eliminating cancer cells in patients. Novel strategies have been developed for
enhancing T-cell responses against cancer by prolonging antigen presentation of
dendritic cells to T cells and the inclusion of MHC class II-restricted tumor
antigens. identification of MHC class II-restricted tumor antigens, which are
capable of stimulating CD4+ T cells, not only aids our understanding of the host 
immune responses against cancer antigens, but also provides opportunities for
developing effective cancer vaccines.


PMID: 12445282  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2002 Dec;51(11-12):583-95. Epub 2002 Sep 17.

Adjuvant immunotherapy for solid tumors: from promise to clinical application.

Mocellin S(1), Rossi CR, Lise M, Marincola FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncological and Surgical Sciences, Institute of Clinical Surgery
II, 6 Piano Policlinico Uviversitario, Via Giustiniani 2, University of Padua,
Padua, Italy.

Although surgery remains the mainstay for the treatment of most solid tumors,
investigators are seeking complementary therapies to eradicate microscopic
disease, which causes tumor relapse even after an apparently complete surgical
excision. Although adjuvant chemotherapy has achieved some significant results,
the control of minimal residual disease is still a challenge for clinicians.
Among novel therapeutic approaches, immunotherapy holds promise. This anticancer 
strategy aims at triggering a highly specific endogenous killing machine against 
tumor cells. Recent progress in tumor immunology has improved our understanding
of host-immune system interactions. In particular, new technologies have fostered
the identification of potentially immunogenic tumor antigens that can be used as 
suitable targets for immune effector cells. After observing
immunotherapy-mediated clinical responses in patients with metastatic disease,
investigators have started evaluating this anticancer modality in the adjuvant
setting. Here, we review the immunological strategies so far explored in humans
and report worldwide results following the clinical application of adjuvant
immunotherapy for solid tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-002-0308-0 
PMID: 12439603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Methods Mol Med. 2003;75:529-43.

Gene therapy for lung cancer. An introduction.

Haura EB(1), Sotomayor E, Antonia SJ.

Author information: 
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA.

Incremental progress will likely continue to be made in the treatment of lung
cancer using the conventional treatment modalities. However, there is now hope
that the development of noncross-resistant modalities that can be accomplished
using the technology of gene transfer may hasten the progress made in this
disease. Although significant progress has been made, the practical application
of the various strategies to the treatment of cancer patients in clinical trials 
has yielded only very limited results. For the strategies of introducing suicide 
genes, replacing defective tumor-suppressor genes, and inactivating oncogenes,
considerable progress will need to be made particularly with regard to the
ability of vectors to selectively and efficiently target tumor cells in order for
many of these strategies to become effective. With regard to the application of
gene therapy to immunotherapy, major responses are not likely at this time since 
these innovative therapies are being developed in patients with advanced disease.
However, it is very likely that these pioneering clinical trials will provide
important clinical and immunological information that will be the basis for
future attempts to effectively harness the immune system against lung cancer.


PMID: 12407762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Lung Cancer. 2002 Nov;38(2):111-21.

Activity of chemotherapy and immunotherapy on malignant mesothelioma: a
systematic review of the literature with meta-analysis.

Berghmans T(1), Paesmans M, Lalami Y, Louviaux I, Luce S, Mascaux C, Meert AP,
Sculier JP.

Author information: 
(1)Service do Médecine Interne et Laboratoire d'Investigation Clinique et
d'Oncologie Expérimentale, Institut Jules Bordet, Centre des Tumeurs de
I'Université Libre de Brussels, Rue Heger-Bordet, 1, 1000 Brussels, Belgium.
thierry.berghmans@bordet.be

The role of chemotherapy for unresectable malignant mesothelioma is unclear. The 
aims of the present study were to evaluate the methodological quality of
published papers relative to chemotherapy or immunotherapy in malignant
mesothelioma and to aggregate, for trials having a similar methodology, the
response rates in order to identify the most active chemotherapeutic drugs and
regimens. The literature relative to this topic, published between 1965 and June 
2001 was reviewed. A methodological qualitative evaluation was performed
according to the European Lung Cancer Working Party scale, specifically designed 
for phase II trials. A study was considered as potentially positive if the upper 
limit of the 95% confidence interval (CI) of the response rate was greater than
20% and positive if the lower limit of the 95% CI was > 20%. Eighty-three studies
(88 treatment arms) were eligible for the systematic review. Fifty-three arms
were considered as positive or potentially positive. No statistically significant
difference in the methodological quality was observed between negative and
positive studies. Studies were aggregated in four groups according to the
presence of cisplatin and/or doxorubicin in the treatment regimen. The
combination of cisplatin and doxorubicin had the highest response rate (28.5%; P 
< 0.001). Cisplatin was the most active single-agent regimen. Our systematic
qualitative and quantitative overview of the literature suggests that the most
active chemotherapeutic regimen, in term of objective response rate, is the
combination of cisplatin and doxorubicin and the best single-agent is cisplatin. 
The combination of these two drugs can be recommended as control arm for future
randomised phase III trials.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science Ireland Ltd.


PMID: 12399121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Transfus Apher Sci. 2002 Oct;27(2):137-52.

Inline-filtration.

Karger R(1), Kretschmer V.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Transfusionsmedizin und Hämostaseologie, Klinikum der Philipps
Universität Marburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Routine leukocyte-depletion (LD) of cellular blood products, and even
plasma, is currently being implemented in most European countries, as a result of
the fear that the variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob-disease (vCJD) might be transmissible
by transfusion. However, not only is the scientific evidence supporting such a
notion scarce, but the benefits of applying this procedure to all patients also
remain unfounded.
METHODS: A MEDLINE-research for studies dealing with the indications for LD was
performed. In addition, the guidelines and recommendations of national and
international health authorities were scrutinized.
RESULTS: To date,the only proven benefit of LD that can be applied to all
patients is the reduction of non-hemolytic febrile transfusion reactions. In
addition, LD reduces HLA-immunization and platelet refractoriness in
multi-transfused patients. In immunocompromized patients, LD reduces
transfusion-transmitted CMV-disease. Furthermore, a minority of 5-10% of
transfusion-related-acute-lung-injury cases can be prevented by LD. However, the 
potential of reducing the immunomodulating effects of transfusion such as
postoperative infection, cancer-recurrence-related or overall mortality and of
reducing septicemia due to bacterial contamination is still at issue. AIDS
patients do not benefit from LD, at least. The suitability of LD for preventing
the transmission of vCJD is at best hypothetical. Potential risks of LD like
increased leakages have not been taken into account adequately to date.
CONCLUSIONS: At present, the scientific evidence does not justify the
introduction of LD as a routine measure. In times of limited health care
resources, this costly procedure might limit access to medical services with
proven effectiveness and efficiency. In addition, the loss of 5-10% of the red
cell pool is predicted to lead to more blood supply shortages than previously
seen.


PMID: 12350049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


853. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2002 Aug-Sep;24(6):488-91.

Treatment of pediatric ocular melanoma with high-dose interleukin-2 and
thalidomide.

Soni S(1), Lee DS, DiVito J Jr, Bui AH, DeRaffele G, Radel E, Kaufman HL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine, Ney York 10032, USA.

Uveal melanoma is the most common primary ocular malignancy, although it is rare 
in children, and patients presenting with metastatic disease have a median
survival of only 2 to 5 months. The tumor is generally unresponsive to systemic
chemotherapy, but immunotherapy may be effective in selected patients. This
report describes an 8-year-old girl with metastatic uveal melanoma treated with
high-dose, bolus interleukin-2 (IL-2) and the antiangiogenic agent thalidomide.
She tolerated treatment well and initially responded with stable disease in the
liver and pancreas for 23 months. New pulmonary metastases developed and she was 
re-treated with high-dose IL-2, resulting in regression of her liver lesions and 
stable pulmonary disease for more than 18 months. These results suggest that IL-2
at high doses, and in combination with thalidomide, may be useful for uveal
melanoma with tolerable side effects in children. Further study of this
combination in children with immune-responsive tumors is warranted.


PMID: 12218599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Transpl Immunol. 2002 Aug;10(2-3):183-90.

Immunological aspects of blood transfusions.

Brand A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Leiden University Medical Center, Department of Immunohaematology and Blood
Transfusion, Sanquin Foundation, The Netherlands. Abrand@sanquinbblh.nl

Almost all identified acute and/or severe immunological reactions towards blood
transfusions, reported by surveillance systems such as SHOT (Severe Hazards of
Transfusion) in the UK are mediated by allo-antibodies. In contrast, the clinical
effects of transfusion-induced cellular immunity are virtually unknown. Although 
alterations in lymphocyte responses and natural killer cell functions after blood
transfusion has been reported in many publications, the relevance of these in
vitro assays for in vivo immunity are lacking. Even for clinically obvious
immunomodulatory effect of blood transfusions, such as the mitigation of renal
graft rejection, no uniform in vitro explanation has been identified. In the
laboratory animal it has been shown that when two antigenic stimuli are given
simultaneously, the response to one of these antigens is often decreased. Blood
transfusions introduce a multitude of foreign antigens. Indeed, immunostimulation
and suppression by blood transfusions have both been found. Systematic studies on
immunological side-effects of blood transfusions are hardly available. Since the 
UK and France introduced a transfusion vigilance system, severe immunological
side-effects such as haemolytic reactions, TRALI (acute lung injury), PTP
(post-transfusion purpura) and graft vs. host disease are registrated in these
countries and their incidence can be estimated based on the national number of
transfusions. However, every blood transfusion interferes with the immune system 
of the recipient. The available evidence of harm from immune responses not
leading to severe transfusion reactions will be discussed.


PMID: 12216948  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Int J Hematol. 2002 Aug;76(2):127-32.

Cancer immunotherapy targeting WT1 protein.

Sugiyama H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory Science, Osaka University Medical School,
Suita City, Japan. sugiyama@sahs.med.osaka-u.ac.jp

The Wilms tumor gene WT1 is expressed in leukemias and various kinds of solid
tumors, including lung and breast cancer, and exerts an oncogenic function in
these malignancies, suggesting that WT1 protein is a novel, overexpressed tumor
antigen. The WT1 protein, in fact, is an attractive tumor rejection antigen in
animal models. Stimulation in vitro of peripheral blood mononuclear cells with
HLA-A*2402--and HLA-A*0201--restricted 9-mer WT1 peptides elicits WT1-specific
cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs), and the CTLs kill endogenously WT1-expressing
leukemia or solid tumor cells. Furthermore, WT1 immunoglobulin M (IgM) and IgG
antibodies are detected in patients with hematopoietic malignancies such as acute
myeloid leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, and myelodysplastic syndromes,
indicating that WT1 protein overexpressed by leukemia cells is indeed
immunogenic. Taken together, these results demonstrate that WT1 protein is a
promising tumor antigen for cancer immunotherapy against leukemias and various
kinds of solid tumors, including lung and breast cancer.


PMID: 12215010  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2002 Sep 13;54(5):675-93.

Folate-mediated delivery of macromolecular anticancer therapeutic agents.

Lu Y(1), Low PS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, 1393 Brown Building, Purdue University, West
Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.

The receptor for folic acid constitutes a useful target for tumor-specific drug
delivery, primarily because: (1) it is upregulated in many human cancers,
including malignancies of the ovary, brain, kidney, breast, myeloid cells and
lung, (2) access to the folate receptor in those normal tissues that express it
can be severely limited due to its location on the apical (externally-facing)
membrane of polarized epithelia, and (3) folate receptor density appears to
increase as the stage/grade of the cancer worsens. Thus, cancers that are most
difficult to treat by classical methods may be most easily targeted with
folate-linked therapeutics. To exploit these peculiarities of folate receptor
expression, folic acid has been linked to both low molecular weight drugs and
macromolecular complexes as a means of targeting the attached molecules to
malignant cells. Conjugation of folic acid to macromolecules has been shown to
enhance their delivery to folate receptor-expressing cancer cells in vitro in
almost all situations tested. Folate-mediated macromolecular targeting in vivo
has, however, yielded only mixed results, largely because of problems with
macromolecule penetration of solid tumors. Nevertheless, prominent examples do
exist where folate targeting has significantly improved the outcome of a
macromolecule-based therapy, leading to complete cures of established tumors in
many cases. This review presents a brief mechanistic background of
folate-targeted macromolecular therapeutics and then summarizes the successes and
failures observed with each major application of the technology.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science B.V.


PMID: 12204598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2002 Mar;2(1):45-54.

WT1 as a novel target antigen for cancer immunotherapy.

Oka Y(1), Tsuboi A, Elisseeva OA, Udaka K, Sugiyama H.

Author information: 
(1)Deapartment of Molecular Medicine, Osaka University Medical School, 2-2,
Yamada-oka, Suita City, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. yoshi@imed3.med.osaka-u.ac.jp

Wild-type Wilms' tumor gene WT1 is expressed at high levels not only in most of
acute myelocytic, acute lymphocytic, and chronic myelocytic leukemia, but also in
various types of solid tumors including lung cancer. We tested the ability of the
gene product (WT1) to serve as a target antigen for tumor specific immunotherapy 
both in human in vitro system and mouse in vivo system. In the latter, we can
evaluate the efficacy and the side effects of WT1 vaccination in vivo. In the
human in vitro system, two WT1 peptides that contain HLA-A2.1 binding anchor
motifs were determined to bind to HLA-A2.1 molecules. Peripheral blood
mononuclear cells (PBMC) from an HLA-A2.1-psitive donor were repeatedly
stimulated in vitro with TAP-deficient T2 cells pulsed with each of these two
peptides, and CD8-positive cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) that specifically lyse 
WT1-expressing, HLA-A2.1-positive tumor cells were induced. Other groups also
have succeeded in generating CTLs which specifically lyse WT1-expressing leukemia
cells, and which do not inhibit colony-formation of normal hematopoietic cells
that express WT1 at physiological levels. In the mouse in vivo system,
immunization of C57BL/6 mice with one WT1 peptide with relatively high binding
affinity for H-2D(b) molecules, which contain H-2D(b) binding anchor motifs,
induced CTLs, which specifically lysed WT1-expressing tumor cells in an
H-2D(b)-restricted manner. Furthermore, mice immunized with the WT1 peptide
(peptide vaccination) or WT1 cDNA (DNA vaccination) rejected challenges by
WT1-expressing tumor cells and survived with no signs of auto-aggression to
WT1-expressing normal organs by the induced CTLs. The WT1 protein has been
identified as a novel tumor antigen and recent investigations provide a rationale
for developing WT1-based adoptive T cell therapy and vaccination against various 
kinds of malignant neoplasms.


PMID: 12188920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Anticancer Res. 2002 May-Jun;22(3):1737-54.

Anticancer effects and mechanisms of polysaccharide-K (PSK): implications of
cancer immunotherapy.

Fisher M(1), Yang LX.

Author information: 
(1)Radiobiology Laboratory, St. Mary's Medical Center, California Pacific Medical
Center Research Institute, San Francisco 94118, USA.

Polysaccharide-K (polysaccharide-Kureha; PSK), also known as krestin, is a unique
protein-bound polysaccharide, which has been used as a chemoimmunotherapy agent
in the treatment of cancer in Asia for over 30 years. PSK and Polysaccharopeptide
(PSP) are both protein-bound polysaccharides which are derived from the CM-101
and COV-1 strains of the fungus Coriolus versicolor by Japanese and Chinese
researchers, respectively. Both polysaccharide preparations have documented
anticancer activity in vitro, in vivo and in human clinical trials, though PSK
has been researched longer and has therefore undergone more thorough laboratory, 
animal and clinical testing. Several randomized clinical trials have demonstrated
that PSK has great potential as an adjuvant cancer therapy agent, with positive
results seen in the adjuvant treatment of gastric, esophageal, colorectal, breast
and lung cancers. These studies have suggested the efficacy of PSK as an
immunotherapy or biological response modifier (BRM). BRMs potentially have the
ability to improve the "host versus tumor response," thereby increasing the
ability of the host to defend itself from tumor progression. The mechanisms of
biological response modification by PSK have yet to be clearly and completely
elucidated. Some studies suggest that PSK may act to increase leukocyte
activation and response through up-regulation of key cytokines. Indeed, natural
killer (NK) and lymphocyte-activated killer (LAK) cell activation has been
demonstrated in vivo and in vitro, and recent genetic studies reveal increased
expression of key immune cytokines in response to treatment with PSK. An
antimetastatic action of PSK has also been demonstrated and is perhaps attributed
to its potential to inhibit metalloproteinases and other enzymes involved in
metastatic activity. PSK has also been shown to cause differentiation of leukemic
cells in vitro, and this effect has been attributed to induction of
differentiation cytokines. PSK has further been shown to have antioxidant
capacity which may allow it to play a role as a normal tissue chemo- and
radio-protector when used in combination with adjuvant or definitive chemotherapy
and/or radiotherapy in the treatment of cancer, while it may also enable it to
defend the host from oxidative stress. Interestingly, studies have also shown
that PSK may actually inhibit carcinogenesis by inhibiting the action of various 
carcinogens on vulnerable cell lines. This action of PSK may play a role in
preventing second primary tumors when an inducing agent, such as tobacco or
asbestos, is suspected and may also prevent second malignancies due to the
carcinogenic effects of radiotherapy and cytotoxic chemotherapy. Another very
important aspect of chemoimmunotherapy, in general is that it may be used on
debilitated patients such as those with AIDS and the elderly who might otherwise 
be denied potentially helpful adjuvant cytotoxic chemotherapy. Further
determination of the mechanisms of these anti-cancer, immunostimulating and
biological response modifying effects of PSK as well as of other protein-bound
polysaccharides is certainly warranted. Indeed, with modern cellular and
molecular biology techniques, a better understanding of the specific molecular
effects of PSK on tumor cells as well as leukocytes may be determined. Much of
the research that has been done on PSK is outlined in this paper and may serve as
a foundation toward determining the mechanisms of action of this and other
protein-bound polysaccharides in the treatment of cancer. This information may
open new doors in the development of novel strategies for the treatment of
malignancies using adjuvant immunotherapy in combination with surgery,
chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy.


PMID: 12168863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Interferon Cytokine Res. 2002 Jun;22(6):683-8.

Liver cirrhosis after prolonged therapy with IFN-alpha plus interleukin-2 in a
metastatic renal cancer long-term survivor.

Vespasiani Gentilucci U(1), Santini D, Picardi A, Vincenzi B, Riva E, Bianchi A, 
Tonini G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Inderdisciplinary Center for Biomedical
Research (CIR), Università Campus Bio-Medico, Rome, Italy.

Interleukin-2 (IL-2) therapy is associated with serious toxic effects on the
cardiopulmonary system. Less frequent toxicity is described in liver and the
gastrointestinal system. A case of severe liver toxicity is described in a
patient who underwent long-term immunotherapy with IL-2 (4.5 MU/m(2) s.c. daily, 
5 days per week for 6 weeks, with 4 weeks of interval) plus interferon-alpha
(IFN-alpha) (3 MU s.c. t.i.w., also covering the intervals between IL-2 cycles)
for a metastatic renal carcinoma. A review of the literature is provided. The
patient tolerated well the immunotherapy scheduled with apparently only a World
Health Organization (WHO) G3 anemia and a G2 asthenia and is still alive, with a 
disease-free survival of 28 months. Notwithstanding a complete absence of liver
function test abnormality during all scheduled clinical controls, the patient
developed portal hypertension due to liver cirrhosis, which was histologically
demonstrated. All common etiologic viral and toxic agents were ruled out.
Long-term IL-2 therapy can induce liver cirrhosis. The appearance of liver and
spleen enlargement during IL-2 therapy can be considered an indicator of liver
damage. Thus, in this setting, closer monitoring is warranted despite normal
liver function tests.

DOI: 10.1089/10799900260100178 
PMID: 12162879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Hepatogastroenterology. 2002 Jul-Aug;49(46):1109-12.

Locoregional immunochemotherapy in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Kountouras J(1), Boura P, Kouklakis G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Second Medical Clinic, Aristotle University of
Thessaloniki, Ippokration Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. jannis@med.auth.gr

Hepatocellular carcinoma remains a disease with a poor and dismal prognosis, and 
all forms of currently available conventional therapies are rarely beneficial.
However, in recent years, combined targeting locoregional immunochemotherapy has 
been reported with very promising results. Adoptive immunotherapy with LAK cells 
(lymphokine-activated killer cells) and recombinant interleukin-2 is becoming one
of the new modalities to reconstitute the depressed immune status of the
tumor-bearing host. Interleukin-2, gamma-interferon, and interleukin-12 induce
cytolytic activity of LAK and natural killer cells and are considered for
cellular activation to locoregional immunotherapy before, after resection or even
in unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas. Spleen is a suitable organ for LAK
cell induction because it has densely packed lymphocytes. The strategy of
administration of both interleukin-2 and gamma-interferon into the spleen for in 
vivo immunostimulation is based on the well-known synergism of the above
cytokines. LAK cells have cytotoxic activity against a variety of tumor cells. In
particular, LAK cells exhibit efficacy against lung and liver malignant lesions, 
as suggested by their trafficking pattern; activated killer cells injected i.v.
into humans appeared in the lung early and were subsequently rapidly
redistributed to the liver and spleen. Lipiodol-Urografin emulsion is probably an
ideal cytokine/anti-cancer drug carrier suitable for the combined locoregional
immunochemotherapy because during its preferential retention in the vascular
network of the spleen and tumor, a gradual release of both immuno- and
chemotherapeutical drugs bound to emulsion droplets is achieved ensuring a
prolong half life for these drugs. Recent data point to the potential of
considering intratumoral or intravascular use of adenovirus carrying
interleukin-12 gene, and/or p53-based gene therapy as possible therapeutic
strategies in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.


PMID: 12143214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Med Princ Pract. 2002 Jul-Sep;11(3):117-25.

New targets and drugs in cancer chemotherapy.

Szekeres T(1), Novotny L.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Institute of Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics, University 
of Vienna Medical School, General Hospital of Vienna, Austria.
thomas.szekeres@univie.ac.at

Cancer is still the number two cause of death in highly developed countries. Due 
to increased life expectancy, the number of cancer cases has also increased, and 
it is not likely that the incidence of this often fatal illness will decrease in 
the near future. Breast cancer, for instance, strikes 1 of 8 women in the
industrialized world. Incidence of lung cancer increases due to smoking, while
that of colon cancer increases with age. These are only a few examples
highlighting the growing importance of strategies effective for cancer treatment.
Despite surgical treatment and irradiation, chemotherapy remains one of the
important means to treat cancer. Although many institutions and companies have
tried to establish new treatment strategies such as immunotherapy or vaccination,
the conventional chemotherapy still remains an important treatment option. In
this review, we present an overview of new and innovative treatment strategies
for cancer chemotherapy. A number of new targets as well as anticancer compounds 
are introduced and though we are well aware of the fact that the list is
incomplete, we hope to be able to provide insight into this rapidly developing
field.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 63243 
PMID: 12138292  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Urologe A. 2002 May;41(3):239-48.

[Regional immunotherapy of metastatic renal cell carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Heinzer H(1), Huland E, Huland H.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf,
Martinistrasse 52, 20246 Hamburg. heinzer@uke.uni-hamburg.de

We summarized the current literature concerning regional immunotherapy of
pulmonary metastases in metastatic renal cell carcinoma and other malignancies
using inhaled interleukin-2 (IL-2). Inhaled IL-2 therapy is associated with
minimal toxicity and is effective in preventing progression in metastatic renal
cell carcinoma, melanoma, and possibly other diseases such as breast cancer.
Local (physiologic) use and systemic (pharmacologic) use of IL-2 are not mutually
exclusive; a combination may be very appropriate in metastatic cancer. Local
physiologic therapy intensifies treatment without intensifying toxicity.


PMID: 12132273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Nihon Rinsho. 2002 May;60 Suppl 5:621-4.

[Cellular immunotherapy against metastatic lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Aruga A(1), Tanigawa K, Shimizu K, Sudo T, Takasaki K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Institute of Gastroenterology, Tokyo Women's Medical
University.


PMID: 12101749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Nihon Rinsho. 2002 May;60 Suppl 5:609-13.

[Future prospects for specific immunotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugaya M(1), Takenoyama M, Yasumoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Surgery, University of Occupational and Environmental
Health, Japan.


PMID: 12101747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Nihon Rinsho. 2002 May;60 Suppl 5:490-3.

[Latest therapeutic strategy for stage IV non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Kawate N(1).

Author information: 
(1)International University of Health and Welfare/Respiratory Disease Center,
Sanno Hospital.


PMID: 12101720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Nihon Rinsho. 2002 May;60 Suppl 5:459-62.

[Adjuvant immunotherapy for lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Kawamura M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Thoracic Surgery, School of Medicine, Keio University.


PMID: 12101714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Immunol Rev. 2001 Dec;184:236-43.

Role of NK cells in adoptive immunotherapy of metastatic colorectal cancer in a
syngeneic rat model.

Kuppen PJ(1), Gorter A, Hagenaars M, Jonges LE, Giezeman-Smits KM, Nagelkerke JF,
Fleuren G, van de Velde CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands.
P.J.K.Kuppen@lumc.nl

This article reviews our immunotherapy research with natural killer (NK) cells in
a syngeneic rat colorectal cancer liver and lung metastasis model. Using adoptive
transfer of interleukin (IL)-2-activated NK cells, NK cells were shown to
selectively infiltrate the tumors. More NK cells were found in tumors when the NK
cells were directly injected into tumor-draining blood vessels than when the
cells were injected in systemic blood vessels. Under optimal conditions, a
limited, though significant, effect of adoptively transferred NK cells on tumor
growth was shown. We observed that both endogenous and adoptively transferred NK 
cells were predominantly present in the stroma surrounding the tumor cell
nodules. It is possible that they did not penetrate the nodules containing the
tumor cells because of the presence of a basal membrane-like structure around
these nodules. Adoptively transferred NK cells may initiate elimination of tumor 
cells by activating other effector cells, whereas some may eliminate tumor cells 
by direct cell-cell contact. A diverse array of molecules was shown to be
involved in this process. CD45 on NK cells was found to be important in
initiating the lysis-inhibitory signal upon binding of 'self' major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I on potential target cells. Our results
indicate that NK-cell cancer therapy is still promising and needs improvement.


PMID: 12086316  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Semin Respir Infect. 2002 Jun;17(2):151-7.

Diagnostic methodologies for invasive fungal infections in hematopoietic
stem-cell transplant recipients.

Somboonwit C(1), Greene JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease, University of South
Florida, Tampa 33647, USA.

Hematopoeitic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is now a well-established
treatment modality for a variety of solid tumors and hematologic malignancies.
However, pulmonary complications, especially invasive fungal infections, are
still a major cause of morbidity and mortality in this population. Successful
management of invasive fungal infection depends on early diagnosis, prompt
initiation of appropriate anti-fungal therapy, and return of immuno-competence.
Appropriate timing of imaging studies and the use of invasive procedures can be
lifesaving. Newly developed noninvasive diagnostic techniques allow for earlier
recognition of fungal infection and hence earlier treatment. Identifying patients
at risk for fungal infections (ie, prolonged neutropenia), and when infection is 
suspected, using appropriate diagnostic modalities, leads to effective
prophylactic and earlier empiric therapy.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.


PMID: 12070834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Exp Nephrol. 2002;10(3):227-34.

The identification of renal cell carcinoma as a target for allogeneic based
cancer immunotherapy.

Childs RW(1), Igarashi T.

Author information: 
(1)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Md 20892, USA. childsr@nih.gov

Renal cell carcinoma tumor cells are intrinsically resistant to chemotherapy, but
unlike most solid tumors, may be susceptible to immune-based therapy. Because
powerful immune effects can be generated against hematological malignancies
following allogeneic stem cell transplantation, we investigated for similar
anti-tumor responses in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma following
the transplantation of an allogeneic immune system from a healthy HLA-matched
family donor. Early laboratory and clinical results have demonstrated that
following a reduced-intensity allogeneic stem cell transplant, donor T-cell
mediated anti-tumor effects, resulting in sustained and sometimes complete tumor 
regression, can be generated against renal cell carcinoma (RCC) refractory to
conventional cytokine-based therapy. Early data indicate that cytotoxic T cells
of donor origin are the mediators of these anti-tumor effects. These preliminary 
studies provide additional evidence supporting the susceptibility of RCC to
immune attack and lay the foundation for future targeted allo-immune-based cancer
strategies.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 58349 
PMID: 12053124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Toxicology. 2002 Jun 5;174(3):143-52.

Local immunotherapy with rhTNF-alpha mutein induces strong antitumor activity
without overt toxicity--a review.

Terlikowski SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathophysiology of Pregnancy, Medical Academy of Bialystok, M.C.
Skłodowskiej 24A, Poland. ster@zeus.amb.edu.pl

Tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) is a cytokine possessing antitumor and
immunomodulatory properties. The studies reviewed in the present paper evaluate
the effect of intratumor or intraperitoneal (i.t./i.p.) injections of human
recombinant TNF-alpha (rhTNF-alpha) and its derivatives (muteins V and VI) on the
course of experimental tumors. The aim of local cytokine administration was to
avoid or reduce the induction of undesired systemic symptoms. Although total
remissions were not observed in the studies, morphological analysis of lung
tissue, accepted as the toxicity index of the cytokines, showed that rhTNF-alpha 
produced the least side effects. Mutein V selectively binds to p55R receptor and 
at the same time exhibits high antitumor activity. These results confirm the
usefulness of studies on the structurally altered rhTNF-alpha derivatives,
produced by means of genetic engineering techniques, which bind selectively to
different cellular receptors of TNF-alpha and show similar or stronger antitumor 
activity compared with a native molecule, without inducing undesired symptoms.


PMID: 12007854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2002 Apr;2(4):419-30.

Immunotherapeutic approaches to paraneoplastic neurological disorders.

Blaes F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Justus-Liebig-University, Am Steg 14, 35385 Giessen, 
Germany. Franz.Blaes@neuro.med.uni-giessen.de

The review presents an overview on the pathogenesis of paraneoplastic
neurological disorders (PNDs) and the current therapeutic immunosuppressive or
immunomodulatory strategies used in these patients. PNDs are disturbances in the 
functioning of the nervous system in cancer patients, where the disturbances are 
not due to a local effect of the tumour or its metastases. Most of these
clinically, well-defined syndromes in adults are associated with lung cancer
(especially small cell lung cancer), lymphomas and gynaecological tumours. Since 
autoantibodies directed against proteins expressed in neurons and tumour cells
have been found, PNDs are suspected to be autoimmune. In neuromuscular PND,
immunosuppressive therapies, plasmapheresis and intravenous immunoglobulins are
effective treatments. In contrast, central nervous system PNDs seen in adults are
by far the most problematic group to treat. With exception of the stiff-man
syndrome, immunosuppression appears to have little effect on these neurological
disorders. Tumour therapy stabilises PNDs but does not cause improvement.
Plasmapheresis reduces the autoantibody titre in the sera of these patients but, 
like tumour therapy, does not lead to a clinical improvement. In children with
paraneoplastic opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome, steroids and intravenous
immunoglobulins may lead to a complete or partial remission of PNDs.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2.4.419	 
PMID: 11955279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Presse Med. 2002 Mar 9;31(9):412-9.

[Malignant pleural mesothelioma. Present data and perspectives for treatment].

[Article in French]

Bard M(1), Ruffié P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Gustave-Roussy, Département de Médecine, 39, rue Camille Desmoulins, 
F94805 Villejuif.

CHEMOTHERAPY: With regard to the efficacy of mono-chemotherapy and according to
the literature, no cytotoxic substance, apart from methrotrexate at high doses,
leads to a response rate of more than 20%. With regard to cyrotoxic associations,
the published results show slightly betterresponse rates.
IMMUNOTHERAPY: Interleukine 2 as well as various interferons have been tested
alone or in association with chemotherapy. Fairly encouraging response rates have
been reported. However, the possibility of severe adverse events must be taken
into account.
RADIOTHERAPY: The interest of prophylactic parietal radiation following invasive 
thoracic treatment has been demonstrated. Palliative use of radiotherapy is
possible for pain, and more rarely for decompression. With curative aim, the
results of isolated radiotherapy are disappointing.
SURGERY: Palliative surgery is aimed at reducing the tumour and pleural
symphysis. Curative surgery consists in wide extrapleural pneumonectomy,
permitting total resection of the visceral pleura, or decortication pleurectomy
leaving the lung in place. Mean survival of patients having undergone surgery is 
of 10 to 17 months with rates between 10 and 30% at 2 years ASSOCIATED THERAPY:
For the first time, despite high morbidity rates, associated therapy has led to
prolonged survival, whereas isolated therapy has not. This is the case with an
association of radical surgery, radiotherapy and adjuvant chemotherapy.
IN THE FUTURE: In the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma, genetic,
anti-proliferative and immune therapy, that attempt to use the immune system of
the patient to obtain an anti-tumour cytotoxic reaction, appear promising.


PMID: 11933739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2001 Dec;14(4):701-22.

Allogeneic transplantation using non-myeloablative transplant regimens.

Battiwalla M(1), Barrett J.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Allotransplantation Section, Haematology Branch, National Heart,
Lung and Blood Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Reduced intensity (non-myeloablative) stem cell transplant (NST) preparative
regimens are being increasingly used to exploit the curative potential of
allogeneic stem cell transplantation without the morbidity and mortality
associated with conventional transplantation. Growing confidence in the power of 
the allogeneic graft-versus-malignancy (GVM) effect makes such an approach
attractive. Lower intensity transplants increase the degree of mixed chimerism,
both in T cell and myeloid cell lineages. Currently a variety of NST treatment
approaches are being developed and in this chapter their safety profile and the
immunological characteristics of the mixed chimeric state are described. Results 
of NST in specific disease categories are still limited but the NST approach
appears to have promise in the treatment of both haematological and
non-haematological malignancies because of the benefit of low toxicity coupled
with a strong graft-versus-malignancy effect. NST regimens are also being
explored in high-risk patients with non-malignant disorders. However, at present,
there is insufficient data to determine whether NST should replace standard
myeloablative transplants in specific disease groups. With their low toxicity,
NST are well placed as platforms for future developments in transplant immunology
to avoid GVHD and enhance the allograft effect against malignant diseases.

DOI: 10.1053/beha.2001.0168 
PMID: 11924917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2002 Mar;9(1):33-44.

Vaccination against the HER-2/neu oncogenic protein.

Bernhard H(1), Salazar L, Schiffman K, Smorlesi A, Schmidt B, Knutson KL, Disis
ML.

Author information: 
(1)Technical University of Munich, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Department of
Hematology and Oncology, Ismaningerstrasse 22, D-81664 Munich, Germany.

The HER-2/neu oncogenic protein is a well-defined tumor antigen. HER-2/neu is a
shared antigen among multiple tumor types. Patients with HER-2/neu
protein-overexpressing breast, ovarian, non-small cell lung, colon, and prostate 
cancers have been shown to have a pre-existent immune response to HER-2/neu. No
matter what the tumor type, endogenous immunity to HER-2/neu detected in cancer
patients demonstrates two predominant characteristics. First, HER-2/neu-specific 
immune responses are found in only a minority of patients whose tumors
overexpress HER-2/neu. Secondly, immunity, if detectable, is of low magnitude.
These observations have led to the development of vaccine strategies designed to 
boost HER-2/neu immunity in a majority of patients. HER-2/neu is a non-mutated
self-protein, therefore vaccines must be developed based on immunologic
principles focused on circumventing tolerance, a primary mechanism of tumor
immune escape. HER-2/neu-specific vaccines have been tested in human clinical
trials. Early results demonstrate that significant levels of HER-2/neu immunity
can be generated with active immunization. The T-cell immunity elicited is
durable after vaccinations have ended. Furthermore, despite the generation of
CD8(+) and CD4(+) T-cells responsive to HER-2/neu in a majority of patients,
there is no evidence of autoimmunity directed against tissues that express basal 
levels of the protein. Cancer vaccines targeting the HER-2/neu oncogenic protein 
may be useful adjuvants to standard therapy and aid in the prevention of relapse 
in patients whose tumors overexpress the protein. Furthermore, boosting
HER-2/neu-specific T-cell frequencies via active immunization may allow the ex
vivo expansion of HER-2/neu-specific T-cells for use in adoptive immunotherapy, a
therapeutic strategy directed against the treatment of established disease.


PMID: 11914181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Cancer J. 2002 Jan-Feb;8(1):2-11.

Advances in allogeneic stem cell transplantation: directing graft-versus-leukemia
at solid tumors.

Childs R(1), Srinivasan R.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1652, USA.

Allogeneic stem cell transplantation was originally developed as a method to
rescue hematopoietic function following high dose "myeloablative" therapy in the 
treatment of hematological malignancies. In the first two decades of its use,
dose-intensive chemotherapy alone was credited with curing those patients who
achieved sustained remission following this procedure. However, more recently
investigators have come to recognize that antineoplastic effects mediated by
immunocompetent donor T-cells transplanted with the stem cell allograft can be
induced against hematological malignancies. Indeed, this graft-vs-leukemia (GVL) 
or graft-vs-tumor (GVT) effect is now felt to represent the principal modality
required to sustain durable remissions of hematological malignancies following
this approach. The powerful and potentially curative nature of the GVT effect in 
hematological cancers has recently lured oncologists into exploring the
therapeutic potential of allogeneic stem cell transplantation as an
investigational approach for treatment-refractory solid tumors. We review here
the development and early clinical results of allogeneic stem cell
transplantation as potential immunotherapy for solid tumors.


PMID: 11895199  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Semin Oncol. 2002 Feb;29(1 Suppl 4):95-101.

Genetic and immunologic therapies for lung cancer.

Swisher SG(1), Roth JA, Carbone DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, The University of Texas
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

The poor overall survival of lung cancer patients treated with conventional
therapies (chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery) mandate novel approaches
to treatment. Two novel approaches to treat lung cancer include gene therapy and 
immunologic therapy. Both treatments have preclinical data suggesting potential
clinical use. In gene therapy, the identification of specific genes critical to
the development of carcinogenesis has offered the opportunity to target these
genes or their products for treatment. One possible gene therapy strategy that
has been pursued in phase I and II lung cancer trials is to replace nonfunctional
tumor suppressor genes such as mutated or deleted p53 genes with wild-type p53
genes by adenoviral gene transfer (Ad-p53). Transduction of the tumors has been
accomplished with direct intratumoral injection or broncheoalveolar lavage. These
studies have identified a potential role for radiosensitization of previously
radiation-resistant local tumors by combining Ad-p53 with radiation or possibly
chemoradiation. Another novel strategy that may allow systemic treatment of lung 
cancers is immunologic therapies. Immunotherapies have focused on augmenting the 
immune response to cancer by passive strategies (e.g., antivascular endothelial
growth factor) or active nonspecific (e.g., interferon), or by specific (e.g.,
anti-idiotype therapy) strategies. These novel strategies are currently in
clinical trials and will potentially allow additional therapeutic options for
patients resistant to conventional therapies.


PMID: 11894019  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2002 Mar;2(3):265-78.

The development of immunotherapies for non-small cell lung cancer.

Salgaller ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Northwest Biotherapeutics, Inc., Suite 100, 21720 23rd Drive SE, Bothell, WA
98021, USA. mls@nwbio.com

Standard of care for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (surgery, chemotherapy
and radiation) may enhance patient survival but the enhancement is typically
transient and quite uncommon with advanced disease. Researchers and medical
professionals are using new approaches to improve patient mortality and
morbidity. One of these approaches, immunotherapy, seeks to stimulate antitumour 
immunity above a threshold level needed for tumour regression or to induce
stability in the face of progression. Among the most established approaches are
vaccines involving monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) or immune effector cells. These
approaches stimulate the humoral and cell-mediated arms of the immune system,
respectively. As the development of humanised or fully human antibodies has
spurred exploration of radioimmunoconjugates and immunotoxins, mAbs have enjoyed 
a revival of sorts. Cell-based therapies using the tumour cell itself as a
vaccine component has resulted in disease stabilisation or regression. In
addition, immune cells (e.g., T-lymphocytes and dendritic cells [DCs]) are the
focal point of numerous patient trials in which meaningful clinical impact was
achieved. In general, there are many tactics under development for the treatment 
of NSCLC. This review primarily concerns immunotherapeutic cancer treatments that
are either already in clinical trial or well progressed into preclinical studies.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2.3.265	 
PMID: 11890866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Curr Opin Mol Ther. 2002 Feb;4(1):80-7.

Technology evaluation: Allovectin-7, Vical.

Galanis E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
galanis.evanthia@mayo.edu

Allovectin-7 is a gene transfer product consisting of the human leukocyte antigen
HLA-B7 gene co-expressed with the beta2-microglobulin gene. Allovectin-7 is being
developed as an immunotherapy approach for a variety of malignancies, with
special focus on melanoma, and head and neck cancer. Efficacy results in the
phase II setting appear to be promising; an 11% systemic response rate among the 
intent-to-treat population and 15% response rate in the evaluable population was 
observed in patients with refractory metastatic melanoma with disease limited to 
skin, lymph nodes and lung. Stable disease was seen in 19.2% of the
intent-to-treat population and 25.9% of the evaluable population in the same
group of patients. Treatment has been extremely well tolerated with the most
common side effects including mild-to-moderate injection site reactions and
flu-like symptoms, all of which resolved rapidly and decreased in incidence after
the first injection. Current evaluation of the drug includes higher Allovectin-7 
doses and injection of multiple tumors in metastatic melanoma patients. A phase
III trial comparing Allovectin-7 plus dacarbazine versus dacarbazine in untreated
patients with metastatic melanoma has been completed, and preliminary results are
soon to be reported. Phase I/II data also indicate promising activity of
Alovectin-7 in patients with advanced refractory head and neck squamous cell
carcinoma, with 10% of 60 patients achieving partial response and 23% stable
disease after one cycle of treatment. Trials of Allovectin-7 as an adjuvant
treatment in earlier stages of disease evolution are planned.


PMID: 11883699  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


879. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2002 Feb;54(2):159-80.

Intratumoral cancer chemotherapy and immunotherapy: opportunities for nonsystemic
preoperative drug delivery.

Goldberg EP(1), Hadba AR, Almond BA, Marotta JS.

Author information: 
(1)Biomaterials Center, Department of Materials Science and Engineering,
University of Florida, Gainesville 32611, USA. egoldberg@pol.net

The recent literature documents the growing interest in local intratumoral
chemotherapy as well as systemic preoperative chemotherapy with evidence for
improved outcomes using these therapeutic modalities. Nevertheless, with few
exceptions, the conventional wisdom and standard of care for clinical and
surgical oncology remains surgery followed by radiation and/or systemic
chemotherapy, as deemed appropriate based on clinical findings. This, in spite of
the fact that the toxicity of conventional systemic chemotherapy and
immunotherapy affords limited effectiveness and frequently compromises the
quality of life for patients. Indeed, with systemic chemotherapy, the oncologist 
(and the patient) often walks a fine line between attempting tumour remission
with prolonged survival and damaging the patient's vital functions to the point
of death. In this context, it has probably been obvious for more than 100 years, 
due in part to the pioneering work of Ehrlich (1878), that targeted or localized 
drug delivery should be a major goal of chemotherapy. However, there is still
only limited clinical use of nonsystemic intratumoral chemotherapy for even those
high mortality cancers which are characterized by well defined primary lesions
i.e. breast, colorectal, lung, prostate, and skin. There has been a proliferation
of intratumoral chemotherapy and immunotherapy research during the past two to
three years. It is therefore the objective of this review to focus much more
attention upon intratumoral therapeutic concepts which could limit adverse
systemic events and which might combine clinically feasible methods for localized
preoperative chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy with surgery. Since our review of 
intratumoral chemoimmunotherapy almost 20 years ago (McLaughlin & Goldberg 1983),
there have been few comprehensive reviews of this field; only one of broad scope 
(Brincker 1993), three devoted specifically to gliomas (Tomita 1991; Walter et
al. 1995; Haroun & Brem 2000), one on hepatomas (Venook 2000), one concerning
veterinary applications (Theon 1998), and one older review of dermatological
applications (Goette 1981). However, none have shed light on practical
opportunities for combining intratumoral therapy with subsequent surgical
resection. Given the state-of-the-art in clinical and surgical oncology, and the 
advances that have been made in intratumoral drug delivery, minimally invasive
tumour access i.e. fine needle biopsy, new drugs and drug delivery systems, and
preoperative chemotherapy, it is timely to present a review of studies which may 
suggest future opportunities for safer, more effective, and clinically practical 
non-systemic therapy.


PMID: 11848280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Bull Cancer. 2002 Jan;89(1):67-74.

[Current insights in malignant pleural mesothelioma].

[Article in French]

Bard M(1), Debrosse D, Caliandro R, Girard P, Grunenwald D, Ruffié P.

Author information: 
(1)Département de médecine, Institut Gustave-Roussy, 39, rue Camille-Desmoulins, 
94805 Villejuif Cedex.

Faced with the rising incidence of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM), the
medical community is now busy to improve the care for this pathology. Although
there is still no unanimously recognized therapy for MPM, long survival has been 
observed for some patients treated with associated therapies (surgery +
radiotherapy + chemotherapy). However, the detection and the aggressive care of
early stages MPM must be justified by a demonstrated survival improvement with
conservation of a good quality of life. This article tries to summarize current
insights concerning epidemiology, diagnosis and treatment of MPM. At now, more
questions than responses exist concerning the care of this severe prognosis
disease.


PMID: 11847028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Surgery. 2002 Jan;131(1 Suppl):S232-5.

Immunologic strategies for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.

Yano T(1), Yoshino I, Baba H, Tomiyasu M, Fukuyama S, Sugimachi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Nakatsu Municipal Hospital, Nakatsu, Japan.


PMID: 11821817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Eur J Cancer. 2002 Jan;38(2):279-91.

The treatment of limited small cell lung cancer: a report of the progress made
and future prospects.

Turrisi AT(1), Sherman CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Medical University of South Carolina, 169
Ashley Avenue, POB 250318, Charleston, SC 29425, USA. turrisi@radonc.musc.edu

The improvements in the treatment of small cell lung cancer over the last 30
years have been realised by understanding that it is a systemic disease, but that
areas of bulk and sanctuary require a complementary therapy. Despite successful
strategies using combinations and thoracic radiotherapy, there remains
uncertainty about what the best regimens are, their timing and their intensity.
However, earlier concurrent therapy and rather brief intense chemotherapy and
radiotherapy seem to produce the best results in moderately fit patients of all
ages. How to select the fit patients and what to do about the less fit ones
remains controversial and have economic consequences for governments and payers. 
Despite a meta-analysis demonstrating the success of prophylactic cranial
irradiation (PCI), doubts linger about its safety, despite nothing more than
anecdotal evidence from a previous era. The role of surgery continues to be
explored, more in Europe than North America or Asia. Strategies for treatment of 
minimum residual disease seem a focus. New drugs, molecular targeted therapy,
immunotherapy and other molecular therapies offer promise and theory, but there
is little evidence about their place in the treatment protocols of today.


PMID: 11803144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Semin Hematol. 2002 Jan;39(1):63-71.

Nonmyeloablative stem cell transplantation for solid tumors: expanding the
application of allogeneic immunotherapy.

Childs R(1), Barrett J.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Transplant Unit, Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and Blood
Insitute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

In the arena of tumor immunology, there is a growing perception that the
graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) reaction that follows allogeneic stem cell
transplantation represents the most potent form of cancer immunotherapy currently
in clinical use. While allogeneic stem cell transplantation has become an
accepted form of "immunotherapy" for the treatment of hematological malignancies,
its efficacy in inducing antitumor effects against nonhematological cancers has, 
until recently, been largely unexplored. The investigational application of
nonmyeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation (NST) in solid tumors
represents the logical consequence of almost 50 years of experimental and
clinical research into the immunological basis for the cure of hematological
malignancies following allogeneic bone marrow transplant (BMT). Here we review
the historical background, development, and preliminary clinical results of
allogeneic stem cell transplantation as immunotherapy for solid tumors.


PMID: 11799531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


884. J Laryngol Otol. 2001 Nov;115(11):931-4.

Primary malignant melanoma of the pharynx.

Oztürk O(1), Ozek H, Cansiz H, Karakullukçu B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Istanbul University,
Cerrahpaşa Medical Faculty, Turkey. ozturko_70@yahoo.com

Primary mucosal malignant melanomas are rare. They appear late in life and their 
prognosis is grave. Although there is no consensus on therapy, wide surgical
resection followed by radiotherapy, chemotherapy and immunotherapy are treatment 
modalities. In this report we present a case of widespread primary mucosal
malignant melanoma located in the pharynx. After immunotherapy (four cycles of
interleukin-2 and interferon-alpha) and chemotherapy (four cycles of cisplatin
and dacarbazine) has been applied as primary therapy for suppression of the mass,
transoral total pharyngeal resection was performed. After surgery three cycles of
immunotherapy and three cycles of chemotherapy were administered followed by
radiotherapy (total dose of 6600 cGy). An additional three cycles of
immunotherapy and chemotherapy were administered. Although no local recurrence
was observed during the 14 months of follow-up after the completion of
radiotherapy, cranial and lung metastasis were detected in the 12th month.


PMID: 11779316  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Semin Oncol. 2001 Dec;28(6 Suppl 18):12-20.

Cancer vaccines targeting the HER2/neu oncogenic protein.

Disis ML(1), Schiffman K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-6527, USA.

Several advances in basic immunology over the last few years have forced a
re-evaluation of cancer vaccine development. The most important finding has been 
that human tumors are immunogenic. The HER2/neu oncogenic protein is a tumor
antigen. Existent antibody, helper T-cell, and cytotoxic T-cell immunity to
HER2/neu have been detected in patients with cancer. The HER2/neu protein is an
excellent therapeutic target for the immune system. Passive immunotherapy
strategies, such as the infusion of monoclonal antibodies specific for HER2/neu, 
have been shown to be of clinical benefit in patients with
HER2/neu-overexpressing malignancies. Inducing an active immune response by
generating endogenous HER2/neu-specific antibodies and T cells may result in
long-lived immunity and, hopefully, therapeutic benefit. In the majority of
patients with pre-existent HER2/neu immunity, the antigen-specific antibodies and
T cells detected are of low magnitude. Therefore, vaccine strategies aimed at
boosting immunity already present may be effective in generating significant
levels of HER2/neu-specific antibodies and T cells.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company.


PMID: 11774201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Semin Oncol. 2001 Dec;28(6):620-5.

Neovastat, a naturally occurring multifunctional antiangiogenic drug, in phase
III clinical trials.

Falardeau P(1), Champagne P, Poyet P, Hariton C, Dupont E.

Author information: 
(1)Aeterna Laboratories Inc., 1405 boulevard du Parc-Technologique, Quebec City, 
Quebec G1P 4P5, Canada.

Recent studies have indicated that bone marrow angiogenesis is increased in
multiple myeloma, suggesting that treatment with an antiangiogenic agent might be
useful. Among the new antiangiogenic drugs in development, Neovastat (AE-941;
Aeterna Laboratories, Quebec City, Canada) can be classified as a naturally
occurring multifunctional antiangiogenic agent. It has a marked inhibitory effect
on the formation of blood vessels in the chicken embryo vascularization assay
(EVT) and endothelial cell proliferation. Furthermore, in vivo experiments showed
that oral administration of Neovastat blocks the formation of blood vessels in
Matrigel implants containing basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). The
antiangiogenic activity of Neovastat was found to be associated with two
mechanisms of action. In addition to the inhibition of the matrix
metalloproteinase activities (MMP-2, MMP-9, and MMP-12), Neovastat inhibits
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) binding to endothelial cells,
VEGF-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation, and VEGF-induced vascular permeability
in mice. Neovastat was also found to have a significant antitumor activity. Oral 
administration of Neovastat in mice with subcutaneous grafted breast cancer (DA3)
cells showed a significant reduction in tumor volume. Neovastat also decreased
the number of lung metastases in the Lewis lung carcinoma model. Interestingly,
the effect of Neovastat was additive to cisplatin in this model. Furthermore, no 
treatment-related mortality or loss of body weight was observed. Also, toxicology
studies in rats and monkeys demonstrate no dose-limiting toxicity or target organ
damage after 1 year of chronic exposure, thus suggesting that Neovastat could be 
safely administered in humans. Four clinical studies have been conducted to
establish the dosing, safety, and early efficacy of Neovastat administered
orally. In the oncology field, 482 patients have received Neovastat, of which 146
with solid tumors were exposed to the drug for more than 6 months. Two phase III 
clinical trials are currently underway. A phase III double-blind
placebo-controlled study is being conducted to evaluate the efficacy of Neovastat
in addition to induction chemotherapy/radiotherapy combined modality treatment in
patients with unresectable non-small cell lung cancer stage IIIA and IIIB. A
second phase III randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled study evaluates the 
efficacy of Neovastat as a monotherapy in metastatic renal cell carcinoma
patients who have progressed following a first-line immunotherapy. Neovastat
efficacy is also being evaluated in a registration phase II trial in patients
with early relapse or refractory multiple myeloma.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company.


PMID: 11740820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Lung Cancer. 2001 Dec;34 Suppl 2:S71-7.

The impact of immune responses on lung cancer and the development of new
treatment modalities.

Pluygers E(1), Sadowska A, Chyczewski L, Nikliński J, Niklińska W, Chyczewska E.

Author information: 
(1)Oncology Department (Honorary), Jolimont Hospital, 159 Rue Ferrer, B-7100, La 
Louviére, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: This presentation covers predominantly review data in relation with
immune responses initiating and accompanying lung carcinogenesis or- on the
contrary-contributing to novel therapeutic developments. Occasionally, personal
findings will be considered. RESULTS 1 OF IMMUNE DEFICIENCY: It is known for
several decades that cancer incidence (several sites) is increased in subjects
receiving immunosuppressive therapy, e.g. to avoid transplant rejection, or
suffering from AIDS. We have observed that in areas heavily polluted by
industrial activities, resulting in immune deficiency, cancer incidence is
increased, notably for lung cancer. On the other hand, neoplastic cells are able 
to escape the host's immune responses by inducing apoptosis of the effector T
lymphocytes. Apoptosis in T-cells is triggered by the interaction of the membrane
receptor Fas with its normal ligand Fas L, or an activating antibody. Now lung
carcinoma cells have been shown to express Fas L, enabling them to destroy
cytolytic T cells. RESULTS 2 OF IMMUNE TREATMENT: It is well over a century ago
that interest in the immunotherapy of cancer was aroused by the observation of
tumour regressions concomitant with bacterial infection, an observation leading
to the development of 'Coley's toxin', a mixture of killed bacteria (presently
known to act through the presence of TNF-alpha). Since these long-standing
empirical attempts, a lasting search for immune control of cancer has been
initiated, comprising such different approaches as active non-specific
immunotherapy, active specific immunotherapy, approaches based on the use of
monoclonal antibodies, as well as those depending on cellular immunity and the
development of adoptive immunotherapy, and the use of peptide vaccines. These
different approaches will be described and their results presented.
CONCLUSION: Present state-of-the-art will be discussed and new pathways for
development evoked; better understanding of immune mechanisms is opening new
avenues for improved treatment efficacy.


PMID: 11720745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Chin Med J (Engl). 1999 Oct;112(10):887-91.

Surgical treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma and related basic research with
special reference to recurrence and metastasis.

Tang Z(1), Zhou X, Lin Z, Yang B, Ma Z, Ye S, Wu Z, Fan J, Liu Y, Liu K, Qin L,
Tian J, Sun H, He B, Xia J, Qiu S, Zhou J.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Cancer Institute & Zhongshan Hospital, Shanghai Medical University,
Shanghai 200032, China. zytang@srcap.stc.sh.cn

OBJECTIVE: To summarize the progress of surgical treatment of hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC) and related basic research at the Liver Cancer Institute of
Shanghai Medical University in the recent years, with special reference to
recurrence and metastasis.
METHODS: Published and unpublished update clinical and experimental data in the
above-mentioned areas are summarized.
RESULTS: Surgical resection has played an important role in improving prognosis
of HCC, the 5-year survival were 63.4% for small HCC resection (n = 806), 39.6%
for large HCC resection (n = 1061), 64.7% for cytoreduction (using hepatic artery
cannulation and ligation) and sequential resection of initially unresectable HCC 
(n = 93), 56.0% for cytoreduction using transcatheter arterial chemoembolization 
(TACE) and followed by resection (n = 65), and 22.4% for hepatic resection with
removal of tumor thrombi in portal vein (n = 103). Unfortunately, the 5-year
recurrent rate after curative resection of HCC was up to 61.5%, which was mainly 
a result of intrahepatic "metastasis" and multicentric origin of HCC. Clinically,
re-resection of subclinical recurrence yielded 56% of 5-year survival (n = 202); 
prevention of recurrence by transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) +
Interferon, or LAK/IL-2 therapy have decreased 3-year recurrent rate from 33% to 
11%-18%. In experimental aspect, metastatic human HCC model in nude mice
(LCI-D20) and HCC cell line with metastatic potential (MHCC97) have been
established; studies on HCC invasiveness in the molecular level revealed similar 
results that reported in other solid cancers, and small HCC showed slightly
better biological characteristics as compared with large HCC; microvessel density
(MVD) that reflecting angiogenesis adversely correlated with 5-year survival of
small HCC; experimental interventions using antisense H-ras, bispecific antibody,
BB94, as well as anti-angiogenic agents (TNP470, suramin, CAI, heparin, antisense
VEGF, etc.) have been demonstrated to inhibit tumor growth and lung metastasis in
nude mice model.
CONCLUSIONS: Recurrence and metastasis are the major obstacle to further improve 
prognosis of HCC, studies should be conducted both in clinical and experimental
aspects, "HCC invasiveness" will be the major target to be studied, particularly 
in the molecular level, and anti-angiogenesis will be one of the important
approach.


PMID: 11717970  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Br J Radiol. 2001 Nov;74(887):1041-7.

Total body irradiation using a modified standing technique: a single institution 
7 year experience.

Harden SV(1), Routsis DS, Geater AR, Thomas SJ, Coles C, Taylor PJ, Marcus RE,
Williams MV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Box 193, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, 
Cambridge CB2 2QQ, UK.

Erratum in
    Br J Radiol 2002 Apr;75(892):397.

We describe a simple standing technique for delivering total body irradiation
(TBI) using large horizontal fields, made possible by the off-centre installation
of a non-dedicated treatment unit in a pre-existing bunker. Patients are treated 
using anterior and posterior fields with customized lung compensators. This
technique enables the dose to the lung to be accurately calculated and modified
to avoid overdose and to minimize the risk of pneumonitis. From February 1991 to 
December 1997, 94 patients with a variety of haematological malignancies were
given fractionated TBI using this technique prior to allogenic or autologous bone
marrow transplantation. Patients received a total dose of 14.4 Gy given in eight 
fractions over 4 days, with at least 6 h between fractions. The prescribed dose
to the lungs was reduced to 12 Gy in eight fractions. The technique was well
tolerated, took less than 10 min to set up and did not disrupt the daily routine 
use of the machine. Doses to all measured points on the trunk and head were
within +/-6% of the prescribed dose. Doses to the lungs were within +/-5% of the 
prescribed dose. There were no early respiratory deaths in the 37 autologous
transplant patients. There were 10 (17%) respiratory deaths in the 57 allogeneic 
transplant patients, 3 of confirmed infectious aetiology.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.74.887.741041 
PMID: 11709470  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Crit Rev Immunol. 2001;21(1-3):191-203.

Nonmyeloablative blood stem cell transplantation as adoptive allogeneic
immunotherapy for metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

Childs RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD, USA. childsr@nih.gov

Allogeneic stem cell transplantation has emerged as a potentially curative form
of immunotherapy for patients with hematological malignancies that are resistant 
to conventional chemo/radiotherapy. Donor T cell populations targeting allogeneic
minor histocompatibility antigens expressed on the patient's malignant cells are 
felt to be the driving force of the graft-versus-leukemia reaction, although to
date only a handful of these antigens have been fully characterized. Recent data 
from experimental animal models and limited clinical data in humans suggest that 
graft-versus-tumor effects, analogous to the graft-versus-leukemia reaction, may 
be generated against malignancies of epithelial origin. This article reviews the 
results of a pilot trial demonstrating graft-versus-renal cell carcinoma effects 
following nonmyeloablative stem cell transplantation, highlighting the potential 
of allogeneic immunotherapy for treating cancer.


PMID: 11642604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Trends Mol Med. 2001 Oct;7(10):471-5.

Spontaneous adenocarcinoma mouse models for immunotherapy.

Gendler SJ(1), Mukherjee P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology and Tumor Biology Program,
Mayo Medical/Graduate School, Mayo Clinic Scottsdale, 13400 E. Shea Blvd,
Scottsdale, AZ 85259, USA. gendler.sandra@mayo.edu

Recent discoveries regarding the identification of tumor-associated antigens and 
antigen presentation have made successful immunotherapy strategies possible with 
little, if any, toxicity. Here, we describe transgenic mammary, pancreas,
prostate, stomach and lung adenocarcinoma animal models that can be used to study
various immunotherapeutic strategies. The challenge in developing a tumor vaccine
is effective antigen presentation that elicits anti-tumor immune responses
without precipitating autoimmunity. Clinical trials must be preceded by
appropriate animal studies to demonstrate that the concepts can be translated
into efficacious therapy for cancer. Although many xenograph or transplantable
tumor models have been used, the most effective studies are in spontaneous tumor 
models. These models are clinically relevant, as tumors arise in an appropriate
tissue background and in a host conditioned by the physiological events of
neoplastic progression and tumorigenesis and in the context of a viable immune
system.


PMID: 11597523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Clin Transpl. 2000:411-65.

Annual literature review--clinical transplants 2000.

Markmann JF(1), Campos L, Velidedeoglu E, Guy TS, Moainie SL, Desai NM, Gorman
RC, Brayman KL, Naji A, Barker CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Pennsylvania Health System, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, USA.


PMID: 11512357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Curr Opin Urol. 2001 Sep;11(5):495-502.

Allogeneic stem cell transplantation for renal cell carcinoma.

Childs R(1), Drachenberg D.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1501, USA. childsr@nih.gov

Although the prognosis for patients with metastatic kidney cancer remains poor, a
number of promising immunotherapeutic approaches for the treatment of metastatic 
disease have been developed over the past decade. The response of some patients
to cytokines such as interleukin-2 and interferon-alpha, and more recently,
vaccination with dendritic cell/tumor fusions has laid the ground work for
ongoing immune-based investigational approaches. Allogeneic stem cell
transplantation is a potent form of immunotherapy capable of delivering
potentially curative immune-mediated anti-tumor effects against a number of
different hematological malignancies. Knowledge of renal cell carcinoma's unusual
susceptibility to immune attack has led to the hypothesis that tumor rejection,
mediated through immunocompetent donor T-cells, might be generated against this
solid tumor following the transplantation of an allogeneic immune system.
Although clinical trials are early and ongoing, the recent observation of
metastatic disease regression following non-myeloablative stem cell
transplantation has identified renal cell carcinoma as being susceptible to a
graft-versus-tumor effect. Disease responses following such therapy have ranged
from partial to complete and have been observed even in patients who have failed 
conventional cytokine based strategies. This article reviews the design,
methodology and early clinical results of studies investigating the use of
allogeneic stem cell transplantation in metastatic renal cell carcinoma.


PMID: 11493771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Semin Oncol. 2001 Apr;28(2 Suppl 4):30-7.

Alternatives to chemotherapy and radiotherapy in the treatment of small cell lung
cancer.

Shepherd FA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret Hospital,
Toronto, Ontario.

Despite high initial response rates, most patients with small cell lung cancer
(SCLC) relapse shortly after discontinuing therapy, and cure remains an elusive
goal, even for patients with limited-stage disease. For this reason,
investigators have turned to the evaluation of alternative treatment strategies
for patients with this malignancy. Interferon has been evaluated in four trials
of adjuvant therapy after response to chemotherapy for SCLC. Different interferon
preparations were used, but none of the trials showed a significant prolongation 
of survival. Tumor vaccines against gangliosides that are expressed on almost all
human SCLC cells have been recently developed. An anti-idiotypic monoclonal
antibody against the GD3 ganglioside, BEC-2, is being evaluated after
chemotherapy in SCLC patients in a European study. In North America, a bivalent
ganglioside vaccine, BMS-248967, is under study at the phase II level. If results
are promising, a phase III trial will be undertaken. Trials of anticoagulant
therapy using heparin, warfarin, and aspirin were undertaken in the 1980s and
early 1990s. Although one study of warfarin and another of heparin showed trends 
in favor of anticoagulant therapy, there has been little research over the past
decade evaluating this form of treatment of SCLC. The matrix metalloproteinase
inhibitors marimastat and BMS-275291 are under evaluation in SCLC. In all trials,
the matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor is administered after chemotherapy and
radiotherapy as adjuvant treatment. These trials are not yet mature and survival 
results are not available. Miscellaneous treatments, including monoclonal
antibody therapy, tamoxifen, and growth factor inhibition have not yet been shown
to have a role in the treatment of SCLC. Semin Oncol 28 (suppl 4):30-37.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company.


PMID: 11479895  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Q J Nucl Med. 2001 Jun;45(2):201-6.

Radiolabeled bivalent haptens for tumor immunodetection and radioimmunotherapy.

Gruaz-Guyon A(1), Janevik-Ivanovska E, Raguin O, De Labriolle-Vaylet C, Barbet J.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U.339, Faculté de Médecine et Hĵpital Saint-Antoine, Paris, France.
gruaz@adr.st-antoine.inserm.fr

The pretargeting technique referred to as the Affinity Enhancement System (AES)
uses bispecific antibodies and radiolabeled bivalent haptens that bind
cooperatively to target cells in vivo. Experimental and clinical data demonstrate
that DTPA bivalent haptens can deliver large radiation doses to tumor cells with 
high tumor to normal tissue contrast ratios and long activity residence time in
tumors. Preliminary clinical results of radioimmunotherapy of medullary thyroid
carcinomas and lung cancers look promising. Very encouraging results in
biodistribution and radioimmunotherapy experiments in animals have been obtained 
with new haptens bearing two histamine-hemisuccinate suitable for 131I, 99mTc and
188Re labeling. Targeting isotopes to double antigen positive tumor cells
provides a binding enhancement that increases specificity for tumor cells as
compared to single antigen targeting on normal cells. This approach may be
beneficial for targeting isotopes to B type acute lymphoblastic leukemia and
Burkitt lymphoma, as well as others tumors co-expressing two markers of low
specificity, and might increase tumor irradiation with minimal irradiation of
normal cells.


PMID: 11476171  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Rays. 2000 Jul-Sep;25(3):393-5.

Research trends in the treatment of colorectal cancer.

Valentini V(1), Mantini G, Turriziani A, Balducci M, Trodella L.

Author information: 
(1)Cattedra di Radioterapia, Università Cattolica del S. Cuore, Policlinico A.
Gemelli, Largo A. Gemelli 8, 00168 Roma, Italy. vvalentini@rm.unicatt.it

Colorectal carcinoma ranks second in incidence after lung cancer in males and
breast carcinoma in females. Within the clinical research on this tumor, new
molecules of antineoplastic agents and new combined modality treatments have been
introduced. From the examination of ongoing protocols some trends can be
identified: the interest in immunotherapy and genetic therapy, frequently tested 
in combination with chemotherapy; the effort at the optimization of the
administration of antineoplastic agents in the most common sites of metastatic
lesions by hepatic or intraperitoneal infusion; the trend to a more aggressive
treatment of metastastatic lesions with hyperthermia and cryoablation as well
with the combination of systemic therapy and surgery. As far as radiotherapy is
concerned, the main goals of clinical research seem represented by the need to
optimize combined modality therapy in T3-4 rectal carcinoma both in terms of pre-
and postoperative radiotherapy timing as well as of the combination with adjuvant
chemotherapy. There is a growing interest in new drugs which in the future may
replace the conventional 5-fluorouracil in concurrent chemoradiation.


PMID: 11367909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2001;7(4):223-9.

Prognostic factors for early severe pulmonary complications after hematopoietic
stem cell transplantation.

Ho VT(1), Weller E, Lee SJ, Alyea EP, Antin JH, Soiffer RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Adult Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Pulmonary complications are a significant cause of early mortality (before day
100) after bone marrow transplantation (BMT). To identify factors associated with
development of early post-BMT severe pulmonary complications (SPCs), we conducted
a retrospective review of the medical records of 339 consecutive patients who
underwent hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for hematologic disorders and
identified pulmonary complications that occurred before day 60
posttransplantation. SPCs, defined as (1) diagnosis of diffuse alveolar
hemorrhage, (2) need for mechanical ventilation, or (3) death from respiratory
failure, occurred in 48 (24%) of 199 patients receiving allogeneic transplants
and 4 (2.9%) of 140 patients receiving autologous transplants (P < .001).
Multiple clinical variables were analyzed to determine their influence on the
development of SPCs in allogeneic marrow recipients. The method of
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis was the single most important factor
affecting SPC incidence. Of patients who received cyclosporine/methotrexate
(CYA/MTX) as GVHD prophylaxis, 33% experienced SPCs compared with 8% of those
receiving T-cell depletion (TCD) alone (P < .0001). Multivariate analysis
confirmed that TCD was associated with a lower risk of SPCs (relative risk [RR], 
0.18; P = .0006). In addition to GVHD prophylaxis, a reduced pretransplantation
FEV1 (forced expiratory volume in 1 second) (< or = 80% of predicted) was
associated with an increased risk for SPCs (odds ratio, 4.4; P = .0025). Grades 2
to 4 acute GVHD, tobacco use, age > or = 50 years, sex, unrelated donor,
cytomegalovirus serologic status, disease status at transplantation,
pretransplantation carbon monoxide diffusing capacity, and total body irradiation
were not associated with development of SPCs. We conclude that autologous BMT is 
associated with a significantly lower incidence of SPCs compared with allogeneic 
BMT and that for allogeneic BMT, GVHD prophylaxis using TCD is associated with a 
significantly lower risk for SPCs compared with prophylaxis using CYA/MTX.
Patients with pretransplantation FEV1 of < or = 80% appear to have a higher risk 
for SPCs.


PMID: 11349809  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Vaccine. 2001 Mar 21;19(17-19):2565-70.

Autologous, hapten-modified vaccine as a treatment for human cancers.

Berd D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Medical Oncology, Thomas Jefferson
University, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. d_berd@lac.jci.tju.edu

We have devised a novel approach to active immunotherapy based on modification of
autologous cancer cells with the hapten, dinitrophenyl (DNP). The treatment
program consists of multiple intradermal injections of DNP-modified autologous
tumor cells mixed with BCG. Administration of DNP-vaccine to patients with
metastatic melanoma induces a unique reaction - the development of inflammation
in metastatic masses. Histologically, this consists of infiltration of T
lymphocytes, most of which are CD8+. These T cells usually produce gamma
interferon in situ. Moreover, they represent expansion of T cell clones with
novel T cell receptor structures. Occasionally, administration of DNP-vaccine
results in partial or complete regression of measurable metastases. The most
common site of regression has been small lung metastases. Administration of
DNP-vaccine to patients in the post-surgical adjuvant setting produces a more
striking clinical effect. We have treated 214 patients with clinically evident
stage III melanoma who had undergone lymphadenectomy. With a median follow-up
time of 4.4 years (1.8-10.4 years) the 5-year overall survival (OS) rate is 47%
(one nodal site = 51%, two nodal sites = 33%). These results appear to be
comparable to those obtained with high dose interferon. More recent studies
suggest that this therapeutic approach is also applicable to ovarian cancer.
There appear to be no insurmountable impediments to applying this approach to
much larger numbers of patients or to developing it as a standard cancer
treatment.


PMID: 11257393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Chest Surg Clin N Am. 2001 Feb;11(1):189-212, ix.

Novel molecular and immunotherapeutic strategies for lung cancer.

Pass HI(1), Kalemkerian G, Bright RK.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Surgery and Oncology, Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State
University, Detroit, Michigan, USA. passh@karmanos.org

Lung cancer therapy in the future will be guided by specific characteristics of
the individual tumor specimens. The molecular cancer phenotyping will allow for
targeted approaches based on the amplification of oncogenes, lack of tumor
suppressor genes, dysregulation of growth factors, and angiogenesis or matrix
metalloproteinases. Specific immunotherapeutic approaches based on.


PMID: 11253598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Chest Surg Clin N Am. 2001 Feb;11(1):165-88, ix.

Small-cell lung cancer.

Simon G(1), Ginsberg RJ, Ruckdeschel JC.

Author information: 
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, University of South
Florida College of Medicine, Tampa, Florida, USA.

The management of small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) evolved rapidly through the
1980s, but has stalled since then. The relative roles of surgery and radiotherapy
in this former systemic disease have been worked out well. The chemotherapy of
SCLC has progressed less rapidly. This article discusses the latest developments 
in each modality of treatment of SCLC and summarizes current treatment
strategies.


PMID: 11253596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Curr Opin Mol Ther. 2001 Feb;3(1):63-9.

The anti-idiotype vaccines for immunotherapy.

Bhattacharya-Chatterjee M(1), Chatterjee SK, Foon KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and the Barrett Cancer Center, University of
Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45267-0509, USA. malaya.chatterjee@uc.edu

Certain anti-idiotypic antibodies that bind to the antigen-combining sites of
antibodies can effectively mimic the three-dimensional structures and functions
of the external antigens and can be used as surrogate antigens for active
specific immunotherapy. Extensive studies in animal models have demonstrated the 
efficacy of these vaccines for triggering the immune system to induce specific
and protective immunity against bacterial, viral and parasitic infections as well
as tumors. Several monoclonal anti-idiotype antibodies that mimic distinct human 
tumor-associated antigens have been developed and characterized. Encouraging
results have been obtained in recent clinical trials using these anti-idiotype
antibodies as vaccines. In this article, we will review the current literature
and discuss the potential of this novel therapeutic approach for various human
cancers.


PMID: 11249733  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Cancer Treat Res. 2001;105:1-30.

Biological considerations in lung cancer.

Almand B(1), Carbone DP.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, TN 37232, USA.

Our understanding of lung cancer biology has rapidly expanded in recent years.
Lung cancer, unlike most human cancers, can be traced to an environmental risk
factor in the majority of cases, and this fact is reflected in the vast number of
genetic alterations discovered in lung tumors whose pathogenesis is believed to
be mediated by carcinogen exposure. The discovery of these alterations has led to
a greater understanding of tumor development. The dramatic progress in the
understanding of the genetic and molecular basis of oncogenesis and the induction
of immunity has led to a rejuvenation of efforts to apply this new knowledge to
this common and refractory disease. Further, the resurgent interest in cancer
immunology and tumor-host interactions holds promise for the development of new
approaches to treatment based on harvesting the immune systems ability to
recognize these alterations. Hopefully, this understanding will lead to novel
approaches with real and convincing clinical efficacy once some of these
strategies are tested in carefully performed randomized clinical trials with
appropriate power to detect meaningful differences.


PMID: 11224984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Brain Tumor Pathol. 2000;17(2):71-8.

EGFRvIII as a promising target for antibody-based brain tumor therapy.

Kuan CT(1), Wikstrand CJ, Bigner DD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710,
USA.

Cell surface receptors are attractive candidates for targeted therapy of cancer. 
Growth factors and their receptors play important roles in the regulation of cell
division, development, and differentiation. Among those, the epidermal growth
factor receptor (EGFR) was the first identified to be amplified and/or rearranged
in malignant gliomas. The most common rearranged form, EGFR type III variant
(EGFRvIII), has a deletion in its extracellular domain that results in the
formation of a new, tumor-specific target found in glioblastoma multiforme, as
well as in breast, ovarian, prostate, and lung carcinomas. Monoclonal antibodies 
have been developed with specific activity against this mutant receptor. These
antibodies are internalized into the cell after receptor binding. Specific
antibodies, either unarmed or armed with cytotoxic agents, including
radioisotopes and toxins, have shown a promising role for EGFRvIII as a target
for brain tumor therapy.


PMID: 11210174  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Am J Med Sci. 2001 Jan;321(1):56-65.

Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients without HIV infection.

Russian DA(1), Levine SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Critical Care Medicine Department, Warren Grant Magnuson Clinical Center and
the Pulmonary-Critical Care Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1590, USA.

Pneumocystis carinii is an important, but sporadic, opportunistic pulmonary
pathogen in immunosuppressed HIV seronegative persons. Historically, patients at 
highest risk for P. carinii pneumonia are included infants with severe
malnutrition, children with primary immunodeficiencies, patients with
hematological malignancies, and recipients of solid organ or bone marrow
transplants. Recently, solid tumor patients, in particular those receiving
high-dose corticosteroids for brain neoplasms, and patients with inflammatory or 
collagen-vascular disorders, especially patients with Wegener granulomatosis
receiving immunosuppressive therapy, have been identified as subgroups at
increased risk for P. carinii pneumonia. Other factors associated with P. carinii
pneumonia include the intensity of the immunosuppressive regimen and tapering
doses of corticosteroids. Because P. carinii pneumonia is associated with
significant morbidity and mortality, it is important to identify high-risk
patient populations to administer effective chemoprophylactic agents, such as
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.


PMID: 11202481  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Nihon Rinsho. 2001 Jan;59(1):81-4.

[Perspectives on postgenome medicine: Gene therapy for lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Hagiwara K(1), Saijo Y.

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory Medicine and Translational Research Clinic, Tohoku University
Hospital.

The gene therapy or the immunotherapy targeting specific molecule(s) have just
introduced into the clinical field in Japan. The first gene therapy for the human
lung cancer is underway; an adenoviral vector harboring wild type p53 gene is
intratumorally injected. A cancer immunotherapy using the Cyclophilin B derived
peptide is in the phase I clinical trial. As the next generation cancer
therapies, a variety of strategies are planned and investigated at the laboratory
level. They range from the usage of a new viral vector to the introduction of
genes with specific biological functions into the cells. In this article, by
reviewing the possible approach, an ideal combination of the future remedies is
discussed.


PMID: 11197867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Radiol Med. 1999 Dec;98(6):524-6.

Rapidly growing bronchogenic adenocarcinoma in native lung following unilateral
lung transplantation. CT findings in a case.

La Fianza A(1), Alberici E, Preda L, Petullà M, Minzioni G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pavia, IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo.
istirad@smatteo.pv.it


PMID: 10755019  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Ann Oncol. 2000 Nov;11(11):1451-62.

Allogeneic and autologous stem-cell transplantation in advanced Ewing tumors. An 
update after long-term follow-up from two centers of the European Intergroup
study EICESS. Stem-Cell Transplant Programs at Düsseldorf University Medical
Center, Germany and St. Anna Kinderspital, Vienna, Austria.

Burdach S(1), van Kaick B, Laws HJ, Ahrens S, Haase R, Körholz D, Pape H, Dunst
J, Kahn T, Willers R, Engel B, Dirksen U, Kramm C, Nürnberger W, Heyll A,
Ladenstein R, Gadner H, Jürgens H, Go el U.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Children' s Hospital Medical
Center, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle, Germany.
stefan.burdach@medizin.uni-halle.de

BACKGROUND: An update of results from the High Risk Protocol of the Meta-EICESS
Study, conducted at the Pediatric Stem-Cell Transplant Centers of Düsseldorf and 
Vienna. In order to evaluate a possible therapeutic benefit after allogeneic SCT 
in patients with advanced Ewing tumors (AET), we compared outcome after
autologous and allogeneic stem-cell transplantation (SCT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed 36 patients treated with the myeloablative
Hyper-ME protocol (hyperfractionated total body irradiation, melphalan, etoposide
+/- carboplatin) between November 1986 and December 1994. Minimal follow-up for
all patients was five years. All patients underwent remission induction
chemotherapy and local treatment before myeloablative therapy. Seventeen of
thirty-six patients had multifocal primary Ewing's tumor, eighteen of thirty-six 
had early, multiple or multifocal relapse, one of thirty-six patients had
unifocal late relapse. Twenty-six of thirty-six were treated with autologous and 
ten of thirty-six with allogeneic hematopoietic stem cells. We analyzed the
following risk factors, that could possibly influence the event-free survival
(EFS): number of involved bones, degree of remission at time of SCT, type of
graft, indication for SCT, bone marrow infiltration, bone with concomitant lung
disease, age at time of diagnosis, pelvic involvement, involved compartment
radiation, histopathological diagnosis.
RESULTS: EFS for the 36 patients was 0.24 (0.21) +/- 0.07. Eighteen of thirty-six
patients suffered relapse or died of disease, nine of thirty-six died of
treatment related toxicity (DOC). Nine of thirty-six patients are alive in CR.
Age > or = 17 years at initial diagnosis (P < 0.005) significantly deteriorated
outcome. According to the type of graft, EFS was 0.25 +/- 0.08 after autologous
and 0.20 +/- 0.13 after allogeneic SCT. Incidence of DOC was more than twice as
high after allogeneic (40%) compared to autologous (19%) SCT, even though the
difference did not reach significance (P = 0.08, Fisher's exact test).
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the rather short observation period. secondary malignant 
neoplasms (SMN) may complicate the future clinical course of some of our patients
who are currently viewed as event-free survivors. EFS in AET is not improved by
allogeneic SCT due to a higher complication rate. The patient group was to small 
to analyze for a possible graft-versus-tumor effect.


PMID: 11142486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


908. J Surg Oncol. 2000 Dec;75(4):266-9.

Treatment of childhood renal cell carcinoma with lymph node metastasis: two cases
and a review of literature.

Uchiyama M(1), Iwafuchi M, Yagi M, Iinuma Y, Ohtaki M, Tomita Y, Hirota M,
Kataoka S, Asami K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Niigata University School of Medicine,
Niigata, Japan. uchii@med.niigata-u.ac.jp

Standard treatment for renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is radical nephrectomy with
lymph node dissection. Stages I and II have encouraging prognoses, but Stage III 
with regional lymph node metastasis can be unfavorable. Adjuvant therapy for
pediatric patients with advanced RCC with lymph node involvement or metastatic
lesion has not been defined. Advanced pediatric RCC is reported in two patients
(boys, aged 6 and 9 years: Stage IIIs, Robson; Stage III and IV, pTNM
classification) treated by nephrectomy and lymph node dissection followed by
postoperative interferon-alpha (IFN), that can be used as an adjuvant therapy
with side effects such as fever, bone marrow suppression, or decreased liver
function. One is doing well for 7 years, another is suffered from lung metastases
at 3 years after surgery. Although immunotherapy is expected to improve survival 
in pediatric patients with advanced RCC, surgical resection of renal and
metastatic tumors remains the standard treatment.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.


PMID: 11135269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2000 Nov;26(9):1021-4.

Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder after autologous peripheral stem
cell transplantation in a pediatric patient.

Lones MA(1), Kirov I, Said JW, Shintaku IP, Neudorf S.

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Department, Children's Hospital of Orange County/St Joseph Hospital,
Orange, CA 92863-5600, USA.

Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) is a complication of
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Rare cases of PTLD after autologous
BMT have been reported only in adults. This case report is the first to describe 
PTLD in a pediatric patient after autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation
(PSCT). This 2-year-old male with stage IV neuroblastoma underwent autologous
PSCT. The post-PSCT course was complicated by fever with hematochezia and a lung 
mass. On day 94 post PSCT, colonoscopy revealed an ulcer due to a PTLD,
monomorphic type, B cell phenotype, associated with Epstein-Barr virus. Fine
needle aspiration identified the lung mass as neuroblastoma. PTLD can occur in
pediatric autologous PSCT recipients, and may occur more frequently in autologous
grafts manipulated by T cell depletion or CD34+ cell selection.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1702593 
PMID: 11100284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Br J Haematol. 2000 Oct;111(1):6-17.

Non-myeloablative stem cell transplants.

Barrett J(1), Childs R.

Author information: 
(1)Bone Marrow Transplant Unit, Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
barrettj@nih.gov


PMID: 11091178  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Ann Oncol. 2000;11 Suppl 3:85-95.

Combined modality therapy in NSCLC.

Eberhardt W(1), Bildat S, Korfee S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (Cancer Research), University of Essen Medical
School, Germany.

Combined modality treatment has 'come out of age' and increasingly represents
standard of care for a rapidly growing number of patients in locally advanced
stages of NSCLC. Modern progress of treatment techniques as well as possibilities
for supportive interventions will lead to lesser treatment toxicities, better
patient's compliance to treatment protocols and combinations of different
modalities with a more efficient outcome. This number will further increase, as
more and more centres in Europe are setting up the logistics of multidisciplinary
treatment groups for patients with lung cancer. Standard of care for most disease
stages is currently under investigation in large randomised phase-III trials.
Further research in the forthcoming years has to address questions of treatment
individualisation (risks, prognosis, need for local control in the individual
patient, biological evaluation of tumour aggressiveness, DNA-fingerprinting of
tumours, evaluation of MRD-status, treatment in the community). New drugs or
treatment principles with different mechanisms of action such as antiangiogenesis
factors, signal-transduction inhibitors, immunotherapy,
antisense-oligonucleotides or gene(replacement) therapy may stimulate further
clinical research. This may eventually define 'new modalities of treatment' thus 
leading to modern 'second-generation combined-modality protocols' including some 
of the new principles.


PMID: 11079124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2000 Apr;9(4):727-33.

Immunotherapeutic approaches to paraneoplastic neurological disorders.

Blaes F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Justus-Liebig University, Am Steg 14, 35385 Giessen
35385 Giessen, Germany. Franz.Blaes@neuro.med.uni-giessen.de

Paraneoplastic neurological disorders (PNDs) are disturbances of the nervous
system function in cancer patients, which are not due to a local effect of the
tumour or its metastases. This review focuses on the neuromuscular PND and
central nervous system (CNS) PND, which are by far the most problematic group to 
treat. Most of these clinically well-defined syndromes are associated with lung
cancer, especially small cell lung cancer (SCLC), lymphoma and gynaecological
tumours. Since auto-antibodies directed against proteins expressed in neurones
and tumour cells have been found, PNDs are suspected to be autoimmune. In
neuromuscular PND, immunosuppressive therapies, plasmapheresis and iv.
immunoglobulins (iv. Ig) have proven to be effective. In PND of the CNS, therapy 
of the tumour itself or immunosuppressive drugs seem to have little effect on the
neurological syndromes. Plasmapheresis reduces the auto-antibody titre in the
sera of these patients, but does not lead to a clinical improvement. This review 
presents an overview on the pathogenesis of PND and the possible benefit of an
early immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory treatment, especially treatment with 
iv. immunoglobulins.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.9.4.727	 
PMID: 11060705  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Curr Opin Hematol. 2000 Nov;7(6):339-42.

Conditioning regimens for allogeneic stem cell transplants.

Barrett AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant Section, Hematology Branch, National Heart,
Lung and Blood Institute, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892,
USA. barrettj@nih.gov

In addition to providing cytoreduction at myeloablative dose intensity,
conditioning regimens for allogeneic transplantation are designed to
immunosuppress the recipient to permit donor lymphohematopoietic engraftment and 
thereby establish a graft-versus-malignancy effect. Increased confidence in the
potency of this allogeneic graft-versus-malignancy effect, together with the need
to reduce dose intensity to make transplantation safer and more widely applicable
in older patients, has led to a conceptual revolution in conditioning regimen
design. Novel nonmyeloablative transplant conditioning treatments have low
regimen-related toxicity and low transplant-related mortality. The transplants
confer a graft-versus-malignancy effect in myeloid and lymphoid malignancies and 
in metastatic renal cell cancer. Future prospects are for low toxicity
conditioning regimens combined with specific antileukemia or antitumor
intensification with radioconjugated or unmodified antibodies and the application
of highly immunosuppressive but low toxicity conditioning regimens for mismatched
transplants.


PMID: 11055505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 2000 Sep;101(9):607-11.

[Antibody treatment for cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Sasaki S(1), Ozeki I, Takekawa M, Tsujisaki M, Imai K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (Section 1), Sapporo Medical University,
Japan.

The previous pessimistic view of monoclonal antibodies as cancer therapeutics was
largely influenced by the negative results of multiple clinical trials initiated 
shortly after the introduction of hybridoma technology. Although murine
antibodies are of value in cancer therapy, their effectiveness is limited because
murine monoclonal antibodies have a short survival time in humans and induce an
immune response that neutralizes their therapeutic effect. Furthermore, the
responses induced by murine antibodies are limited because they only weakly
recruit human effector elements. To circumvent these problems, genetically
engineered antibodies were produced which were mouse-human chimeric monoclonal
antibodies and humanized antibodies. These antibodies combine the murine variable
or hypervariable regions with the human constant or constant and variable
framework regions. Numerous published studies demonstrate that erbB-2 oncogene
product overexpression is a frequent cause of breast, ovarian, lung, and gastric 
cancers. Recently, an anti-erbB-2 humanized monoclonal antibody has been
generated and used in clinical trials with high clinical response rates. We
generated the anti-erbB-2 mouse-human chimeric monoclonal antibody CH401, which
was able to kill cancer cells. An analysis of the mechanism of its tumor growth
inhibition revealed that the cytotoxicity was induced by apoptosis. This
cytotoxic mechanism is not the same a that of other anti-erbB-2 antibodies
previously reported.


PMID: 11022675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Urologe A. 2000 Jul;39(4):356-61.

[Treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Value of immunotherapy compared
with surgery of metastases].

[Article in German]

Heinzer H(1), Huland E, Huland H.

Author information: 
(1)Urologische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universitätskrankenhaus Eppendorf, Hamburg.
heinzer@uke.uni-hamburg.de

The prognosis for patients in whom metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is not
treated is unfavorable, with a reported 5-year survival of 0-18%. Before the era 
of immunotherapy and in the absence of effective nonsurgical therapy, resection
of metastases was the accepted way to prolong survival, giving a 5-year survival 
of 7-69%. Retrospective studies have shown that several clinical factors are
associated with a relatively good prognosis. Some patients will benefit from
resection of metastases, but most patients with metastatic RCC are not candidates
for such aggressive surgery. The use of interleukin-2 has demonstrated that
immunotherapy can produce durable remissions. Without randomized trials, it is
difficult to know whether survival is longer than that in untreated patients, but
there is clear evidence that immunotherapy improves survival and yields
long-lasting remissions in selected patients. Many questions remain concerning
quality of life and the benefit-to-risk ratio of immunotherapy, but it is the
most effective treatment for metastatic RCC.


PMID: 10957779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Cancer Treat Rev. 2000 Aug;26(4):269-86.

Monoclonal antibody therapy for solid tumors.

Green MC(1), Murray JL, Hortobagyi GN.

Author information: 
(1)The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe, Houston,
TX 77030, USA.

Monoclonal antibody therapy for solid tumors has many theoretical attractions and
a long history. Until recently, with the approval and widespread use of rituximab
(Rituxan) and trastuzumab (Herceptin), monoclonal antibody therapy for tumors had
not had significant success. This article reviews basic theories behind antibody 
development and their clinical implementation as treatment for solid tumors.
Medline was searched for articles over the past 15 years dealing with laboratory 
and clinical applications of antibody therapy for solid tumors. In addition,
American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) abstracts from the past 3 years were
reviewed to complement the Medline search. This article focuses on treatment for 
common solid tumors, including breast, colon and lung cancers.

Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/ctrv.2000.0176 
PMID: 10913382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2000 Jun;27(6):817-23.

[Reevaluation of immunopotentiation therapy for cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Toyoshima K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sumitomo Hospital.

Various cancer immunotherapies are thought to be insufficient to suppress cancers
by themselves. Thus, they are usually applied in cancer therapy as an
immunopotentiator in combination with chemotherapy. However, chemotherapy itself 
seems to be hazardous for activated immune cells. On the other hand,
immunotherapy after surgical treatment for cancer patients of stages I through
III significantly reduced cancer deaths compared to historical control data for
the same surgeon team. Some lymph node metastases are cured by immunotherapy
after resection of the main tumors. The potential of immunocancer therapy and
problems in the future development of new cancer therapies are discussed.


PMID: 10897207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Biomed Sci. 2000 Jul-Aug;7(4):292-8.

Inhibition of ras oncogene: a novel approach to antineoplastic therapy.

Scharovsky OG(1), Rozados VR, Gervasoni SI, Matar P.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Genética Experimental, Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, Universidad 
Nacional de Rosario, Argentina. ogs@citynet.net.ar

The most frequently detected oncogene alterations, both in animal and human
cancers, are the mutations in the ras oncogene family. These oncogenes are
mutated or overexpressed in many human tumors, with a high incidence in tumors of
the pancreas, thyroid, colon, lung and certain types of leukemia. Ras is a small 
guanine nucleotide binding protein that transduces biological information from
the cell surface to cytoplasmic components within cells. The signal is transduced
to the cell nucleus through second messengers, and it ultimately induces cell
division. Oncogenic forms of p21(ras) lead to unregulated, sustained signaling
through downstream effectors. The ras family of oncogenes is involved in the
development of both primary tumors and metastases making it a good therapeutic
target. Several therapeutic approaches to cancer have been developed pointing to 
reducing the altered gene product or to eliminating its biological function: (1) 
gene therapy with ribozymes, which are able to break down specific RNA sequences,
or with antisense oligonucleotides, (2) immunotherapy through passive or active
immunization protocols, and (3) inhibition of p21(ras) farnesylation either by
inhibition of farnesyl transferase or synthesis inhibition of farnesyl moieties.

Copyright 2000 National Science Council, ROC and S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 25462 
PMID: 10895051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Cancer J. 2000 May;6 Suppl 3:S281-90.

Augmentation of host immune responses to cancer: overcoming the barrier of tumor 
antigen-specific T-cell tolerance.

Levitsky HI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.


PMID: 10874499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Cancer Biother Radiopharm. 1999 Jun;14(3):153-66.

Pretargeting with the affinity enhancement system for radioimmunotherapy.

Barbet J(1), Kraeber-Bodéré F, Vuillez JP, Gautherot E, Rouvier E, Chatal JF.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM Research Unit 463, Nantes, France.

The pretargeting technique referred to as the Affinity Enhancement System (AES)
uses bispecific antibodies and radiolabeled bivalent haptens that bind
cooperatively to target cells in vivo. Experimental and clinical data demonstrate
that AES can deliver large radiation doses to tumor cells with high tumor to
normal tissue contrast ratios and long activity residence time in tumors.
Preliminary clinical results of radioimmunotherapy of medullary thyroid
carcinomas and lung cancers look promising.

DOI: 10.1089/cbr.1999.14.153 
PMID: 10850300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Nihon Rinsho. 2000 May;58(5):1098-102.

[Immunogene therapy for lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Nukiwa T(1), Saijo Y, Tanaka M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer, Tohoku University.


PMID: 10824556  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Cancer Biother Radiopharm. 2000 Apr;15(2):201-5.

Apparent pokeweed mitogen cure of metastatic gum melanoma in an older dog.

Wimer BM(1), Mann PL.

Author information: 
(1)JBMW Immunotherapeutics, Albuquerque, NM 87123-4255, USA.

Immunotherapy with plant mitogens has been of increasing interest to both
authors, although their mutual attraction to these substances over the past two
decades occurred independently and has taken divergent pathways from the start.
Because of their clinical unavailability, Wimer's efforts have been confined to
writing theoretical concepts on potential applications of the mitogens focusing
on the L4 isolectin of PHA. Alternatively, Mann has worked actively with
laboratory and experimental research involving PWM that he has extracted himself.
As a sequel to a pilot study of PWM cancer treatment in pets whereby he supplies 
the mitogen, protocol, and data sheets and veterinarians supervise the
administration, Mann acquiesced to widespread requests for inclusion in an
extended investigation. Unfortunately, this arrangement has left Mann with little
control over data submission, and until recently, only verbal reports have been
received. The recent documentation of a three-year remission and apparent cure of
gum melanoma metastatic to regional and hilar lymph nodes and to the lungs in an 
aged dog following PWM therapy has prompted this case report. The incredible
response has inspired more aggressive attempts to obtain information from other
recipients of the mitogen. The small total dose of 300 micrograms inducing a
remission does speak for the remarkable potency of PWM that may be 500 or more
times that of PHA. However, the possibility that melanoma is a uniquely
responsive tumor is suggested by a 1971 article indicating complete remission of 
metastatic melanoma in an 18-year-old lad to an unexpectedly low total dose of 50
mg PHA. Preliminary reports on other tumors treated with PWM indicate some
impressive responses have occurred, although they also suggest that Mann's
regimen may sometimes require adjustments in dosages and other variables
previously reviewed in theoretical PHA-L4 models, to which this case report now
contributes validity.

DOI: 10.1089/cbr.2000.15.201 
PMID: 10803326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Pathol Res Pract. 2000;196(4):209-18.

Prognostic implication of human papillomavirus infection in squamous cell
carcinoma of the lung.

Iwamasa T(1), Miyagi J, Tsuhako K, Kinjo T, Kamada Y, Hirayasu T, Genka K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Ryukyu University School of Medicine, Okinawa, Japan.

On the subtropical island of Okinawa, squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), particularly
the well-differentiated form, is the most frequent type of lung cancer, while
this form is relatively rare on the Japanese mainland and in other countries.
Furthermore, in Okinawa, in 1993, 80% of SCC cases of the lung were found to be
infected with human papillomavirus (HPV). We studied the prognosis of SCC of the 
lung with HPV infection (n = 25) and compared it with non-HPV-infected SCC (n =
16). Using the Kaplan-Meier method (Wilcoxon analysis), the prognosis of
HPV-infected cases was found to be better than that of the non-infected cases. In
the virus-infected cases, apoptosis and infiltration of a large number of
Langerhans cells were demonstrated. In addition to these findings, the
virus-infected tumors were demonstrated to be histologically well-differentiated,
perhaps contributing to the favorable prognosis. However, among the
virus-infected cases, the type 16 virus-infected cases showed a poorer prognosis,
compared to those infected with other HPV types. p53 gene mutation was also
examined, and was considered to be an unfavorable prognostic factor, as reported 
elsewhere. However, in Okinawa, HPV-positive cases with p53 mutations showed a
slightly better prognosis than did non-viral infected cases with p53 mutations.
The TNM staging system was also useful for categorizing the virus-infected cases.
The prognosis of stage III (A and B) cases was poor. All of our present cases
received surgical treatment. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy were not
performed. Such treatment, however, might be effective, because virus-infected
uterine cervical carcinomas have been routinely treated with chemotherapy and
radiation. Furthermore, if the immunological basis of increased Langerhans cell
infiltration in HPV-infected cases is elucidated, a clinical trial with
immunotherapy may be favorable for the clinical outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/S0344-0338(00)80069-2 
PMID: 10782464  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Ann Intern Med. 2000 Apr 18;132(8):649-60.

Gene therapy for lung disease: hype or hope?

Albelda SM(1), Wiewrodt R, Zuckerman JB.

Author information: 
(1)University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, USA.
albelda@mail.med.upenn.edu

Gene therapy, the treatment of any disorder or pathophysiologic state on the
basis of the transfer of genetic information, was a high-priority goal in the
1990s. The lung is a major target of gene therapy for genetic disorders, such as 
cystic fibrosis and alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency, and for other diseases,
including lung cancer, malignant mesothelioma, pulmonary inflammation, surfactant
deficiency, and pulmonary hypertension. This paper examines general concepts in
gene therapy, summarizes the results of published clinical trials, and highlights
areas of research aimed at overcoming challenges in the field. Although progress 
has been slower than anticipated, gene transfer has been safely achieved in
patients with lung diseases. Recent advancements in understanding of the
molecular basis of lung disease and the development of improved vector systems
make it likely that gene therapy will be an important tool for the 21st-century
clinician.


PMID: 10766684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Curr Opin Oncol. 2000 Mar;12(2):138-42.

Gene therapy for lung cancer.

Antonia SJ(1), Sotomayor E.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Investigations Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, Florida 
33612, USA. antonias@moffitt.usf.edu

The advances that have been made over the past decade in the field of gene
transfer as well as in the fields of immunology and the molecular biology of
tumorigenesis have brought to reality the possibility of using gene transfer as
an anti-cancer treatment modality. The published results of clinical trials using
this approach to date have been very limited, and a considerable amount of work
still needs to be done in order to make this an effective treatment modality.
However the developments that have occurred in the past several years indicate
that this modality will become efficacious in the foreseeable future.


PMID: 10750725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 2000 Mar;6(2):157-63.

Mesothelioma: new concepts in diagnosis and management.

Boylan AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ralph H. Johnson VA Medical Center, Center for Molecular and Structural
Biology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 29425, USA.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma is an uncommon, but no longer rare, cancer that is
frequently difficult to diagnose and poorly responsive to therapy. Because of the
difficulties distinguishing mesothelioma from metastatic adenocarcinoma and
reactive pleural inflammation, thoracoscopy or open lung biopsy are usually
required to obtain adequate samples for pathologic evaluation. Staging of
mesothelioma remains a controversial area. Because none of the six staging
systems used in the past was found to be predictive, a TNM-based staging system
was recently proposed and is awaiting universal acceptance. Generally perceived
as a death sentence, this cancer is associated with a median survival of 9 months
from the time of diagnosis in most series, but newer therapeutic strategies show 
promise for improved and even long-term survival in select cases. Randomized
trials are awaited to determine if the improvements in survival reported are not 
simply due to patient selection.


PMID: 10741777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Oncogene. 2000 Feb 21;19(8):1020-7.

The C3(1)/SV40 T-antigen transgenic mouse model of mammary cancer: ductal
epithelial cell targeting with multistage progression to carcinoma.

Green JE(1), Shibata MA, Yoshidome K, Liu ML, Jorcyk C, Anver MR, Wigginton J,
Wiltrout R, Shibata E, Kaczmarczyk S, Wang W, Liu ZY, Calvo A, Couldrey C.

Author information: 
(1)Transgenic Oncogenesis Group, Laboratory of Cell Regulation and
Carcinogenesis, Building 41, Room C629, NCI, Bethesda, Maryland, MD 20892, USA.

The 5' flanking region of the C3(1) component of the rat prostate steroid binding
protein (PSBP) has been used to successfully target the expression of the SV40
large T-antigen (Tag) to the epithelium of both the mammary and prostate glands
resulting in models of mammary and prostate cancers which histologically resemble
the human diseases. Atypia of the mammary ductal epithelium develops at about 8
weeks of age, progressing to mammary intraepithelial neoplasia (resembling human 
ductal carcinoma in situ [DCIS]) at about 12 weeks of age with the development of
invasive carcinomas at about 16 weeks of age in 100% of female mice. The
carcinomas share features to what has been classified in human breast cancer as
infiltrating ductal carcinomas. All FVB/N female mice carrying the transgene
develop mammary cancer with about a 15% incidence of lung metastases.
Approximately 10% of older male mice develop anaplastic mammary carcinomas.
Unlike many other transgenic models in which hormones and pregnancy are used to
induce a mammary phenotype, C3(1)/Tag mice develop mammary tumors in the mammary 
epithelium of virgin animals without hormone supplementation or pregnancy.
Although mammary tumor development appears hormone-responsive at early stages,
invasive carcinomas are hormone-independent, which corresponds to the loss of
estrogen receptor-alpha expression during tumor progression. Molecular and
biologic factors related to mammary tumor progression can be studied in this
model since lesions evolve over a predictable time course. Genomic alterations
have been identified during tumor progression, including an amplification of the 
distal portion of chromosome 6 containing ki-ras and loss of heterozygosity (LOH)
in other chromosomal regions. We have demonstrated that stage specific
alterations in the expression of genes which are critical regulators of the cell 
cycle and apoptosis are functionally important in vivo. C3(1)/Tag mice appear
useful for testing particular therapies since growth of the mammary tumors can be
reduced using chemopreventive agents, cytokines, and an anti-angiogenesis agent.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1203280 
PMID: 10713685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Anticancer Res. 1999 Nov-Dec;19(6C):5645-9.

Adoptive immunotherapy of advanced solid tumors: an eight year clinical
experience.

Semino C(1), Martini L, Queirolo P, Cangemi G, Costa R, Alloisio A, Ferlazzo G,
Sertoli MR, Reali UM, Ratto GB, Melioli G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio di Immunoterapia Cellulare, Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul 
Cancro, Genova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Adoptive immunotherapy (AI) of cancer, based upon the injection of in
vitro manipulated autologous lymphocytes is still in an experimental phase. Our
group started different clinical trials of AI in early 1990, and, at present,
some specific targets for this approach seem to have been identified.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 296 patients with solid tumors (melanoma, kidney carcinoma,
non-small-cell lung cancer, mesothelioma, neoplastic pleural effusion, and liver 
cancer) were treated with either locoregional or systemic adoptive immunotherapy 
(AI) using both LAK and TIL cells in combination with s.c. rIL-2.
RESULTS: The surgery/AI combination resulted in good clinical results,
characterized by enhanced survival and long lasting disease free periods in a
significant number of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: AI seems to be efficacious in the treatment of melanoma, lung and
hepatic cancers. Further studies will expand the application of the treatment to 
other malignancies.


PMID: 10697634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Urol Int. 1999;63(1):10-5.

Operative therapy in disease progression and local recurrence of renal cell
carcinoma.

Fischer CG(1), Schmid H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, University of Giessen, Germany.
claus.fischer@chiru.med.uni-giessen.de

When local recurrence or distant metastasis occurs, the question arises as to
which therapeutic concept should be applied. In contrast to the data on systemic 
immunotherapy, there are no systematic studies on surgical management of
metastasis. Local recurrence (a rare condition) is frequently resected, whereby a
prolongation of life can be achieved in individual cases. The complete surgical
resection of pulmonary metastases has been shown, in a number of studies, to
achieve a survival rate of 5 years in up to 44% of the cases. There are only few 
data regarding resection of osseous metastases; although in this respect some
studies have reported an average survival rate of 34 months, the indication for
this condition has, up to now, usually been seen as palliative. The prognosis of 
liver or brain metastasis is unfavorable; the survival rates achieved with the
help of surgical procedures are scarcely higher than those resulting from the
spontaneous progression of metastatic renal carcinoma (12 months). Thus, there is
an urgent need for further studies in order to define the indication for the
surgical management of metastasis.

Copyright 1999 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 30412 
PMID: 10592484  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Bull Cancer. 1999 Oct;Suppl 3:43-54.

[Malignant pleural mesothelioma].

[Article in French]

Gross-Goupil M(1), Ruffié P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Gustave-Roussy, rue Camille-Desmoulins, 94805 Villejuif.

The malignant pleural mesothelioma is a rare tumor of the general population. The
exposure of asbestos still remains the main factor of risk, found in 72 to 95 %
of the patients. The diagnosis is difficult. The symptoms are poor, with most
often chronic pleural effusion, with dyspnea, associated with localized chest
pain. The histological diagnosis is made on thoracoscopic biopsy. Analysis of the
histochemical profile (PAS-D, hyaluronidase, vimentine), the use of
immunochemistry (CEA, keratines), and electron microscopy can facilitate the
making of the diagnosis. There is 3 different entities of malignant mesothelioma:
the epithelial type, mixed, and sarcomatous. The tagging is based on thoracic
scanner, to determinate the extent of the tumor, her relation with the local
structures, and the possible involvement of the mediastinal lymph nodes. There is
several staging systems, the Butchart's staging classification, and most recently
the IMIG (International Mesothelioma Interest Group) classification. The
significant prognostic factors, in multivariate analysis are: the stage of the
disease, the histologic type, and the performance status of the patient. The
current therapeutic maneuvers (surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy) did not show 
significant improvement of the survival. The radical surgery, like
pleuropneumonectomy, should be consider only for patients with an early stage of 
the disease. The chemotherapy, with single agent or in combination, still remains
disappointing, with objective response rates between 20 and 30 %, in best cases. 
The curative radiotherapy is limited by the importance of the target-volume, and 
the proximity of critical organ (lung, heart). Only the preventive radiotherapy, 
on scars, niddle or surgical tracts is recommended. Immunotherapy, by systemic or
intracavitary administration, remains limited because of the toxicity, especially
infection. All of the therapeutic maneuvers should be proposed in clinical
trials.


PMID: 10585573  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Oncology (Williston Park). 1999 Oct;13(10 Suppl 5):142-7.

Molecular modalities in the treatment of lung cancer.

Carbone DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.

Despite recent advances in the treatment of lung cancer, long-term survival
remains rare. As more information pertaining to the biology of lung cancer is
understood, it is hoped that improvements in outcome can be realized with the use
of molecularly based therapies. The identification of gene mutations in lung
cancer has led to the development of inhibitory therapies, including antisense
oligonucleotides and direct injection of tumor-suppressor genes, such as
wild-type p53. Other therapeutic approaches are targeted at inhibiting
angiogenesis by blocking endogenous growth factors with antibodies or
administering natural antiangiogenic substances. Recognition of the dendritic
cell as one of the primary cells responsible for antitumor immunity has
encouraged studies of immunotherapy for patients with lung cancer. In addition,
studies have shown that dendritic cell function is defective in tumor-bearing
animals. Research continues to explore of the effect of tumor on immune cell
function and ways to overcome such defects. Rationally derived therapies based on
these biological findings may advance the treatment, as well as early detection
and prevention, of lung cancer, thereby improving patient outcomes.


PMID: 10550839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Cell Mol Life Sci. 1999 Sep;55(12):1585-98.

Novel approaches to the treatment of small-cell lung cancer.

Zangemeister-Wittke U(1), Stahel RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Zürich, Switzerland.
uwe.zangemeister@dim.usz.ch

Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) is characterized by its initial responsiveness to
chemotherapy and the appearance of early metastases. Although combination
chemotherapy, in some instances together with radiation, has improved the
prognosis of this disease, in most patients SCLC ultimately recurs in a
drug-resistant form. Several new strategies for the eradication of SCLC are being
explored at the preclinical level. The identification of selective target
molecules on the surface of SCLC cells, together with the progress made in
antibody engineering, have provided new generations of antibodies and
immunoconjugates as well as growth factor antagonists and inhibitors. In
addition, recent advances in understanding the biology of SCLC have stimulated
new investigations searching to counter the molecular basis underlying the
increased proliferation and the apoptosis deficiency of SCLC cells. This can be
achieved using antisense oligodeoxynucleotides that repress the expression of
growth factor receptors and anti-apoptosis genes, or by gene replacement to
compensate for the loss or inactivation of tumor suppressor genes.

DOI: 10.1007/s000180050398 
PMID: 10526576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Med Oncol. 1999 Sep;16(3):154-65.

Micrometastatic bone marrow involvement: detection and prognostic significance.

Braun S(1), Pantel K.

Author information: 
(1)Frauenklinik, Klinikum Innenstadt, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München,
Germany.

The present review focuses on the methodology and clinical significance of new
diagnostic approaches to identify individual cancer cells present in bone marrow,
both as a frequent site of metastasis formation and an indicator organ for
hematogenous tumor cell dissemination. The steadily increasing number of studies 
on this issue is characterized by considerable methodological variations of
important variables, such as the size of the study population, and the
reliability of monoclonal antibodies used for tumor cell detection. Emerging data
indicate that this disturbing heterogeneity might be overcome by the use of
reliable and specific anti-cytokeratin antibodies (for example, A45-B/B3) as, for
the time, standard markers for the detection of micrometastatic tumor cells in
bone marrow. Prospective clinical studies have shown that immunoassays based on
anti-CK antibodies identify patients' subgroups with a poor clinical prognosis
with regard to early metastasis manifestation and reduced overall survival in
various epithelial tumor entities, including breast, colon, rectum, stomach,
esophagus, prostate, renal, bladder, and non-small cell lung cancer. The
immunocytochemical assays may be therefore used to improve tumor staging with
potential consequences for adjuvant therapy, because disseminated cells appeared 
to be dormant, non-cycling (for example Ki-67 antigen-negative) cells, suggesting
a resistance to cell-cycle dependent therapy, such as chemotherapy. Therefore,
cell-cycle independent antibody-based immunotherapy might be an interesting
option to complement chemotherapy. Another promising clinical application is
monitoring the response of micrometastatic cells to adjuvant therapies, which, at
present, can only be assessed retrospectively after an extended period of
clinical follow-up. The outlined current strategies for detection and
characterization of cancer micrometastasis might help to design and control new
therapeutic strategies for secondary prevention of metastatic relapse in patients
with operable primary carcinomas.


PMID: 10523795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Kyobu Geka. 1999 Jul;52(8 Suppl):707-13.

[Trends in adjuvant therapy after surgery of lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Ayabe K.


PMID: 10484711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Respiration. 1999;66(4):289-309.

Pulmonary malignancies in the immunocompromised patient.

Cadranel J(1), Naccache J, Wislez M, Mayaud C.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Pneumologie et de Réanimation Respiratoire, AP-HP Hôpital Tenon et 
Laboratoire de Biologie cellulaire et d'Immunopathologie pulmonaire UPRES EA
1531, Université Paris VI, Paris, France.

Clinicians should be familiar with immunodeficiency-related malignancies, as
their incidence is expected to increase further with the rise in the number and
survival of immunocompromised patients. The most common malignancies affecting
the lungs in those patients are Kaposi's sarcoma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and, to 
a far less extent, Hodgkin's disease and bronchogenic carcinoma. However, their
relative frequency depends on the types of immune deficiency, including those due
to congenital disorders, AIDS and drug treatments. This review will summarize
epidemiological data on the frequency of immmunodeficiency-related malignancies, 
recent advances on their pathogenesis and current approaches to their diagnosis
and treatment in the various immunosuppressed groups.

DOI: 29397 
PMID: 10461078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1999 May;26(6):762-7.

[Immunoscintigraphy and radioimmunotherapy of cancer using monoclonal
antibodies].

[Article in Japanese]

Oriuchi N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Nuclear Medicine, Gunma University School of Medicine.

Technologies using radiolabeled antibodies have advanced significantly over the
past decade, although radioimmunotherapy still requires improvements. This paper 
describes the implications of nuclear medicine in the management of cancer in
terms of detection, staging, and qualification of patients for immunotherapy. The
results of a clinical trial performed at our institution using 99mTc-labeled
anti-CEA monoclonal antibody are briefly reviewed. Immunoscintigraphy has shown
particular promise as a means of whole body imaging in patients with colorectal, 
breast, or lung cancer, and the antibodies used for diagnostic imaging are now
being used for radioimmunotherapy. Radioimmunotherapy of B-cell lymphoma has been
successfully performed using 131I or 90Y labeled anti-lymphocyte monoclonal
antibodies, although the treatment of solid tumors is still a major difficulty.
Elimination of the immune response by generating humanized monoclonal antibodies,
which are virtually devoid of immunogenicity, is necessary to allow repeated
administration. This is especially true of patients with solid tumors as compared
with patients with hematopoietic ones.


PMID: 10410144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1999 Jul;21(1):10-2.

Immune therapy for lung cancer: are we getting closer?

Bunn PA Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Colorado Cancer Center, Denver, Colorado, USA.
Paul.Bunn@UCHSC.edu

DOI: 10.1165/ajrcmb.21.1.f153 
PMID: 10385587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Clin Cancer Res. 1997 Dec;3(12 Pt 2):2638-47.

Combined modality therapy of lung cancer.

Livingston RB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology, University of Washington, Seattle, 98195, USA.

Combined modality therapy for lung cancer was first demonstrated to be successful
in limited-stage small cell lung cancer. Concurrent administration of
chemotherapy with chest and elective brain irradiation appears to produce the
best results, with cisplatin/etoposide as the core chemotherapy. Using such
programs, 2-year survival in the 40% range and 5-year survivals in excess of 20% 
may be expected, based on the results of multiple studies. Attempts to improve on
these results through the use of altered schemes of chest irradiation or the
delivery of high-dose consolidation chemotherapy are ongoing but to date have not
been shown to affect survival significantly. We remain at a plateau in the
effectiveness of combined modality therapy for small cell lung cancer, with
little evidence that it impacts survival at all in extensive-stage disease. The
incorporation of new agents in combination chemotherapy regimens, more "specific"
immunotherapy directed at tumor-associated antigens, and the potential adjunctive
use of broad-spectrum neuropeptide antagonists offer promise for the future. In
non-small cell lung cancer, the sequential use of platinum-based chemotherapy and
chest irradiation appears superior in survival to standard, daily fractionated
radiation therapy used alone, with long-term survival increased from 5-10% to
15-20%. Concurrent administration of chemotherapy with cisplatin/etoposide and
chest irradiation produces 2-year survival in the range of 30%, about twice that 
would be expected for radiation therapy alone, but has not been compared to it in
the setting of a randomized trial. Low-dose cisplatin on a daily basis has been
combined as a "sensitizer" with chest irradiation, producing initial results that
appeared encouraging. However, these have not been reproduced in subsequent,
randomized trials. Another approach to combined modalities has been to give
chemotherapy or chemotherapy/radiation therapy as induction, followed by surgical
resection, with or without subsequent additional treatment. Most patients
(80-85%) can be resected, with encouraging survival at 2 and 3 years in the
Southwest Oncology Group experience (37 and 26%, respectively). However, toxicity
is greater, and such an approach is associated with an overall mortality risk in 
the range of 10%. A current intergroup study attempts to define the role of
surgery in this setting. The major recent development that is likely to influence
the future of combined modality therapy for this disease is the advent of
multiple new chemotherapeutic agents, such as the taxanes, gemcitabine,
vinorelbine, and the topoisomerase-I inhibitors, which have activity in stage IV 
disease. The immediate challenge is how to combine these agents with platinum
analogues, radiation, and surgery. Aiding this process may be the use of
molecular biological "markers" that may predict the chance of success or failure 
with a given systemic agent. The next decade is likely to see substantial
improvements in the outcome of treatment for patients with stages I-III non-small
cell lung cancer, based on the systemic exploration of combined modalities.


PMID: 10068267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Leuk Lymphoma. 1998 Nov;31(5-6):477-90.

On the role and significance of Fas (Apo-1/CD95) ligand (FasL) expression in
immune privileged tissues and cancer cells using multiple myeloma as a model.

Greil R(1), Egle A, Villunger A.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine, University of Innsbruck Medical School, Austria.

Our knowledge in immunology has been dramatically increased by several excellent 
investigations elucidating the role of the Fas (Apo-1/CD95) receptor/ligand
(FasL) system in complex immunological processes such as the acquisition of self 
tolerance in T cells, progression of autoimmunity, clonal deletion of activated T
cells, B-cell regulation and the establishment of "immune privileged" sites such 
as testis or retina. In addition to these regulatory immunological activities,
Fas/FasL interaction was also shown to participate in active defense mechanisms
of the host against infected or transformed cells thereby inducing apoptosis in
target cells. However, the same mechanism seems also to be part of an escape
strategy utilized by tumor cells in various neoplastic malignancies of both
hematopoetic as also non-hematopoetic origin. We ourselves were able to
demonstrate that neoplastic plasma cell lines, as well as native malignant
myeloma cells constitutively express FasL mRNA and protein. The FasL molecule is 
functionally active and able to induce programmed cell death in Fas sensitive
target T cells in vitro. These target T cells were protected from programmed cell
death by preincubation of T cells with a Fas-blocking monoclonal antibody (mAb)
or of myeloma cells with a FasL-neutralizing mAb. respectively. Furthermore,
overexpression of the caspase inhibitor, cowpoxvirus protein CrmA, also protected
target T cells from being killed by myeloma cells, identifying Fas/FasL mediated 
signaling as the effector pathway utilized by malignant plasma cells. Our
observations strongly suggest the engagement of Fas/FasL interaction in the
escape strategy of this malignancy. The molecular basis of this evasive mechanism
differs in essential respects from those described in melanoma, lung cancer,
hepatocellular carcinoma, or astrocytoma, since downregulation of Fas or
instrinsic insensitivity towards Fas-mediated signaling were not prerequisites
for the occurrence of this phenomenon in Fas-sensitive multiple myeloma cell
lines. However, myeloma cell lines resisted cocultivation with FasL-expressing
target T cells in vitro. The aim of this review is to discuss the role of
Fas/FasL interaction in the establishment of malignant disease, in the light of
our findings on myeloma cells and also by drawing upon similar observations of
other investigators on different kinds of tumor cells and cell lines and further 
to consider its possible relevance in formulating novel approaches to cancer
therapy.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199809057607 
PMID: 9922038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Thorac Imaging. 1999 Jan;14(1):25-36.

Viral and Pneumocystis carinii infections of the lung in the immunocompromised
host.

McGuinness G(1), Gruden JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, New York University Medical Center, New York 10016,
USA.

Viruses and Pneumocystis carinii are significant causes of pneumonia in
immunocompromised patients, particularly patients with impaired cell-mediated
immunity. They are often simultaneously considered in the differential diagnosis 
of diffuse pneumonitis in these patients and, because radiographic appearances
and the periods of vulnerability to these infections may overlap, may be
difficult to differentiate. This article will correlate radiographic findings to 
evolving histopathologic changes in select specific infections, as they affect
three different immune impaired populations: (a) acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome, (b) immunosuppression secondary to therapy for underlying malignancy or
with solid organ transplantation, and (c) immune impairment in the bone marrow
transplant patient. Appreciation of the specific clinical setting in which to
consider these infections will be emphasized.


PMID: 9894951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 1998;10(6):404-6.

Metastatic melanoma of the nasal cavity in a patient with oculocutaneous
albinism.

Malaguarnera M(1), Romano M, Pistone G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, University of Catania, Italy.

The nasal cavity is a rare location for primary malignant melanoma, borne out by 
the few cases reported in the literature since 1940. Rarest of all is nasal
melanoma in a patient with oculocutaneous albinism. An albino subject, aged 33,
was referred to us with this diagnosis. Because of the numerous metastases in the
liver and left lung, we did not advise radical surgical intervention and, despite
hyperfractionated high dose radiotherapy and chemo-immunotherapy, the advanced
stage of disease caused the death of the patient within a year. We have reviewed 
the diagnostic, clinical and therapeutic aspects, and the literature on melanomas
of the nasal cavity in albino subjects. We performed a Medline literature search,
examining only 'extensive' papers and excluding abstracts or case reports
presenting poor data.


PMID: 9890545  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Semin Oncol. 1998 Dec;25(6):646-53.

Autologous, hapten-modified vaccine as a treatment for human cancers.

Berd D(1), Kairys J, Dunton C, Mastrangelo MJ, Sato T, Maguire HC Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA 19107,
USA.

We have devised a novel approach to active immunotherapy based on modification of
autologous cancer cells with the hapten, dinitrophenyl (DNP). The treatment
program consists of multiple intradermal injections of DNP-modified autologous
tumor cells mixed with BCG. Administration of DNP-vaccine to patients with
metastatic melanoma induces a unique reaction- the development of inflammation in
metastatic masses. Histologically, this consists of infiltration of T
lymphocytes, most of which are CD8+. These T cells usually produce
interferon-gamma in situ. Moreover, they represent expansion of T-cell clones
with novel T-cell receptor (TCR) structures. Occasionally, administration of
DNP-vaccine results in regression of measurable metastases. The most common site 
of regression has been small lung metastases. Administration of DNP-vaccine to
patients in the postsurgical adjuvant setting produces a more striking clinical
effect. Of 62 patients with clinically evident stage III melanoma who had
undergone lymphadenectomy, the 5-year relapse-free survival rate was 45% and the 
overall survival rate was 58%. These results appear to be better than those
obtained with high-dose interferon, although a randomized phase III trial is
required to prove that point. A recent phase I study suggests that this
therapeutic approach is also applicable to stage III ovarian cancer. There appear
to be no insurmountable impediments to applying this approach to much larger
numbers of patients or to developing it as a standard cancer treatment.


PMID: 9865679  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Semin Oncol. 1998 Dec;25(6):636-45.

Ganglioside vaccines with emphasis on GM2.

Livingston P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center; and the Department of Medicine,
Memorial Hospital, New York City, NY 10021, USA.

Gangliosides are neuraminic acid-containing glycosphingolipids that are anchored 
into the cell membrane lipid bilayer by lipophilic ceramide chains. They are
overexpressed on tissues of neuroectodermal origin, and particularly in tumors
such as melanomas, sarcomas, neuroblastomas, astrocytomas, and small cell lung
cancers. Both active and passive immunotherapy trials have identified
gangliosides as uniquely effective targets for antibody mediated melanoma
immunotherapy. Induction of antibodies against GM2 by vaccination has correlated 
with an improved prognosis in American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) stage III
melanoma patients and vaccines containing GM2 chemically conjugated to keyhole
limpet hemocyanin (KLH; GM2-KLH) plus the immunologic adjuvant QS-21 have proven 
to be consistently immunogenic. Phase III trials with this vaccine are ongoing in
patients with melanoma in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, and New
Zealand. GD2, fucosylated GMI, and GD3-KLH conjugates plus QS-21 are also
consistently immunogenic, inducing IgM and IgG antibodies in the majority of
patients. Polyvalent ganglioside-KLH conjugate plus QS-21 vaccines should be
available in early 1999 for testing in phase II and III clinical trials.


PMID: 9865678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Int J Mol Med. 1998 Apr;1(4):729-33.

Lymph nodes and human tumors (review).

Lores B(1), García-Estevez JM, Arias C.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Funcional y Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de
Vigo, 36200 Vigo, Spain.

This review examines the crucial role of regional lymph nodes (RLN) in defense
against tumor progression. RLN are one of the first major components of the
immune system to come into contact with tumor cells or tumor-cell products and
are important in the generation of tumor-directed immune responses. Involvement
of RLN by tumor cells is a prognostic index of survival and a biological
indicator of a more distant metastatic disease. Enlargement of lymph nodes as a
consequence of the increase in the number of lymphoid cells, is a common finding 
in humans. These changes of cellular organization display the most decisive
evidence of the existence of an immune response within a draining lymph node. The
variety of cells mediating immune response to tumors are summarized briefly. The 
lymphocyte subpopulations involved reflect the nature of the response and may
determine the outcome of the tumor-host interaction. The composition of the
lymphocyte subpopulations can be recognized in tumor-draining lymph nodes by
distinctive surface-membrane markers assessable by flow cytometry. In human
patients with solid tumors limited quantification of the lymphocyte
subpopulations within RLN has been carried out using this technique and the
results indicated that an increase in B lymphocytes in tumor-reactive lymph nodes
is marked in the adenocarcinomas (colon and breast) while in other tumors, such
as melanoma and squamous cell carcinoma, this increase in B lymphocytes is less
pronounced. The increased number of B lymphocytes in the reactive lymph nodes
suggests the existence of an immune response involving interactions between T and
B cells. B lymphocytes expression of CD80 appears to increase in some reactive
lymph nodes to adenocarcinomas, possibly indicating the state of activation of
CD80+ B cells, and their role as antigen-presenting cells. Any improvement in the
antitumor activity of RLN would be important in the immunotherapy of cancer
patients. The ability to generate a large number of tumor-reactive T lymphocytes 
is a critical requirement for adoptive immunotherapy. Tumor-draining lymph nodes 
(TDLN) are an excellent source of tumor-reactive T lymphocytes and the adoptive
transfer of these cells is capable of mediating the regression of tumors
established both in the lung and in the brain. Although cancers elicit a vigorous
immune response during the early part of their growth, the immune response is
soon downregulated, permitting progressive cancer growth. Furthermore, there are 
date suggesting the existence of immunosuppressive mechanisms within RLN in the
antitumor response. However, there are no yet conclusive data concerning the
characteristics of the response or its effectiveness.


PMID: 9852289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Mol Carcinog. 1998 Nov;23(3):132-43.

Molecular biology of human melanoma development and progression.

Sauter ER(1), Herlyn M.

Author information: 
(1)The Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

In the United States, Australia, Northern Europe, and Canada, malignant melanoma 
is increasing at a faster rate than any other cancer, with the exception of lung 
cancer in women. Major advances have been made in the molecular biology and
immunology of melanoma. These advances in basic science have led to more rational
approaches to specifically targeting melanoma cells, with promising results in
the clinic. An increased understanding of how melanoma spreads has led to more
selective, less invasive surgical procedures that do not compromise patient
health. Combinations of chemotherapy and immunotherapy are now available for
patients with advanced melanoma that affect both the length and quality of the
patients' lives. This review of the molecular biology of melanoma development and
progression discusses the disease's etiology, molecular genetics, cell-surface
antigens, experimental models, biological markers, and new forms of treatment. As
we continue to learn more about malignant melanoma, we will be able to devise
more specific and effective treatments that will give patients with this
potentially deadly disease longer and more productive lives.


PMID: 9833774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Pathol Biol (Paris). 1997 Dec;45(10):852-63.

p53 and lung cancer.

Brambilla E(1), Brambilla C.

Author information: 
(1)Lung Cancer Research Group, Institut Albert Bonniot, Faculté de Médecine, La
Tronche, France.

The malignant transformation of pulmonary epithelial cells is the result of
multistep accumulation of genetic and molecular alterations highly related to
tobacco carcinogens, involving key mechanisms of proliferation and apoptosis.
Clonal expansion is the net result of acceleration of cell division and
inhibition of active cell death (apoptosis). Oncogene activation in lung cancer
(ras, myc, autocrine growth factor loops) results in acceleration of cell
division. More importantly, tumor suppressor genes inactivation (p53, Rb,
cyclin-dependent-kinase-Inhibitor p16) at genetic, epigenetic, or
post-translational level removes important constraints on cell division at
G1-check-point increasing cell proliferation. p 53 inactivation, through loss of 
transcription function may abrogate both G1-arrest control and apoptosis, thus
accelerating clonal expansion. It is the most frequent alteration in lung cancer 
(70% of genetic alterations) with some differentiation dependent differences. p53
missense mutation is highly concordant with p53 stabilization and
immunoreactivity. However, 20% of mutations with null phenotype (no p53 protein) 
provides 20% of false negative using immunohistochemistry for evaluation of p53
mutations in lung cancer. Rare situations are described with wild type p53
stabilization. p53 mutational spectrum in lung cancer reveals some specificities:
3 hot spot codons (codon 157, 248, 273) are the main target of selective adduct
formation from a defined chemical carcinogen of cigarette smoke (BP). p53
stabilized mutants proteins are the targets for immune recognition in patients,
leading to secretion of p53 auto-antibodies, and can also elicit T-cell specific 
cytotoxicity in vitro. p53 was not proven to be of prognostical importance once
the tumor has developed. However, p53 stabilization is one of the best predictor 
of progression and irreversitiblity of preneoplastic bronchial lesion
overwhelming morphological changes such as severe dysplasia. Restoration of wild 
type p53 function through p53 gene therapy, immunotherapy or modification of
carboxy terminal end enable new therapeutic intervention. Finally, target genes
and proteins situated on the downstream pathway of p53 transcription appears to
be the most important factors of growth acceleration or even cell dissemination
in lung cancer (Rb and its phosphorylation pathway, Bax-Bc12 balance and matrix
degrading enzymes UPA and inhibitor PAI). Their constitutive deregulation could
by-pass wild type p53 functions. p53 pathway offers several targets for future
gene therapy or modulation in the future in lung cancer.


PMID: 9769949  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Br J Cancer. 1998 Aug;78(3):282-8.

Immunotherapy in lung cancer.

Al-Moundhri M, O'Brien M, Souberbielle BE.

More research and new treatment options are needed in all stages of lung cancer. 
To this end immunotherapy needs a revival in view of recent improved technologies
and greater understanding of the underlying biology. In this review we discuss
mechanisms of tumour immunotherapy, non-specific, specific and adoptive, with
particular reference to a direct therapeutic action on all subtypes of lung
cancer.


PMCID: PMC2063029
PMID: 9703271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 1998 Apr;53(2):211-8.

Cellular immunity and immunotherapy against deoxyribonucleic acid virus-induced
tumors.

Macedo MF(1), Velders MP, Nieland JD, Rudolf MP, Weijzen S, Da Silva DM, Franke
A, Holt G, Loviscek K, Carbone M, Kast WM.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Immunology Program, Cardinal Bernardin Cancer Center, Loyola University
of Chicago, Maywood, IL 60153, USA.

An important role in the immune defense against deoxyribonucleic acid virus
induced tumors is mediated by T-cells, as is evident from aetiological, animal
model, and clinical data. In this review the most recent observations in this
field are described for three prominent members of this family of viruses, namely
human papillomavirus associated with human cervical cancer, human adenovirus
associated with lung infections in humans and tumors in rodents, and simian virus
40 associated with rodent tumors and human mesothelioma, osteosarcoma and
ependymoma.


PMID: 9689811  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1998 Jun;12(3):569-94.

Gene therapy for lung cancer.

Dubinett SM(1), Miller PW, Sharma S, Batra RK.

Author information: 
(1)University of California at Los Angeles/Wadsworth Pulmonary Immunology
Laboratory, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, USA.

Gene therapy has received considerable attention and some speculation as to its
value. Although few patients have been treated, the preliminary results of the
phase I lung cancer gene therapy clinical trials are very promising. Clinically
relevant basic research in the molecular pathogenesis and immunology of lung
cancer is progressing. As improved vector technologies are developed, new
opportunities will be available to initiate lung cancer gene therapy trials that 
are based on a more detailed understanding of lung cancer biology. In conclusion,
although important biologic and technical questions remain unanswered, recent
research suggests that gene therapy will have a profound impact on lung cancer
treatment.


PMID: 9684099  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1998 May;99(5):279-84.

[Postsurgical adjuvant immunotherapy against primary non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Kimura H(1), Iwai N, Suzuki M, Takahashi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Thoracic Diseases, Chiba Cancer Center, Japan.

The prognosis of lung cancer patients is generally poor even when they have
undergone complete resection of primary tumors and systemic lymph node
dissection. This is mainly attributed to micrometastases which have already
developed by the time of surgery and the fact that local therapies cannot
eliminate all cancer cells from the body. We developed a multimodality
combination therapy for primary non-small cell lung cancer consisting of surgery,
chemotherapy, and adoptive immunotherapy using interleukin 2 (IL-2) and
lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells. The results of a randomized study
indicated that the survival rate of the IL-2, LAK adoptive immunotherapy group
was significantly higher than that of the control group. In conclusion, IL-2, LAK
adoptive immunotherapy is an effective and promising modality which will
compensate for the deficiencies of other therapies.


PMID: 9656236  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Chest. 1998 Jun;113(6):1720-3.

Double jeopardy: lung cancer after cardiac transplantation.

Johnson WM(1), Baldursson O, Gross TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, The University of Iowa Hospitals & Clinics,
Iowa City 52242, USA.

Two heart transplant patients were referred on the same day for evaluation of new
chest radiograph abnormalities. Each proved to have advanced stage bronchogenic
carcinoma. Review of the recent medical literature reveals that the combination
of profound immunosuppression and a heavy smoking history puts cardiac transplant
recipients at increased risk for the development of aggressive lung cancers.


PMID: 9631821  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Am J Surg. 1998 May;175(5):413-7.

Surgical treatment of metastatic melanoma.

Fletcher WS(1), Pommier RF, Lum S, Wilmarth TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201-3098,
USA.

BACKGROUND: The survival of patients with metastatic melanoma is poor. The
response rates for chemotherapy and immunotherapy have been low, with no real
improvement in survival. We reviewed the results of surgical resection.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of the medical records of all
patients who underwent resection of metastases from melanoma from 1979 to 1994.
RESULTS: There were 77 patients (44 men, 33 women, mean age 51 years). Metastases
were resected from soft tissue (n = 28), abdominal viscera (n = 22), lung (n =
15), and brain (n = 12). Forty-four patients had complete resections, and 33 had 
incomplete resections. Sixty-five patients had solitary lesions and 12 had
multiple lesions resected. The overall 5-year survival rate was 10%. Patients
with solitary lesions had a 5-year survival rate of 12%, compared with 0% for
patients with multiple lesions (P = 0.01). Patients with complete resection had a
5-year survival rate of 15%, compared with 4% for patients with incomplete
resection (P < 0.001). Patients with complete resection of solitary lesions had a
5-year survival of 18%. There was no difference in survival between synchronous
and metachronous resection. Gender, primary site, disease-free interval, and
metastatic site had no impact on survival rates.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that patients with metastatic melanoma should be
resected for (1) relief of symptoms such as obstruction and bleeding, (2)
solitary lesions that can be completely resected, (3) serial lesions that can be 
completely resected, and (4) selected cases that can be rendered macroscopically 
free of disease. Surgical resection is superior to any other available therapy
for metastatic melanoma.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9610(98)00041-5 
PMID: 9600290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Chest Surg Clin N Am. 1998 Feb;8(1):183-96.

Surgical resection as the treatment of choice for melanoma metastatic to the
lung.

Ollila DW(1), Morton DL.

Author information: 
(1)John Wayne Cancer Institute, Saint John's Health Center, Santa Monica,
California, USA.

Available data suggest that patients who have a limited number of pulmonary
metastases may benefit from complete surgical resection if they have favorable
prognostic features such as a long TDT and a long DFI. If a patient is not a
surgical candidate because of radiographic evidence of extrapulmonary disease, a 
short TDT, or a short DFI, then concurrent or sequential biochemotherapy offers
the best chance for a complete response and remission.


PMID: 9515181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Chest Surg Clin N Am. 1998 Feb;8(1):127-9.

Kidney metastases.

Dresler CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Thoracic Surgery, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, USA.

Renal cell carcinoma is not common malignancy. Unfortunately, it remains
difficult to cure, with small improvements being made in chemo/immunotherapeutic 
areas. Surgery remains the most successful approach for curative treatment in
both primary and metastatic disease. Prospective studies are critically needed to
definitively determine appropriate prognostic indicators for operation.


PMID: 9515177  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Neurol Clin. 1997 Nov;15(4):849-63.

Paraneoplastic vasculitis of the peripheral nervous system.

Oh SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama 39294, USA.

Paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy (PVN) is a rare paraneoplastic syndrome
characterized by non-systemic subacute vasculitic neuropathy. The two cancers
most commonly associated with PVN are small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and
lymphomas. Neuropathy varies from mononeurotherapy multiplex to symmetrical
polyneuropathy. Two helpful laboratory abnormalities are a high erythrocyte
sedimentation rate (ESR) and high cerebro spinal fluid (CSF) protein content.
Axonal neuropathy is the characteristic finding in electrophysiological studies. 
Nerve biopsy is crucial to document microvasculitis. Recognition of this entity
is important because of its potential treatability. Unlike other paraneoplastic
syndromes, anti-cancer chemotherapy and immunotherapy for vasculitis are both
effective in this disorder.


PMID: 9367968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1997 Oct 11;127(41):1707-11.

[Malignant pleural mesothelioma in 1997].

[Article in French]

Viallat JR(1), Boutin C, Kasseyet S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille.

Some recent data on malignant pleural mesothelioma are reviewed, viz. the French 
1996 INSERM report, our mineralogic study of anthracotic parietal pleura, and the
new TNM classification of the International Mesothelioma interest Group
(I.M.I.G.). Among medical treatments, intrapleural immunotherapy achieves the
best objective responses in early stage mesothelioma. Radiotherapy alone has
little effect on advanced mesothelioma. By contrast, recent surgical series have 
shown better survival rates and underline the interest of the new TNM staging.
Finally, malignant pleural mesothelioma behaves something like lung cancer, in
that only in N- stages can prolonged survivals be expected.


PMID: 9441378  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Ann Thorac Surg. 1997 Dec;64(6):1630-4.

Lung transplantation for respiratory failure resulting from systemic disease.

Pigula FA(1), Griffith BP, Zenati MA, Dauber JH, Yousem SA, Keenan RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Presbyterian University Hospital,
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pennsylvania 15213, USA.

BACKGROUND: Lung transplantation for pulmonary failure resulting from systemic
disease is controversial. We reviewed our transplant experience in patients with 
sarcoidosis, scleroderma, lymphangioleiomyomatosis, and graft-versus-host
disease.
METHODS: This retrospective review examined the outcome of 23 patients who
underwent pulmonary transplantation for these systemic diseases. Group 1 included
15 patients with pulmonary hypertension who underwent transplantation (9 for
sarcoidosis, 6 for scleroderma), and group 2 included 8 patients with normal
pulmonary artery pressures who underwent transplantation (5 for
lymphangioleiomyomatosis, 3 for graft-versus-host disease). The incidences of
infection and rejection, pulmonary function, and survival were measured and
compared with those of patients who underwent transplantation for isolated
pulmonary disease.
RESULTS: Although there were no differences in the rate of infection between
patients who underwent transplantation for systemic versus isolated disease,
patients with pulmonary hypertension who underwent transplantation for systemic
disease had significantly lower rates of rejection. Four patients with
sarcoidosis and 2 with lymphangioleiomyomatosis demonstrated recurrence in the
allograft. Survival was similar between patients who underwent transplantation
for systemic versus isolated disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with respiratory failure resulting from these systemic
diseases can undergo transplantation with outcomes comparable to those obtained
in patients who undergo transplantation for isolated pulmonary disease.


PMID: 9436547  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 1997 Nov-Dec;45(3-4):210-5.

Clinical experience with CD64-directed immunotherapy. An overview.

Curnow RT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medarex Inc., Annadale, NJ 08801, USA.

The class I IgG receptor (Fc gamma RI or CD64 receptor), which is present on key 
cytotoxic effector cells, has been shown to initiate the destruction of tumor
cells in vitro and has been hypothesized to play a role in the destruction of
antibody-coated cells such as platelets in idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura
(ITP). This overview summarizes the clinical experience with CD64-directed
immunotherapy in cancer patients with the bispecific antibodies MDX-447
[humanized Fab anti-CD64 x humanized Fab anti-(epidermal growth factor receptor, 
EGFR)] and MDX-H210 (humanized Fab anti-DC64 x Fab anti-HER2/neu), and with the
anti-CD64 monoclonal antibody (mAB) MDX-33 (H22) in the modulation of monocyte
CD64 in vivo. In an ongoing phase I/II open-label trial with progressive dose
escalation (1-15 mg/m2), patients with treatment refractory EGFR-positive cancers
(renal cell carcinoma (RCC), head and neck, bladder, ovarian, prostate cancer and
skin cancer) are treated weekly with intravenous MDX-447, with and without
granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). MDX-447 has been found to be
immunologically active at all doses, binding to circulating monocytes and
neutrophils (when given with G-CSF), causing monocytopenia and stimulating
increases in circulating plasma cytokines. MDX-447 is well tolerated, the primary
toxicities being fever, chills, blood pressure lability, and pain/ myalgias. Of
36 patients evaluable for response, 9 have experienced stable disease of 3-6
month's duration. The optimal dose and the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) have yet 
to be defined; dose escalation continues to define better the dose, toxicity, and
the potential therapeutic role of this bispecific antibody. Three MDX-H210 phase 
II trials are currently in progress, all using the intravenous dose of 15 mg/m2
given with granulocyte/macrophage (GM-CSF). These consist of one trial each in
the treatment of RCC patients, patients with prostate cancer, and colorectal
cancer patients, all of whom have failed standard therapy. At the time of
writing, 11 patients have been treated in these phase II trials. Four patients
have demonstrated antitumor effects. Patients demonstrating responses include 2
with RCC and 2 with prostate cancer. One RCC patient has had a 54% reduction in
size of a hepatic metastatic lesion and the other has had a 49% decrease in the
size of a lung metastasis with simultaneous clearing of other non-measurable lung
lesions. Regarding the two patients with prostate cancer, one has had a 90%
reduction in serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA; 118-11 ng/ml), which has
persisted for several months; the other patient with prostate has had a 70%
reduction of serum PSA (872 ng/ml to 208 ng/ml) within the first month of
treatment. Both patients have also demonstrated symptomatic improvement. In a
completed phase I and in ongoing phase I/II clinical trials, patients with
treatment-refractory HER2/neu positive cancers (breast, ovarian, colorectal,
prostate) have been treated with MDX-H210, which has been given alone and in
conjunction with G-CSF, GM-CSF, and interferon gamma (IFN gamma). These trials
have been open-label, progressive dose-escalation (0.35-135 mg/m2) studies in
which single, and more often, multiple weekly doses have been administered.
MDX-H210 has been well tolerated, with untoward effects being primarily
mild-to-moderate flu-like symptoms. The MTD has not yet been defined. MDX-H210 is
immunologically active, binding to circulating monocytes, causing monocytopenia, 
as well as stimulating increases in plasma cytokine levels. Furthermore, some
patients have evidence of active antitumor immunity following treatment with
MDX-210. Antitumor effects have been seen in response to MDX-H210 administration;
these include 1 partial, 2 minor, and 1 mixed tumor response; 15 protocol-defined
stable disease responses have occurred. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)


PMID: 9435876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Am J Med. 1997 Nov;103(5):363-7.

Tumor lysis syndrome in small cell carcinoma and other solid tumors.

Kalemkerian GP(1), Darwish B, Varterasian ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Wayne State University, and The Karmanos
Cancer Institute, Detroit, Michigan, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review the risk factors and clinical findings associated with tumor
lysis syndrome (TLS) in patients with small cell carcinomas and other solid
tumors.
METHODS: Reports of TLS in the English-language literature were identified by
searching MEDLINE and the bibliographies of relevant case reports, journal
articles, and book chapters. All reports identified through these searches,
including abstracts from national meetings, were reviewed and included in this
analysis. Data regarding clinical and biochemical parameters relevant to the
occurrence of TLS were extracted from each report.
RESULTS: Of the 25 reported solid tumor patients who developed TLS, 7 had small
cell carcinoma, 5 breast cancer, and 4 neuroblastoma. TLS was associated with a
variety of treatment regimens, including chemotherapy, immunotherapy, hormonal
therapy, radiation therapy, and surgery. Common risk factors for TLS in this
population included pretreatment renal insufficiency, elevated serum lactate
dehydrogenase (LDH), and hyperuricemia. Among the typical biochemical findings of
TLS, acute renal insufficiency and hyperuricemia were identified in nearly all
patients and hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, and increased serum
LDH were reported in over 75% of patients. In addition, seven patients, including
the current case, presented with profound metabolic acidosis. Nine of 25 patients
died during the acute episode of TLS.
CONCLUSIONS: Although TLS occurs infrequently in patients with solid tumors, the 
risk factors and biochemical abnormalities associated with this potentially fatal
complication of therapy must be recognized to allow for adequate monitoring and
early initiation of appropriate therapeutic measures.


PMID: 9375703  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Dis Mon. 1997 Nov;43(11):745-808.

Common cancers--immunotherapy and multidisciplinary therapy: Parts III and IV.

Quan WD Jr(1), Palackdharry CS.

Author information: 
(1)Biologic Response Modifier Treatment Center, Solon, Ohio, USA.

The refractoriness of many solid tumors to cytotoxic chemotherapy has led to the 
exploration of new therapeutic modalities, including immunotherapy. Immunotherapy
does not have a direct cytotoxic effect on the cancer cell but is an attempt to
promote rejection of the tumor by the host, chiefly through the cellular arm of
the immune system. The clinical success with immunotherapy (primarily adoptive
immunotherapy) among patients with unresectable malignant melanoma and cancer of 
the kidney has not been marked by the large numbers of patients responding but by
occasional dramatic effectiveness of therapy for these cancers, which usually are
refractory to chemotherapy. Long-lasting responses and even complete
disappearance of all known metastases are possible for a small percentage of
patients with melanoma or renal cell carcinoma who undergo immunotherapy. A
reasonable approach for patients with good performance status (no symptoms or
ambulatory with symptoms but not bedridden) is entrance to clinical trials,
especially trials examining adoptive or active immunotherapy for melanoma or
adoptive immunotherapy for renal cancer. The overall treatment of patients with
cancer has changed. Primary-care physicians detect almost all cancers. The days
when "taking it out" is the best we could offer a patient are over. As we learn
more about the use of adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy and radiation therapy,
it is likely one or both of these modalities will be incorporated into the
treatment of additional solid tumors previously managed solely with surgical
resection. Increasingly, additional therapy is being given for earlier-stage
disease as we define how to maximize the potential for cure with minimal
toxicity. Many new therapies are on the horizon, including the use of
noncytotoxic treatments as an adjunct to a surgical procedure. Such therapies
include the use of angiogenesis inhibitors, tumor vaccines, and immunotherapy.
Now and in the future, patients will be best served when treated in an
environment that can integrate medical, surgical, and radiation oncology
actively.


PMID: 9400420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


961. Muscle Nerve. 1997 Dec;20(12):1576-82.

Anti-Hu-associated paraneoplastic sensory neuropathy responding to early
aggressive immunotherapy: report of two cases and review of literature.

Oh SJ(1), Dropcho EJ, Claussen GC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294, USA.

Comment in
    Muscle Nerve. 1998 Dec;21(12):1811-3.

Anti-Hu-associated paraneoplastic sensory neuropathy (PSN) has been reported to
be nonresponsive to immunotherapy or cancer therapy. We report 2 patients with
anti-Hu-associated PSN who achieved sustained clinical improvement with early and
aggressive immunotherapy 10-15 months before the diagnosis of small-cell lung
carcinoma. Both had chronic "sensory neuronopathy plus"; in addition to sensory
neuronopathy, case 1 had a motor-autonomic dysfunction with encephalopathy, and
case 2 had a motor-autonomic dysfunction with swallowing difficulty. These two
cases were unusual in that sustained clinical improvement was achieved with early
aggressive immunotherapy before the detection of cancer and without any
concomitant anticancer therapy or lowering of anti-Hu antibody titer. We believe 
that early and aggressive immunotherapy should be tried in any patient with
anti-Hu-associated PSN, as it may induce sustained clinical improvement.


PMID: 9390671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Curr Opin Oncol. 1997 Nov;9(6):579-83.

Adoptive immunotherapy.

Ballen K(1), Stewart FM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Massachusetts Medical Center, Hematology/Oncology Division,
Worcester 01655, USA.

Some of the most dramatic advances in the treatment of cancer have used the
immune system in combination with conventional or transplantation chemotherapy.
Adoptive immunotherapy has been used for relapses after allogeneic bone marrow
transplantation, and it has been particularly effective for chronic myeloid
leukemia. Adoptive immunotherapy also has been used for Epstein-Barr
virus-related lymphomas developing after allogeneic marrow transplantations.
Cellular therapy, including the infusion of tumor-reactive immune cells, has been
used to mediate response of established solid tumors. This has been used for
therapeutic benefit for renal cell carcinoma, melanoma, lung cancer, and breast
cancer. Current research is focusing on reducing the toxicity of these approaches
as well as further defining the appropriate target tissue.


PMID: 9370080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Eur Respir J. 1997 Aug;10(8):1703-19.

Pulmonary perspective: immunology in diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer.

Weynants P(1), Marchandise FX, Sibille Y.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Internal Medicine, Université Catholique de Louvain, Yvoir, Belgium.

Erratum in
    Eur Respir J 1997 Sep;10(9):2189.

The combination of the limits encountered with current therapies and the
increased knowledge of immunology have opened perspectives for the use of
immunomodulators in the management of lung cancer patients. Both humoral and
cellular immunity are now evaluated in diagnosis and treatment of cancer.
Monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) against tumour-associated antigens are now tested
with various imaging techniques to improve detection and staging of lung cancer. 
MoAbs are also used in therapeutic clinical trials as: 1) mediators of immune
effector function; 2) carriers of cytotoxic agents; 3) agents to block tumour
growth factor; or 4) anti-idiotype vaccines. Immune effector cells, such as
natural killer (NK) cells, T- and B-lymphocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells and
neutrophils, are present either within or around tumours and are likely to play a
role in cancer. These cells, either alone or with cytokines, could provide new
efficient therapeutic approaches, particularly if immunosuppression is involved
in tumour progression. In this context, most recent studies using immune cells
and molecular bioengineering, could provide additional antitumoral effects.
Finally, the discovery of several tumour rejection antigens has revived the dream
of designing tumour vaccines and active specific immunotherapy.


PMID: 9272908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Curr Opin Pediatr. 1997 Jun;9(3):213-8.

Pulmonary fungal infections in immunocompromised children.

Shenep JL(1), Flynn PM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital,
Memphis, TN 38105-2794, USA.

Pulmonary mycoses are increasingly encountered in children with underlying
diseases associated with immunosuppression, including children with cancer or HIV
infection. Knowledge of the epidemiology and pathogenesis of pulmonary mycoses
can be applied to prevent infection in many cases and to promptly diagnose
infections that do occur. Treatment is usually successful if initiated early,
although pulmonary aspergillosis and zygomycosis are portentous ailments unless
surgical resection or prompt immunologic recovery ensue.


PMID: 9229158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Lung Cancer. 1997 Jun;17 Suppl 1:S121-36.

Alternatives to chemotherapy and radiotherapy as adjuvant treatment for lung
cancer.

Shepherd FA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Hospital, Ontario, Canada. fshepherd@torhosp.toronto.on.ca

Because adjuvant chemotherapy has resulted in only modest prolongation of
survival for patients with lung cancer, investigators have turned to the
evaluation of alternative treatment strategies for this patient population.
Immunotherapy with Bacillus Calmette Guerin, Corynebacterium parvum, and
levamisole has been evaluated in several prospective randomized trials, and no
study has shown a statistically significant difference in overall survival.
Interferon has been evaluated in three trials of adjuvant therapy after response 
to chemotherapy for small cell lung cancer. Different interferon preparations
were used, but none of the trials showed a significant prolongation of survival. 
The retinoids have been evaluated as adjuvant treatment after complete resection 
of stage IN-SCLC. One trial showed a reduction in second primary tumors, and in
particular, tumors to tobacco smoking in patients treated with retinyl palmitate.
A second trial using 13-cis retinoic acid is ongoing in North America. In the
last decade, several inhibitors of angiogenesis have been identified, and they
are now beginning to be evaluated in the clinical setting. The National Cancer
Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group and the European Organization for
Research and Treatment of Cancer have initiated a study of adjuvant marimastat, a
metalloproteinase inhibitor, for patients who have responded to induction
chemotherapy for small cell lung cancer. This is the first adjuvant
antiangiogenesis factor trial to be initiated for any tumor type. Other
investigational agents which are currently undergoing Phase I and Phase II
testing include monoclonal antibodies which may inhibit tumour cell growth by
binding to growth factors, or which may be conjugated to toxins or
chemotherapeutic agents which result in tumour cell death. In the last decade, we
have witnessed an explosion in our knowledge and understanding of the regulation 
of normal and neoplastic cell growth at the molecular level. It remains only
speculative at this time as to whether manipulation of abnormal genes in
malignant cells will be clinically possible, and whether treatment of this sort
may be applied in an adjuvant setting.


PMID: 9213309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1997 Jun;11(3):519-27.

Future directions in lung cancer research and therapeutics.

Elias AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA.

Although immune and genetic approaches do not yet have substantial clinical
exposure in NSCLC, it is hoped that the future will bring less toxic, more
specific, and more effective methods to prevent the development of end-stage
NSCLC. The principles of multitargeted and multimodality therapy to overcome
tumor heterogeneity and resistance, and drug delivery issues have been developed 
over years of effort using chemotherapy. The lessons learned should not be
forgotten, because they will remain applicable to newer biologic and genetic
modalities.


PMID: 9209908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Br J Dermatol. 1997 May;136(5):752-6.

Angiosarcoma of the scalp associated with renal transplantation.

Kibe Y(1), Kishimoto S, Katoh N, Yasuno H, Yasumura T, Oka T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Japan.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 1998 Feb;138(2):361-3.

A case of cutaneous angiosarcoma occurring in a 51-year-old male renal transplant
patient is reported. Multiple violaceous nodules surrounded by poorly demarcated 
red to purple discoloration were found on his scalp. Immunosuppressants
consisting of azathioprine and prednisolone had been administered during the
12-year period since the renal transplantation. We diagnosed the lesion
clinically as a cutaneous angiosarcoma and performed a wide surgical excision.
The histopathological findings confirmed the diagnosis and showed tumour cells in
the peripheral margin. Postoperatively, the patient started immunotherapy with
systemic administration of recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2), but he refused to
continue it because of the acute rejection of the transplanted kidney induced by 
the rIL-2. Instead he received radiation therapy (total 7000 rad) of the scalp.
Although no recurrence was noticed for 15 months after the completion of
radiation, he died due to lung metastasis from angiosarcoma. We review the seven 
cases, including ours, of angiosarcoma after renal transplantation that are
reported in detail in the literature.


PMID: 9205512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


968. BMJ. 1997 Mar 1;314(7081):652-5.

Science, medicine, and the future. Lung cancer.

Sethi T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rayne Laboratory, University of Edinburgh Medical School.

Lung cancer, the most prevalent cancer in the Western world, is mainly caused by 
smoking. Nevertheless, only 20% of smokers develop lung cancer and while
prevention is important, environmental factors are expected to contribute to the 
predicted rise in the incidence of lung cancer in the next 25 years. Survival of 
lung cancer is still poor, and new treatments are urgently needed. This review
examines potential new therapeutic developments which have arisen from a greater 
understanding of the molecular and cellular biology of lung cancers.


PMCID: PMC2126102
PMID: 9066480  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


969. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1997 Feb;168(2):339-45.

Imaging of pulmonary lymphomas.

Lee KS(1), Kim Y, Primack SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.168.2.9016202 
PMID: 9016202  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 1997;65(5-6):391-8.

[Immunologic reactions in the course of lung cancer].

[Article in Polish]

Szopiński J(1).

Author information: 
(1)III Kliniki Gruźlicy i Chorób Płuc Instytutu Gruźlicy i Chorób Płuc w
Warszawie.


PMID: 9340070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Rev Mal Respir. 1996 Oct;13(5):467-76.

[Gene therapy in oncology: applications to lung cancer].

[Article in French]

Chapiro J(1), Palma MD, Mignot L, Lemonnier MP, Beaumelou E, Coulet F, Misset JL,
Jasmin C.

Author information: 
(1)Service des Maladies Sanguines et Tumorales, Hôpital Paul-Brousse, Villejuif.

Gene therapy defines a new therapeutic avenue whose site of action is at the
level of the gene itself; viral vectors (adenovirus, retrovirus, herpes virus) or
non-viral (liposomes, plasmids) enable the transfer of a fraction of DNA
(transgenic) to the target itself. In this review, we present recently acquired
data on the mechanisms of oncogenesis and anti-tumor immunity which have enabled 
the application of several therapeutic strategies in oncology; the transfer of
gene(s), coding for cytokines or for coactivation factors in order to develop
active immunotherapy; the transfer of suicides genes; the transfer of multidrug
resistance gene (MDR1); the transfer of tumor suppressor genes or of cDNA coding 
for antisense oligonucleotides in order to correct genomic anomalies which are
responsible for the malign phenotype. The development of gene therapy demands the
resolution of a number of technical difficulties such as vectorisation,
targeting, and the expression of the stability of the trans-gene. Phase 1 trials 
in man have established the innocuity of certain vectors and have confirmed the
expression of trans-genes (marker genes). Compared to monogenic hereditary
diseases, the "molecular heterogenetic" of bronchial tumours, the consequence of 
the instability of the genome and the diversity of amplified oncogenes are a
major difficulty. In addition, each one of these approaches prevents limiting
factors: for example the exclusive targeting of malign cells is an indispensable 
pre-requisite for the transfer of suicide genes and in the same way the
expression the tumour in antigens is the pre-requisite for the development of
active immunotherapy. We report the overall results of applied trials for
pulmonary carcinomas on murine models and present their applications which are
underway in men.


PMID: 8999473  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Transplantation. 1996 Sep 27;62(6):772-5.

Carcinoma of the lung after heart transplantation.

Goldstein DJ(1), Austin JH, Zuech N, Williams DL, Stoopler MB, Michler RE,
Schulman LL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, College of Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia University, 
New York, New York 10032, USA.

We have recently noted an unexpected high incidence of lung cancer in our
population of cardiac allograft recipients. We conducted a retrospective review
of cardiac transplantation at our institution to investigate the incidence,
clinical course, and outcome of patients who developed lung cancer following
heart transplantation. Nine patients--each with a history of smoking at 30
pack-years--developed lung cancer following heart transplantation, for an
incidence of 1.56% of patients at risk. Eight of the patients were male > or = 50
years of age, representing 3.3% of the male transplant recipients in this age
group. The interval from transplantation to diagnosis clustered around 3-5 years 
after transplantation, but in two instances (22%), a neoplasm was discovered
within 6 months of transplantation. Almost half of the cancers were discovered
incidentally, despite routine radiographic surveillance. Seven of 9 (78%)
patients had stage IV disease at presentation. Median survival after diagnosis
was 3 months, and five of the seven patients who died survived less than 4 months
after diagnosis. We conclude that cardiac transplant recipients are at increased 
risk for development of lung cancer. Patients with a moderate to heavy smoking
history might well be advised to undergo chest CT scanning in an aggressive
search for occult lung cancer before cardiac transplantation is considered
further. Finally, despite frequent radiologic examinations, these lung cancers
are often diagnosed incidentally, are far advanced at the time of diagnosis, are 
not surgically resectable, and are poorly responsive to adjuvant therapy.


PMID: 8824476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1996 Aug 1;36(1):61-6.

A comparison of single-dose and fractionated total-body irradiation on the
development of pneumonitis following bone marrow transplantation.

Morgan TL(1), Falk PM, Kogut N, Shah KH, Tome M, Kagan AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Southern California Permanente Medical
Group, Los Angeles, USA.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1996 Aug 1;36(1):261-2.

PURPOSE: A review of 132 consecutive patients who received bone marrow transplant
for various malignancies was conducted to determine factors associated with
increased risk in developing interstitial pneumonitis (IP) as the result of total
body irradiation (TBI). Twenty-four patients were excluded because 22 did not
receive TBI and two had insufficient records.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients were conditioned with TBI and various drug
regimens. Eighteen patients received a single 6.0 Gy dose of x-rays. The
remaining 90 were treated with three doses of 3.33 Gy separated by 24 h. All
patients were followed for at least 18 months for the purposes of determining the
IP incidence.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven of these 108 (25%) patients developed IP; 19 (17.6%) died. 
The 2-year estimated incidence of IP was 24 and 18.6% for fatal IP. The etiology 
was determined to be idiopathic in 12 patients, the result of cytomegalovirus in 
6 patients, and caused by a variety of other infectious organisms in 9 patients. 
We were unable to demonstrate a statistically significant increase in IP with age
(adults vs. children), dose regimen, use of methotrexate for graft-vs.-host
disease prophylaxis, the presence of acute graft-vs.-host disease, time from
diagnosis to transplant, or transplant type (allogeneic vs. autologous).
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of fatal IP reported here is similar to that reported 
by other institutions utilizing hyperfractionated TBI protocols. Our data do not 
support the need for hyperfractionation to reduce the risk of IP.


PMID: 8823259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 1996 May;2(3):253-8.

Respiratory infections in HIV-negative immunocompromised patients.

Santamauro JT(1), White DA.

Author information: 
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10021, USA.

The number of immunosuppressed patients is increasing, with many being managed by
community physicians. Encouraging success in vaccinating some patients with
Hodgkin's disease against encapsulated organisms has been reported. The
significance of and management of tuberculosis in solid organ transplants is
being defined. Fungal infection remains a problem, but pathogenesis and treatment
are being clarified. The overall incidence of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia is
low, but it is being seen in patients without malignant disease, especially those
with Wegener's granulomatosis. Many authors have tried to establish risk factors 
that will allow development of clear indications for prophylaxis in these
patients. New approaches to cytomegalovirus infection are discussed as well as
the role of community-acquired viruses in causing disease in the immunosuppressed
population.


PMID: 9363147  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Ann Acad Med Singapore. 1996 May;25(3):347-51.

Preliminary experience of infusional brachytherapy using colloidal 32P.

Order SE(1), Siegel JA, Principato R, Zeiger LS, Johnson E, Lang P, Lustig R,
Kroprowski C, Wallner PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiological Physics, Cooper Hospital/University Medical Center,
Camden, New Jersey 08103, USA.

In the past, we have clinically evaluated radiolabelled antibodies in Hodgkin's
disease and hepatocellular cancer. Increased tumour pressure, reduced vascularity
and poor diffusion has limited significant radiolabelled antibody tumour dose
deposition. Using intratumoural infusion of macroaggregated albumin to blockade
exiting vasculature followed by colloidal chromic 32Phosphorous, we have been
able to achieve 75% to 100% tumour dose deposition by interstitial tumour
infusion under computerised tomographic guidance. Phase I studies in a variety of
solid tumours indicate extremely high doses may be achieved without toxicity
(i.e. non-resectable pancreas 900,000 cGy to 1.7 million cGy) with tumour control
and remission. This is a review of those studies and how the technique was
applied.


PMID: 8876899  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Chest. 1996 May;109(5 Suppl):119S-124S.

Biological treatment of NSCLC. The need for conclusive studies.

Jassem J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology and Radiotherapy, Medical University of Gdansk, Poland.

Despite extensive investigation, biological treatments for non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) remain largely undeveloped. The lack of satisfactory models has
frequently led to inadequate phase II studies and to small and inconclusive phase
III trials. Nonuniformity of trials has prevented clearer conclusions from being 
reached by meta-analysis. In general, immunotherapy has failed to fulfill
expectations for clinical usefulness. The benefit with this approach, if any,
seems to be marginal, but it is not clear whether this is a result of lack of
activity or faulty clinical testing. The future of biological agents in cancer
treatment lies in ongoing advances in molecular biology, for example in making
tumors more immunogenic. Another avenue of further clinical research includes
novel forms of therapy with monoclonal antibodies. Adequate models for testing
and appropriate clinical trial settings could clarify the role of biological
agents in NSCLC.


PMID: 8635389  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


977. J Surg Oncol. 1996 May;62(1):65-74.

Perioperative therapy for locoregional nonsmall-cell lung cancer.

Takita H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery and Oncology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute,
New York State Department of Health, Buffalo 14263, USA.

Surgical therapy remains the treatment of choice for resectable nonsmall-cell
lung cancer (NSCLC). However, the 5-year survival results of surgical therapy is 
40-70%, which is far from acceptable. In this report, past results of
perioperative therapies were reviewed to identify the future direction of effort 
in improving the therapy of NSCLC. Two perioperative modes of treatment that may 
possibly improve postsurgical survival were identified, i.e., neoadjuvant
chemotherapy for resectable NSCLC and postoperative specific active
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9098(199605)62:1<65::AID-JSO14>3.0.CO;2-S 
PMID: 8618405  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Medicina (B Aires). 1996;56 Suppl 1:74-82.

Immune mechanisms and tumor dormancy.

Stewart TH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ottawa General Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

The natural occurrence of tumor dormancy in man is reviewed based on observations
made by a distinguished surgeon and two pathologists after a lifetime of
practice. They concluded that dormancy is the result of immune mechanisms
preventing the growth of microscopic metastases already present following
curative surgery. Six cases of non-small-cell lung cancer are described in
patients randomized to receive specific active immunotherapy in controlled
clinical trials. Three patients had nonregional metastases at 11, 12 and 14
years. Two had regional recurrence after 9 years and in one patient a small
hilar-node metastasis was found at necropsy after 7.6 years. In each case an
immunodepressive event or drug treatment preceded resurgent growth. Animal models
of tumor dormancy are reviewed and the evidence is clear that dormancy may be
induced by manipulating immune mechanisms, resulting in cells remaining in
mitotic arrest, or tumor cell proliferation is balanced by an equivalent rate of 
cell death. Based on these observations future clinical strategies should de
developed to induce the dormant state in micrometastases in the adjuvant setting.


PMID: 9224977  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1996;38(1):27-39.

Strategies for the development of recombinant vaccines for the immunotherapy of
breast cancer.

Schlom J(1), Kantor J, Abrams S, Tsang KY, Panicali D, Hamilton JM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Tumor Immunology and Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

The development of recombinant vaccines for specific immunotherapy of carcinoma
represents a novel approach for the treatment of breast cancer and other tumor
types. This article reviews the various parameters that should be considered in
the development of recombinant vaccines. Several breast cancer associated
antigens are also discussed which may provide potential target molecules. The
human carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), which is expressed on approximately 50% of 
breast cancers, represents one such target for immunotherapy. To enhance the
immunogenicity of this antigen, a recombinant CEA-vaccinia vaccine, designated
rV-CEA, was produced. To study the effects of this vaccine in an animal model, a 
murine colon carcinoma cell line was transduced with CEA and transplanted into
immunocompetent mice for protection and therapy studies. Pre-clinical toxicity
studies were also conducted in non-human primates. The results of these studies
showed the rV-CEA vaccine to be immunogenic and safe in both rodents and
primates, and to elicit good anti-tumor responses in the rodent model. In a Phase
I clinical trial in metastatic breast, lung, and colorectal cancer patients
involving three immunizations of rV-CEA, at three dose levels, enhancement of
T-cell and antibody responses to vaccinia virus proteins were observed with no
toxicity. Specific T-cell responses were studied via stimulation of peripheral
blood lymphocytes with specific peptide epitopes from the CEA molecule. These
studies demonstrated clear cut differences in establishment of T-cell lines pre- 
versus post-immunization. The T-cell lines were shown to be CD8+ and/or
CD4+/CD8+, to lyse EBV transformed B-cells transduced with the CEA gene, and to
lyse CEA positive carcinoma cells in a HLA restricted manner. Thus, in a Phase I 
clinical trial the rV-CEA vaccine has been shown to stimulate a CTL response
specific for CEA defined epitopes in cancer patients.


PMID: 8825120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Eur Cytokine Netw. 1996 Jan-Mar;7(1):27-36.

Are interleukin-2 and interleukin-15 tumor promoting factors for human
non-hematopoietic cells?

Azzarone B(1), Pottin-Clemenceau C, Krief P, Rubinstein E, Jasmin C, Scudeletti
M, Indiveri F.

Author information: 
(1)U 268 INSERM Hôpital Paul Brousse, Villejuif, France.

Human normal non hematopoietic cells of mesenchymal and neuroectodermal origin
may express functional IL-Rs. For instance, in these cell types, IL-2 can
stimulate proliferation (endothelial, intestinal and nervous cells) or modify the
expression of adhesion molecules (fibroblasts) or inhibit proliferation (bone
marrow stromal cells). Therefore, some cytotoxic effects described during IL-2
biotherapy could be due to a direct interaction between IL-2 and
non-hematopoietic tissues. The expression of functional IL-2-R has also been
reported in several human cell lines derived from solid tumors. In some instances
IL-2 inhibits cell growth (head and neck, gastric and renal carcinomas), but in
other tumors, growth stimulation and increased expression of markers of tumor
progression have been reported (intestinal, breast, and lung carcinomas, gliomas,
fibrosarcomas and melanomas). Additionally, secretion of biologically active IL-2
has been reported in some melanoma and breast cancer cell lines. Transcripts for 
the novel cytokine IL-15, which utilizes the beta and gamma chains of the IL2-R, 
have been found in melanoma cells and anti-IL-15 mAbs inhibit HLA class I
expression in these cells. Therefore these cytokines may modify, inside a tumor, 
the behavior of both stromal and neoplastic cells. All these data may have
important implications in our understanding of tumor host interactions and in
future strategies of immunotherapy.


PMID: 8704093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Hum Cell. 1995 Dec;8(4):149-54.

[Tumor-rejection antigens expressed on human squamous cell carcinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Itoh K(1), Nakao M, Imai Y, Toh Y, Yamana H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Kurume University School of Medicine, Japan.

Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is one of the most common cancers in human. SCC,
particularly, esophageal and lung SCC are relatively resistant to currently
available regimens of chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Therefore, development
of a specific immunotherapy using tumor specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL)
would be important to offer other treatment modalities. However, generation of
HLA class I-restricted CTL recognizing SCC has been rarely reported. We
established the HLA A2601-restricted CTL cell line recognizing a peptide antigen 
expressed on SCC. This CD4- CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte (KE-4 CTL) cell line was 
established in a patient with esophageal cancer. The KE-4 CTL recognized a
peptide antigen on esohageal and lung SCC in an HLA A2601-restricted manner as
evaluated by cytotoxity against a panel of tumor cells, transfection experiments 
with HLA A2601 cDNA, and reconstitution with eleted peptides. None of normal
cells tested was lysed by this CTL. These results suggest the exstence of HLA
A2601-restricted CTL precursors recognizing a peptide antigen on SCC in a patient
with esophageal cancer.


PMID: 8721083  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Semin Respir Infect. 1995 Dec;10(4):199-208.

Pathogenesis of cytomegalovirus pneumonia in immunocompromised hosts.

Riddell SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, University of 
Washington, Seattle 98104, USA.

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is capable of establishing persistent or latent infection
after primary infections and reactivation in immunocompromised hosts. The
understanding of the nature of this latency is incomplete. The acquisition of
CMV-specific immune responses appears essential for limiting primary infection
and maintenance of a clinical state of latency. Host immunity induced by CMV
infection includes both cellular and humoral responses. Cell-mediated responses
by both CD4+ (T helper) and CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) are detected in
CMV-seropositive individuals. Studies in animal models and in immunocompromised
patients have implicated deficiencies in class I MHC-restricted, CD8+CMV-specific
CTL responses in the progression of experimental and human CMV infection and
pneumonia. Adoptive transfer of CD8+CMV-specific CTLs in immunodeficient marrow
transplant recipients provides evidence that adoptive immunotherapy with T-cell
clones of defined specificity and function can be used to safely and successfully
restore immunity to a human pathogen.


PMID: 8668847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


983. J Pineal Res. 1995 Oct;19(3):103-10.

The clinical neuroimmunotherapeutic role of melatonin in oncology.

Conti A(1), Maestroni GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Experimental Pathology, Istituto Cantonale di Patologia, Locarno,
Switzerland.

In the past several years, interest in the immunophysiological role of the pineal
gland and melatonin has grown to the extent that now their immunoregulatory role 
is widely recognized. Melatonin has immunoenhancing properties and it is able to 
counteract the immunodepression induced by acute stress, drug treatment (i.e.,
anticancer drugs), and viral infections. Here we review the therapeutic efficacy 
of melatonin alone or in combination with interleukin-2 (IL-2) in cancer patients
who did not respond to standard anticancer chemotherapies and/or refused any
aggressive treatment. In this review, we summarize a series of reports from 1986 
through 1994 in which patients affected by metastatic solid tumors, metastatic
non-small-cell lung cancer, advanced solid neoplasms, myelodysplastic syndrome,
hepatocellular carcinoma, and advanced endocrine tumors were studied. The
conclusion drawn from these studies is that melatonin protects against IL-2 and
synergizes with the IL-2 anticancer action. This combined strategy represents a
well tolerated intervention to control tumor growth. In most cases performance
status and quality of life seem improved.


PMID: 8750342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


984. J Antimicrob Chemother. 1995 Oct;36 Suppl B:23-38.

Heart transplantation.

Pepper JR(1), Khagani A, Yacoub M.

Author information: 
(1)National Heart and Lung Institute, London, UK.

Increased experience and knowledge in the field of heart transplantation has
resulted in continued expansion of this clinical activity. The same experience
has served to identify many problems and provided some answers which are in many 
instances incomplete. The outstanding problems in heart transplantation are
firstly the availability of donor organs, secondly, the limited storage of
excised donor hearts and thirdly the conundrum of transplant vascular disease as 
it is manifested in the coronary arteries of the donor heart. Despite these
problems, heart transplantation remains a very effective form of treatment
particularly for young, well-motivated patients in end-stage heart failure.
Although there is considerable agreement on many of the issues relating to heart 
transplantation, there are several areas of controversy. Neonatal heart
transplantation is one example, though with accumulated experience, acceptance of
the procedure has grown. The purpose of this article is to provide an overview of
the present situation and to highlight areas of controversy and ignorance which
require investigation.


PMID: 8601541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 1995 Jul;1(4):339-43.

Pleural malignancies including mesothelioma.

Hillerdal G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Lung Medicine, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

Malignant mesothelioma is caused almost exclusively by occupational exposure to
asbestos. During the past few years, however, increasing evidence has mounted
that background exposure to asbestos could be sufficient to cause mesothelioma.
Treatment of malignant mesothelioma remains a big problem. Some new approaches
are on their way, and the most exciting ones are local immunotherapy in very
early cases. Some success has been reported with local interferon treatment. As
for treatment of metastatic pleural disease, the main purpose is symptomatic
relief of dyspnea caused by fluid accumulation. The best way to achieve a lasting
palliation is pleurodesis, and the most common way to do this, is by chemical
means. The drug of choice in the United States has for many years been
tetracycline, but since injectable tetracycline is no longer available, some
substitute must be found. The substance that will "win" is not yet clear, but the
two leading contestants are talc and doxycycline. Bleomycin also has its
supporters, and a dark horse is quinacrine, which although not easily available
in the United States, has been used in many European centers for decades.


PMID: 9363074  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 1995 Jul;1(4):253-64.

Treatment of bronchogenic carcinoma.

Siefkin AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Davis, School of Medicine, Sacramento, USA.

Progress in the treatment of bronchogenic carcinoma, the leading cause of cancer 
death in men and women in the United States, has been slow throughout the past
few years, and no major breakthroughs have occurred in the past 12 months.
Significant developments in monoclonal antibody techniques and tissue cellular
markers offer hope for improved diagnosis and are useful in staging and following
disease response to treatment. Advances in patient selection and staging have
been primarily responsible for improved surgical outcomes, but some new surgical 
alternatives like video-assisted thoracoscopy and other tissue-sparing procedures
may offer reasonable outcomes with a lower morbidity. New drugs and new drug
combinations are being evaluated with hematopoietic growth factors in the
management of small cell lung cancer. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy
are finding a definite role in the management of non-small cell lung cancer. The 
optimal parameters for radiotherapy in the management of small cell lung cancer
are being defined. The use of immunotoxins, adjuvant immunotherapy, and
monoclonal antibodies offers major theoretical promise, but are as yet in the
early stages of development. Ancillary techniques for palliation of local airway 
obstruction, including both laser and endobronchial stents, are proving
beneficial in selected patients.


PMID: 9363062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Lung Cancer. 1995 Jun;12 Suppl 2:S127-46.

Clinical features and current treatment of diffuse malignant pleural
mesothelioma.

Rusch VW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10021, USA.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma is an uncommon cancer for which the major risk
factor is prior asbestos exposure. During the past decade, there has been
progress in the diagnosis, staging and biology of mesothelioma. Treatment remains
controversial and ranges from supportive care alone to aggressive multimodality
therapy. Prospective clinical trials in carefully staged patients are needed to
determine what approaches to treatment may confer a survival benefit.


PMID: 7551944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Ann Neurol. 1995 May;37 Suppl 1:S102-13.

Autoimmune central nervous system paraneoplastic disorders: mechanisms,
diagnosis, and therapeutic options.

Dropcho EJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham 35294, USA.

The presence of specific antineuronal antibodies in some patients with
paraneoplastic central nervous system (CNS) disorders supports the theory that
these syndromes have an autoimmune etiology. The anti-Purkinje cell antibodies
(APCAs) in some patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration and ovarian 
or breast carcinomas stain the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells. APCAs react with
several distinct neuronal protein autoantigens, including proteins featuring a
"leucine zipper" sequence motif, which suggests that they function in regulating 
DNA transcription. Type 1 anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies (ANNA-1) associated
with paraneoplastic encephalomyelitis and small-cell lung carcinoma stain the
nucleus and cytoplasm of all neurons, and react with a group of 35- to 40-kd
proteins in neuronal immunoblots. The protein targets of ANNA-1 belong to a
family of RNA-binding proteins that probably regulate posttranscriptional
processing of RNA. Type 2 anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies (ANNA-2) associated
with paraneoplastic opsoclonus-ataxia and breast carcinoma also produce a
panneuronal immunocytochemical staining pattern, but react with a group of
higher-molecular-mass proteins (53-61 kd and 79-84 kd); these autoantigens
probably also function as RNA-binding proteins. Several patients with
paraneoplastic stiff-man syndrome have antibodies against a 128-kd synaptic
protein. These antineuronal antibodies are highly specific (but not infallible)
diagnostic markers for the presence of a neoplasm in patients who present with
neurological dysfunction. The actual role of these autoantibodies in the
pathogenesis of neuronal damage and clinical disease remains to be determined.
Current management options for patients with CNS neurological paraneoplastic
syndromes are very limited. Only a small minority of patients with paraneoplastic
cerebellar degeneration or encephalomyelitis show significant neurological
improvement after successful tumor treatment and/or immunosuppressive treatments,
while patients with paraneoplastic opsoclonus or stiff-man syndrome have a
somewhat better outlook.


PMID: 8968221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Am J Clin Pathol. 1995 May;103(5):649-55.

Rhodococcus equi--an increasingly recognized opportunistic pathogen. Report of 12
cases and review of 65 cases in the literature.

Scott MA(1), Graham BS, Verrall R, Dixon R, Schaffner W, Tham KT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee 37232, USA.

Rhodococcus equi, a gram-positive, weakly acid-fast coccobacillus, initially
isolated from horses, is becoming increasingly recognized as an important
pathogen for immunosuppressed human hosts since the first human case was reported
in 1967. A review of the English medical literature yielded 53 cases. During the 
last 11 years, the microbiology laboratories of the authors isolated the organism
from 12 patients. Of the total 65 cases, 60 occurred in immunosuppressed patients
with HIV infection, malignant neoplasms, or chronic immunosuppressive therapy.
The lung is the most common primary site of infection. Typically, the lesion is
densely infiltrated by histiocytes with multiple microabscesses. Intracellular
gram-positive coccobacilli are easily demonstrated. R equi grows well on routine 
non-selective media at 35 degrees C. Previously, many cases may have been missed 
because the organism resembles oropharyngeal commensal diphtheroids. Clinical
information with gram and Kinyoun strains on fresh isolates is helpful in
recognizing the possibility of R equi infection.


PMID: 7741114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Tumori. 1995 May-Jun;81(3):201-3.

Long-lasting complete remission of pulmonary metastases consequent to renal cell 
carcinoma obtained with interferon-beta therapy: review of the literature and a
case report.

Scoponi C(1), Torresi U, Di Giuseppe M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Hospital of Macerata, Italy.

This case report describes a complete remission of pulmonary metastases,
consequent to renal cancer, achieved with interferon-beta therapy. After
nephrectomy (July 1990), this female patient was proposed for therapeutic
assessment: vinblastine chemotherapy was carried out for 10 cycles, whereas
concomitant immunotherapy of interferon-alpha was discontinued after 30 days
owing to lack of tolerability. In replacement, interferon-beta administration
from the 5th cycle of chemotherapy at the dose of 3 MIU 3 times a week was well
tolerated. Interferon-beta was interrupted 27 months later, due to an increase in
transaminase levels. Partial remission of pulmonary metastases was assessed after
9 months of interferon-beta therapy, and a complete remission was assessed after 
1 and 2 years of therapy. In November 1994, the patient was still in good
clinical conditions and disease-free after 37 months from the achievement of
complete remission.


PMID: 7571029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Actas Urol Esp. 1995 Mar;19(3):203-10.

[The surgical opportunity in metastatic lesions of renal-cell carcinoma after a
response to adjuvant immunotherapy].

[Article in Spanish]

Olivier C(1), Carballido J, Lao AH, Bellido D, Ramón y Cajal S, Manzano L, Ondina
L, Alvarez-Mon M.

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Urología y Anatomía Patológica, Clínica Puerta de Hierro,
Universidad de Alcalá de Henares, Madrid.

Surgical resection of primary lesions and single metastasis can be curative, but 
surgery, used as the only therapeutic option, is not unanimously accepted in
patients with multiple metastasis and, apart from other considerations, there are
no established clinical criteria to allow us to predict which patients will
benefit from a metastectomy. This study evaluates four patients with advanced
RCC. Three had multiple pulmonary metastasis at the time of diagnosis and one
presented retroperitoneal mass at 36 months of follow-up. All patients were
nephrectomized and received adjuvant immunotherapy with an association of IL-2
and 2b alpha-IFN subcutaneously, obtaining partial response of the disease after 
two treatment courses. Later, the patients underwent debulking surgery. Two
patients are still alive and have no evidence of disease progression at 28 months
and 8 months of follow-up. This data and that contrasted with other authors,
suggests that surgical management would be a reasonable option in patients who
have partially responded to immunotherapy, even though the selection of both
candidates and surgical strategy should be considered on an individual basis.


PMID: 8659277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Curr Opin Oncol. 1995 Mar;7(2):134-7.

Therapeutic options in malignant mesothelioma.

Moreno de la Santa P(1), Butchart EG.

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital of Wales, College of Medicine, Cardiff, UK.

No significant advances have been made in the treatment of diffuse malignant
mesothelioma in the past 12 months. For fit patients with early disease (stage
I), radical surgery remains the best option, but doubt remains concerning optimum
adjuvant therapy. A collaborative approach with multicentre trials of
standardized treatment protocols is essential if any progress is to be made in
the future.


PMID: 7538792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Ann Oncol. 1995;6 Suppl 1:73-7.

Gene therapy for lung cancer.

Woll PJ(1), Hart IR.

Author information: 
(1)Richard Dimbleby/ICRF Department of Cancer Research, Rayne Institute, St.
Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: The techniques of molecular genetics are being applied in many areas 
of oncology and have been spectacularly successful in elucidating the
pathogenesis of cancer. Attempts are now being made to harness this knowledge for
therapeutic use. Lung cancers are common solid tumours of complex aetiology and
represent a major challenge for gene therapy.
CURRENT INVESTIGATIONS: The approaches presently under investigation include the 
correction of acquired genetic abnormalities, such as mutation of p53 and
activation of the ras oncogene, immunotherapy, enhancement of host resistance to 
cytotoxic insult, and genetic activation of prodrugs by tissue-specific
promoters. A variety of vector systems arc available, including liposomes,
replication-defective retroviruses and adenoviruses. Local, regional and systemic
routes of administration are being studied, and it seems likely that a
combination of these approaches will be needed if such treatments are to become
generally available.


PMID: 8695549  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


994. APMIS Suppl. 1995;55:1-28.

Tissue distribution and tumor localization of effector cells in adoptive
immunotherapy of cancer.

Basse PH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Microbiology and Immunology University of Aarhus.

In adoptive immunotherapy (AIT) of cancer, lymphocytes are isolated from the
patient's blood and activated in vitro by the cytokine interleukin-2 (IL-2). In
response to the IL-2 the lymphocytes proliferate vigorously and their cytotoxic
potential increases several fold. After 5-10 days in culture, the cells-now
called lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells-are injected back into the patient
together with IL-2. The many positive results from preclinical animal models
justified the rapid transit of AIT into the clinic, but the clinical results have
far from fulfilled expectations. Many cancer centers have concluded that AIT in
its present configuration is not cost-effective given that the average response
rate is as low as 20-30%. Since a significant group of patients has shown
complete responses after AIT, the challenge is to elucidate the conditions
leading to optimal efficacy of AIT. It is generally accepted that the
antineoplastic effect of LAK cells requires a close contact between the LAK cells
and tumor cells. A central question in analyses of the mechanisms behind AIT is
the ability of the LAK cells to localize to the malignant tissues. The earliest
studies of the tissue distribution of 51Cr- and 111In-labeled LAK cells indicated
that LAK cells, upon intravenous (i.v.) injection, are initially retained in the 
lungs, but redistribute to liver and spleen during the following 16-24 hours.
However, our studies of the traffic and fate of i.v. injected tumor cells have
shown that the use of 51Cr and 111In as cell labels often results in an
over-estimation of the traffic of cells to liver and spleen and leads to falsely 
high predictions as to the survival of the injected cells, due to non-specific
accumulation of 51Cr and 111In in liver and spleen after their release from dead 
cells. Use of 125IUdR, which does not accumulate in liver and spleen following
release from dead cells, shows that the traffic of LAK cells into these organs
was much lower than previously thought. These experiments have now been repeated 
using other cell labels (such as fluorescence dyes and immunohistochemistry) and 
they confirm that only few LAK cells redistribute from the lungs to the liver and
spleen and that most die within the first 24 hours following injection. Thus, the
circulatory potential of LAK cells is very low and chances that i.v. injected LAK
cells will be able to localize into tumors and metastases located in other organs
than the lungs, seems small. Indeed, while fluorescence-labeled LAK cells
selectively localize into pulmonary metastases following intravenous injection,
no infiltration of extrapulmonary metastases is seen. Furthermore, quantitative
analyses have shown that even though the localization of LAK cells into pulmonary
metastases is highly specific (5-10 fold higher numbers of LAK cells are often
found in the metastases compared to the surrounding normal lung tissue), only 5% 
of the injected cells reach the malignant tissues. It is therefore reasonable to 
assume that the efficacy of AIT can be improved if the in vivo survival of the
LAK cells can be prolonged and if their ability to infiltrate tumors regardless
of their location, can be augmented. Previous studies in murine models have shown
that i.v. injected tumor cells are sequestrated in the lungs and that only few of
them reach other organs. However, when the tumor cells were injected into the
left ventricle of the heart (bypassing the lung capillaries), significant numbers
of tumor cells were found in the liver. It therefore seemed reasonable to
speculate that LAK cells injected into the left ventricle of the heart or
directly into the arteries supplying the tumor-bearing organ would have better
chances of localizing to the malignant tissue. This seemed to be correct in that 
10 fold higher numbers of LAK cells were found in the liver following intraportal
injection compared to intravenous injection.


PMID: 8534522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1995 Jan;22(1):23-7.

[Chemotherapy of malignant melanoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishihara K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Dermatology, National Cancer Center Hospital, Japan.

At present, the chemotherapeutic combinations for melanoma available are three
regimens using DAV, PAV and CDV. Among of them, the DAV combination (dacarbazine,
ACNU, vincristine) and PAV (peplomycin, ACNU, vincristine) are used as
post-operative adjuvant therapy for stage II and III patients. Their aim is to
prevent recurrence and prolong survival. For stage IV patients, the major
therapeutic procedure is a CDV combination (cisplatin, dacarbazine, vindesine).
Adoptive immunotherapy is almost always used for patients with distant
metastases. They have shown comparable effects for metastatic lesion in the lymph
nodes, mucous membrane, brain and lung. Excellent results were obtained in
patients having skin metastases by intratumoral injection of interferon-beta.
Studies on new drugs and their combinations must be undertaken for more effective
treatment of malignant melanoma.


PMID: 7529980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Recenti Prog Med. 1994 Dec;85(12):591-6.

Systemic specific active immunotherapy for solid tumors. An overview about cancer
vaccinetherapy.

Tagliaferri F(1), Sirovich I, Stipa F, Valente MG, Pupelis G, Tremiterra S.

Author information: 
(1)Cattedra di Chirurgia, Università La Sapienza, Roma.

Augmentation of specific immunity is one of the most promising
immunotherapeutical approaches against solid tumors. Protocols using autologous
tumor cells or tumor associated antigens are easily performed and not charged by 
severe side effects. Recently some clinical trials suggested good results from
immunotherapeutical protocols applied as an adjuvant to surgery in terms of
disease free interval, survival and progression time in different stages. In this
review the authors report the results of the most important clinical trials of
vaccinetherapy in solid tumors. Little is known about the possibility of this new
approach to oncology since we are at the real beginning of a new clinical
treatment but in the considered trial its effectiveness seems to suggest a future
wider application.


PMID: 7899685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1994 Nov;21(15):2555-63.

[Combined multimodality treatment for non-small cell lung cancer--with special
reference to pre- and post-operative adjuvant therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Surgery I, Kanazawa University School of Medicine.

Surgical resection is the treatment of choice for patients with localized
non-small cell lung cancer. However, the long-term survival rate of patients
after such surgery is disappointing. Even in stage I patients who have undergone 
potentially curative operation, over 30% of them recur within five years. Most of
the recurrences are caused by hematogenous metastases to the distant organs.
However, all of the comparative study to evaluate postoperative adjuvant therapy,
ie, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, radiotherapy, or their combination, showed
negative results, except for a few positive outcomes. To date, there is no
evidence that pre- and postoperative adjuvant therapy have shown a favorable
impact on survival of postoperative patients with stage I disease. LCSG has had
reportedly favorable results on survival of stage II and III adenocarcinoma and
large cell carcinoma by postoperative CAP-chemotherapy. Postoperative
chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy showed no impact on survival of stage III
patients who underwent surgical intervention. However, preoperative induction
therapy (IT) using combination chemotherapy (with or without radiotherapy) has
improved the survival of patients with resected stage III disease, although most 
reports are of phase II trial or interim results. It seems to be true that the IT
can render an advanced lung cancer resectable and also can control pre-existing
micro-metastases in the distant organs. However, randomized prospective trials
are required for evaluating an impact on the survival rate of the advanced
non-small cell lung cancer.


PMID: 7979413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Lung Cancer. 1994 Nov;11 Suppl 3:S111-6.

Is there a place for classical adjuvant treatment?

Ihde DC(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892.


PMID: 7704503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Ann Hematol. 1994 Jul;69(1):1-9.

Recombinant methionyl granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (filgrastim): a new
dimension in immunotherapy.

Schwab G, Hecht T.


PMID: 7520285  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Immunomethods. 1994 Jun;4(3):273-9.

Systemic targeting of liposome-encapsulated immunomodulators to macrophages for
treatment of cancer metastasis.

Killion JJ(1), Fidler IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston 77030.

The therapy of cancer is, in reality, the design of therapeutic strategies for
therapy of metastatic disease. Metastases consist of unique subpopulations of
tumor cells that are derived from the primary tumor, colonize distant target
organs, and are able to subvert host immune responses, establish necessary
angiogenesis, and obtain a sufficient nutrient supply while evolving to become
autonomous from homeostatic mechanisms that function within normal,
differentiated tissues. Attempts at eradication of metastases by conventional
therapies have generally been unsuccessful due to genetic instability and
heterogeneity of metastatic tumors; these properties lead to the emergence of
tumor cells that are resistant to most conventional treatments. It may be
possible to circumvent this heterogeneity by the activation of tissue macrophages
to the tumoricidal state. Activated macrophages are able to kill tumor cells
while sparing normal tissues, and efficient activation can be achieved by
encapsulation of synthetic muramyl tripeptide analogues into multilamellar
vesicles composed of phospholipids. Systemic administration of these
liposome-encapsulated compounds leads to tumoricidal activation of alveolar and
peritoneal macrophages and eradication of established tumor metastasis in
numerous animal tumor models, and this form of therapy is enhanced by combination
with parenteral administration of cytokines. Phase III clinical trials of
recurrent osteosarcoma are currently in progress. Modulation of the tumor
microenvironment by activated macrophages may prove to be an additional modality 
in treatment strategies that combine the use of biological response modifiers
with conventional therapies.


PMID: 7820457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1001. Nat Immun. 1994 Mar-Jun;13(2-3):113-30.

Immunotherapy of tumor metastasis via gene therapy.

Porgador A(1), Feldman M, Eisenbach L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

Active cellular immunotherapy of cancer, via gene-modified tumor cells, may
develop to an effective treatment modality. Here we discuss some of the cytokines
used in gene transfer, the importance of MHC class I expression on tumor cells
used as vaccines, the relevance of experimental tumor systems to human tumors,
and the use of live versus irradiated vaccines. Possible methods for effective
gene transfer and possible protocols for immunotherapy studies are presented. Our
studies in two highly metastatic murine tumors, the Lewis lung carcinoma (3LL)
and the B16 melanoma, and immune mechanisms involved in immunotherapy of
metastasis are summarized.


PMID: 8173233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1002. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 1994 Jan;6(1):105-10.

Rheumatic manifestations of malignancy.

Conaghan PG(1), Brooks PM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Professorial Unit, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst, NSW,
Australia.

The rheumatic associations of cancer therapy are highlighted in this review.
Interleukin-2, interferon alfa, and Calmette-Guérin bacillus immunotherapies are 
related to an inflammatory arthritis, and septic arthritis can complicate
breast-cancer therapy. In a large retrospective study, an increased incidence of 
cancer in systemic sclerosis was confirmed, especially lung and breast cancers.
Lymphoproliferative associations of Sjögren's syndrome were explored in a study
of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients in which clinical and histologic criteria were
used to diagnose Sjögren's syndrome. B- and T-cell lymphomas continue to be
reported with rheumatologic manifestations such as seronegative polyarthritis and
sacroiliitis. Malignant angioendotheliomatosis, which mimics central nervous
system vasculitis diseases, has been reported. Paraneoplastic associations of
lung, ovarian, and renal-cell carcinomas are discussed.


PMID: 8031673  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. Rev Mal Respir. 1994;11(5):455-72.

[The p53 gene and protein in bronchial carcinogenesis:from biological to clinical
aspects].

[Article in French]

Zalcman G(1), Trédaniel J, Lechapt E, Lubin R, Soussi T, Hirsch A.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris.

The p53 gene codes for a nuclear phosphoprotein which is capable of modulating
the expression of certain genes implicated in the regulation of cell division.
The mutation of an allele on the p53 gene with loss of the healthy allele, in
different tissues such as lung, larynx, bladder, liver, skin, colon and breast,
which may or may not be exposed to chemical or physical carcinogens (tobacco,
radon, ultraviolet, aflatoxin B1), is associated with the occurrence of cancer.
Indeed, the mutated p53 protein loses its anti-proliferative properties favouring
a de-regulation of cellular multiplication with the accumulation of genetic
aberrations. The homozygous deletion of the p53 gene in germ cells in the members
of certain family cancers (Li-Fraumeni syndrome) leads to an increased incidence 
of cancers in the child or young adult. The most frequent mutations of the p53
gene end in a stabilisation of the mutated protein with immuno-histochemical
nuclear marking of the cells carrying such an alteration. In certain patients
this stabilisation of the mutated protein ends in auto-immunisation with anti-p53
serum antibodies. Bronchial cancer is a cancer of which the mutations of p53 are 
the most frequent (45-65% of bronchial cancer) as result of the mutagenic effect 
of tobacco smoke. These mutations seem to be associated with a bad prognosis and 
indeed to chemo-and radiotherapeutic resistance. The early diagnosis of p53
alterations (in dysplastic lesions or tumours which are only slightly developed) 
would enable new therapeutic interventions in bronchial cancer such as gene
therapy or radio-immunotherapy to either restore the p53 gene to normality or to 
eliminate the cells expressing the mutated p53 protein respectively.


PMID: 7816989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1004. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1994;14 Suppl 4:S4-8.

Radiobiology of total body radiation.

Vriesendorp HM(1), Chu H, Ochran TG, Besa PC, Champlin RE.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas M.D. Anderson Center, Houston 77030.

The first bone marrow transplants (BMTs) in human patients were performed after
conditioning with total body irradiation (TBI). TBI remains an important part of 
BMT protocols. The morbidity and mortality of BMT remains significant, but can be
decreased by the introduction of optimized TBI regimens. This requires dosimetric
control and a detailed analysis and description of the physics of the TBI
procedure in every BMT center that utilizes TBI. Recommendations for such
procedures are given. Radiobiological models are of help in developing less toxic
TBI procedures, but can only be effective after dosimetric control has been
obtained and if the influence of other variables on the outcome of BMT are taken 
into account. Fractionated TBI (fraction size over 3.0 Gy or higher) appears to
be more effective and better tolerated than single fraction TBI. Lung shielding
is possible during TBI. Smaller organs or organs that cannot be imaged easily are
not recommended for shielding. Radiolabeled immunoglobulins are but low molecular
weight bone seeking radioisotopes and are not expected to improve the therapeutic
ratio of TBI. Other variables in BMT are more difficult to quantify and model
than TBI (e.g. high-dose chemotherapy, graft-versus-host disease) and will be
more difficult to optimize.


PMID: 7728124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1005. Stem Cells. 1994;12 Suppl 1:173-82; discussion 182-4.

Activities of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor revealed by gene
transfer and gene knockout studies.

Dranoff G(1), Mulligan RC.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.

We used retroviral mediated gene transfer and gene knockout technologies to
explore the in vivo functions of murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating
factor (GM-CSF) [1, 2]. In tumor vaccination experiments, GM-CSF was the most
potent molecule of a large number of cytokines, adhesion molecules and other
immunomodulators for the induction of specific and long-lasting anti-tumor
immunity. Vaccination required activities of both CD4 and CD8 positive
lymphocytes, and likely involved the augmentation by GM-CSF of host professional 
antigen-presenting cell function. Mice engineered by homologous recombination
techniques in embryonic stem cells to lack GM-CSF demonstrated no significant
perturbations in steady-state hematopoiesis. All mutant animals, however,
developed the accumulation of surfactant proteins and lipids in the alveolar
space, the defining feature of the idiopathic human disorder pulmonary alveolar
proteinosis. Surfactant lipid and protein content were increased in the absence
of alterations in surfactant protein mRNA, supporting the concept that surfactant
clearance or catabolism was perturbed. Extensive lymphoid hyperplasia associated 
with lung airways and blood vessels was also found, yet no infectious agents
could be isolated. These results demonstrate that GM-CSF is not an essential
growth factor for basal hematopoiesis and reveal an unexpected, critical role for
GM-CSF in pulmonary homeostasis. It is tempting to speculate that the ability of 
GM-CSF to modulate the uptake and processing of particulate material underlies
the mechanisms of immunostimulation and surfactant accumulation.


PMID: 7696961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1006. JAMA. 1993 Oct 13;270(14):1719-23.

Immunoaugmentative therapy. An unproven cancer treatment.

Green S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Zol Consultants Inc, New York, NY 10019.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1994 May 4;271(17):1319; author reply 1320.
    JAMA. 1994 May 4;271(17):1319-20.

While it is statistically true that clinical cancer occasionally occurs following
development of immune incompetency, the fact remains that the most common forms
of cancer (ie, breast, lung, and colon) are not experienced by immunosuppressed
individuals. Since there is strong scientific evidence that the unprovoked,
normal immune system does not recognize and destroy cancer cells that arise
spontaneously, the concept of an immune surveillance system that continuously
protects clinically normal humans from cancer remains an appealing but unproven
hypothesis. Burton's theory of immune surveillance against cancer appears to be
nothing more than a rehash of the hypotheses of many other investigators,
embellished with his postulate that four specific anticancer protein factors
exist and function in the normal human immune system. The IAT he invented as a
treatment for cancer is based on his presumption that he has proven the existence
of these factors. But neither his declarations nor those of his proponents offer 
any objective evidence to support such a conclusion. They have not proven that
the IAT components exist or can be extracted from blood without the loss of
biologic activity. The tests that are described cannot quantitatively measure the
specific IAT proteins and there is no evidence that the IAT fractions possess any
immunologic activity. Thus, Burton's tumor antibody has never been shown to be a 
tumor specific immunoglobulin that can interact with tumor antigens and activate 
complement. His tumor complement fraction has no complement activity (written
communication, G.J. Gray, PhD, June 21, 1984), his blocking protein has not been 
shown to block anything, his deblocking protein has not been shown to deblock
anything, and his human tumor cells have never been shown to lyse following the
interaction of tumor antibody and tumor complement. Finally, since there is no
information on the quality control procedures being used in the manufacture of
the IAT materials, there is the possibility that they may be unsterile and,
therefore, hazardous for use in humans. Patients who are considering IAT as
treatment for cancer should be made aware of these facts when attempting to reach
an informed decision regarding its safety and potential efficacy. While this
paper was being reviewed for publication, an IAT proponent newsletter called The 
Cancer Chronicles published the news that Lawrence Burton died of a heart attack 
in March 1993. The editor of this newsletter, Ralph Moss, PhD, stated that
Burton's clinic would remain open under the direction of its medical director, R.
John Clement, MD, and would continue to offer IAT to cancer patients.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)


PMID: 8411503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1007. Semin Oncol. 1993 Oct;20(5):400-18.

Recurrent cutaneous melanoma: a surgical perspective.

Yeung RS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA
19111.


PMID: 8211191  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1008. Semin Oncol. 1993 Aug;20(4):351-8.

Immunotherapy of lung cancer.

Fishbein GE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, PA
19107.

Review of the literature on immunotherapies in lung cancer provides hope that an 
impact on the natural history of this disease can be achieved. Although the
various trials of adjuvant nonspecific immunostimulation with BCG, levamisole,
and C parvum are not sufficiently detailed to permit meta-analysis, in aggregate 
the data suggest a slight improvement in disease-free survival for treated
patients. Perhaps these adjuvants combined with more immunogenic TAAs could be
formulated into a vaccine that would be effective in preventing recurrence of
lung cancer after surgical excision. Ongoing research in molecular technology may
provide adequate quantities of such products so that this hypothesis can be
tested in appropriate patient populations.


PMID: 8342064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. Reg Immunol. 1993 May-Aug;5(3-4):232-43.

Cytokine immunotherapy of non-small cell lung cancer.

Dubinett SM(1), Kradin RL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer
Center, UCLA School of Medicine.


PMID: 8240940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1010. Med Phys. 1993 Mar-Apr;20(2 Pt 2):551-67.

Experimental radioimmunotherapy.

Buchsbaum DJ(1), Langmuir VK, Wessels BW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Alabama, Birmigham 35233.

Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies have been used for radioimmunotherapy studies 
with human tumor spheroids and murine and human tumor xenografts in experimental 
animals. This paper reviews the work that has been performed in these models with
different types of cancer, and highlights those papers that have presented
dosimetry estimates and attempts to correlate the findings. Radioimmunotherapy
studies in multicell spheroids, as a model for micrometastases, have been
performed in human neuroblastoma, colon cancer, and melanoma cell lines using
131I-, 125I-, 186Re-, and 212Bi-labeled antibodies. The uniform geometry of the
spheroid has allowed radiation dose estimates to be made. Up to three logs of
cell kill have been achieved with 131I- and 186Re-specific antibody with minimal 
toxicity from labeled nonspecific antibody, but 212Bi-antibody had little effect 
because of its short half-life as shown by Langmuir. It appears that the two most
important factors for therapeutic efficacy in this model are good penetration of 
the radiolabeled antibody and an adequate radionuclide half-life to allow
penetration of the immunoconjugate prior to significant radionuclide decay.
Radioimmunotherapy studies in animals bearing transplants of colon cancer,
leukemia, lymphoma, hepatoma, renal cell carcinoma, neuroblastoma, glioma,
mammary carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma, cervical carcinoma, ovarian
carcinoma, and bladder cancer have been performed with 131I, 90Y, 186Re, 153Sm,
and 177Lu beta emitting, and 212Bi alpha emitting radionuclides conjugated to
monoclonal antibodies. A few studies compared different radionuclides in the same
model system. The approaches that have been used in these studies to estimate
tumor dosimetry include the MIRD approach, thermoluminescent dosimetry,
autoradiography, and comparison to external irradiation. The majority of
investigators have estimated the dose to tumor and normal organs using MIRD-based
calculations (time-activity curve and equilibrium dose constant method). The
range of tumor doses has been between 17 and 11 171 mGy/MBq of administered
radioactivity. The effectiveness of radiolabeled monoclonal antibody therapy
depends on a number of factors relating to the antibody such as specificity,
affinity, and immunoreactivity. The density, location, and heterogeneity of
expression of tumor-associated antigen within tumors will affect the localization
and therapeutic efficacy of radiolabeled antibodies, as will physiological
factors such as the tumor vascularity, blood flow, and permeability. These
factors are discussed and examples are presented.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1118/1.597142 
PMID: 8492764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1011. Chest. 1993 Jan;103(1 Suppl):30S-34S.

Postoperative chemotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer.

Holmes EC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, UCLA Medical Center.

The Lung Cancer Study Group has performed a number of postoperative adjuvant
trials in patients with resectable non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Adjuvant
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (CAP) chemotherapy was compared with
immunotherapy in the treatment of 130 patients with stage II or III
adenocarcinoma or large cell undifferentiated carcinoma. Careful intraoperative
staging was performed in all patients. Disease-free interval was significantly
prolonged in the chemotherapy group (p = 0.032). After 7.5 years of follow-up,
the difference in time to recurrence and cancer deaths remains statistically
significant. Another study compared CAP chemotherapy plus radiotherapy with
radiotherapy alone in advanced stages II and III resected NSCLC. Again, the
chemotherapy arm had significantly increased disease-free survival. In a third
study, patients with high-risk stage I NSCLC were randomized after surgery to CAP
chemotherapy or observation. In this study there was no difference in
recurrence-free survival or overall survival.


PMID: 8380131  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1012. Acta Oncol. 1993;32(7-8):845-51.

Monoclonal antibodies for diagnosis and potential therapy of small cell lung
cancer--the ganglioside antigen fucosyl-GM1.

Vangsted AJ(1), Zeuthen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tumor Cell Biology, Danish Cancer Society, Copenhagen.

Lung carcinomas represent a highly heterogenous group of tumors, which includes
small cell lung cancer (SCLC). The ganglioside fucosyl-GM1 (FucGM1) was
originally identified as a highly selective marker for SCLC. A number of
monoclonal antibodies against FucGM1 have been produced against the purified
ganglioside, and their specificity validated. With monoclonal antibodies, FucGM1 
has been detected in tissues as well as in serum samples from SCLC patients. A
sensitive, quantitative assay method for FucGM1 was developed based on
scintillation proximity immunoassay (SPA): A specific monoclonal antibody against
FucGM1 is bound to immunosorbent particles that contain a fluor. When
radiolabelled FucGM1 binds to these particles, the fluor is excited, and the
photons emitted can be measured directly in a beta-counter. This sensitive assay 
for FucGM1 has several potential diagnostic applications: differential diagnosis 
of SCLC, development of serum assays for diagnosis and monitoring of disease
progression, and monitoring of patient response to therapy. The expression of
FucGM1 in SCLC cells is heterogeneous, and may depend on the differentiated state
of tumor cells. However, monoclonal antibodies specific for FucGM1 may have
important future applications for radioimmunoimaging as well as in immunotherapy 
for SCLC.


PMID: 8305235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1013. Tuber Lung Dis. 1992 Oct;73(5):252-61.

Theoretical and methodological aspects of BCG vaccine from the discovery of
Calmette and Guérin to molecular biology. A review.

Lugosi L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire du BCG-ADNr, Institut Pasteur de Lille, France.

The BCG vaccine has been used to prevent tuberculosis since 1921 and applied for 
immunostimulation in neoplasia since the 1960s. Both the preventive and
immunostimulation effects have been evaluated and communicated with
contradictory, positive and negative conclusions. For an objective evaluation and
interpretation of the protective efficacy, effectiveness and efficiency of the
BCG vaccination it must be considered that: (1) several BCG substrains have been 
developed in manufacturing laboratories that differ in the residual virulence
which determines immunogenicity and reactogenicity; (2) various liquid and
freeze-dried BCG vaccine production methods are used, resulting in different BCG 
viable units per dose; (3) quantitative bioassay methods are not yet being used
for statistical quality control of the vaccine; (4) BCG products are applied in
various demographical, epidemiological and socioeconomic conditions with
different vaccination policies; (5) inadequate biostatistical models are often
used to analyse efficacy, effectiveness and adverse reactions. The same
conditions influence the precise evaluation of BCG immunostimulation in
neoplasia. Recombinant DNA technology will modify production methods, and explain
at the molecular level the mechanism of the protective effects BCG confers in
tuberculosis and immunostimulation in neoplasia. High level laboratory techniques
and biostatistical methods, based on probability logic and inductive inference,
ensure appropriate experimental designs and the exact analysis of laboratory data
and the results of vaccination policies. They will lead to the evaluation of the 
protective effect of BCG in order to reduce the BCG contradictions.

DOI: 10.1016/0962-8479(92)90129-8 
PMID: 1493232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1014. Neurology. 1992 Oct;42(10):1938-43.

Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. II. Clinical and immunologic findings in 
21 patients with Hodgkin's disease.

Hammack J(1), Kotanides H, Rosenblum MK, Posner JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021.

We reviewed clinical findings and serologic data on 18 men and three women with
paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (PCD) associated with Hodgkin's disease
(HD). The patients were 20 to 77 years old (median, 44). The lymphoma preceded
neurologic symptoms by 1 to 54 months in 17/21 patients, but stage or activity
did not correlate with severity of neurologic disease; six developed PCD while in
HD remission. PCD evolved subacutely (over weeks to months) and was pancerebellar
in most. Ten had downbeat nystagmus. Thirteen stabilized in a disabled state
(wheelchair- or bed-bound), five stabilized ambulatory, and three, who had
progressed to a nonambulatory state, recovered. The clinical findings were
usually only cerebellar but one patient had an encephalopathy, three long-tract
signs, and two sensory neuropathy. Plasmapheresis (seven patients) and
corticosteroids or other immunosuppressant medication (eight patients) did not
help; one improved dramatically after treatment with clonazepam. Two patients
improved spontaneously. Six patients had serum antibodies that reacted
specifically with Purkinje cells. The pattern was distinct from that of PCD with 
gynecologic cancer (anti-Yo) or small-cell lung cancer (anti-Hu). Western
blotting failed to identify a discrete Purkinje cell antigen. Seropositive
patients did not differ clinically from their seronegative counterparts.
HD-associated PCD is more common in men and in a younger age group than in PCD
with other malignancies.


PMID: 1407576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1015. Int J Immunopharmacol. 1992 Apr;14(3):511-4.

Vaccines for control of fertility and hormone dependent cancers.

Talwar GP(1), Singh O, Pal R, Chatterjee N.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi, India.

Two vaccines, namely one inducing antibodies against hCG and the other against
GnRH, are now in clinical trials. The hCG vaccine has entered Phase II clinical
trials in three centres in India after successfully completing Phase I clinical
studies in several centres in India and in four countries abroad. The vaccine was
found to be devoid of side-effects; its effect was reversible. The available data
on 179 cycles indicate that the vaccine prevents pregnancy at antibody titres
above 50 ng/ml. A genetically engineered version of the vaccine has also been
approved for trials in human lung cancer patients of the type which make hCG. hCG
is observed to be a growth factor for such tumours. The GnRH vaccine is usable in
both males and females as the deca-peptide is common to both sexes. Following
suitable experimental and toxicology studies, the vaccine is currently in Phase
I/Phase II clinical trials in patients of prostate carcinoma. Where antibody GnRH
antibodies were induced, the LH, FSH and testosterone levels declined. This was
accompanied by a reduction in prostate specific antigen. Clinical improvement was
observed in many cases. The vaccine has also entered Phase I clinical studies in 
postpartum women, with the objective to extend the lactational amenorrhoea and
extend inter-child interval.

PIP: Researchers at the National Institute of Immunology (NII) in New Delhi,
India have studied 2 vaccines to control fertility: the human chorionic
gonadotropin (hCG) vaccine and the gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) vaccine.
Animal studies of both vaccines do not indicate any side effects. These 2
vaccines are at the clinical trial stage. Phase II clinical trials of hCG vaccine
uses the heterospecies dimer conjugated to tetanus toxoid, diphtheria toxoid, or 
cholera toxin chain B as carriers. The subjects include hyperfertile women with
at least 2 living children. They receive 3 primary immunizations every 6 weeks
then a booster immunization as needed. As of May 1991, women with titers of 50ng 
of hCG bioneutralization capacity/ml had experienced 179 pregnancy-free cycles,
and their sexual activity surpasses that prior to receiving the vaccine. 1 study 
shows that the lung tumors in nude mice which have passive immunization with
anti-alpha hCG antibodies necrotize when researchers implant lung tumor cells.
Injection of antibodies at the same time of implantation of tumor cells inhibits 
lung tumor growth. NII researchers plan to conduct a clinical trial with a beta
hCG vaccine conjugated with vaccinia in lung cancer patients. The GnRH vaccine
has the potential to be effective in both men and women. A study in male rats
using diphtheria toxoid as the GnRH vaccine carrier reveals that antibody titers 
rise, testosterone levels fall, weight of testis decreases, and the prostate
disappears. NII has begun clinical trials with postpartum women and, as of April 
1992, 20 women were enrolled and immunized at 2 centers in India. Similar
research in monkeys does not show evidence of passage of GnRH antibodies through 
breast milk. GnRH vaccine research in prostate cancer patients demonstrates
declining levels of testosterone, luteinizing hormone, and follicle stimulating
hormone, shrinkage of the prostate, and clearance of urinary ducts.

PMID: 1618603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1016. Semin Oncol. 1992 Apr;19(2 Suppl 4):80-7.

Chemotherapy in combination with biomodulation: a 5-year experience with
cyclophosphamide and interleukin-2.

Mitchell MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Southern California School of Medicine, 
Los Angeles.

There are four classical forms of immunotherapy: active, adoptive, restorative,
and passive, and perhaps a fifth form, cytomodulatory, the upregulation of
tumor-associated and HLA antigens to make tumors more recognizable by the immune 
system. Our 5-year experience with low-dose cyclophosphamide (CY) (350 mg/m2)
before low-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2) (21.6 million IU/m2/d x 5 d/wk x 2 wk per
course by IV bolus) is reviewed as an example of combination chemotherapy and
immunotherapy. Twenty-six percent (10 of 39 evaluable patients) of patients with 
melanoma had major clinical responses; one other patient (2%) has had more than
48 months of response after a 40% regression of all tumors. Median survival was
18 months for responders and 8 months for the group as a whole. Eleven of 41
patients (27%) lived at least 12 months and four (10%) lived at least 2 years.
Liver metastases regressed in 4 of 10 cases, with responses in lung, adrenal,
skin, and lymph nodes but no bone. Toxicity was tolerable. A correlation between 
cytolysis of lymphocytes against a natural killer-resistant melanoma cell line
(LAK-like activity) was found, but the role of LAK cells in vivo remains
uncertain. No effect was noted in 15 patients with renal cancer, but regressions 
of breast cancer were found in a shortened trial with 13 patients. While the
necessity for CY has not been established in these studies, the regimen of CY +
IL-2 as it stands appears to have some clinical efficacy in at least two cancers.


PMID: 1553579  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1017. Biotherapy. 1992;4(3):205-14.

Clinical trials of bestatin for leukemia and solid tumors.

Ota K(1), Uzuka Y.

Author information: 
(1)Nagoya Memorial Hospital, Japan.

A new immunomodulating agent, bestatin (INN: ubenimex) has low toxicity after
long-term oral administration and significantly modifies immunological responses.
Prolongation of remission duration and survival was achieved in adult acute
nonlymphocytic leukemia with bestatin immunotherapy combined with remission
maintenance chemotherapy. Patients with myelodysplatic syndrome (MDS) and chronic
myelogenous leukemia (CML) responded to bestatin, and it is noted that
cytogenetic remission was obtained in CML. MDS and CML are thought to be a family
of clonal malignant disorders in which malignant transformations occurs at the
level of the pluripotent stem cell. Bestatin may be capable of modifying the
biological-proliferative disequilibrium of the disease, and the therapy opens new
and promising prospects in the treatment of both MDS and CML. Randomized
controlled studies of bestatin immunotherapy were performed in solid tumors
including malignant melanoma, carcinoma of the lung, stomach, bladder, head and
neck, and esophagus, and therapeutic benefits on disease free-interval or
survival were observed in certain types of these cancers. However, the adjuvant
activity of bestatin immunotherapy for these cancers should be further
investigated to confirm its activity.


PMID: 1599804  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1018. Cancer Surv. 1992;13:101-27.

The role of surface HLA-A,B,C molecules in tumour immunity.

Möller P(1), Hämmerling GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pathology, Heidelberg University, Germany.

It is well established that MHC class I molecules present peptides from
endogenous proteins, such as virus or tumour antigens, to CD8+ T lymphocytes.
This implies that expression of MHC class I molecules on tumours is also
mandatory for an effective T cell response against neoplasias. Indeed, numerous
murine models exist (such as IC9, 3LL, P815) in which the existence of MHC
presented tumour antigens and a protective CTL response have been well documented
(reviewed in Hämmerling et al, 1987). However, the key question of whether
cytolytic T cell attack has a role in human cancer remains unsolved. Similarly,
the role of NK cells is unclear; these seem to lyse cells with low levels of MHC 
class I expression more efficiently. So far, human tumour specific antigens that 
can be presented by HLA molecules have not been identified on the molecular
level. For a subpopulation of patients with malignant melanoma, the existence of 
tumour antigen can be deduced from the existence of tumour specific cytotoxic T
cells isolated from TIL. However, for other epidemiologically more important
tumours such as carcinomas of the colon, breast and lung, even indirect evidence 
is still missing. It is thus unknown how many tumours express tumour specific
antigen at all and whether these putative antigens are of unique specificity or
are shared by certain groups of (histologically related) neoplasias. Most reports
agree that malignant cells in general have a more or less pronounced propensity
to express class I molecules abnormally and often in the sense of hypoexpression 
or (sublocus selective) loss. Mechanisms inducing aberrant expression are
numerous. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that an abnormal content in
surface class I/beta 2m may be associated with other aspects of dedifferentiation
of the tumour and hence may eventually correlate with biological signs of an
increased grade of malignancy. Consequences of defective MHC class I expression
for the survival of a malignant clone may theoretically consist of an escape from
cytotoxic T cell attack or in an increased susceptibility for NK mediated lysis. 
In view of the fact that a particular antigen in a cell will be presented only by
one or few HLA alleles on the cell, one would not expect that immunoselection
would lead to a loss of all HLA alleles. It can be deduced from the few existing 
clinical studies on the prognostic impact of aberrant MHC class I expression that
immunoselection by one way or the other is not a relevant mechanism in terms of
tumour biology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)


PMID: 1423320  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1019. Recenti Prog Med. 1991 Dec;82(12):642-51.

[Monoclonal antibodies in the diagnosis and therapy of lung cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Campobasso N(1), Dammacco F.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze biomediche e Oncologia umana, Università, Bari.

The discovery of monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) by Köhler and Milstein in 1975 has
marked a fundamental step accounting for the present development of
immuno-oncology. The use of MoAbs in the study of lung carcinoma has allowed to
enlarge our knowledge on the biology and natural history of this tumor, on the
diagnostic procedures both in vitro and in vivo, on the monitoring of patients as
well as on the therapeutic potentialities. A number of MoAbs have been produced, 
directed either to the small cell lung carcinoma or to the other histotypes which
are altogether defined as non-small cell lung carcinoma. Although these reagents 
are not specific sensu strictiori, their use has been shown to be of partial
utility for tumor imaging by immunoscintigraphy and for immunotherapeutic
procedures based on the administration of MoAbs conjugated with radioactive
isotopes or immunotoxins. Several attempts are presently under way aiming at the 
production of MoAbs endowed with a more defined specificity and larger
potentialities. In this context, a special mention deserve the so-called
third-generation MoAbs, anti-idiotype MoAbs, the cocktails of MoAbs, and chimeric
antibodies also termed humanized MoAbs.


PMID: 1667710  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1020. Semin Oncol. 1991 Dec;18(6):536-42.

Neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy of non-small cell lung cancer.

Rose LJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA 19107.

Present treatment options for non-small cell lung cancer in the adjuvant and
neoadjuvant settings are far from ideal. The bottom line of improvement in
overall survival by any treatment modality used has yet to be achieved. For this 
to happen, better drug therapy will be required. Future trials should be
carefully designed with intraoperative staging and stratification of patients by 
histology, stage, and potentially immunologic markers, ploidy, and molecular
biologic markers such as growth factors and their receptors. Combination of
individual therapies to maximal toxicity in an attempt to overcome inherent tumor
resistance will be key. The use of colony-stimulating factors, with high-dose
chemotherapy integrated with hyperfractionated radiotherapy, may be seen in
future studies. Combining standard chemotherapy and radiotherapy with cytokines
or immunotherapy using interleukin-1 and -2, or tumor necrosis factor or
monoclonal antibodies to growth factors may be seen in innovative trials. By such
meticulously and intelligently designed trials, progress in adjuvant and
neoadjuvant treatment of the important group of patients with locally advanced
non-small cell lung cancer will occur.


PMID: 1663661  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1021. Semin Oncol. 1991 Oct;18(5 Suppl 7):102-7.

The role of interferon and interleukin-2 in the immunotherapeutic approach to
renal cell carcinoma.

Figlin RA(1), Abi-Aad AS, Belldegrun A, deKernion JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California-Los Angeles School of
Medicine 90024-1738.

Approximately 24,000 cases of renal cell carcinoma are expected in the United
States in 1990. Although approximately 50% of patients with local disease are
cured by surgery, in patients with metastatic disease the median survival is only
approximately 10 months. Neither chemotherapy nor radiation therapy has been
shown to be effective against metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Immunotherapy has 
come to the forefront of clinical research for the treatment of metastatic renal 
cell carcinoma. In the past decade, the development of recombinant DNA techniques
has enabled the production of large quantities of biologic response modifiers
such as the interferons and interleukins. Following initial reports in 1983 by
the University of California-Los Angeles (UCLA) group and the investigators at M.
D. Anderson Hospital, in Houston, TX, numerous trials have demonstrated a
reproducible objective response rate to interferon of 15% to 20%. These responses
are independent of the interferon preparation used, and optimal dosage/schedule
has not been determined. In general, responses have been correlated with the
following patient factors: previous nephrectomy, good performance status, a long 
disease-free interval, and lung-predominant disease. Median response durations of
from 8 to 10 months can be expected. The addition of vinblastine,
gamma-interferon, or aspirin has not improved the therapeutic index.
Interleukin-2 therapy has produced encouraging results in 10% to 15% of patients.
Although high-dose therapy is associated with substantive side effects, a small
cohort of patients have been in continuous remission for extended periods of
time, raising the possibility of "true" complete remissions of clinical
significance. Recent trials, including our trials at UCLA, have combined the
interleukins and interferons in this patient population. This combination has a
sound scientific basis and the results are encouraging, especially when the
toxicity profile is considered. Most patients receive these combinations as
outpatients and have not required hospitalization nor suffered the toxicities of 
the high-dosage regimens. Complete pathologic remissions have been observed using
this lower dosage, outpatient schedule. Clinical trials suggest that interferon
and interleukin-2 may have an expanding role in metastatic kidney cancer both as 
single agents and in combination outpatient biologic therapy. The future clinical
trials of kidney cancer will continue to incorporate these biologic response
modifiers into the therapeutic strategies of the 1990s.


PMID: 1719641  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1022. Cancer. 1991 Sep 15;68(6 Suppl):1451-3.

Intravenous immunoglobulin in bone marrow transplantation.

Gale RP(1), Winston D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles School of
Medicine 90024-1678.

Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) has several potential uses in bone marrow
transplantation. Most often IVIG is used to modify cytomegalovirus (CMV)
infection or CMV-related interstitial pneumonia. It also is used to modify graft 
versus host disease (GVHD) and decrease infections other than CMV. Another use is
to treat autoimmune complications of bone marrow transplants. The data are
reviewed indicating that IVIG decreases CMV-related interstitial pneumonia. Part 
of this efficacy may be a direct antiviral effect; decreasing GVHD and modifying 
the immune response to CMV-infected lung cells also may be important. Some
studies suggest that IVIG and ganciclovir are effective therapy of CMV-related
interstitial pneumonia. Results suggesting that IVIG administration decreases
infections other than CMV are less convincing. There is little information
regarding IVIG therapy of autoimmune transplant complications. These uses of IVIG
are reviewed in the context of other potential interventions, and future research
directions are defined.


PMID: 1652350  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1023. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1991 Sep;92(9):1217-20.

[Clinical significance of immunotherapy for lung cancer--present and future].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe Y(1), Shimizu J, Oda M, Yoshida M, Watanabe S, Iwa T.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Surgery, Kanazawa University School of Medicine, Japan.

To evaluate the clinical efficacy of OK-432 immunotherapy as an surgical adjuvant
for lung cancer patients, three kinds of randomized controlled trials were done. 
In the first trial, patients were randomized into two groups: an
immunochemotherapy (IM-C) group and a chemotherapy (control) group. For IM-C
group, OK-432 (2KE/w) was injected intramuscularly for three years. Significant
improvement of the survival rates in the IM-C group was noted in the following
items: all resected cases, stages I+II cases, stage III cases, completely
resected cases, incompletely resected cases and cases with epidermoid carcinoma. 
However, in comparison to adenocarcinoma there was no significant difference
between the two groups. In the second trial, patients were randomized into an
intramuscular injection group and an intradermal injection group. In comparisons 
to the survival rates, there were no significant differences between the two
groups. In the third trial, stage I patients were randomized into a group treated
with intradermal injection (5KE/w) and no adjuvant group. To date, there was no
significant difference between the two groups. It is concluded that OK-432
immunotherapy, with concomitant use of chemotherapy, have favourable effect on
the patient with squamous cell carcinoma. No definitive difference of clinical
effects between intramuscular injection and intradermal injection.


PMID: 1944190  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1024. Can J Surg. 1991 Aug;34(4):321-5.

Tumour dormancy: initiation, maintenance and termination in animals and humans.

Stewart TH(1), Hollinshead AC, Raman S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ont.

Comment in
    Can J Surg. 1991 Aug;34(4):309-10.

The authors review the natural occurrence of tumour dormancy in man and animal
models, which show the importance of cellular defence mechanisms in inducing and 
maintaining the state of tumour dormancy. Six cases of non-small-cell lung cancer
are described. The patients exhibited moderate to very strong delayed
hypersensitivity reactions to soluble lung-cancer antigen after specific
immunotherapy. Three patients had nonregional metastases at 11, 12 and 14 years. 
Two had regional recurrence after 9 years, and in one patient a small hilar-node 
metastasis was found at autopsy after 7.6 years. In each case an immunodepressive
event or drug treatment preceded resurgent growth. The effect of renal
transplantation in patients with a history of surgery for cancer supports the
conclusion that cellular defence mechanisms are crucial for the maintenance of
tumour dormancy in man.


PMID: 1868387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1025. Semin Surg Oncol. 1991 Jul-Aug;7(4):199-210.

Active specific immunotherapy and immunochemotherapy in the treatment of lung and
colon cancer.

Hollinshead A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, George Washington Medical Center, Washington, D.C.
20037.

In this seminar, we describe 1) the immunogen TAA used for lung cancer
immunotherapy and the immunogen TAA used for colon cancer immunotherapy, 2) the
methods used in the administration of these immunogens in clinical trials of
specific active TAA immunotherapy, 3) the results of clinical trials of specific 
active immunotherapy for lung cancer and for colon cancer patients, 4) the
results of immune response monitoring evaluations, and what they indicate, and 5)
the way in which certain drugs, selected for their action in the immune system,
may be synergistic with specific active TAA immunotherapy, in combination
therapy, especially for resected patients of later stages.


PMID: 1925251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1026. J Clin Immunol. 1991 May;11(3):117-27.

Monoclonal antibody therapy of human cancer: taking the HER2 protooncogene to the
clinic.

Shepard HM(1), Lewis GD, Sarup JC, Fendly BM, Maneval D, Mordenti J, Figari I,
Kotts CE, Palladino MA Jr, Ullrich A, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080.

The HER2 protooncogene encodes a 185-kDa transmembrane protein (p185HER2) with
extensive homology to the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor. Clinical and
experimental evidence supports a role for overexpression of the HER2
protooncogene in the progression of human breast, ovarian, and non-small cell
lung carcinoma. These data also support the hypothesis that p185HER2 present on
the surface of overexpressing tumor cells may be a good target for
receptor-targeted therapeutics. The anti-p185HER2 murine monoclonal antibody
(muMAb) 4D5 is one of over 100 monoclonals that was derived following
immunization of mice with cells overexpressing p185HER2. The monoclonal antibody 
is directed at the extracellular (ligand binding) domain of this receptor
tyrosine kinase and presumably has its effect as a result of modulating receptor 
function. In vitro assays have shown that muMAb 4D5 can specifically inhibit the 
growth of tumor cells only when they overexpress the HER2 protooncogene. MuMAb
4D5 has also been shown to enhance the TNF-alpha sensitivity of breast tumor
cells that overexpress this protooncogene. Relevant to its clinical application, 
muMAb 4D5 may enhance the sensitivity of p185HER2-overexpressing tumor cells to
cisplatin, a chemotherapeutic drug often used in the treatment of ovarian cancer.
In vivo assays with a nude mouse model have shown that the monoclonal antibody
can localize at the tumor site and can inhibit the growth of human tumor
xenografts which overexpress p185HER2. Modulation of p185HER2 activity by muMAb
4D5 can therefore reverse many of the properties associated with tumor
progression mediated by this putative growth factor receptor. Together with the
demonstrated activity of muMAb 4D5 in nude mouse models, these results support
the clinical application of muMAb 4D5 for therapy of human cancers characterized 
by the overexpression of p185HER2.


PMID: 1679763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1027. Ann Ist Super Sanita. 1991;27(1):91-5.

Adoptive immunotherapy of experimental tumors using cytotoxic lymphocytes to
carry and deliver toxins.

Zanovello P(1), Rosato A, Bronte V, Cerundolo V, Collavo D.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Oncologia, Università degli Studi, Padua, Italy.

Adoptive transfer of specifically sensitized lymphoid cells constitutes a
potential tool for specific cancer immunotherapy, however, the requirement of
syngeneic or autologous specifically reactive cells has limited its use in the
treatment of human cancer. In several mouse tumor models, large amounts of
lymphokine activated killer (LAK) cells associated with high doses of interleukin
2 (IL-2) are able to mediate the regression of established pulmonary and hepatic 
metastases. Since LAK cells are more easily generated than specifically
sensitized lymphocytes and show broad tumor specificity, this approach has been
applied in humans to treat cancer, but the acute toxicity associated with the
high doses of IL-2 administered represents an important drawback to its clinical 
use. The observation that lymphocytes can internalize ricin, a toxic plant
protein, and then release it in an active form, capable of destroying other
cells, led us to investigate the possibility of using antigen-specific cytotoxic 
T lymphocytes (CTL) or LAK cells as carriers of toxic substances to the tumor
site. In our experimental models we observed that tumor-specific CTL or LAK cells
can be used to deliver ricin into the tumor mass and cause temporary tumor growth
inhibition.


PMID: 1958033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1028. Rev Mal Respir. 1991;8(4):327-38.

[The diagnostic value and therapeutic perspectives of monoclonal antibodies in
bronchopulmonary cancer].

[Article in French]

Desrues B(1), Dazord L, Delaval P, Bourguet P, Ramée MP, Thoreux PH.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Centre Hospitalier Régional et Universitaire, Rennes.

Monoclonal antibodies (AcM) have opened up new perspectives in the study of
cancer. The production of murine AcM has been well described in the past. The
characterisation of the antigen which they recognise and their in vitro and in
vivo biological properties has led to their use in diagnosis and in due course to
therapeutic possibilities. The specificity of AcM "vis a vis" certain molecules
or tumour associated antigens enables their utilisation for diagnosis and their
widespread use for the labelling of tumour markers. AcM may in difficult cases be
more accurate in specifying the histological type of a bronchopulmonary or
pleural tumour; by coupling the antibody to a radio isotope and injecting it into
the circulation. This enables the detection of tumours in vivo by
immunoscintigraphy. The numerous problems linked to the technique and above to
biology of AcM limits its clinical value in assessing the degree of extension
either locally or regionally of bronchopulmonary tumours. The therapeutic
applications are at this stage experimental and above all studies have shown the 
limits of AcM used alone or coupled to a radio isotope, a toxin or a drug. The
limits of the technique are linked to numerous factors, such as accessibility of 
the antigen site, the heterogeneity of tumour markers and non specific fixation
and immunogenicity of the AcM. The experimental clinical stage should be
continued in order to define the most effective utilisation of AcM in therapy
which will doubtless be complementary to other forms of treatment.


PMID: 1924969  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1029. Biomed Pharmacother. 1991;45(2-3):55-60.

Review of ubenimex (Bestatin): clinical research.

Ota K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nagoya Memorial Hospital, Japan.

An immunomodulating agent, ubenimex (Bestatin) has low toxicity even after
long-term oral administration and brings about significant modifications in
immunological response. In a cooperative randomized controlled study of Bestatin 
immunotherapy for adult acute nonlymphocytic leukemia, prolongation of remission 
duration and survival was achieved with Bestatin immunotherapy combined with
remission maintenance chemotherapy. The significant prolongation of remission
duration and survival was seen in the Bestatin group, especially in the elderly
patients. Randomized controlled studies of Bestatin immunotherapy were performed 
in solid tumors including malignant melanoma, carcinoma of the lung, stomach,
bladder, head and neck and esophagus, and therapeutic benefits regarding disease 
free-interval or survival were observed in certain types of the above-mentioned
cancers; however, Bestatin immunotherapy for these cancers should be further
investigated in large-scale controlled studies to confirm its activity.


PMID: 1912370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1030. Cancer Chemother Biol Response Modif. 1991;12:443-59.

Lung cancer.

Hansen HH, Rørth M.


PMID: 1657089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1031. Zentralbl Bakteriol. 1990 Dec;274(3):289-98.

Immunomodulation by propionibacteria.

Roszkowski W(1), Roszkowski K, Ko HL, Beuth J, Jeljaszewicz J.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases, Warszawa, Poland.

The ability of bacteria and bacterial products to modulate the immune response to
unrelated antigens is well documented. Propionibacteria are amongst the most
potent immunomodulators stimulating cell populations involved in nonspecific
resistance. Generally, the activated immune system provides protection from
infectious pathogens and malignancies via mechanisms of recognition and
elimination. Accordingly, administration of propionibacteria could be shown to be
of benefit in the treatment of neoplastic and infectious diseases. Thus, it can
be recommended for further clinical investigations.


PMID: 2090145  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1990 Aug;17(8 Pt 1):1414-20.

[Bases on timing of combined modality of chemotherapy and immunotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Ogura T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Third Dept. of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Tokushima University.

Chemoimmunotherapy with anticancer drugs and immunoregulatory drugs and cytokines
is a logical combination of 2 forms of therapy that have different mechanisms of 
action and no overlapping toxicity. Generally, anticancer drugs show rapidly the 
strong suppressive effect on tumor growth but also on host hemato-immunological
functions. On the other hand, immunotherapy demonstrate the potential of
restoring the hemato-immunological dysfunction of chemotherapy as well as the
gradual antitumor effect through activating host defense mechanisms against
cancer, indicating that these therapeutic modalities are complementary. On these 
biological rationale of chemoimmunotherapy mentioned above, we have demonstrated 
that immunostimulant, Nocardia-CWS is capable of producing tumoricidal
macrophages being different from anticancer drugs in cytotoxic mechanism against 
cancer, and also that macrophage tumoricidal activity is significantly suppressed
by exposure to anticancer drug, mitomycin C. Another beneficial activity of
immunostimulant showed in our previous studies is a capability of production of
colony stimulating activities. In a cooperative study with lung cancer patients
it has been shown that recovery of leucopenia after chemotherapy is accelerated
by administration of immunostimulant, MDP-Lys. Recently, immunomodulatory
lymphokine, IL-2, has been clinically used for induction of activated killer
lymphocytes (LAK cells) with tumoricidal activity. According to our studies,
however, anticancer drug, when administered to cancer patients or added directly 
to culture of lymphocytes with IL-2 for LAK induction, shows significant
suppressive effect on LAK induction. Considering these experimental and clinical 
studies, it can be concluded that immunotherapy, when employed as adjuvant after 
chemotherapy, play the important roles not only in eradication of tumor cells
being escaped from chemotherapy but also in prevention of infections complication
by activating host defense mechanisms common to cancer and infection.


PMID: 1697153  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. Radiology. 1990 Jul;176(1):191-4.

Vascular leak syndrome associated with interleukin-2: chest radiographic
manifestations.

Mann H(1), Ward JH, Samlowski WE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake
City.

Adoptive immunotherapy with interleukin-2 (IL-2) is associated with a generalized
vascular leak syndrome. Pulmonary edema is a common occurrence and is rarely
responsible for acute respiratory failure requiring assisted ventilation. The
authors have performed a retrospective review of chest radiographs in 19 patients
undergoing the priming course of high-dose IL-2 therapy for metastatic melanoma
and renal cell carcinoma. This study was primarily designed to evaluate the
prevalence and patterns of pulmonary edema and pleural effusions. During the
first 5 days of therapy, alveolar edema was identified in 21% (n = 4) and signs
of interstitial edema in 53% (n = 10) of patients. Pleural effusions were seen in
42% (n = 8). No patient in this series required assisted ventilation during this 
period. However, two patients subsequently developed fatal, drug-related
myocardial injury. IL-2 toxicity is a well established cause of self-limited,
increased-permeability pulmonary edema.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.176.1.2353090 
PMID: 2353090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1034. Arch Monaldi Mal Torace. 1990 May-Jun;45(3):195-202.

[The usefulness of monoclonal antibodies in the diagnosis of lung carcinoma].

[Article in Italian]

De Blasio F(1), Prisco C, Pezza A.

Author information: 
(1)Cattedra di Malattie dell'Apparato Respiratorio, II Facoltà di Medicina e
Chirurgia, Università degli Studi di Napoli.

Monoclonal antibodies detection represented a turning point in field of
immunological and biological research. Their application has rapidly extended at 
immunopathology as well as immunodiagnosis and immunotherapy fields. In
oncological field monoclonal antibodies has proved a great usefulness in
diagnosis of several districts neoplasm. Monoclonal antibodies are utilized in
differential diagnosis of different histologic types of lung cancer; in bone
marrow metastasis early detection; and, experimentally, in "in vivo" diagnosis of
lung cancer via peripheral blood sample examination. Authors relate about more
recent literature about this specific topic.


PMID: 1669273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1035. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1990 Jan;17(1):131-6.

[A randomized controlled study of PSK combined immuno-chemotherapy for
adenocarcinoma of the lung. The Advanced Lung Cancer Immuno-chemotherapy Study
Group].

[Article in Japanese]

Nishiwaki Y(1), Furuse K, Fukuoka M, Ota M, Niitani H, Asakawa M, Nakai H, Sakai 
S, Ogawa N.

Author information: 
(1)National Matsudo Hospital, Dept. of Internal Med.

In a randomized controlled study of chemotherapy (CDDP 100 mg/m2 day 1, VDS 3
mg/m2 day 1, 8, 15) vs. immuno-chemotherapy combined with PSK 3 g/day for
adenocarcinoma of the lung (stage III, IV, p. s. 0, 1, 2), response rate for 169 
cases with completed extramural review was 14.2%. As for the response rates for
138 complete cases, the chemotherapy group showed 17.9%, and the
immuno-chemotherapy group was 16.9%. MST were 330 days and 331 days,
respectively. In stage III cases, the response rates were 11.1% in the
chemotherapy group and 37.5% in the immuno-chemotherapy group (p = 0.046). MST
were 457 days (65.3 weeks) and 576 days (82.3 weeks), respectively. In terms of
survival curve, it was suggested that the immuno-chemotherapy group was superior 
to the chemotherapy group (logrank test p = 0.075), but in stage IV cases, there 
was nothing outstanding in the immunochemotherapy group.


PMID: 2404455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1036. Semin Surg Oncol. 1990;6(5):263-7.

Adjuvant treatment in resected lung cancer.

Holmes EC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, UCLA Medical Center 90024.

There have been many attempts to develop effective postoperative adjuvant therapy
in patients with resected lung cancer. Metastatic disease is the commonest site
of first recurrence. In squamous cell carcinoma local failure is another major
problem and in adenocarcinoma brain metastases are frequent. There is evidence to
suggest that radiotherapy can prevent local recurrence but does not appear to
impact on survival. Response rates to chemotherapy alone and chemo-radiotherapy
with prolongation of disease-free survival have been encouraging in locally
advanced (resected stage II, III) disease when treated postoperatively. Results
of clinical trials using immunotherapy or chemotherapy in early stage disease
have been disappointing. Several prospective randomized studies by the Lung
Cancer Study Group were undertaken to assess the merits of various adjuvant
treatments and are presented.


PMID: 2237084  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1037. Lung. 1990;168 Suppl:1069-74.

Interleukin-2 therapy for human cancer.

van Hoesel QG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Academic Hospital Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

The concept of immunotherapy is evolving from nonspecific, haphazard stimulation 
of the immune apparatus to more specific and controlled manipulation of the
immune system. IL-2 gives the opportunity to exert influence on the cellular
immune system. Why LAK cells are able to lyse tumor cells and leave normal cells 
intact is not known. How LAK cells behave after reinfusion is not known; are they
able to migrate to tumor sites? Can improvements be made in scheduling in order
to decrease toxicity and to enhance efficacy? But first of all, the question
arises whether the tremendous efforts required by adoptive transfer, in terms of 
toxicity, logistics, and money, are outweighed by the therapeutic results. For
clinical practice inside the frontier of oncology, continuous infusion of IL-2 at
an intermediate dose is a quite attractive option in finding a balance between
efforts and results.


PMID: 2117107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1038. Rev Mal Respir. 1990;7(3):195-201.

[Immunotherapy of cancer using cytokinins. Use and perspectives in lung
oncology].

[Article in French]

Moro D(1), Goy A, Nagy-Mignotte H, Brambilla C.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Pneumologie, CHU de Grenoble.

Progress in genetics now enables the synthesis of molecules acting on the
regulation of the immune system which are called cytokines. Currently there are
several cytokines, Interferon (IFN), Interleukin 2 (IL2), tumour necrosis factor 
(TNF) as well as haematopoietic growth factors and these are the object of study 
in clinical trials. Interferon has already been used in the therapy of hairy cell
leukaemia, Kaposi sarcoma associated with AIDS(SIDA) and metastasis of malignant 
melanoma. Interleukin 2 allows for an increase in the cytotoxic activity of NK
cells in producing LAK cells, the lymphocyte infiltrating the tumour (TIL).
Therapeutic combinations combining IL2 associated with LAK or of TIL have been
evaluated in some private studies. These treatments have shown some interesting
response levels on those tumours which are usually resistant, such as malignant
melanoma or carcinoma of the kidney. TNF is active in vitro on human tumours; its
potential toxicity is important; it is the object of a phase 1 clinical trial.
Haematopoietic growth factors, G-CSF and GM-CSF, stimulate the production of
leucocytes which will be valuable to correct toxic affects on the marrow during
chemotherapy. This will enable chemotherapy to be given at a high dose.


PMID: 1694591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. Chest. 1989 Jul;96(1 Suppl):87S-91S.

Adjuvant therapy for non-small cell lung cancer.

Evans WK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ontario Cancer Treatment and Research Foundation, Ottawa Regional Cancer
Centre, Canada.


PMID: 2544378  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1040. Chest. 1989 Jul;96(1 Suppl):83S-85S.

Treatment of N2 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

Klastersky J(1), Feld R, Kleisbauer JP, Rocmans P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Jules Bordet, Brussels, Belgium.


PMID: 2544376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. Med Radiol (Mosk). 1989 May;34(5):62-75.

[Monoclonal antibodies to lung cancer antigens (a review of the literature)].

[Article in Russian]

Tkacheva GA.


PMID: 2542715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1042. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1989 Apr;16(4 Pt 2-1):1233-45.

[Role of NK cells in lung metastasis immunosurveillance].

[Article in Japanese]

Kobayashi T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Basic Medical Sciences Division, National Institute for Environmental Studies.

NK cells play an important role in fighting tumor metastases. The incidence of
metastasis was found to increase in mice with low cytotoxicity of NK cells. In
the mice with high cytotoxicity of NK cells, the incidence of metastasis
decreased. LAK cells induced by IL2 mediate the regression of established
metastases from a variety of tumors. LAK progenitor cells were predominantly
found in CD3-CD16+ Leu19+ fraction, a subset that are known to be the NK cells.
Thus, NK cell lineage in LAK cells plays an important role for the inhibition of 
tumor metastases. Cells having NK cell-like phenotype nature, however, also play 
a key role in the side effects of adoptive immunotherapy involving IL2. In order 
to decrease adverse side effects during therapy, we are currently testing
combination therapy of LAK cells plus IL2, IL2 alone with IFN, TNF, BRM,
indomethacin and so on. Overall, augmentation of NK cells is one of the
significant therapeutic methods to prevent metastases.


PMID: 2658817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1043. Eur Urol. 1989;16(4):271-7.

Interferon alpha-2a and vinblastine in the treatment of metastatic renal
carcinoma.

Rizzo M(1), Bartoletti R, Selli C, Sicignano A, Criscuolo D.

Author information: 
(1)Patologia e Clinica Urologica Università, Firenze, Italia.

Twenty patients with measurable metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) were
treated with interferon alpha-2a (18 X 10(6) IU i.m. 3 times weekly) in
combination with vinblastine sulfate (0.1 mg/kg i.v. every 3 weeks). Objective
responses in the lungs, bone and liver metastases were observed in 5 of 18
evaluable patients. Dose reduction of interferon alpha-2a (to 9 X 10(6) IU i.m. 3
times weekly) was necessary in 7 patients due to intolerable flu-like side
effects and leukopenia (nadir 3,500 leukocytes/mm3). Tolerance was good in 55% of
cases. Objective clinical response was observed in 27.7% of patients, and only
38.8% progressed. It is necessary to perform further studies, varying the
therapeutic schedules, in order to elicit a better control of the toxic effects
and a greater objectiveness of the clinical response.


PMID: 2670581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1044. Ann Clin Lab Sci. 1989 Jan-Feb;19(1):51-5.

Interleukin-2 and lymphokine activated killer cells: promises and cautions.

Glassman AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY 10467.

The purposes of this work are to: review the biological activities of
Interleukin-2 (IL-2); evaluate the reported therapeutic benefits and toxicity of 
IL-2/lymphokine activated killer (LAK) cells; and project the role of IL-2/LAK
cells in cancer therapy. Interleukin-2 is a glycoprotein lymphokine (mw 15,000)
produced naturally by mitogen or antigen stimulated T-lymphocytes. The activities
of IL-2 include: enhancement of IL-2 receptor positive T-lymphocytes and a
variety of other in vitro and in vivo alterations of T cell function. The IL-2
gene has been cloned from the Jurkat leukemia cell line and expressed by
recombinant biotechnology in an E. coli vector. In vitro incubation of IL-2 with 
selected T-lymphocytes results in the formation of lymphocyte activated killer
(LAK) cells. Rosenberg and colleagues, in 1983, demonstrated that both exogenous 
IL-2 and LAK cells were needed in order to get maximum tumor regression in a
murine model and later humans. Patients selected for IL-2/LAK cell therapy have
clinical metastases or advanced unresectable cancers. Almost all patients treated
demonstrate some toxic effects, including chills, fever, nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea and hepatic dysfunction. Approximately 75 percent of the patients have
profound hypotension and require intensive nursing care. A review of the
literature indicates that tumor responsiveness will range from negligible
(adenocarcinoma of the lung with metastases) to a 30+ percent response in renal
cell carcinoma when complete and partial responders are totalled.
Interleukin-2/LAK cell therapy has promise for some wide spread tumors for which 
no other therapy is available.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 2644890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. J Surg Oncol Suppl. 1989;1:26-33.

Surgical adjuvant therapy of non-small-cell lung cancer.

Holmes EC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery/Oncology, UCLA School of Medicine 90024-1782.

Results of several studies by the Lung Cancer Study Group have shown that
postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy enhances survival following surgery for lung 
cancer. The 18-month disease-free survival almost doubled in one study using
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, cisplatin (CAP) chemotherapy postoperatively. The 
recurrence rate remained significant, however. Patients with more advanced
resectable disease seem to benefit most from postoperative chemotherapy. Results 
also suggest that CAP delays recurrences more effectively in patients with
nonsquamous vs. squamous lung carcinoma. There has been considerable interest in 
the use of preoperative adjuvant therapy as well. Findings from studies of
preoperative or induction therapy--either chemotherapy alone or in combination
with radiation therapy--have shown high response rates and that patients with
unresectable disease can be converted to technically resectable. Although
preoperative therapy can cause difficulties with surgical dissection, surgical
morbidity is acceptable. Preoperative chemotherapy and radiotherapy followed by
surgical resection clearly eliminates local recurrence. Systemic recurrences
remain a significant problem. The evidence, as yet, does not indicate that
preoperative adjuvant therapy prolongs survival.


PMID: 2548520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1046. Am J Med Sci. 1988 Dec;296(6):406-12.

Cardiopulmonary toxicity of adoptive immunotherapy.

Glauser FL(1), DeBlois G, Bechard D, Fowler AA, Merchant R, Fairman RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond 23298-0050.

Adoptive immunotherapy, the administration of interleukin-2 (IL-2) and
interleukin-2 activated cells, leads to tumor regression in some patients with
advanced cancer. Although this new therapeutic modality offers hope for the
future, at present, a multitude of toxicities limit the total dose and duration
of therapy. Among the toxic side effects a purported third space or vascular leak
syndrome is the most serious. In this review, we detail the evidence for a third 
space syndrome (peripheral edema, ascites, oliguria, elevated serum creatinine
levels) and cardiopulmonary dysfunction (hypotension, respiratory distress,
pulmonary edema, hypoxemia) with adoptive immunotherapy in human and animal
studies. We conclude that IL-2 administration is associated with increased
pulmonary microvascular permeability, infiltration of the lung parenchyma with
large esterase negative lymphoid cells, hypoxemia, systemic hypotension, positive
fluid balance and, in animals, transient pulmonary hypertension. These
abnormalities do not seem to be caused by IL-2 directly; the causes may be
mediated by IL-2 activated lymphocytes or other IL-2 activated cellular
mediators.


PMID: 3063115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1047. Semin Oncol. 1988 Jun;15(3):300-14.

Innovative and future approaches to small cell lung cancer treatment.

Beck LK(1), Kane MA, Bunn PA Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center,
Denver.


PMID: 2454512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1048. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1988 May;7(5 Suppl):S87-91.

Prophylactic and therapeutic use of immunoglobulin for intravenous administration
in patients with secondary immunodeficiencies associated with malignancies.

Morell A(1), Barandun S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Clinical and Experimental Cancer Research, University of Berne, 
Switzerland.

Failure of host defense systems associated with malignancies may be attributable 
to the tumor, to cytoreductive therapy or to combined endogenous and iatrogenic
influences. Management of the resulting increased susceptibility to infections
may require supplementation of antibiotic therapy with additional forms of
treatment, including passive immunization with antibodies. This review discusses 
the use of immunoglobulin preparations for intravenous administration (IVIG) in
patients with secondary immunodeficiencies associated with neoplasia. A suitable 
model for evaluating the prophylactic effect of IVIG is chronic lymphocytic
leukemia. Many observations suggest that IVIG reduces the frequency of acute
respiratory infections. Another malignant condition with decreased serum levels
of polyclonal immunoglobulins and high frequency of infections is multiple
myeloma. A crossover study recently demonstrated that IVIG significantly (P less 
than 0.01) reduced the frequency of respiratory tract infections in these
patients. Furthermore the prophylactic effect of IVIG was evaluated in patients
with small cell carcinoma of the lung. In a randomized prospective trial it was
noticed that IVIG applied during intensive chemotherapy and irradiation courses
significantly (P = 0.04) reduced the frequency of infections. Evidence for a
therapeutic effect of IVIG was obtained in adult tumor patients and in children
with leukemia or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who developed severe varicella-zoster
virus infections. The treatment effectively controlled fever, skin lesions and
neuralgia and prevented progression of the infection. Therapeutic usefulness of
IVIG in bacterial infections is still based on anecdotal evidence. Experimental
data suggest that in addition to effects mediated by specific antibodies,
nonspecific interactions of IgG molecules with Fc-receptors on macrophages may be
clinically important.


PMID: 2840630  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1049. Dis Mon. 1988 Feb;34(2):53-108.

Non-small cell lung cancer.

Haskell CM(1), Holmes EC.

Author information: 
(1)UCLA School of Medicine.

Lung cancer stands as the most important malignant neoplasm in the United States 
because of its high prevalence, increasing incidence, high rate of mortality, and
great potential for prevention through the control of cigarette smoking. The
World Health Organization (WHO) classification of lung cancer identifies four
major types: squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, large cell carcinoma, and
small cell carcinoma. These tumors are commonly divided into two groups based on 
differences in their biology and treatment: small cell (SCLC) and non-small cell 
carcinomas (NSCLC). This review analyzes NSCLC with a strong emphasis on the
practical aspects of treatment. We give recommendations about smoking cessation
and early diagnosis through screening of high-risk individuals. We review
contemporary diagnostic and staging techniques in the context of the new
international TNM system of staging. Subsequent discussions of treatment are
based on this new staging system. We stress the pivotal role of surgery for the
management of local disease, and in addition present the potential contributions 
of newer radiation therapy techniques. We examine chemotherapy in detail,
including a review of the comparative activity of the available cytotoxic agents 
against NSCLC, the relative contribution of combination chemotherapy, and the
role of surgical adjuvant treatment with either chemotherapy or immunotherapy. We
advise that patients with NSCLC be treated under the aegis of modern clinical
trials of new therapy whenever possible. When this is not possible, we recommend 
an individualized approach based on such factors as the patient's age, general
state of health, cardiopulmonary status, psychosocial status, and personal system
of values.


PMID: 2834155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. J Urol (Paris). 1988;94(7):307-16.

[Metastatic cancer of the kidney. What can be done today?].

[Article in French]

Chautard D(1), Lanson Y.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Urologie, CHU Bretonneau, Tours.

Metastatic cancer of the kidney kills one half of the patients concerned within
one year and there are no survivors two years later. All of the treatments used
up until the present time have been disappointing. Nephrectomy does not prolong
survival, does not induce regression of metastases and does not modify the mode
of metastatic dissemination. It only has a palliative role. Lymphadenectomy
associated with nephrectomy only has a prognostic value. Hormone therapy and
chemotherapy are ineffective. Resection of a single metastasis is justified by
5-year survival rates of 30 to 50% in certain series. At the present time, the
hopes for effective treatment are raised by the use of recombinant alpha
interferon. Therapeutic trials obtain an overall complete response rate of 2.5%
(disappearance of all signs of tumour for 4 weeks) and a partial response rate of
14% (decrease in the neoplastic lesions by at least 50%). The combination of
interferon with vinblastine ensures much better results with complete and partial
response rates of up to 43%. The characteristics of responder patients are
discussed in terms of the natural history of renal cancer and the respective
results of other treatments. There is a sub-population of patients with
metastatic renal cancer suitable for this combination of interferon-vinblastine: 
they are young patients, in good general condition, previously nephrectomised and
preferably suffering from lung metastases. The essential limiting factor of this 
treatment is the high cost of interferon.


PMID: 3065413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1051. Curr Probl Surg. 1987 Oct;24(10):609-75.

The surgical complications of chemotherapy in the cancer patient.

Kemeny MM(1), Brennan MF.

Author information: 
(1)Surgical Oncology, St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center, New York, New
York.


PMID: 3311646  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1052. Semin Oncol. 1987 Jun;14(2 Suppl 2):36-42.

Interferon therapy for renal cell carcinoma.

Muss HB.

Recurrent or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) seldom and only briefly
responds to hormonal therapy or chemotherapy, with little, if any, impact on
overall survival; hence the prognosis is poor. Effects of both partially purified
and recombinant interferons have been studied and have yielded response rates of 
5% to 27%. In a review of 12 series, the complete and partial response rate was
16% (100 of 632 patients) with a 95% confidence interval of 13% to 19%. Response 
rates were similar for both partially purified and recombinant interferons.
Although no dose-response effect has been clearly demonstrated, daily doses (5 to
10 megaunits) of interferon seem to be associated with the highest therapeutic
index. Patient characteristics that suggest potential responsiveness to
interferon include minimal or no prior therapy, good performance status, and
pulmonary metastases. Although some investigators believe that patients with
nephrectomy are more likely to be responsive, a careful review of published
literature does not support this. Laboratory observations demonstrating
synergistic activity of interferons combined with a variety of chemotherapeutic
agents have led to clinical trials for exploring the potential of such treatment.
Initial results of combining interferon and vinblastine are encouraging; further 
studies are under way. Substantial evidence now indicates that interferon is an
effective agent in metastatic RCC.


PMID: 3589703  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1053. Gut. 1987 Feb;28(2):113-6.

Immunotherapy for cancer: the use of lymphokine activated killer (LAK) cells.

Fagan EA, Eddleston AL.


PMCID: PMC1432985
PMID: 3549471  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1054. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1987;244:79-91.

Mechanistic aspects of successful immunotherapy of established pulmonary
metastases by the systemic administration of high-dose recombinant interleukin-2.

Mulé JJ(1), Rosenberg SA.

Author information: 
(1)Surgery Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.


PMID: 3310006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. Curr Probl Cancer. 1987 Jan-Feb;11(1):1-53.

Non-small cell lung cancer.

Haskell CM, Holmes EC.

Lung cancer stands as the most important malignant neoplasm in the United States 
because of its high prevalence, increasing incidence, high rate of mortality, and
great potential for prevention through the control of cigarette smoking. The
World Health Organization (WHO) classification of lung cancer identifies four
major types: squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, large cell carcinoma, and
small cell carcinoma. These tumors are commonly divided into two groups based on 
differences in their biology and treatment: small cell (SCLC) and non-small cell 
carcinomas (NSCLC). This review analyzes NSCLC with a strong emphasis on the
practical aspects of treatment. We give recommendations about smoking cessation
and early diagnosis through screening of high-risk individuals. We review
contemporary diagnostic and staging techniques in the context of the new
international TNM system of staging. Subsequent discussions of treatment are
based on this new staging system. We stress the pivotal role of surgery for the
management of local disease, and in addition present the potential contributions 
of newer radiation therapy techniques. We examine chemotherapy in detail,
including a review of the comparative activity of the available cytotoxic agents 
against NSCLC, the relative contribution of combination chemotherapy, and the
role of surgical adjuvant treatment with either chemotherapy or immunotherapy. We
advise that patients with NSCLC be treated under the aegis of modern clinical
trials of new therapy whenever possible. When this is not possible, we recommend 
an individualized approach based on such factors as the patient's age, general
state of health, cardiopulmonary status, psychosocial status, and personal system
of values.


PMID: 3030661  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1056. J Clin Oncol. 1986 Nov;4(11):1704-15.

Treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer.

Mulshine JL, Glatstein E, Ruckdeschel JC.

The treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC; including squamous,
large-cell anaplastic, and adenocarcinoma) is one of the most frustrating areas
in oncology. With the exception of the high cure rates for surgical treatment of 
truly localized disease, the prognosis for patients with NSCLC is grim. Often
rancorous debate has ensued about the best means of exploiting the currently
available modalities of radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Recognizing that the 
effectiveness of the current therapeutic modalities is limited, we will review
the treatment results from the past few years that help define where specific
treatment options should be used or suggest areas in which to focus future
trials. We will also review the implications of current findings in the cell
biology of lung cancer as they pertain to the therapy of NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1200/jco.1986.4.11.1704 
PMID: 2430072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1057. Cancer. 1986 Oct 1;58(7):1534-6.

Pneumonia with Cunninghamella species in patients with hematologic malignancies. 
A case report and review of the literature.

Ventura GJ, Kantarjian HM, Anaissie E, Hopfer RL, Fainstein V.

A patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia in blastic crisis who developed
pulmonary and systemic infection with Cunninghamella species is described. The
emerging role of this newly recognized pathogen in immunocompromised patients is 
discussed.


PMID: 3461876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1058. Semin Oncol. 1986 Sep;13(3 Suppl 3):63-74.

Small-cell lung cancer: a 10-year perspective.

Jackson DV Jr, Case LD.

Over the past 10 years, four clinical trials have been conducted with a total of 
528 patients with previously untreated small-cell lung cancer. Trials I to III
were randomized phase III studies testing the value of prophylactic cranial
irradiation, immunotherapy, and etoposide, respectively. They were done in the
setting of combined modality treatment with the same local chest radiotherapy
(3,000 rad in 10 fractions) and combined agent chemotherapy using a nucleus of
CAV (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine). Trial IV was a pilot study
evaluating sequential hemibody radiotherapy in a combined modality treatment
program with CAV. Overall, the best treatment results to date have been observed 
following the combination of etoposide with CAV in trial III, particularly for
patients with extensive disease. This combination with or without other agents
also appears to be a common component of many trials that have reported
particularly good survival results in this disease.


PMID: 3020703  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1059. West J Med. 1986 Jul;145(1):52-64.

Lung cancer--current concepts and controversies.

Pett SB Jr, Wernly JA, Akl BF.

The recent literature contains a variety of controversial management alternatives
for patients with pulmonary malignancy that affect all aspects of the lung cancer
problem. Revisions in the classification system have been advanced in which the
prognostic implications of specific ultrastructural and histochemical information
are acknowledged. Computed tomography and, to a lesser extent, nuclide scanning
have revolutionized the staging process, but limitations in these procedures are 
emerging. Improved survival following aggressive surgical treatment has
challenged the adequacy of the standard staging system. The palliative role of
radiotherapy is becoming more widely appreciated. Results of immunotherapy are
equivocal and gains from chemotherapy are modest. Combinations of treatment
modalities will require further documentation before they can be recommended with
confidence.


PMCID: PMC1306815
PMID: 3529632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1060. Clin Geriatr Med. 1986 May;2(2):363-83.

Lung cancer in the elderly.

Filderman AE, Shaw C, Matthay RA.

Lung cancer is the most common malignancy in the elderly population and was
responsible for greater than 125,000 deaths in 1985. Although advances have been 
made in the areas of diagnosis and staging, the long-term outlook for the disease
remains poor, primarily because of dissemination of disease prior to diagnosis.
Despite this, several studies suggest that lung cancer in the elderly is a more
indolent disease process, which should be treated in the same manner as it is in 
the young population.


PMID: 3516369  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1061. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1986 Apr;13(4 Pt 2):1534-46.

[Surgery and adjuvant therapy of non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe Y, Yamada T, Ichihashi T, Hashizume Y, Iwa T.

Bronchial arterial infusion of chemotherapeutic agents (BAI), radiation therapy, 
chemotherapy and immunotherapy were used as surgical adjuvant therapy for
non-small cell lung cancer, and the clinical effects of these treatment
modalities on survival rates were evaluated. BAI brought about a decrease of
tumor size, but no significant effect on survival rats was noted. Postoperative
radiation therapy on P-N2 cases exerted no significant effect on the survival
rate, but when immunotherapy was combined with radiation therapy, there was a
significant prolongation of the survival rate. As for post-operative
chemotherapy, three types of combination chemotherapy have been performed over
the past twelve years: short-term chemotherapy (S-C), long-term intermittent
chemotherapy (L-I-C), and long-term continuous chemotherapy (L-C-C).
Retrospective comparison of survival rates between these three methods was
carried out. The survival rate of the group which was treated by L-I-C showed
better results than those obtained by S-C. The group treated by L-C-C showed a
much better survival rate than that treated by L-C-C: Stage I + II cases that
underwent curative resection and were treated by L-I-C showed a significantly
better survival rate than those treated by S-C. Furthermore, the survival rate of
stage III cases with curative resection was improved by L-C-C (CQ+CPA+ADM+5-FU)
with statistical significance. To evaluate the clinical efficacy of OK-432, a
streptococcal preparation, as an immunotherapeutic agent for lung cancer,
patients admitted between 1975 and 1982 were randomized into two groups: (1) an
immunochemotherapy group and (2) a chemotherapy group (control group). For both
groups, the same L-I-C was administered in accordance with the cancer
histological cell type. There were 119 resected cases in the immunochemotherapy
group and 115 cases in the control group, that were eligible for evaluation of
long-term survival after surgery. Overall, the cases in the immunochemotherapy
group showed a better survival rate than the control group, and this difference
was statistically significant. In addition, statistically significant
improvements of survival rate by the immunotherapy were observed for the
following items; resected stage I + II cases, resected stage III + IV cases,
cases with curative resection, cases with non-curative resection and resected
epidermoid carcinoma. On the other hand, there were no statistically significant 
differences between the two groups in cases of adenocarcinoma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED
AT 400 WORDS)


PMID: 3524465  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1062. Curr Probl Cancer. 1986 Apr;10(4):169-214.

Small cell bronchogenic carcinoma.

Perloff M, Killen JY, Wittes RE.

We have attempted to highlight the most important aspects of SCBC in this review.
The significant strides made in a variety of areas have been associated with
increased response rates and survival as well as with a prolonged disease-free
interval in a fraction of patients. The consensus is that 50% or more of patients
with LD can achieve a CR, with an overall objective response rate of 80% or
greater and a median overall survival of 14 months or longer. Furthermore, 15% to
20% of such patients may expect a disease-free interval of at least three years
that appears to be associated with cure in at least some of these patients.
Patients with ED may experience a 20% or greater CR, an 80% or greater objective 
response, and have a median overall survival of at least seven months. Extensive 
research is ongoing in a variety of areas. Further refinements in developing more
effective chemotherapeutic regimens are likely, as is obtaining new information
concerning the intensity, duration, and selection of chemotherapeutic agents and 
their role in relationship to radiotherapy. Improvement in radiotherapy
techniques may lead to improved therapeutic results. Only recently has a
reevaluation of the role of surgery in SCBC begun to take place. Also, several
new areas of investigation are on the horizon, ranging from improved staging with
thoracic and abdominal computed tomography to the role of warfarin, monoclonal
tumor antibodies, and several currently investigational chemotherapeutic and
biologic response modifier agents.


PMID: 3013505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1063. Springer Semin Immunopathol. 1986;9(1):51-71.

The adoptive immunotherapy of cancer using lymphokine activated killer cells and 
recombinant interleukin-2.

Ettinghausen SE, Rosenberg SA.


PMID: 3523804  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1064. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 1986 Jan-Mar;90(1):27-30.

[Current treatment of small-cell anaplastic bronchial cancer (II)].

[Article in Romanian]

Ambăruş V.


PMID: 3020667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1065. Springer Semin Immunopathol. 1986;9(1):1-18.

Thymic hormones--a clinical update.

Sztein MB, Goldstein AL.


PMID: 3014672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1066. Cancer. 1985 Sep 15;56(6):1366-73.

Harnessing T-lymphocytes for human cancer immunotherapy.

Hirshaut Y, Slovin SF.

After nearly a decade of controversy, the concept of adoptive immunotherapy in
humans is gaining greater acceptance. More recently, investigators have made use 
immunotherapeutically of T-lymphocytes nonspecifically activated in vitro by a
number of agents, including lymphokines, lectins, and autologous and allogeneic
tumor cells. The limitations for the investigational use of these highly
specialized and "educated" lymphocytes have been the inability to generate
sufficient numbers of cells in vitro for adoptive transfer experiments and to
sustain their growth over long periods of time. While marked success has been
demonstrated over the years in tumor-bearing animal models, the feasibility of
such work in humans has been greatly improved by the experimental expansion and
maintenance of immune lymphocytes (those exposed to antigenic challenge) in vitro
using either highly purified or recombinant, interleukin 2. As a result, large
numbers of lymphocytes can successfully be infused into patients, and whole body 
scans can show migration of these labeled cells to the lung, liver, and spleen.
The use of nontoxic, nonspecific activated "killer" lymphocytes is an innovative 
approach with enormous potential. This report presents discussion of these
findings and addresses the issue of an alternative approach to cancer treatment
therapy, the in vivo use of cloned cytotoxic T-lymphocytes sensitized to the
autologous tumor.


PMID: 3896456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. J Clin Oncol. 1985 Jul;3(7):964-8.

Effect of initial resection of small-cell carcinoma of the lung: a review of
Southwest Oncology Group Study 7628.

Friess GG, McCracken JD, Troxell ML, Pazdur R, Coltman CA Jr, Eyre HJ.

The role of surgery in small-cell carcinoma of the lung (SCCL) has been recently 
re-evaluated. We reviewed the records of 262 patients with limited SCCL on
Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) protocol 7628. Fifteen patients were identified
who presented after surgical resection (12 lobectomy, three pneumonectomy). All
patients were subsequently treated with chemotherapy, radiotherapy +/-
immunotherapy (BCG). Median survival time was 10.5 months. Median survival time
of patients with initial surgical resection was 25 months (P = .004). Forty-five 
percent of the surgical patients were alive at two years v 13.7% of the
nonsurgical patients (P less than .05). A second subgroup of 33 patients was
identified with small primary tumors who did not undergo surgical resection.
Median survival time in this group was ten months (P = .03). Site of initial
relapse was clearly documented in 142 patients. Fifty-six percent of patients not
receiving surgery had initial relapse within the chest compared to 13% of
patients undergoing surgery (P = .002). Whether the survival benefit identified
was caused by or was incidental to surgical resection of the primary lesion
remains to be determined in randomized prospective trials of operable candidates.

DOI: 10.1200/jco.1985.3.7.964 
PMID: 2991477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1068. Salud Publica Mex. 1985 May-Jun;27(3):213-34.

[Monoclonal antibodies and cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

López González JS, Selman Lama M.


PMID: 2996157  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1069. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1985 Mar;12(3 Pt 1):428-38.

[Therapy for recurrent breast cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Terasawa T, Koyama H, Wada T, Nishizawa I, Shiba E, Kajita A.

A multimodal treatment strategy for recurrent breast cancer is described.
Occasionally, there are a few patients who have no other detectable distant
metastases at the time of locoregional recurrence or of appearance of solitary
lung metastasis. In such cases, curative results may be obtained with surgical
treatment. In cases too extensive for surgical resection, irradiation is the
treatment choice for local control. Radiotherapy is also helpful for painful bone
lesions. The important basis for the multimodal approach to recurrent breast
cancer is a well-balanced combination of local therapy with surgery or
irradiation and systemic polychemoendocrine therapy or polychemotherapy followed 
by maintenance therapy, to improve the quality of life and survival of patients. 
Concerning the combined chemoendocrine therapy, many investigators have reported 
an improved effect with simultaneous or sequential use, but not all of these
studies have confirmed the advantage of combination therapy over endocrine- or
chemo-therapy alone, either in response rate or survival time. Further
prospective randomized studies correlating ER status are needed to evaluate this 
approach. Immunotherapy used as a maintenance therapy may prolong the duration of
remission and survival time.


PMID: 3890757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1070. Important Adv Oncol. 1985:170-92.

Potential clinical utility of monoclonal antibodies in the management of human
carcinomas.

Schlom J, Weeks MO.


PMID: 3916739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1071. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 1985;3(4):279-308.

New frontiers in the treatment of lung cancer.

Zinreich ES, Baker RR, Ettinger DS, Order SE.

Surgical resection still is the only significant curative approach in nonsmall
cell lung cancer. Recent surgical experience indicates that a modest decrease in 
the death rate from bronchogenic carcinoma may occur in three general areas: (1) 
the detection and treatment of radiographically occult squamous cell carcinoma;
(2) the combination of adjuvant chemotherapy and surgical excision in selected
patients with small cell carcinoma; and (3) surgical resection and postop
irradiation of patients with hilar and mediastinal lymph node metastases. At the 
time of diagnosis, 80 to 85% of the patients present with unresectable lung
cancer. These patients may benefit from other modalities of therapy, i.e.,
radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or immunotherapy. Failures following radiotherapy in 
unresectable nonsmall cell lung cancer are due to (1) distant metastasis, (2)
local region failure, and (3) local and distant failure. To increase the local
control, new methods of treatment have been tried, such as hyperfractionation of 
radiotherapy and the use of 131I antiferritin immunoglobulin. The development of 
effective systemic chemotherapy is necessary to treat metastatic bronchogenic
carcinoma. The response rate to chemotherapeutic agents is substantially lower in
nonsmall cell carcinoma than in small cell carcinoma. Investigation is ongoing to
assess the effectiveness of new antitumor drugs used alone, in combination with
other drugs, or combined with other modalities for the treatment of bronchogenic 
carcinoma.


PMID: 2996797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. Cancer Invest. 1985;3(4):367-87.

Controversies in treatment of small cell carcinoma of the lung.

Shank B, Scher HI.


PMID: 2992725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1073. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1985;97:157-61.

Is there a role for immunotherapy in small cell bronchogenic carcinoma?

Israel L.


PMID: 2986242  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1985 Jan;12(1):21-35.

[Clinical value of postoperative chemotherapy for non-small cell lung
cancer--with special reference to long-term combined chemotherapy combined with
immunotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe Y, Sato H, Iida S, Yamada T, Kobayashi H, Kimoto H, Tsunamura Y,
Ichihashi T, Shimizu J, Hashizume Y, et al.

The main reason for unfavourable surgical outcome of lung cancer is latent
distant metastases over looked during surgery, which ultimately cause recurrence,
or death of the patients even in cases undergoing curative surgery. This fact
necessitates the indispensable use of systemic adjuvant therapy in patients under
going surgery for lung cancer. There have been mary reports concerning the
clinical efficacy of surgical adjuvant chemotherapy for non-small cell lung
cancer using various kinds of drugs in various treatment modalities, but the
results have been controversial. During the past eleven years, we have used
postoperative chemotherapy in three ways over three different periods: in the
earliest period, short-term combined chemotherapy (STCC) was used, in the middle 
period, intermittent long-term combined chemotherapy (ILTCC) was used in
combination with immunotherapy for a randomized group, and in the latest period, 
when continuous long-term combined chemotherapy (CLTCC) with immunotherapy was
employed. A comparison was then made between these three kinds of treatment
groups. In Comparing of the results obtained for the earliest and middle periods,
ILTCC showed a significantly improved beneficial effect over STCC in terms of
further increased survival rate. Furthermore, by randomized study, it was
clarified that the favourable effect of ILTCC was further improved by concomitant
use of immunotherapy. CLTCC with immunotherapy carried out in the latest period
seemed to be prevent early recurrences in patients with stage I or II who
underwent curative surgery, even though a short-term observation period of for 20
months was employed. It is conceivable that the latest treatment modality used
will exerted best the most favourable beneficial effect in comparison with the
two early treatments. A review of the literature was presented along with a
discussion of the clinical value of chemotherapy and immunochemotherapy as a
surgical adjuvant.


PMID: 2981515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1985 Jan;12(1):13-20.

[Significance of immunotherapy as an adjunct to surgical treatment in non-small
cell carcinoma of the lung].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujisawa T.

Active and adoptive immunotherapy as an adjunct to surgical treatment in
non-small cell lung cancers was analysed, based on the results of our TF
experiences and a literature review, and its significance was discussed.


PMID: 2981513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. Cancer. 1984 Dec 1;54(11 Suppl):2751-65.

Infusion-embolization.

Wallace S, Charnsangavej C, Carrasco CH, Bechtel W.

Transcatheter intra-arterial therapy for the cancer patient encompasses infusion 
of chemotherapy and embolization. Intra-arterial infusion of chemotherapeutic
agents has been resurrected because of the availability of new drugs,
combinations of drugs, and the capability of percutaneous selective catheter
placement. Intra-arterial infusion has been effective in patients with carcinomas
of the liver, bladder, prostate, uterus, ovary, and lung and in bone and soft
tissue sarcomas, melanomas, and tumors of the brain. Embolization of the arterial
supply, creating ischemia of the neoplasm, has been employed in the therapeutic
management of patients with primary and secondary neoplasms of the liver, kidney,
and bone. The median survival of 100 patients with neoplasms of the liver from
the time of hepatic artery embolization was 11.5 months. In 100 patients with
pulmonary metastases from carcinoma of the kidney, 28 experienced a response to
renal artery embolization, a therapeutic delay of 4 to 7 days, nephrectomy, and
Depo-Provera (medroxyprogesterone). Seven of 12 patients with giant cell tumor of
the pelvis and lumbar spine responded to arterial embolization after all other
therapy failed. Chemoembolization, the combination of arterial infusion of
chemotherapy and embolization, can be accomplished by the use of
microencapsulated agents, liposomes, and particulate emboli with drugs. This
approach integrates the advantages of infusion and occlusion, and has
considerable potential. Intra-arterial immunotherapy has been initiated with
bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) administration into renal neoplasms in patients
with metastatic disease.


PMID: 6093984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1077. Onkologie. 1984 Oct;7(5):276-84.

[Chemotherapy of small cell bronchial carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Rainer H.

Many cytotoxic agents exhibit response in oat cell lung cancer. According to
response rates those substances my be divided into 3 subgroups. Combination of
chemotherapeutic drugs is considerable more active as compared to single agent
therapy. Actuarial survival was significantly improved by chemotherapy and is
related to dosages and the absolute number of cytotoxics used. Sequential
chemotherapy with sequential administration of non-cross resistant schemes seems 
to be the optimal therapeutic strategy at present time. A ten-fold increase of
survival has been shown including a small percentage of long term survivors. It
seems likely to assume that those therapies combined in an optimal manner without
dose-reductions during induction therapy will further improve survival and
percentage of long term survivors.


PMID: 6096782  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1078. Wiad Lek. 1984 Jul 1;37(13):997-1003.

[Clinical trials of immunotherapy in lung cancer].

[Article in Polish]

Budzyński W, Orłowski TM.


PMID: 6393588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1079. Curr Surg. 1984 Jul-Aug;41(4):254-61.

Surgical adjuvant immunotherapy for lung cancer: a review.

Takita H.


PMID: 6383721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Semin Hematol. 1984 Apr;21(2):109-22.

The role of autologous bone marrow transplantation in various malignancies.

Dicke KA, Jagannath S, Spitzer G, Poynton C, Zander A, Vellekoop L, Reading CL,
Jehn UW, Tindle S.


PMID: 6330904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1081. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1984 Apr;10(4):515-39.

Small cell lung cancer 1973-1983: early progress and recent obstacles.

Morstyn G, Ihde DC, Lichter AS, Bunn PA, Carney DN, Glatstein E, Minna JD.

The recognition that the vast majority of patients with small cell lung cancer
have distant metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis led to the use of
systemic chemotherapy and consequent major improvements in survival in the early 
to mid-1970's. In the past five years, however, the pace of therapeutic advances 
has slowed. Recently evaluated treatment strategies, including more intensive
induction chemotherapy, "late intensive" therapy of responding patients,
alternation of chemotherapeutic regimens, integration of chest irradiation with
drug therapy, large field irradiation, and reappraisal of the value of surgical
resection, are discussed in this review. Advances in understanding of the cell
biology of small cell lung cancer which may eventually lead to new forms of
treatment are summarized.


PMID: 6327578  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1082. Cancer Treat Rev. 1984 Mar;11(1):39-67.

Carcinogenicity of antineoplastic agents in man.

Rieche K.

Review of the literature shows that: Anticancer drugs are in all probability
mostly also carcinogenic. Alkylating agents such as melphalan, chlorambucil and
cyclophosphamide seem to lead to the highest rate of second malignancies. Second 
malignancies after antitumour drugs are mostly acute leukaemias. Conditions which
could influence the carcinogenicity of an antitumour drug are (a) its
carcinogenic potency; (b) long-term administration; (c) the total dose used and
(d) long-term survival of the patient. Irradiation and chemotherapy seem to have 
the greatest carcinogenic potential, e.g. in malignant lymphomas. The role of
immunosuppression as a co-carcinogenic factor is difficult to estimate. Although 
transplant patients on anticancer drugs for immunosuppression have a higher risk 
of reticulosarcomas, but not of solid tumours, there is no evidence to suppose
that in general immunosuppression and carcinogenicity are directly related. There
is no reason to abandon intensive chemotherapy regimes if they lead to
significant therapeutic results on the grounds of possible carcinogenicity of
these drugs.


PMID: 6375862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1083. Curr Probl Cancer. 1983 Feb;7(8):1-39.

Nonspecific host defenses in surgical cancer patients.

Howard RJ.


PMID: 6339173  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1084. Symp Fundam Cancer Res. 1983;36:321-36.

Conditioning of tissues for metastasis formation by radiation and cytotoxic
drugs.

Milas L, Peters LJ.


PMID: 6382511  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1085. Symp Fundam Cancer Res. 1983;36:293-308.

Host-mediated mechanisms in the elimination of circulating cancer cells.

Alexander P, Eccles SA.


PMID: 6382509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1086. J Biol Response Mod. 1983;2(4):321-42.

Clinical immunotherapy trials of bacterial components derived from Mycobacteria
and Nocardia.

Vosika GJ.

Preparations of oil-attached mycobacterial components have been used in place of 
viable bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) in animal models and humans as a cancer
immunotherapeutic agent. Most preparations consist of the isolated mycobacterial 
cell wall or cell wall skeleton attached to oil. Cord factor (trehalose
dimycolate) has also been included in some preparations. In animal models, such
preparations given intralesionally, systemically, or as a vaccine can cause
regression of disease and establish tumor-specific immunity. Trials in humans
have utilized oil-attached mycobacterial components given intralesionally,
intradermally, intrapleurally, intraperitoneally, intravenously, and as an
ointment. The major toxicity has been fever, chills, and local inflammation
and/or abscess formation. An increase in the white blood count and lymphocyte
count has been observed. An increase in liver function test was reported in a
minority of patients. Given intralesionally, these preparations cause regression 
of the injected lesion, regression of noninjected cutaneous and visceral disease,
and the apparent establishment of a tumor-specific immune response. Administered 
intrapleurally and intraperitoneally, there is a response and a clearing of
malignant cells in approximately 50% of cases. Given intravenously, oil-attached 
cell wall skeleton and trehalose dimycolate can eradicate pulmonary disease. Used
as an ointment, the preparations have been effective in mycosis fungoides and
Kaposi's sarcoma. These reagents demonstrate definite single-agent activity. This
was most prominent in patients who were immunocompetent and who had immunogenic
tumors such as malignant melanomas. The reagents represent potent
immunotherapeutic agents with acceptable toxicity. Further trials of these and
subsequent refined preparations are warranted.


PMID: 6358421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1087. Postgrad Med J. 1983 Jan;59(687):1-16.

Recent advances in respiratory medicine.

Flenley DC.


PMCID: PMC2417353
PMID: 6346301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1088. Br J Cancer. 1983 Jan;47(1):1-13.

The response to chemotherapy of a variety of human tumour xenografts.

Steel GG, Courtenay VD, Peckham MJ.

The results of a series of projects on the cytotoxic drug response of human
tumour xenografts are compared. All were performed in one laboratory, using
conventional CBA mice that were usually immunosuppressed by thymectomy, cytosine 
arabinoside treatment, and whole-body irradiation. Results on human tumours
arising in 9 anatomical sites are included, with the main emphasis on
colo-rectal, pancreas, breast, lung and testis carcinomas, also melanomas. Growth
acceleration during successive passage of most of these tumour types was
observed. When therapeutic response was measured by a growth-delay method there
were wide differences in response to chemotherapy. Testicular teratomas and
small-cell lung tumours responded well; breast tumours showed modest response;
melanomas, colo-rectal tumours and non-small-cell lung tumours responded poorly. 
Studies of clonogenic cell survival were made in 11 xenografted tumour lines.
They confirmed the range of responsiveness and tendency towards individuality of 
the growth delay data. Cell survival in most cases was exponentially related to
drug dose. This compilation of a large amount of experimental data supports the
belief that human tumour xenografts broadly maintain the level of
chemotherapeutic responsiveness of the source tumours in man.


PMCID: PMC2011242
PMID: 6336942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. Int Adv Surg Oncol. 1983;6:229-56.

Immunotherapy of lung cancer: a review.

Takita H.


PMID: 6192089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1090. Surg Clin North Am. 1982 Dec;62(6):1101-18.

The challenges of renal adenocarcinoma.

Sufrin G.


PMID: 6758154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1091. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 1982 Nov 15;181(10):988-91.

Liposomes as carriers of antigens as well as other molecules involved in
immunity.

Rouse BT.


PMID: 6757219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1092. Laryngoscope. 1982 Sep;92(9 Pt 1):971-5.

Aerodigestive tract papillomatosis: bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) immunotherapy.

Strauss M, Conner GH, Harvey HA, White DS.

Aerodigestive tract papillomatosis (ADTP) remains a distinct challenge for the
otolaryngologist. None of the myriads of therapies utilized to date offers a
distinctly improved prognosis with less frequent clinical recurrences or absolute
cure rates. Significant complications are avoided by withholding tracheotomy
whenever possible and avoiding overly aggressive papilloma removal. Laser
technology seems to offer a distinct benefit as regards the latter. Despite much 
activity in this area, little new knowledge has actually influenced the outcome
of patients afflicted with papillomatosis. The disorder remains one of long-term 
morbidity in those acquiring it early in life and one with a significant rate of 
mortality for those with involvement of the lower airway. A review and selected
discussion of our experience at The Milton S. Hershey Medical Center of The
Pennsylvania State University with ADTP from 1974 to 1981 is presented. Nineteen 
patients ranging in age at the time of presentation from 1.5 to 68 years old have
been diagnosed and treated. For the most part, therapy consisted of repeated
microendoscopies with forceps removal of papillomas until recurrences ceased.
However, in four adult patients with either rapidly recurring laryngeal and/or
tracheobronchial papillomas, bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) immunotherapy has been
administered. Two of these patients are evaluable for greater than 12 months. The
rationale and efficacy of the treatment of a high risk group in this fashion are 
discussed.


PMID: 7121166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1093. Rev Ig Bacteriol Virusol Parazitol Epidemiol Pneumoftiziol Pneumoftiziol. 1982
Jul-Sep;31(3):171-8.

[Current polychemotherapy of bronchopulmonary cancers].

[Article in Romanian]

Păunescu E, Burnea D.


PMID: 6296970  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1094. Pol Tyg Lek. 1982 Jun 14;37(17):497-9.

[Immunotherapy of lung cancer].

[Article in Polish]

Jassem J, Jassem E.


PMID: 6292882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1095. Clin Chest Med. 1982 May;3(2):423-41.

Immunoadjuvant therapy for lung cancer. A critical review.

Matthay RA.


PMID: 7047061  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1096. Clin Chest Med. 1982 May;3(2):389-98.

Small cell cancer of the lung.

Carney DN, Minna JD.


PMID: 6284438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. Vutr Boles. 1982;21(2):8-18.

[Complications following renal transplantation].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Beleva B.


PMID: 7048744  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1098. Vrach Delo. 1982 Jan;(1):5-11.

[Current problems of immunology in lung diseases].

[Article in Russian]

Chernushenko EF, Molotkov VN.


PMID: 7041422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1099. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol. 1982;24(5):321-33.

[Legionnaires' disease. Immunity and immunosuppression].

[Article in French]

Dournon E, De Truchis P.


PMID: 6762525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1100. Springer Semin Immunopathol. 1982;5(2):161-74.

Macrophage-mediated destruction of malignant tumor cells and new strategies for
the therapy of metastatic disease.

Fidler IJ, Poste G.


PMID: 6755782  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1101. Lung. 1982;160(3):141-55.

The management of lung cancer.

Spiro SG.


PMID: 6285089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1102. Gig Tr Prof Zabol. 1981 Dec;(12):15-20.

[Pathogenesis of the lesions due to exposure to beryllium and its compounds].

[Article in Russian]

Alekseeva OG.


PMID: 7033052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1103. Eur J Respir Dis. 1981 Oct;62(5):315-31.

Treatment of small cell carcinoma of the lung.

Sörenson S.

Current strategies for treatment of small cell carcinoma of the lung are based on
the concept of the disease as a systemic condition, requiring systemic treatment.
Small cell carcinoma is considerably more sensitive to anticancer drugs than
other bronchogenic neoplasms. The most widely used agents are cyclophosphamide,
adriamycin, vincristine, CCNU, methotrexate, and VP 16-213. The superiority of
combination chemotherapy over single drug treatment has been documented in
prospective randomized trials. With suitable drug regimens, partial or complete
remissions can be achieved in 80-90% of untreated cases, resulting in three- to
five-fold prolongation of median survival. Radiotherapy may improve control of
intrathoracic disease and reduce the incidence of cerebral metastases but this
treatment does not increase median survival. In spite of impressive initial
responses, long-term results are disappointing, with a 2-year disease-free
survival rate of approximately 5 to 10%. Improvement of treatment results may be 
expected from the use of sequential combination chemotherapy with drugs
administered at maximally tolerated doses. A high intensity of treatment calls
for increased attention to supportive measures against infections and other
complications. The ultimate role of surgery, brain and/or chest irradiation, and 
immunotherapy as adjuvants to chemotherapy remains to be defined.


PMID: 6284535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1104. Cancer. 1981 Apr 15;47(8):2102-6.

Spontaneous regression of metastases of renal cancer: A report of two cases
including the first recorded regression following irradiation of a dominant
metastasis and review of the world literature.

Fairlamb DJ.

Two cases of spontaneous regression of lung metastases are presented. One is the 
first report of regression of metastases after irradiation of a dominant
metastasis. The world literature is reviewed, and 67 documented cases have been
found including the two now reported. Attention is drawn to the use of
immunotherapy in the treatment of advanced renal cancer.


PMID: 7226102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1105. Nihon Rinsho. 1981 Apr;39(4):1874-92.

[Immunotherapy and immunochemotherapy of neoplasms-- present status and
prospects].

[Article in Japanese]

Saijo N, Niitani H.


PMID: 6273609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. Cancer Treat Rev. 1981 Mar;8(1):5-25.

Complications in the treatment of small cell carcinoma of the lung.

Feld R.


PMID: 6265085  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1107. Nurse Pract. 1981 Mar-Apr;6(2):14-7, 27.

Bronchogenic carcinoma a review and study.

Chaffin P, Reininger S.

The preceding review of bronchogenic carcinoma and our own experience with lung
cancer patients, indicate that long-term survival of these patients has only
minimally improved. Advanced lung cancer does not significantly respond to the
current treatment armamentarium, but present research and clinical trials of such
new treatments as immunotherapy and interferon therapy may give hope for the
future. At present our biggest weapon against lung cancer is still the
elimination of cigarette smoking. Until we achieve this unlikely goal or greatly 
improve our success in treating the disease, we will need to continue our
commitment to assist the patient with lung cancer in achieving the highest
quality of life.


PMID: 6163117  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1108. Clin Chest Med. 1981 Jan;2(1):19-39.

Fever and new lung infiltrates in the immunocompromised host.

Fanta CH, Pennington JE.


PMID: 7030595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1109. J Med Soc N J. 1981 Jan;78(1):32-5.

Immunotherapy: the unfulfilled promise.

Greco RS.


PMID: 7021843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1110. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol. 1981;21:133-63.

Host and environmental factors enhancing carcinogenesis in the respiratory tract.

Nettesheim P, Topping DC, Jamasbi R.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.pa.21.040181.001025 
PMID: 7016003  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1111. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1981;76:267-75.

Small cell lung carcinoma - recent advances and current challenges.

Livingston RB.


PMID: 6262887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1112. Minerva Med. 1980 Sep 22;71(35):2471-7.

[Current views on the operability of pulmonary carcinoma].

[Article in Italian]

Romano V, Sacco E, Sunseri MC.

A review of the world's leading series showed that, in spite of the criticism
levelled against it and its limitations, surgical management is still the first
and the soundest means, albeit not the only means of obtaining a cure. In
subjects treated surgically only, survival is of the order of 25%, irrespective
of histological type. This explains the modern tendency to evaluate complementary
treatment, such as radiotherapy, chemotherapy and immunotherapy in suitable
combinations. Stress is also placed on the importance of exploratory thoracotomy 
as the only sound way of determining the precise radicality of the operation, and
with a view to regional reductive surgery.


PMID: 7001275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1113. Nihon Rinsho. 1980 Jul;38(7):2691-700.

[Immunochemotherapy of lung neoplasms].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikegami H.


PMID: 6257950  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. Pneumonol Pol. 1980 Feb;48(2):121-7.

[Active nonspecific immunotherapy combined with surgical treatment of lung
carcinoma].

[Article in Polish]

Langer J.


PMID: 6988811  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1115. Prog Exp Tumor Res. 1980;25:61-88.

Immunotherapy of cancer: current status.

Goodnight JE, Morton DL.


PMID: 6986637  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. Prog Exp Tumor Res. 1980;25:229-41.

Immune adjuvant therapy in lung cancer.

Holmes EC.


PMID: 6986634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1117. Prog Exp Tumor Res. 1980;25:178-92.

BCG, levamisole and transfer factor in the treatment of cancer.

Spitler LE.


PMID: 6986631  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. Clin Ter. 1979 Nov 15;91(3):279-314.

[Medical therapy of tumors. II].

[Article in Italian]

Cerimele E.


PMID: 397032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1119. Cancer Treat Rev. 1979 Sep;6(3):177-90.

Immunotherapy of lung cancer. I. Review of clinical trials in non-small cell
histologic types.

Mikulski SM, McGuire WP, Louie AC, Chirigos MA, Muggia FM.


PMID: 394836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1120. Cancer Treat Rev. 1979 Jun;6(2):125-30.

Immunotherapy of lung cancer. II. Review of clinical trials in small cell
carcinoma.

Mikulski SM, McGuire WP, Louie AC, Chirigos MA, Muggia FM.


PMID: 226262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1121. Surg Clin North Am. 1979 Apr;59(2):371-80.

Immunotherapy of solid tumor.

Holmes EC.


PMID: 375448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1122. Can Med Assoc J. 1979 Feb 3;120(3):322-4, 329.

Cancer immunotherapy.

Richman SP, Gutterman JU, Hersh EM.

Important contributions that stimulated studies in cancer immunotherapy included:
(1) the discovery of tumour-associated antigens; (2) the observation that
infection with bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) in animals was protective against
tumour challenge; and (3) the observation that immunodepression due either to
malignant disease or to treatment of the disease, was, in some instances, related
to prognosis. Immunotherapy trials with microbial agents have involved attempts
to obtain a local effect by injecting the agent into the tumour or into the
region of the tumour and to obtain a "systemic" effect distant from the site of
injection. Trials with active specific immunotherapy involving tumour cells or
tumour cell extracts have frequently involved the combination of these specific
agents with a nonspecific adjuvant such as BCG. Recent studies with thymosin and 
levamisole in patients with lung cancer and other types of malignant disease have
shown prolonged survival in the groups receiving immunotherapy.


PMCID: PMC1818999
PMID: 371776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1123. Clin Ter. 1979 Jan 31;88(2):113-38.

[Medical treatment of some solid tumors].

[Article in Romanian]

Lattanzi A.


PMID: 371905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. Minerva Med. 1979 Jan 21;70(3):273-82.

[Chemotherapy and immunotherapy of pulmonary cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Cardinali G.


PMID: 219398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1125. Pharmacol Ther. 1979;4(2):281-306.

The application of immunotherapy to the treatment of cancer.

Powles RL.


PMID: 386383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1126. Adv Surg. 1979;13:33-68.

Treatment of metastatic disease.

Storm FK, Morton DL.


PMID: 92883  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1127. Cancer. 1978 Nov;42(5):2224-33.

Clinical trials of immunotherapy: present status.

Morton DL, Goodnight JE Jr.

This brief review of the more promising clinical trials suggests that
immunotherapy is indeed beneficial for selected cancer patients. Because of its
limited potency, it should not be used as primary treatment for malignant disease
except as local immunotherapy for certain accessible tumors. It is effective for 
eradication of primary neoplasms of the skin as well as cutaneous metastases of
malignant melanoma and breast carcinoma. The most important role for
immunotherapy is in combination with other modalities. It may help control occult
micrometastases that cause recurrence and death following surgical procedures or 
irradiation. Results of adjuvant immunotherapy appear promising for malignant
melanoma, for carcinoma of the lung, breast, and colon, and for soft-tissue
sarcomas. In combination with chemotherapy, immunotherapy appears to prolong
remission and survival in acute myelogenous leukemia and in disseminated tumors
of the lung and breast. Clearly, immunotherapy is not a panacea for malignant
disease, but it could become an important arm in a multimodality attack on
cancer.


PMID: 363256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1128. Semin Oncol. 1978 Sep;5(3):299-308.

Treatment of small cell carcinoma: evolution and future directions.

Livingston RB.


PMID: 211641  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1129. Semin Oncol. 1978 Sep;5(3):234-43.

Small cell bronchogenic carcinoma: a distinct clinicopathologic entity.

Cohen MH, Matthews MJ.

Since small cell carcinoma is a treatable disease, with surgery being beneficial 
in a few cases and with chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy
contributing to prolonged survival in patients with inoperable disease, it is
essential that the clinical and pathologic features of small cell carcinoma be
quickly recognized in a newly presenting patient so that appropriate therapy may 
be offered.


PMID: 211637  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. Semin Oncol. 1978 Sep;5(3):263-71.

Immunologic aspects of small cell carcinoma.

Forbes JT, Greco FA, Oldham RK.


PMID: 80823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. Klin Wochenschr. 1978 Jun 1;56(11):531-7.

[Pregnancy-specific and pregnancy-associated proteins for diagnosing and
monitoring malignant disease (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Bauer HW, Bohn H.


PMID: 77934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso. 1978 May;23(6):625-40.

[Cancer immunotherapy with BCG cell-wall skeleton (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Azuma I, Yamamura Y.


PMID: 211546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1133. Ann Intern Med. 1978 Apr;88(4):522-31.

Small-cell carcinoma of the lung: therapeutic management.

Weiss RB.

Although bronchogenic carcinoma generally remains a tumor resistant to treatment,
marked progress in the therapy of the small-cell undifferentiated subtype has
occurred in the past 5 years. Many aspects of its growth and metastatic spread
are such that it is not satisfactorily treated surgically. However, it is
sensitive to both radiation and a variety of chemotherapeutic agents. Use of
these agents in combination seems to produce a greater antitumor effect than
single drugs. The combination of radiation and chemotherapy results in marked
tumor regressions. Untreated, this carcinoma has a very short median survival (2 
months). Administration of current "aggressive" combination therapy regimens has 
resulted in median survivals of nearly 1 year with some patients still living 3
years after therapy.


PMID: 205153  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1134. Recenti Prog Med. 1978 Mar;64(3):293-309.

[Immunotherapy of carcinoma of the lung].

[Article in Italian]

Sega E, Mineo TC, Rea SR, Sega FM Jr, Ricci C.


PMID: 351751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1135. Adv Surg. 1978;12:111-53.

Hemorrhoids, fistulae and fissures: office and hospital management--a critical
review.

Ferguson JA, MacKeigan JM.

We have tried to present a comprehensive survey of present-day management of
hemorrhoids, fistulae and fissures, be it in the office or in the hospital. There
is great socioeconomic pressure lately for cost-containment, which is apt to
effect better medical judgment in the selection of type and place of management. 
Minor operations can and should be done, as always, on an outpatient basis.
General anesthesia is not a minor matter and hemorrhoidectomy is not a minor
operation. The major function of outpatient service in the management of anal
disease is that of accurate and comprehensive diagnosis. Hundreds of patients
come to us only because they fear cancer and it is not enough for us to hunt for 
and treat the vague little disorders of which they complain. The incidence of
cancer of the colon rectum in this country just recently has slightly surpassed
that of lung cancer. Adjuvant treatments (e.g., chemotherapy, radiotherapy,
immunotherapy and their combinations) are promising but still in the
investigational stage. Early diagnosis is our finest weapon with subsequent
surgical management. The challenge and responsibility for early diagnosis of
colorectal cancer is ours alone. We must first recognize it and then meet it
firmly and squarely. We must feel for (digital rectal), look for (sigmoidoscopy),
and search for (barium enema x-ray examination) colorectal cancer in all of our
patients regardless of the insignificance of anal symptoms and anal findings. Our
countrymen fear cancer. We have the devices to allay their fears or to cure their
cancers if they are found early enough. We have a straightforward moral
commitment and a national trust.


PMID: 735938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1136. Pathobiol Annu. 1978;8:241-84.

Immunotherapy of human tumors.

Sinkovics JG.


PMID: 364375  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1137. Wien Klin Wochenschr Suppl. 1978;90:1-28.

[Immunology and immunotherapy of lung cancer--experimental and clinical
investigations (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Micksche VM.


PMID: 362733  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. Prog Clin Cancer. 1978;7:83-96.

Osteosarcoma: survival gains resulting from multidisciplinary therapy.

Douglass HO Jr.


PMID: 360281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1139. Annu Rev Med. 1978;29:231-83.

Immunotherapy from malignant disease.

Goodnight JE Jr, Morton DL.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.me.29.020178.001311 
PMID: 348035  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1140. Arch Geschwulstforsch. 1978;48(7):673-9.

Current trends and prospects in surgical adjuvant trials.

Rozencweig M, von Hoff DD, Louie AC, Muggia FM.

New concepts and treatments currently available for adjuvant studies are
illustrated by a review of ongoing studies sponsored by the National Cancer
Institute. More thorough information is needed on immunotherapeutic agents to
allow more rationale in the use of these agents. Solid bases to properly select
drugs or drug combinations for adjuvant purposes are being established. However, 
dose-schedule and duration of treatment are still to be defined. Strategies
directed at prolonging the benefit of surgical adjuvant chemotherapy remain to be
planned. Progress continuously achieved with immunotherapy and chemotherapy
should rapidly broaden the spectrum of tumour types to be included in adjuvant
studies.


PMID: 282827  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1141. Arch Geschwulstforsch. 1978;48(7):653-8.

Effective adjuvant treatments. A brief review of U.S. clinical trials.

Louie AC, Rozencweig M, von Hoff DD, Muggia FM.

A variety of adjuvant trials performed in the United States for osteogenic
sarcoma, breast, lung, and colon cancer have achieved encouraging results and are
briefly summarized. Trials in osteogenic sarcoma are reporting 2-year
disease-free survival rates of 50%. However, they have only been evaluated
against historical controls and there is some evidence that other factors might
have greatly improved the disease-free survival in the absence of adjuvant
therapy. The NSABP breast cancer trial only shows significant improvement for
women under 50 years of age with 1 to 3 positive axillary nodes. A very promising
trial using intrapleural BCG immunotherapy for squamous cell lung cancer is
described. Also, two trials of 5-fluorouracil for colo-rectal cancer, both
showing trends suggesting slight improvement among treated patients, are
presented. Proper care in the design of adjuvant trials with sufficient attention
paid to prognostic variables is urged.


PMID: 282826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1142. Cancer Treat Rev. 1977 Dec;4(4):219-60.

Treatment of bronchogenic carcinoma. II. Small cell.

Broder LE, Cohen MH, Selawry OS.


PMID: 203396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1143. Am J Med Sci. 1977 Nov-Dec;274(3):232-45.

Current concepts in the management of small cell carcinoma of the lung.

Esterhay RJ Jr.

Small cell carcinoma of the lung should be viewed as a widely disseminated
disease in all patients. Therefore, systemic treatment with intensive combination
chemotherapy should now be considered as the primary and initial treatment
modality. The role of radiation therapy for local or involved-field needs to be
re-examined to determine if such localized therapy following intensive
combination chemotherapy offers any benefits in response rate or survival
duration. The role of immunotherapy is not established, and further controlled
studies are necessary to define such a role, if any does exist. Prophylactic
whole brain irradiation may be useful to avoid neurologic complications, however,
it does not appear to improve response rate or survival duration. A randomized
study needs to be done to see whether prophylactic whole brain irradiation
following complete remission alters the occurrence rate of brain metastases.
Response rates up to 100% and disease free survivals greater than one year have
been reported. Therefore, a realistic potential for cure exists for some patients
with this particular type of lung cancer.


PMID: 205131  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1144. Med Clin North Am. 1977 Nov;61(6):1205-18.

Lung cancer.

Rodescu D.

Only patients with localized lung cancer benefit from curative resection.
Curative radiotherapy is recommended in patients with a resectable tumor in whom 
surgery is precluded for medical reasons. Adjuvant preoperative or postoperative 
therapy of any type does not improve the results of surgery except in patients
with Pancoast tumor. Therapy for nonlocalized tumors does not affect survival.
Radiotherapy has a palliative effect in 50 to 75 per cent of patients presenting 
with symptoms from either a primary lesion or metastases and should therefore be 
recommended in symptomatic patients. The palliative effect of chemotherapy is
limited in lung cancers other than small cell carcinomas. However, chemotherapy
alone or in association with radiotherapy produces remarkable tumor regression
and some improvement of survival in small cell carcinoma. The use of
immunotherapy in the treatment of lung cancer is still under evaluation.


PMID: 72894  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1145. Cancer Treat Rev. 1977 Sep;4(3):167-94.

Adjuvant treatment with levamisole in cancer: a review of experimental and
clinical data.

Amery WK, Spreafico F, Rojas AF, Denissen E, Chirigos M.

Animal and human studies of adjuvant treatment with levamisole in cancer are
reviewed and discussed. From the animal data it is concluded that the activity of
levamisole is dose-dependent, more effective on slow-growing tumors, affects
metastasis formation, preferentially is best when levamisole is used as an
adjuvant to the usual cytoreductive treatments and that tumor enhancement is not 
expected. Clinical findings are put into perspective of the animal data and the
most appropriate clinical situations are indicated.


PMID: 589606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1146. Minerva Chir. 1977 Jun 15;32(11):677-82.

[Immunological status and surgery of cancer of the lung. Prognostic aspects and
therapeutic prospects].

[Article in Italian]

Fegiz G, Di Paola M, Colizza S.


PMID: 329159  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1147. Semin Oncol. 1977 Jun;4(2):147-63.

The clinical toxicity of anticancer drugs and its prediction.

Creaven PJ, Mihich E.


PMID: 406677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1148. Cancer Treat Rep. 1977 May-Jun;61(3):333-42.

Advances in small cell bronchogenic carcinoma.

Bunn PA Jr, Cohen MH, Ihde DC, Fossieck BE Jr, Matthews MJ, Minna JD.


PMID: 194690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. Cancer. 1977 Apr;39(4):1415-24.

Adjuvant chemotherapy in lung cancer: review and prospects.

Legha SS, Muggia FM, Carter SK.

The results of trials testing combined surgery and chemotherapy in lung cancer
are reviewed. Fifteen adjuvant trials using various chemotherapeutic agents were 
analyzed to determine reasons for their lack of success. Current trials with
adjuvant therapy in lung cancer are briefly outlined. In addition, analysis of
the activity of chemotherapeutic agents in advanced lung cancer and its
implications in the design of future adjuvant studies are detailed.


PMID: 192430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1150. Annu Rev Med. 1977;28:489-515.

BCG as adjuvant immunotherapy for neoplasia.

Hersh EM, Gutterman JU, Mavligit GM.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.me.28.020177.002421 
PMID: 324372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1151. Annu Rev Med. 1977;28:475-88.

Surgical adjuvant chemotherapy.

Perloff M, Holland JF.

The evidence that the principles of surgical adjuvant chemotherapy developed in
experimental animal systems also apply to a variety of neoplastic diseases in man
has been clearly demonstrated. Micrometastatic disease can be eradicated with
effective chemotherapy in several diseases. Prolongation of disease-free
interval, if not cure, is now possible in diseases in which curative surgery
alone or in combination with radiotherapy does not achieve these goals. The
previously fatal childhood solid tumors--Wilms', Ewings' sarcoma, embryonal
rhabdomyosarcoma--are curable in a high percentage of patients appropriately
treated with combinations of surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. The
prolongation of the disease-free interval in osteogenic sarcoma has permitted
consideration of entirely new surgical approaches for this tumor in which radical
amputation has traditionally been employed. The spectacular results achieved in
the treatment of Stage II breast cancer may potentially save hundreds of
thousands of lives in the coming decade. Clinically recognizable metastatic
disease is rarely curable by any currently available treatment modality. The
prolongation of disease-free intervals and production of cures when surgical
adjuvant chemotherapy is employed may be partly explained by relatively more
circulation, and thus drug delivery to each tumor cell, more favorable cellular
kinetics, and a healthier and more immunocompetent host who is better able to
withstand drug effects on normal tissues, and to participate in tumor
destruction. Cures of certain patients with neoplastic diseases using surgical
adjuvant chemotherapy has increased the incentive to learn more about new and old
drugs and their effective use alone and in combination. Chemotherapy, in
appropriate combinations with surgery, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy, may well 
be more efficacious in many clinical situations than the traditional use of
single-modality treatment. The data presented in this paper relate solid evidence
that the possibility of cure in a variety of neoplastic diseases is real.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.me.28.020177.002355 
PMID: 193434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1152. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1976 Aug;114(2):359-94.

Pulmonary infection in the compromised host: part I.

Williams DM, Krick JA, Remington JS.

DOI: 10.1164/arrd.1976.114.2.359 
PMID: 788565  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1153. Grudn Khir. 1976 Jul-Aug;(4):94-9.

[Allotransplantation of the lung and its lobes experimentally and clinically].

[Article in Russian]

Kiprenskiĭ IuV.


PMID: 793951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1154. Ann Thorac Surg. 1976 Mar;21(3):250-8.

Immunology and lung cancer.

Holmes EC.

Carcinoma of the lung is the number one cancer killer in the United States. The
overall cure rate is about 10%, and although resection is the best treatment
available, five-year survival following operation is only 25%. Recent studies
have shown that patients with lung cancer are immunosuppressed but that pulmonary
tumors do contain tumor-associated antigens. Studies of other human tumors
indicate that immunotherapy can augment tumor immunity and can be an effective
surgical adjuvant. This communication reviews the basic principles of tumor
immunology, with emphasis on the immunology of lung cancer, and discusses how
these principles may be applied to the therapy of lung cancer.


PMID: 769714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. Postgrad Med. 1976 Feb;59(2):121-6.

Chemotherapy of solid tumors. Recent advances.

Livingston RB.


PMID: 175357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1156. Radiology. 1976 Jan;118(1):211-8.

Nonspecific immunotherapy of malignant tumors.

Milas L, Withers HR.

At present, nonspecific immunotherapy of malignant tumors seems to be the most
promising among immunotherapeutic modalities. Potent nonspecific
immunostimulants, Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) and Corynebacterium parvum,
exhibit an antitumor activity in experimental animals, which is commonly
manifested by reduced tumor growth and sometimes by complete regression of
tumors. Antitumor effectiveness of these bacteria is largely related to tumor
immunogenicity and host immunocompetence. Recently, BCG has frequently been used 
for clinical immunotherapy and has provided therapeutic benefit in many
instances, particularly when combined with chemotherapy, radiotherapy or surgery.
Clinical experience with C. parvum is so far limited.

DOI: 10.1148/118.1.211 
PMID: 1105663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. J Surg Oncol. 1976;8(5):391-411.

Relationship of causative factors in spontaneous regression of cancer to
immunologic factors possibly effective in cancer.

Cole WH.

In a book written by Everson and Cole (1966) on spontaneous regression 176
examples of the phenomenon were encountered in the medical literature from 1900
to 1964, supplemented by cases referred by friends. No common denominator of
explanations were found. Various types of trauma (e.g., biopsy, incomplete
excision), transfusions, infection, hormone changes, drugs, etc. were encountered
as possible causative factors. Most significant of all factors was encountered in
the 13 examples of spontaneous regression of the bladder; in this series
regression of the tumor occurred in 10 after transplantation of the ureters out
of the bladder. A consideration and discussion of various reactions in human
beings associated with therapeutic regressions have been reviewed hoping to
develop a correlation between the two types of regression. At the time of
publication of our monograph 9 years ago we were unable to suggest any mechanisms
which might explain the regressions. However, since that time so many advances
have been made in immunology that it appears now that a stimulation of the immune
process might explain most of the regressions. We are just beginning to learn a
few methods of stimulating the immune process. Use of BCG is one of the best
examples of this stimulating process; other bacterial agents, or fractions, are
known to have this action. No doubt there are innumerable others unknown, some of
which might explain spontaneous regressions. It would appear that hormonal
changes might be responsible for many of the regressions but this author doubts
it explains many. More is known at the present time about cellular immunity than 
humoral immunity, but greater possibilities surely lie in humoral immunity. The
blocking and unblocking activities developed by the Hellströms and associates are
no doubt important. Immunoglobulins exert a very important role in the immune
process; antibodies may consist of immunoglobulins but much more needs to be
known before this relationship can be understood. The recent report (Amery, 1975)
that levamisole (given at the time of resection of the lung for carcinoma)
improves patient survival is exciting. Amery believes the drug may prevent the
hematogenous spread of the tumor during surgery and/or may decrease the
immunosuppression caused by a major operation.


PMID: 792571  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. J R Coll Surg Edinb. 1976 Jan;21(1):43-9.

Immunotherapy of malignant disease (Part 2).

MacGregor AB, Falk RE.


PMID: 765453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1159. Vopr Onkol. 1976;22(8):110-5.

[Use of anticoagulant therapy in cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Sopotsinskaia EB.


PMID: 136805  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1160. Mayo Clin Proc. 1975 Nov;50(11):657-63.

Nocardiosis. A review of 25 cases occurring during 24 months.

Frazier AR, Rosenow EC 3rd, Roberts GD.


PMID: 1186297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1975 Nov;141(5):779-94.

Immunologic evaluation of patients with cancer by delayed hypersensitivity
reactions.

Burdick JF, Wells SA Jr, Herberman RB.

Testing of delayed hypersensitivity responses to recall antigens, newly
encountered antigens and tumor antigens has contributed to the understanding of
several immunologic factors in human neoplasia. Patients with Hodgkin's disease
tend to have depressed responses to both newly encountered and recall antigens.
Patients with solid tumors are more likely to be deficient only in the response
to newly encountered antigens. In patients who have intact response to recall
antigens, reactivity to antigen preparations from tumor and control tissue may be
studied. Tumor-associated or organ-associated antigens have been demonstrated by 
delayed hypersensitivity responses in leukemia, Burkitt's lymphoma, malignant
melanoma and carcinoma of the lung, breast, cervix uteri and intestine.
Approaches to a definition of the specificity of these reactions are described.
The results with these tumor antigen tests correlate strongly with the clinical
course. This is a promising technique for monitoring immunotherapy. The results
from tests with recall and newly encountered antigens also correlate with the
clinical status and perhaps with prognosis. Various possible interpretations of
these changes are discussed. Further work should be directed toward an exact
definition of immunologic defects in patients with cancer and toward the use of
this understanding for a rational program of immunotherapy.


PMID: 128144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1162. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1975 Sep;55(3):505-11.

Guest editorial: Lung cancer: a status report.

Cohen MH.


PMID: 1099219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Ann Intern Med. 1975 Jul;83(1):93-106.

Current and future concepts of lung cancer.

Benfield JR, Julliard GJ, Pilch YH, Rigler LG, Selecky P.

We discuss here some of the last decade's diagnostic and therapeutic advances in 
the treatment of lung cancer, as well as current and future research objectives. 
Roentgenographs from selected patients illustrate the natural history of lung
cancer. We present perspectives concerning selection from the growing diagnostic 
armamentarium, with comments upon early detection and localization of "occult"
cancers with the help of flexible bronchoscopy. Operative approaches have changed
over the past 4 decades; we review how and why they evolved, including
perspectives concerning mediastinoscopy. There is a presentation on a
radiotherapeutic research approach to oat-cell cancers and the current status of 
immunotherapy. Such issues as animal models available for lung cancer research
emerge in the general discussion, and it becomes clear that lung cancer merits a 
truly interdisciplinary approach in order to bring meaningful advances to the
patient's bedside.


PMID: 167630  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1164. Strahlentherapie. 1975 Jul;150(1):30-4.

[Fetal tumor antigens].

[Article in German]

Renner H.

A wide spectrum of fetal antigens is found not only in fetal cells but also in
tumor cells. These substances are termed onco-fetal antigens. One group out of
these antigens has developed special diagnostic interest and importance, first of
all the carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA) in adenocarcinomas of the
gastrointestinal tract. Another class of fetal antigens consists of
tumor-assoicated membrane-antigens against these the organism may develop a
cytotoxic reaction and in the long run, may repulse the tumor like an
incompatible graft. The verification of this second group was possible by means
of various cross reactions. These latter fetal antigens eventually may be
utilized for purposes of immunological prophylaxis and therapy.


PMID: 52205  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1165. Nouv Presse Med. 1975 May 3;4(18):1333,1335-6.

[Immunotherapy of human cancers. "Leukemia, hematosarcomas and solid tumors].

[Article in French]

Mathé G.


PMID: 1098014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1166. Cancer Treat Rev. 1975 Mar;2(1):33-53.

The potential of combined modality approaches for the treatment of malignant bone
tumors in children.

Jaffe N.


PMID: 1102084  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1167. Cell Immunol. 1975 Jan;15(1):1-10.

Immune surveillance directed against depressed cellular and viral alloantigens.

Martin WJ.


PMID: 162777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. Ann Intern Med. 1975 Jan;82(1):84-95.

Immunosuppressive and cytotoxic chemotherapy: long-term complications.

Schein PS, Winokur SH.

PIP: Cytotoxic drugs, which are widely used as immunosuppressive and
antiinflammatory agents in patients with neoplastic conditions, and cancer
chemotherapy preparations, are of long-range concern due to the problem of
cumulative organ toxicity which is not manifested until damage is extensive.
These considerations have arisen because of their widespread use in recent years.
Those involved in hepatic toxicity are the antimetabolites methotrexate and
6-mercaptopurine. Bisulfin, bleomycin, and methotrexate have been linked to
pulmonary toxicity. Daunomycin and adriamycin, used as anticarcinogens, are
examined for their cardiac toxicity. Cyclophosphamide and streptozotocin affect
the urinary tract. These drugs have specific toxic effects on fertility in both
males, through its disruption of the testicular function, and in females, for
ovarian disruptions. Antifolics, 6-mercaptopurine, azathioprine, and alkylating
agents, used for therapy in pregnant women, particularly in the first 4 months,
are linked to the appearance of fetal abnormalities. The process of
carcinogenesis is examined for clues to possible chemotherapy-related 2nd tumors,
which appear during the course of treatment.

PMID: 67817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1169. Cancer Treat Rev. 1974 Dec;1(4):239-50.

Selective antimetastatic treatment--current status and future prospects.

Spreafico F, Garattini S.


PMID: 4619577  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. Semin Oncol. 1974 Sep;1(3):273-8.

Immunotherapy as related to lung cancer: a review.

Hersh EM, Mavligit GM, Gutterman JU.


PMID: 4620434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1171. Int J Cancer. 1974 Jul 15;14(1):19-25.

Sensitization to tumour-associated antigens in human breast carcinoma.

Cochran AJ, Grant RM, Spilg WG, Mackie RM, Ross CE, Hoyle DE, Russell JM.


PMID: 4617707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1172. Br J Dermatol. 1974 Apr;90(4):397-405.

The association of pemphigus with thymoma or malignancy: a critical review.

Krain LS.


PMID: 4596067  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Sem Hop. 1974 Jan 20;50(4):287-95.

[Medical treatment of malignant bone tumors (carcinolytics, hormonotherapy,
immunotherapy)].

[Article in French]

Clavel B.


PMID: 4368180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. J Med. 1974;5(1):23-31.

The effect of heparin and warfarin on primary and metastatic tumors.

Millar RC, Ketcham AS.


PMID: 4598770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. Zentralbl Chir. 1973 Sep 1;98(35):1233-40.

[Cytostatics for improvement of clinical tumor surgery].

[Article in German]

Rieche K.


PMID: 4361783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1176. Radiol Clin North Am. 1973 Aug;11(2):357-69.

The radiographic presentation of pulmonary opportunistic inflammatory disease.

Bragg DG, Janis B.


PMID: 4354428  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1177. Cancer Chemother Rep 3. 1973 Mar;4(2):189-98.

Rationale of combination chemotherapy based on preclinical experiments.

Goldin A.


PMID: 4580857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1178. Adv Surg. 1973;7:1-44.

Nonoperative treatment of solid tumors.

Holyoke ED, Gerner RE, Elias EG.


PMID: 4591253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1179. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1972 Feb;134(2):280-3.

Transplantation.

Zukoski CF 3rd.


PMID: 4550583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1180. Prog Exp Tumor Res. 1971;14:1-24.

Immunosurveillance, regeneration and oncogenesis.

Prehn RT.


PMID: 4944395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1181. Bull World Health Organ. 1964;30:327-41.

PROGRESS IN CHEMOTHERAPY OF CANCER.

DAVIS W, LARIONOV LF.

The chemotherapy of cancer, in relation to surgery and radiotherapy, is a new
method of attack. Its development, which started virtually in the 1940's, was
reviewed by the WHO Expert Committee on Chemotherapy of Cancer that met in
September 1961. The report of the Committee dealt with experimental and clinical 
studies in this field critically, but also to a necessary degree,
comprehensively. The design and mechanism of action of the drugs, their
biological screening and subsequent clinical trials were discussed, and a review 
was presented of the clinically available drugs and the neoplasms for which they 
were indicated. In the two years that have elapsed since the report was drawn up 
many new compounds have been tested and some have had clinical trials. There have
been developments, too, in methods of administration. All these new developments 
are discussed in the present paper.


PMCID: PMC2554827
PMID: 14163957  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

